05-03-2021||Calcutta||Organic claim for sweets||Even sweets can be organic. That is the claim being made by a shop that has opened in HA Block. Sundarini Naturals Mishti has opened an outlet where more than 40 varieties of sweets are being sold that are promoted to be preservative-free and naturally flavoured. The chain is an outlet of a farmers’ co-operative from the Sundarbans and is a collaboration of the National Dairy Development Board and the state government, under which more than 5,000 farmers grow things organically. “Our base is organic. Everything that is grown in the fields are organic. Even the cows are fed organic food and herbal medicine, which leads to organic milk production. This also brings a different taste to our products. The flavours used in the sweets are also natural, which may not make it look as attractive as those using artificial flavours, but are more beneficial for our health. Even the bottles our milk is sold in are of glass and not plastic,” said Arijit Mukherjee, the franchise owner. “We also plan to bring organically grown mangoes this summer,” he added. Apart from regular sweets like rosogolla, they have a large variety including Baked Mihidana, Nolen gurer Rabdi, Kalakand, Dab Kalakand, Ice cream Butterscotch Rosogolla and more. The shop also sells organic cow milk, wild Sundarban honey, ghee,  kalabhat  (black rice), radhatilak rice and sona mug dal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Toilets in cargo containers||Abandoned cargo containers from shipyards have been converted into pay-and-use toilets in New Town. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has set up nine containerised toilets across the township. The recycled containers, each about 8ft high, 8ft wide, and 20ft long, have a bright and cheerful look with bold signage. The toilets were inaugurated on February 22. There are solar panels on top of each toilet. The lights inside are sensor-based. The sensors allow the lights in the toilet to get dimmed when the toilet is not in use, thereby saving energy. The charges for the pay-and-use facilities are Rs 2 and Rs 5 for urinal and toilet respectively. They remain open from 9am to 10pm every day. Pay and Use The  locations in New Town where the containerised toilets have been set up: 1. At New Town Smart Plaza 2. Inside NKDA Bus Terminus near Pride Hotel 3. Inside Tank No.1 4. Opposite Sonar Kella Park 5. Opposite Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute 6. Behind Central Mall 7. In front of Candor Tech Space 8. Near NBCC Complex 9. Near Restello, AI Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town residents observe Bhasha Diwas ||A shahid bedi was at the centre of the programme being held by New Town 1CA - 1CD Block Residents Welfare Association to pay tribute to the martyrs of the 1971 language movement across the border. The coat of white cement over thermocol had been given such a stone-like finish with the paintbrush that it looked its part when guests — Debashis Sen, chairman, Hidco, Anup Matilal, curator, Rabindra Tirtha and Animesh Bhattacharya, CEO, NKDA — garlanded it. It was the work of an artist couple, Piyali and Saumik Chakraborty. “We shifted here six months ago. It is nice to be involved in a new neighbourhood,” said Soumik. Residents performed songs like Amar bhai-er rokte rangano ekushe February, Moder gorob moder asha and Ami Banglay gan gai. “We use language to express ourselves but to what extent one can go for its sake is evident in the sacrifices made in East Pakistan. The Unesco’s declaration in 1999 making February 21 the international mother language day is a recognition of that,” said Tapas Sengupta, the event anchor. “New Town has a cosmopolitan population, speaking different languages. We have started Radio Newtown where with the help of an internet-based app, we are running programmes for and by New Town residents,” said Sen. “We have been planning to celebrate Bhasha Divas for years but things never fell in place. We always try to celebrate every occasion together,” said Nakul Chandra Guin, vice-president of the association. “This is our first programme after the pandemic-hit year,” said Sujit Banerjee, a member. “Nowadays everyone talks in a strange mix of a language. The new generation needs to appreciate how beautiful our mother-tongue is,” said Ritam Banik, 78, a CB Block resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||A day for the mother-tongue||The Bhasha Diwas celebrations of New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum began on the eve of February 21 when members drew an elaborate alpona, led by Deepsikha Das of DA Block, at the Rabindra Tirtha side of Biswa Bangla Gate. A prabhat pheri was taken out the next morning from Rabindra Tirtha. It took two hours to reach Nazrul Tirtha. In the evening, a programme was held at Nazrul Tirtha, starting with a speech by author Sushnato Das. He talked for an hour about the historical relevance of the day. “We salute the people who gave up their lives for the establishment of Bengali as their  official language. They could not bear to have Urdu imposed on them as the state language in a province where 40 million people spoke and wrote in Bengali,” said Das. Hidco chairman cum managing director Debashis Sen was also present. “We should remember February 21 is International Mother Language Day and not just Bangla Bhasha Divas. It is a day we celebrate all languages across the world. Let us be more open to things we don’t know and more tolerant and appreciative of languages across the country,” he pointed out. Samir Gupta, joint convenor of New Town Residents Welfare Forum felicitated the guests and requested the Hidco authorities to set up a shahid bedi to mark the contributions made by language activists both in West Bengal and Bangladesh. This was followed by cultural programmes by representatives of several blocks. The performances took place in a packed auditorium where most women were dressed in red and white saris and men in ethnicwear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town Book Fair comes of age||There is no New Town Fair this year but the New Town Book Fair is happening, though much later than usual. The two fairs usually are held in conjunction. “Fairs are connected to winter. This time, winter is over but at least our book fair is happening,” said Hidco and NKDA chief Debashis Sen. The organisers are raising a toast to an achievement. “Till last year, we were dependant on NKDA, the organisers of the New Town Fair. Once the fair ended, we used the same infrastructure by paying the decorator for the extension. NKDA got the administrative permissions for us. This time, when we realised that the New Town Fair would not happen, we tried to do it on a small scale at Nazrul Tirtha. But so robust was the response from publishers that we dared to take on the challenge to do it here by ourselves,” said president of the organising committee Urmila Sen. “Book fairs are a part of the Bengalis’ intellectual make-up. Even Kerala, the state with the highest literacy rate in India, does not have so many fairs. The then chairman of National Book Trust U.R. Ananthamurthy was stunned to see the crowd at our Book Fair. That is why it was prudent to postpone the international fair,” said poet Subodh Sarkar, who attended the inauguration of the fair’s seventh edition last Friday. He commented on the reduced assembly at the event. “Last year, the seats were all taken, prizes of contests were being given out to so many residents and there were dhakis playing. It was a completely different atmosphere,” he recalled. General secretary of Publishers and Booksellers Guild Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey was also present. “We had held a meeting in November to decide whether the international fair could be held as scheduled. Elderly residents of Salt Lake requested us not to shift the venue from Central Park but hold it later. The Covid situation then was precarious. So we had to postpone it,” he said, urging people to gift books and keep books in their drawing room. Poet Joy Goswami was also present. The fair will continue till March 7, 2pm to 9pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Cricket tournament to dismiss Covid fear||After close to a year of being largely confined at home, AA Block Welfare Association in New Town organised a seven-a-side tennis ball cricket tournament on a winter Saturday to enjoy a day in the sun. “The year 2020 had been very difficult for everyone, so we wanted to welcome the new year by bringing some normality to our lives. Every year, we used to gather  and play badminton and cricket, but this year nothing could be done. So we decided to organise a tournament,” said Biswajit Das, an organising committee member. New Town Premier League had five teams taking part — Seven Warriors, Seven Musketeers, Swat Fighters, Ramdhonu and Downtown, comprising players from different blocks of New Town. There were two senior citizen teams too. Diamond and Silver played a match at the beginning of the day. “It has been more than 16 years since I last played cricket, but it was fun coming together after all these years, specially after the lockdown. More than playing the game, today is about celebrating survival and reinforcing the faith that we can overcome the Covid crisis,” said Manoj Kumar Kundu of Diamond. At 78, he was the senior-most player in the tournament. The auction The players were selected through an auction but this involved no money. Each of the five captains was given 1,000 points which they had to use instead of cash to select a player for his team. Debodyuti Sarkar fetched the highest bid at 420 points and was selected by Downtown. “I am really excited to play after all these months and I am very happy with my team. I have played with my team’s captain since our childhood so we know each other’s strengths,” said the middle-order batsman who was surprised to find himself at the top of the players’ bidding list. The base price of each player was 70 and bidding happened on the basis of performances in the practice matches held earlier, an organiser said. Santanu Biswas and his family had contracted Covid-19 in August. Now after full recovery, the AA Block resident had been picked up to play for Seven Musketeers. “We all are going through a very difficult time but we have to look at the positive side. We cannot stay inside and have to return to our regular lives but we also need to be cautious and take protections,” he said. The game The day-long tournament saw a series of league matches since the morning. A small crowd of onlookers gathered on the sidelines. “It has been ages since we got to see people playing cricket on the field on weekends. Just by watching them play makes us feel that things are now slowly going back to normal,” said Debottam Banik, a resident of CD Block in New Town, who had come to watch the match after visiting a friend in AA Block. CB Block resident Mainak Chatterjee, taking the field for Seven Wonders, chose to play barefoot after he twisted his foot in the second match. “I got hurt while running and had a little swelling. So I chose to take off my shoes for the rest of the match. But such was the fun of playing with friends that it made me forget my pain.” “It took us three weeks to organise this tournament. It is our first attempt at sports event organisation. Now we want to make this an annual affair,” said Subhabrata Kundu, another committee member. The excitement among the players was high as they were all coming out to play after months. Some even forgot about their age. “I used to be a regular player but have not played in eight years. The match got so exciting that at one point I dived to stop the ball from crossing the boundary,” smiled 61-year-old Sujit Majumder. Seven Warriors emerged champions after beating Ramdhonu by 47 runs. “I was confident of reaching the final as we had a strong team but did not expect to win the tournament. Times have changed and we had to be cautious while playing, sanitising things every now and then. But the day was all about the fun of meeting friends and winning made it even more special,” said Soumit Patra, captain of Seven Warriors. Tourja Saha of BE Block was adjudged the man of the match and Kaustav Pradhan of CE Block was the highest scorer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Much more than books||The Book Fair at Central Park may have been pushed back to July but residents of New Town are getting their fill of browsing thanks to the New Town Book Fair that is underway at the fair ground near Biswa Bangla Gate. There are 73 book stalls including Deb Sahitya Kutir, Dey’s Publishing and Penguin. Other kinds of stalls, selling garments to decorative items to food, total 77 in number. 1. Comics Stalls 40-42: Amar Chitra Katha and Tinkle signages over the entrance of Book Readers catch the eye. The ACK spread is rich, though the titles, each at Rs 50, are only in English. “Our mythological and leaders collections are doing well,” said Kartik Chandra Manna, pointing to omnibus boxes containing multiple titles on the subjects, costing Rs 6,600 (plus 20 per cent discount) and Rs 850 (plus 15 per cent discount). 2. Wooden nameplates On the floor beside Gate no. 1: Names with or without design, in a variety of fonts and sizes are eliciting enquiries in a township where most residents are new settlers. “I have got close to 3,000 orders,” said Sankar Karmakar on Day 3, He is a Hastashilpa Mela regular but is attending a private fair for the first time. While the ones requiring ready-made letters to be affixed are being readied on the spot, those requiring carving are being offered the next day. Costs vary from Rs 250 to 6,000 depending on design and size. 3. Burnt clay water bottle On the floor, third to the right from gate 1: One litre bottles made of clay promise to keep drinking water naturally cold, just as pitchers do. Zarina Chitrakar has sold off most of her stock at Rs 250 a piece but has promised to get more from her Midnapore home before the weekend. “Earlier the bottle cap used to be of clay as well but we have replaced that with plastic cap for the sake of convenience,” she said. 4. Chocolate Table to the left of gate 1 in food court: Chocolates, made in her Sukhobrishti home, are being sold by Monideepa Roy. Single-piece big ones are variously shaped like crayons, colour palette, tictactoe and chess boards, costing Rs 160 to Rs 185. “We can make them in both white and dark chocolate and can add names on them too,” she said. Smaller pieces come in eye-popping flavours like rasmalai, rabri, amsattwa and rajbhog. “We even have ones with gur filling,” she said. These come in packets of four, priced Rs 80. 5. Painted jeans Stall 2: Denim trousers hang outside the stall with bright hand-painted motifs near the waist catching the eye from a distance. The charge is Rs 600-700 for the painting and another Rs 600 for the trousers. If one requires branded trousers, that can be painted upon too. “We started work with jeans just a year ago. We can write slogans or customise a painting on request,” said the stall-keeper at Atreyee Handicraft. 6. Jute necklace Stall 21: Jute ropes have been made into necklaces with eye-catching chunky lockets of a variety of material.  The ones spotted were with tribal masks on bamboo mat, or wooden elephant or coloured jute ball. “We launched one with clay pradip during Deepavali,” said Sanchita Biswas of Sristi Designer Studio. 7. Painted film posters Stall 11: Satyajit Ray and Hollywood classics are the staple of the stall that sells framed film posters. “These are not prints but are hand-painted,” confirms Abhishek Sarkar of Craftique.  They sell for Rs 450 each. 8. Birds on mug and magnets Stall 44: Pictures of birds, many of them clicked at New Town’s own Eco Park, have been used on coffee mugs, magnets and coasters. If Black Cape Oriole and Flamingos are on the Rs 180 mugs, Buffy Fish Owl and Short-Eared Owl are included in the owl-themed coaster set of four, costing Rs 80. The magnets cost Rs 100. Nature Environment and Wildlife Society offers to make these items with other pictures in their albums too. 9. Sculpture and painting Stall 46: Small sculptures are coming to shape on a table in front of the stall of Montmartre at the hands of veteran artistes. “We plan to hold a free painting workshop for children on Saturday,” said Debashis Mullick Chowdhury, the founder. Pictures: Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Authors turn sellers, students cashiers in CK-CL block book fair||The CK-CL Block Residents Forum hosted a book fair with a difference on their community hall premises on Saraswati Puja. Manning the counters at the programme, titled Boier Adda, were the writers themselves. Arna Seal, who was present with her published collection of lyrics titled Prithibir Chabi and other books, recited her Dekhechho ki takey oi neel nodir dhare, which is known as a popular sing by Subhomita, set to melodious tune by Joy Sarkar. Tanmoy Chakraborty recited his poem Sreepanchami Valentine, which had been published in the magazine Unish Kuri on the day of Saraswati puja. The poem deals with nostalgic memories of this day. The programme had started with the release of a book of poems by Onkar Banerjee, a local resident. “I am writing poetry since my school days and have published in different magazines. This is my first book,” he said. The book release was followed by a story-telling session. Writer Dipanwita Roy read out Madhyarater Chhayamurti, a ghost story where the story concluded with the message that there is no existence of ghosts in reality and it is our mind that imagines an evil force.  Sangeeta Dasgupta  Roy read out her short story Abani Sir. Saikat Mukhopadhyay read from his short story Chiraduar. Manjir Ghosh, who has been writing both in English and Bengali for 22 years, had taken a major initiative to organise the innovative book fair. “In such meets, readers can get access to writers and there can be free interaction. There are some authors who are writing well but not well-known. Such programmes will create opportunities for their exposure and growth. Another major aim of ours was the involvement of young generation learners in such activities which would enhance their interest for reading books, especially Bengali books,” he said. Sangeeta Dasgupta Roy, who is writing short stories and poems for children since 2007, was very happy with the opportunity.  “When publishers organise a book fair, they stock books of various writers and amid the lot, our books get lost. But here the reader is getting acquainted both with me and my creation exclusively and there is scope for me to suggest him books according to his likings. Popular lyricist Arna Seal, who is a sociologist by profession, had a different objective. “I am more interested in finding out what the local community is thinking about Bengali literature, because the love for the mother tongue is gradually on the wane faced with the onslaught of globalisation. Moreover amid the pandemic, the emotion of touch, feel and warmth of interaction is necessary for all of us to rejuvenate.” Debojyoti Bhattacharjee, who had brought an array of novels, folktales and short stories, was present both as writer and publisher. “My books are mostly published by my own publishing unit Jaidhak, so I really appreciate such a venture,” he said. Block resident Dilip Dutta’s research-oriented publication Saraswati: The Cradle of Ancient Civilisation, with a picture of goddess Saraswati on the cover, generated interest in several visitors. While some of the poets recited their work, theatre personality and writer Sandeep Ghosh, who participated with his compilation of theatre and an encyclopaedia on theatre, conducted a quiz. Residents of different blocks of Salt Lake attended the event. Mahua Basu Chowdhury, a teacher of a preschool, bought children’s books for her students from Dipanwita Roy and got it signed by the author. BK Block resident Rishan Ghosh visited the fair with his parents and bought Mahidadur Antidote, a science fiction by Dipanwita Roy. “I was very excited when I heard that I could meet and talk to the writers directly,” said the Class VIII student. Sangeeta Saha from CJ Block was delighted. “The Book Fair, which happens every winter at Central Park, has been postponed this year. The hankering for it was partially satisfied today on coming here. The writers asked about my choice and helped me select a book to buy,” said the lady who bought Birupakkha’s Ora Thake Andhakare. Ujjaini Basu Mitra from KB Block usually purchases books online. “But here we had the opportunity to touch and feel and select books and speak to the authors,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||State bid to rechristen Metro stations||The state transport department wants to rename two Metro stations on the Airport-Garia line near Sector V, an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) said. The station, that was named Bowlers’ Den earlier as it is close to Nicco Park and Bowlers’ Den, according to a memo issued in February, will be renamed Nalban. The last station which has been built just before entering New Town from the Sector V side,  near the Webel intersection, now called Salt Lake Sector V, is proposed to be renamed Nabadiganta. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said Sector V was officially known as Nabadiganta and NDITA provided all the civic services to the state’s IT hub. “For a long time we, at NDITA, have been trying to have one of the Metro stations named after the township as it passed through the NDITA area. Now the state transport department has also agreed and given a go- ahead,” said Sen. The renaming of the Nalban and Nabadiganta stations is in continuation of renaming the nine stations of the New Garia-airport route that was started in January. Officials said that a lot of changes and development had been happening in both Sector V and New Town since the Metro construction began. “The provisional names were given by the railways after the nearest landmark or place. But with the development of the area, these names were not matching the place,” the official added. According to another official, the Metro authorities too were being kept in the loop. A Metro spokesperson on the other hand said that they had yet to receive any formal request for renaming the stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Devasish Jana joins BJP||Devasish Jana, former councillor of Ward 34 who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday, claimed to have felt “shock” and “insult” at his assistant being asked to vacate the room assigned to him at Poura Bhavan and the room being locked on Tuesday. “People would say this is a fishy reason and he meant to switch anyway. But once you throw a stone that doesn’t come back,” the four-time councillor, who was with Trinamul Congress since 1998, told The Telegraph Salt Lake on Wednesday morning. He had not yet made up his mind about his next step, he had said then. He was handed the party flag by BJP state president Dilip Ghosh later in the afternoon. Jana, who was a mayor-in-council member in the Trinamul Congress-run Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, resigned from his post on Tuesday in the Board of Administrators (BOA) which is running the civic body after the board's term ended last October. Jana told The Telegraph Salt Lake that his Trinamul colleagues had started treating him differently as he was known to be close to Suvendu Adhikari, the former transport minister who shifted to the BJP in December. “My native place is in Tamluk. We are from the same district. He attends social occasions in my family. But there were insinuations about my proximity with him. Tyara chokhe takay tia…,” he said, quoting a nursery song. Jana said he used to attend the Corporation regularly and was in office till Monday. But the incident on Tuesday was the proverbial last straw. “I was given a room as a member of the BOA. On Monday, I learnt that my official work assistant, who received documents addressed to me in my absence, had been asked to vacate the room which was then locked. She was told to sit outside. It is an insult to me,” he said. Jana said he was “shocked” by the incident. “I resigned at 4pm yesterday, sending my letter to the municipal affairs department, with a copy to the BMC municipal commissioner so that the chairperson (Krishna Chakraborty) gets to know. No one has called me since then,” he said. Jana claimed Adhikari had “never interfered” in his decision. “He must have got to know of my resignation from the grapevine,” he said. Counterpoint Though former mayor and BOA chairperson Krishna Chakraborty did not respond to calls from The Telegraph Salt Lake on Wednesday night, former deputy mayor Tapas Chatterjee lashed out at his former colleague. “If some incident happens, does that mean I take the extreme step straight away? Is there no ideology left in politics? I may have some grievances but that should be raised in the right forum. It does not mean I go and join a communal party!” he said, recalling how he himself was left without a portfolio by the erstwhile mayor Sabyasachi Dutta for six months. Chatterjee said he learnt of Jana’s resignation from BOA in the media and called him on Wednesday morning. “I offered to raise the matter with him with the chairperson or even speak to Bobby (minister Firhad Hakim). Who knew he would join the BJP in a few hours?” He claimed the decision to lock rooms was an administrative one taken by officials. “Even my room was being locked but I called the finance officer and asked that my assistant be allowed to use it. The matter ended there. Why did he not do the same? This cannot be the only reason for quitting the party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Left out of jab list||Healthcare workers associated with hospitals, who were willing to take the shot, have mostly received the first round of vaccine that was offered to frontliners on a priority basis. Even as the facility has been extended to the public, with senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities currently being inoculated, a significant section of doctors, who are private practitioners, has been left out of the fold. Doctors who are neither senior citizens nor associated with big hospitals are worried about the process of registering for a Covid-19 vaccine. Nearly all the doctors The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to, who provide consultation in chambers across Salt Lake and New Town sitting in medicine shops, clinics or portions of houses, said that they had not been contacted to receive the vaccine. The Co-WIN portal, that is open to the general populace now, does not have the window for individual doctors to register themselves. State health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam admitted that some doctors were still left outside the vaccine fold. “Their names were supposed to have been entered. We had requested Medical Council of India and Indian Medical Association for names. We enrolled more than seven lakh healthcare workers, which included a lot of private practitioners. A few have been left out here and there. They will be included as healthcare workers. We are talking to the government of India. The doctors can walk in and it will be arranged. The local CMOH (chief medical officer health) and the district administration can coordinate,” Nigam told The Telegraph Salt Lake on Tuesday. The doctors’ group Protect The Warriors, too, has appealed to the state health department to help reopen the registration of healthcare workers on the Co-WIN2 portal. Fending for themselves Bimal Chandra Kundu, a general practitioner who sits in chambers in AD Block and CK Block, makes his patients sit more than six feet away and does not face him. The routine practice of checking a patient with a stethoscope is given a miss except in serious cases when he must check the patient physically. No word has reached him about vaccination and he is worried. “Sitting like this is the least I can do to protect myself,” Kundu said, adding that he has stopped attending chambers that did not have enough space or ventilation. The discussion among his colleagues these days mostly centres around how to get themselves vaccinated. “Most of my friends who are associated with hospitals have received the shot. We too are providing service to our patients but are not being provided the vaccine shield,” said Kundu. Doctors in the smaller non-Covid facilities too are left out. Pratik Dasgupta, a cardiologist staying in Rosedale Garden, New Town, has to keep up with the ritual of bathing on reaching home, however long his hours may have been at Iris hospital in Gangulybagan. “We have an unoccupied servant’s quarter where I sanitise myself before entering our apartment. Often I don’t feel like it but I cannot put my family at risk.” At 48 and without comorbidities, Dasgupta has no chance to get a vaccine appointment with the rest of the general populace now. Shield before the surge Though initially he was hesitant, Dasgupta is now eager to get the vaccine. “We need the cover and fast. Cases are again on the rise. In January, out of 10 patients who came to me with fever and cough, one or two tested positive in the RT-PCR screening I sent them for. Now the figure has risen to four or five.” Though he was using PPE till January, he now sees patients in mask and gloves. “Being in PPE is too uncomfortable. One cannot even go to the toilet wearing one.” But there is no scope for complacence, he reminds himself, adding that he had already got tested thrice though so far he has tested negative for Covid-19. He now pins his hope on his hospital’s initiative. “Our medical superintendent has approached the health department, requesting permission to set up a vaccination centre at our hospital. But we hear only Covid hospitals are being allowed to vaccinate.” Another cluster of doctors who are left out are last year’s MBBS pass-outs who are preparing for MD entrance. Sreya Chatterjee of Purbachal had given up her housestaffship at Nilratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital to focus on the April 18 examination. “Only those of us who are continuing as housestaff have got the vaccine,” said she, wondering when her turn would come. CL Block resident Dipsha Chakraborty, a former student and housestaff of SSKM, too is preparing for the MD entrance. For the last two and half weeks, she has been trying to get herself and her 70-year-old general physician aunt enrolled. “My hospital said since I was not currently enrolled there, my name had not been enlisted for the vaccine and I'd need to contact local centres. The Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital, the vaccination centre closest to us, asked us to contact the office of the district chief medical officer of health (CMOH). But that is in Barasat. The CMOH staff refused to speak over phone and asked us to come. Travelling 25km without a guarantee of getting the vaccine that day is too much,” she said. Six members of her family, including herself, got infected with Covid-19 in August. Her aunt, who has resumed seeing patients from January, has managed to get a shot this week, as a senior citizen, but Dipsha is  stuck. “My antibodies are unlikely to last. I too will join a hospital in a couple of months. I need the vaccine before that,” she said. Those practising alternative medicine are completely in the dark about when they would qualify, or if at all. “Homeopathy doctor der ekta alada tokma lege jay,” rued Tapas Gan, whose chamber is in AL Block. He has an extra reason at feeling disappointed at not getting registered as a frontline worker by the health department and getting a call-up. “I visited containment zones in the slums of Ultadanga, Chetla and Bowbazar with the civic medical team on invitation from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, at the height of the coronavirus crisis in the middle of 2020, distributing Arsenicum album and Bryonia Alba to affected families. I did not even charge consultation fees,” he recalls. He continues to see patients in his chamber as he did through last year. “Ei damadoler bajare amra etoi nogonyo, keu amader prayojon bodh koreni,” he says, adding that he has taken his own medicines as a prophylactic. “So far, it has kept Covid at bay for me.” Bikash Das, who has a chamber in Purbachal, had tried to register on the CoWin App but could not do so as the app has a field that needs to be filled with the name of a hospital or a nursing home the medical practitioner is associated with. Das said he had heard that the Indian Medical Association was drawing up a list of doctors enrolled with them but is unsure about the progress of the process. “My registration is at least 25 years old and I have switched houses. I am now using a cellphone whereas the IMA database has the landline number of my old house. I don’t know how they will contact me, even if they try,” Kundu said. Bridge the gap IMA state assistant secretary Anirban Dalui, who was also the coordinator of the state’s Covid protocol monitoring committee and was the link between IMA and the health department, said: “We have no data on how many doctors do private practice. About 10 per cent of them are also attached to hospitals and got the vaccine. We tried to reach out to the other private practitioners through social media, asking them to reach out to us. At the IMA, we had started registration for members and then extended the facility to non-members too. Associated doctors’ organisations like Protect the Warriors and Association of Physicians of India collected names too. Close to 7,000 doctors contacted us from across Bengal like this.” A minimum of 5,000 to 7,000 doctors are left unvaccinated in Bengal, in his estimate. “I am certain that they did not miss out due to lack of awareness. They must have had misgivings and wanted to wait and watch. They must have thought that they could get the vaccine at any time. No one expected the Co-WIN portal to be closed for registration on January 29, soon after vaccination started on January 16. This sudden unannounced closure is what has caused them to be left out.” IMA also organised eight special vaccination sessions at SSKM and Sambhunath Pandit Hospital for private practitioners, especially of Dum Dum, Salt Lake and Behala, whose names they had collected. But once the portal closed for registration in end-January, about 5,000 doctors still got left out from the list. “We are not accepting new names till we can arrange for the vaccination of those who are already enlisted with us,” Dalui said. Though doctors are unable to register themselves anymore on the portal, unless they can do so as senior citizens, an official at the Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital confirmed that their registration as healthcare workers was still possible through an institutional log-in ID. “Doctors who need the vaccine should contact the district CMOH,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Frame-up email’ in cocaine case||Police have made a submission before the court in connection with the cocaine case that they had received an email two days before the arrest of BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami mentioning that BJP leader Rakesh Singh was trying to frame a woman in a narcotics case. Police sources said the sender of the mail, identified as Sandip Agarwal, has been examined by the police and his statement has already been recorded before the magistrate under section 164 of the CrPC. Senior police officers feel this could be a vital lead in proving Singh’s alleged role in a larger conspiracy. Sources said the submission has been made last month. Till Thursday, the magisterial statement of two persons — Sandip Agarwal and Rajesh Kumar Prasad — has been recorded before the magistrate as witnesses in the case. While Agarwal had sent the email to the police, Prasad was purportedly promised a ticket in the ensuing Assembly elections by one of Rakesh Singh’s associates and was apparently expected to join Goswami at New Alipore from where Singh’s associate had promised to take them to meet a central minister. The police have submitted a prayer to record the magisterial statement of three other persons who could be witnesses in the case. BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami, her friend Prabir Dey and her driver Somnath Chatterjee were arrested in connection with a cocaine case on February 19. All three had been in police custody since their arrest for alleged illegal possession of 90grams of cocaine in her car. They have been remanded to judicial custody till March 18. Reacting to the police’s submission of the email before the court, Goswami’s defence lawyer Kailash Tamoli said the email only corroborated the defence’s theory that Goswami was being framed in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Calcutta Municipal Corporation doubles vaccine sites||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has more than doubled the Covid-19 vaccination sites from Thursday, with 50 ward health clinics inoculating people above 60 and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities. A senior official of the civic body said that all the sites will have the option of spot-registration. One need not be a resident of the ward where the vaccination site has been opened to be able to receive a jab from there, said another official. There were 25 sites of the CMC where Covid-19 vaccination was underway till Wednesday. The recipients will get free vaccines at the CMC clinics, said the official. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, said that people only need to carry a photo ID card with them to the vaccination site. “People above 60 need to carry the photo ID card with them and come to any of the clinics from where vaccination against Covid-19 is being done. People between 45 and 59 must also carry the comorbidity certificate given by a doctor in the prescribed format,” said Hakim. A CMC official said the person must also carry a mobile phone since a one time password (OTP) will go to registered mobile number, without which the registration on the CoWin portal cannot be completed. Some photo ID cards that can be used for registering on the CoWin portal are Aadhaar, PAN, passport, driving license, electoral photo identity card, pension document with photograph. A senior official of the state health department said people who will be 60 on January 1, 2022, will also be eligible to receive the vaccine. The cormorbidity certificate issued by a doctor registered with the Medical Council of India or the West Bengal Medical Council will be accepted, said another health department official. The list of comorbidities that make a person between 45 and 59 eligible for the vaccine along with the prescribed format in which the doctor has to certify is available on mygov.in/covid-19. Scroll down on the website and open the ‘Guidance Note for Co-WIN 2.0’ document under the head ‘Information and Advisory’. “We have started inoculation in 50 ward health clinics from Thursday. There will be on-spot registration facility in all these clinics for the benefit of people who are not tech-savvy and will not be able to register themselves through the CoWin portal. We will also inoculate those who have done the registration on the CoWin portal on their own and chosen our ward health clinic as the site,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, the chief municipal health officer of the CMC. Metro reported on Thursday that several private hospitals in the city have also begun on-spot registration for recipients of the vaccine. An official of the CMC said that each of the ward clinics has the capacity to inoculate 200 persons every day. The official said the number of general people taking the vaccine each day will rise once the administration of the second dose to healthcare workers and frontline workers is completed. Some of the ward health clinics are already witnessing long queues of general people to get the jab. The vaccines at the CMC clinics are being administered free of cost. However, the CMC officials warned that if there is a glitch in the CoWin portal at any time, the on-spot registration will suffer just like the vaccination of those who were already registered would stop. “We cannot take the name and details on a page and enter those details into the portal later on. That is not allowed,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Elderly people asks private hospitals if they can administer vaccine at home||Many elderly people across the city, who are either too ill to go out or stay alone, are calling up private hospitals asking whether it is possible to administer the Covid-19 vaccine at home. However, the government’s guidelines don’t allow Covid vaccination at home. Several private hospitals said they are flooded with phone calls from elderly people who either stay alone or are physically unable to go to the hospital and wait for hours to get vaccinated. Last week, at a meeting with the state government, some private hospitals had asked if they could start giving vaccines at home for such people. However, sources said, the state government did not agree mainly on two grounds: there could be overcharging and there is no guideline from the Centre to give Covid-19 vaccines at home. The vaccination of those above 60 and people above 45 with comorbidities started on Monday and thousands have been vaccinated. But there are also thousands who are unable to go to the hospital. Some of the hospitals said sending ambulances would not be a practical solution because there are a limited number of ambulances and the demand may be for 20 or 30 in a day. “We are flooded with calls from elderly people who either stay alone because their children are outside or suffer from ailments that make it difficult for them to come to the hospital and wait in the queue,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital. “The government should think about the plight of these elderly and ill people and find a way to get them vaccinated without coming to the hospital,” he said. Swapna Majumdar, 72, a resident of Netaji Nagar, is one such person. Her husband, Anil Baran Majumdar, 82, had one of his legs amputated several years ago. Their only daughter stays abroad. “It’s very difficult for my husband to move as he has several other ailments too. Usually, someone from a diagnostic laboratory collects blood and I take the report to the doctor. But to get Covid-19 vaccine, both of us have to go to a hospital. I called up hospitals but they said we have to go there,” said Swapna. Narendrapur resident Samar Nath Banerjee, 79, and his wife Bharati, 76, are also calling up hospitals seeking to know whether they can get vaccinated at home. “Our only son stays in Singapore. My wife’s both knees are severely damaged and she can barely walk. There is no young person in our home to take us to a hospital for vaccination,” said Samar. Some hospitals said people who suffer from ailments like cancer, which reduce their immunities, are reluctant to go to the hospital and get vaccinated amidst the Covid pandemic. “There are people with medical conditions making them immunocompromised whose family members are requesting us to send personnel to their homes for vaccination,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “But we have to tell them no. Even if the government allowed, at this moment there are hundreds of people coming for vaccination every day and we have to open new sites. So, it’s not possible to send our people to someone’s home,” he said. At Belle Vue Clinic, officials are getting calls from people staying in big residential complexes requesting the hospital to arrange for bulk vaccination at their homes. “One such residential complex has many elderly people who want to take the vaccine but are either physically unable to come or are scared of getting Covid. But unlike sample collection for Covid tests, we can’t do vaccination at residences,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue. He said if someone goes in an ambulance, the hospital would ensure the vaccination is done in the quickest possible time and after the mandatory 30 minutes observation, the same ambulance can take them home. A senior official of the state health department said the main concern was adverse effect of injection or AEI, because of which a person should get vaccinated at hospital where there is infrastructure to handle a situation if someone falls ill after vaccination. “However, we are open to making changes. Let the first few days pass and then we’ll take up the issue,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court lifts stay on teachers’ recruitment||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Thursday issued an interim stay on the order by a single-judge  bench that had restrained the state government from recruiting teachers in 16,500 vacant posts in primary schools. A division bench of Justice Soumen Sen and Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya held that the judiciary should not prevent any elected government from continuing with its plans and issued an interim order on Thursday. The division bench would hear the complaints of the petitioners after four weeks. But during that period the government can appoint teachers according to its merit list. Teacher recruitment for primary schools had been pending for years because of legal tangles. In December last year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that 16,500 odd vacant posts would be filled. A merit list of 15,000 was prepared from among candidates who succeeded in TET in 2014. They were interviewed in January. The state hoped to complete the recruitment by March. But some candidates whose names were not figured on the merit list moved court alleging anomalies. Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj of the high court had on February 22 asked the state not to continue the recruitment process till further orders. Asked when the recruitment will resume, Manik Bhattacharya, president of the West Bengal Board of Primary Education said: “We have been able to prove that the board maintained transparency in its recruitment pro-cess…. We will first go through the contents of the order in detail and then proceed.” Officials of the school education department said they would soon take legal opinion to find out whether any consent has to be secured from the Election Commission of India before the board starts issuing the appointment letter. “The announcement about the recruitment was made in mid December, well before the model code of conduct had come in force last Friday. Still we want to take a legal opinion on this...,” said the official. Aspiring teachers are among the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee government. Moving the appeal before the division bench, the counsel appearing for the state submitted that a huge number of posts were lying vacant across the primary schools. The students are suffering, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University allows UG and PG students to access central library ||Jadavpur university will allow undergraduate and postgraduate students to access the central library on a limited scale from Friday after a year-long Covid-induced closure. Students will be able to use the library for borrowing  books. The reading facility is being discouraged as of now to avoid any assembly at a time when the pandemic is still on. A notice issued by the officiating chief librarian, Srabana Ghosh, mentions the “protocols/guidelines” that will be applicable in the library till further notice. All the users/staff  have to wear masks and sanitise their hands before entering. Users/staff are required to strictly follow physical distancing norms, the guidelines states. Only a limited number of users at a time will be allowed to enter the library circulation counter between 11am and 5pm. The number would be announced later. A university official said students are being allowed to use the library as they need to access books as the odd semester exam is approaching. “Many don’t have the resources to access the digital library services,” he said. The library that had reopened last December with the university asking employees to resume duties in-person, so far allowed access to the research scholars on a limited scale. “The volume of research scholars is much less. But that at the level of undergraduate and postgraduate, it is huge” he said. A library staff said they have plans to let the undergraduate and postgraduate students use the library on a limited scale in near future. “We are likely to reopen the reading room for all in small numbers,” said an official. JU had launched “Accessible Library” for persons with disabilities in September 2018. It produces books in Braille and audio books to help students encountering visual impairment. The university has ensured PG accommodation for these students so that they could frequently access to the library. The library on the university’s Salt lake campus will also reopen for students. Presidency University has also begun allowing students to visit the library for drawing and returning books. Students have to enrol themselves on book issue form. “For issuing of books, you are requested to submit the form at least four days prior to issuing date. Students will be informed the date of issuing of books at least one day in advance,” reads a notice posted on the university’s website. Other details like the timing are posted on the website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Alipore case: Forced her to return, says Rashika Jain's father||The father of homemaker Rashika Jain, who is suspected to have died from a fall from the terrace of her in-laws’ Alipore home, on Thursday said his daughter had returned home in January as she was unable to bear the torture at her in-laws’ place but he had forced her to return within a week. If the allegations are correct, this could be a lesson to all parents who force their daughters to “adjust” with the in-laws despite their resistance, feel several women activists in the city. “Rashika had come back home on 5 January pleading us not to send her back to her husband’s home. But we did not listen to her. The next day, I met her in-laws and appraised her father-in-law Mr Naresh Agarwal about the situation. He assured me that he would reduce his workload at office and spend more time with my daughter. He assured me that my daughter would be taken care of. We sent back Rashika to her husband’s home on 13 January,” Mahendra Jain told a news conference at their Alipore residence. “I wish we had not forced her to go,” Jain lamented. Hundreds of cases of torture against women are reported every day across Bengal, state Women’s Commission chairperson Leena Ganguly said. “In most of the cases women are discouraged to return to their parents and asked to adjust with their in-laws,” she said. “There are a lot of cases where parents realise their mistake only after it is too late. We try to spread awareness but such incidents keep on happening,” Ganguly said. The state women’s commission has registered a suo motu case against Rashika’s in-laws, she said. Sunanda Mukherjee, a women’s rights activist and former member of the state women’s commission, said: “In most cases the girl’s parents either cite the amount of money they have spent on the marriage or their social status to force their daughter return to her husband without realising how much they are hurting her,” Mukherjee said. Rashika’s in-laws refuted the charges brought by her family and said she was “happily settled” with her husband. “Since November end till 11 February they (Rashika and her husband Kushal) travelled to different destinations like Maldives, Shimla, Udaipur, Bangalore, Mumbai, Puri and Jaipur. After coming back from her vacations Rashika was very happy and on her desire we hosted regular dinner parties till February 14 in which Jain family and their relatives participated wholeheartedly,” Rashika’s father-in-law Naresh Agarwal told Metro. “It is time to repent our loss. Rashika was not only our daughter-in-law, she was also our daughter. So it is really a tough time for us. We are shattered by this mishap and what is happening afterwards... We have complete faith in the process of law. We condemn the speculations against our family. We are not indulging in any blame game and mudslinging.” Rashika’s parents alleged that one of Rashika’s mobile phones from where she had sent her last text message to her father, was missing. “Why are they hiding the phone,” Jain said. Police on Thursday examined all the staff, drivers and help engaged at the Agarwal residence. A team from the detective department visited the home and collected a few gadgets, including a mobile phone. “We are yet to ascertain if it is the same phone of which the victim’s father is talking about,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Physical assault: Uber driver lodges complaint ||An Uber driver has lodged a police complaint alleging that he was subjected to physical assault and his car was damaged by a woman passenger’s friends on Wednesday night. The driver alleged that the woman, who boarded the cab from Tangra, kept changing her “destination” from one location to another at Ho Chi Minh Sarani and then called her friends blaming the driver of harassing her by not taking her to the right drop location. Based on the complaint registered at Shakespeare Sarani police station on Thursday, cops have started a probe. Police said they were checking the CCTV footage of the area where the cab moved. Officers also said it was a rare incident where a cab driver had lodged a police complaint against a passenger. An Uber spokesperson said: “We have reached out to the driver to check on his well-being and have informed him that appropriate action against the rider has been taken. We stand ready to assist the law enforcement authorities with their investigations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Fraudsters using screen-sharing applications to access phones||Mobile applications legitimately used to share screens for technical support or transfer data are being used by fraudsters to access phones of their targets and carry out transactions on their behalf without waiting for them to share OTPs, police have found. The apps, used by people across the world, can be downloaded on android and iOS phones. The number of people losing money from their bank accounts without sharing OTPs to validate any transaction is increasing in the city, the police said. Officers said several red flags had emerged during their conversation with the victims of such fraud. Apps to share phone screen The police said the fraudsters were asking their intended victims to download some mobile apps, telling them that their SIM cards would be deactivated soon if they did not do so. Once the application is downloaded, the victims are asked to share a “code” that is generated on their screen. “In the majority of the complaints we have received, the victims have shared this code thinking it was safe as long as they were not sharing any OTP to validate any financial transaction. The code allows the fraudsters to have remote access to the victim’s phone. They can then make transactions on behalf of the victims without waiting for the victims to share any OTP as they can see the screen and as well as the OTP that has been generated,” said an officer of the anti-bank fraud section of Lalbazar. Fraudulent numbers look like genuine “customer care numbers” Cyber experts said it was easy to manipulate data in mobile apps that collect a database of phone numbers of people who download them on their phone. “For example, there is a popular app that people use to check the details of an unknown caller. This app will show my details as saved by my contacts on their phones. If a fraudster saves a particular number as ‘customer care number’ in his or her phone and syncs the data with the internet, there is every possibility that when another person dials that number, this app will show it as the ‘customer care number’,” said a senior police officer attached to the cyber wing. One of the victims — Nandini Banerjee, a doctor — had mistaken the fraudster’s mobile number as the customer care number in a similar way when she tried to check its authenticity through this mobile app. She lost more than Rs 3 lakh in the next few minutes. Banerjee has lodged a complaint with Garfa police station. Easy to convince to pay only Rs 10 Fraudsters are asking their targets to make a transaction of only Rs 10 — something people are ready to risk. The police said that once fraudsters accessed the victim’s phone, they could see the victim type his or her Net banking details while making the online transaction of Rs 10. “The victim thinks that even if he or she is being cheated, Rs 10 is too small an amount to bother about. But the fraudsters note the banking details and use them to make transactions,” explained an officer. Asking target to make transaction The police said fraudsters would ask their targets to make a transaction of Rs 10 only through an app that was already on the victim’s phone. “When they told me to pay Rs 10 through my mobile service provider app which I had been using for years, I thought it could not harm me in any way,” Banerjee said. On January 31, Metro had reported how at least two Calcuttans had been duped of their money purportedly without sharing any OTP to validate any transaction. The police said there were cases where fraudsters changed the registered mobile number. So the OTP was generated on a new number and the victim had no inkling of the money being transferred out of his or her account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||How spiralling fuel prices are scalding many||The spiralling price of fuel has scalded many. Most among these people were anyway in distress because of how the pandemic had hit their income. The rising cost at home and outside has made an already stressful time even worse. Metro travelled across the city to find out how some of the people were coping with the change. Here’s a list of five Sandip Kayal, 43 Owner of a car rental business with a couple of Swift Dzires and a Toyota Innova ⚫ Monthly diesel expense on one car in 2018 for a contract of 3,000km — Rs 13,000 (approx.) ⚫ Monthly diesel expense on the same car in 2021 for a similar contract — Rs 17,000 (approx.) A client who used to pay Kayal Rs 37,000 per month for the 3,000km-contract in 2018, now pays him Rs 40,000. But the rise in Kayal’s expenses has far surpassed the rise in payment. “The salary of drivers and maintenance cost, together with the exponential rise in fuel price, has been hurting me badly,” said Kayal. His son, a Class XI student and a NEET aspirant, wanted to enrol in a two-year preparatory course with a leading coaching centre chain. “My son had cleared the entrance test but the course fee of Rs 2.5 lakh was too much for me. I did not enrol my son there,” said Kayal, a Kestopur resident. Anjali Sardar, in her 40s Domestic worker ⚫ Monthly expense on one domestic LPG cylinder in 2018 — Rs 500 (approx.) ⚫ Monthly expense on one domestic LPG cylinder in 2021 — Rs 850 (approx.) Sardar, who lives in the Chinamandir area, lost her husband in a road accident a little over a month ago. Her husband was a rickshaw puller. Before the pandemic, she used to earn around Rs 8,000 per month by working — cooking and doing other domestic chores — at a string of apartment blocks off the EM Bypass. But post-lockdown, the number of employers has come down drastically. “I earn around Rs 4,500 per month now,” said Sardar. The nearly 70 per cent rise in the price of cooking gas has forced Sardar to make some sacrifices. “Earlier, I used to take autos to reach my workplaces. Now, I ride a cycle. That way, I save around Rs 20 every day,” said Sardar, who has two teenaged children, a boy and a girl. To offset the price rise in the cooking medium, Sardar has curtailed the food items. Chicken, earlier a weekly affair, has become a monthly affair now. “Rice and boiled potato with some mustard oil and a green chilli, that is our staple menu,” she said. Kapil Yadav, 56 Taxi driver ⚫ Daily diesel expense in 2018 — Rs 650 (approx.) ⚫ Daily diesel expense in 2021 — Rs 850 (approx.) In Calcutta, the base fare for a metred taxi is Rs 25 for 2km and thereafter Rs 12 a kilometre. If Yadav travels 100km a day, he goes without any passenger for at least 15-20km. In the metered fare, Yadav earns around Rs 1,000 for 80km and needs about 10 litres of diesel to run 100km. That means Rs 840 for 100km at the current rate of Rs 84 a litre. “My income is much lesser than my expenses. I have to take care of insurance, permits and taxes. The price of everything, from insurance to spare parts, has gone up substantially. Only the fare hasn’t,” said Yadav. The result — he does not take out his taxi every day. Yadav had to sell his wife’s jewellery for their son, who has started a training course to be a technician of electrical appliances. Dipak Ghosh, 43 Delivery executive of an online food aggregator ⚫ Rides around 100-150km on a two-wheeler every day ⚫ Monthly petrol expense in 2018 — Rs 5,500 (approx.) ⚫ Monthly petrol expense in 2021 — Rs 7,000 (approx.) Ghosh, a resident of Shakherbazar in Behala, works from noon till after midnight every day, scouring the lanes of Behala, Thakurpukur, New Alipore, Kalighat, Gariahat and Tollygunge. The surge in fuel prices would have been partially offset had his incentive structure remained like it used to be, said Ghosh. “I used to get an incentive of around Rs 6,000 every month before the lockdown. But the pandemic has disrupted the incentive structure. So, the rise in the petrol price is hurting even more,” said Ghosh. Ghosh, who lives in a rented home with his parents, wife and nine-year-old daughter, earns “around Rs 24,000” every month. He has been saving money to buy a home but rising expenses has badly dented his savings. “I don’t know when will I be able to live in my own home,” said Ghosh. Also on hold is a plan to buy a new smartphone for himself. “I have one phone which is always in use for taking orders and speaking with customers,” said Ghosh. Saikat Das, 30 Medical representative with a multinational pharmaceutical corporation ⚫ Rides around 50km on his two-wheeler six days a week ⚫ Monthly petrol expense in 2018 — Rs 1,800 (approx.) ⚫ Monthly petrol expense in 2021 — Rs 3,000 (approx.) Das said his travel allowance was last revised in 2016, when the price of petrol was around Rs 65 per litre in Calcutta. “Managing the fuel expenses with a 2016 allowance is like racing against a new car with a scooter,” said Das, whose daily routine involves visiting doctors across south Calcutta. Das lives with his wife and parents in Maheshtala on the western fringe of Calcutta. His wife works and his father is a pensioner. Das is better off than some of the other people this newspaper spoke to but he has had to make his own sacrifices because of the rising expenses. “I love travelling and a yearly trip used to be a must. Not anymore,” said Das. “I have also reduced eating out at restaurants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
05-03-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 440 points to finish just above 50,000 mark||The BSE gauge Sensex tumbled over 440 points and the NSE Nifty cracked below the psychological 15,000-level on Friday in line with relentless sell-offs in global equities as US bond market turmoil continued to rattle investors. At the closing bell, the Sensex was quoted at 50,405.32, showing a decline of 440.76 points or 0.87 per cent over the previous close. Intra-day, the index swung around 726 points. The NSE barometer Nifty ended lower by 142.65 points or 0.95 per cent at 14,938.10. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Dr Reddy's, NTPC, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech and Bajaj FinServ emerged as major laggards. On the other hand, ONGC, Maruti, Kotak Bank, Nestle and Ultratech Cement were among gainers. Of the Sensex shares, 21 ended with losses. Elsewhere in Asia, equity markets continued their decline on Friday after a retreat on Wall Street amid concerns that rising bond yields will lead to inflationary pressure. "Domestic equities corrected for second consecutive day as rise in 10-Year USA Treasury yields and commentary from Federal Reserve chairman on rising bond yields weighed on investors' sentiments. Barring FMCG, all key sectoral indices witnessed sharp pullback with metals and PSU bank indices witnessing steeper correction in the range of 3-4 per cent, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Clearly, rising bond yield fear, which appeared to have softened last week, has come to the fore again with back-to-back sharp rise in USA treasury yields, he said, adding that a higher bond yield reduces future earnings or cash flow projections and therefore premium valuations of equities become doubtful. Foreign investors had offloaded equities worth Rs 223.11 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Thursday, according to exchange data. On the forex market front, the rupee closed 19 paise lower at 73.02 against the US dollar. Global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading 1.26 per cent higher at USD 68.11 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||PLI scheme to boost manufacturing & exports, asserts Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said production linked incentive (PLI) scheme, which is aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing and exports, is expected to increase the country's production by USD 520 billion in the next five years. Addressing a webinar, Modi said the government is continuously carrying out reforms to boost domestic manufacturing. In this year's Budget, about Rs 2 lakh crore was earmarked for the PLI scheme for the next five years and "there is an expectation that the scheme would result in increasing the production by about USD 520 billion in the next five years", he said. He added that there is also an expectation that the current workforce in the sectors, which will avail the benefits of the PLI scheme, will be doubled and job creation will also increase. The Prime Minister said the government is working to reduce compliance burden, further improve ease of doing business and cut down logistics costs for the industry. "PLI scheme would boost manufacturing in sectors from telecom to auto to pharma. PLI is aimed at expanding manufacturing and boosting exports," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 440 points in early trade||The BSE benchmark Sensex tumbled over 440 points and the NSE Nifty cracked below the key 15,000-level in early trade on Friday in line with a slump in other Asian markets as US bond market turmoil continued to fan investor worries globally. The BSE gauge Sensex was trading at 50,405.99, showing a drop of 440.09 points or 0.87 per cent in the opening session. Similarly, the NSE barometer Nifty was quoted lower by 124.75 points or 0.83 per cent at 14,956. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, PowerGrid and HDFC Bank emerged as major laggards -- dropping as much as 3 per cent. Of the Sensex shares, 21 traded in the red. Elsewhere in Asia, equity markets continued their decline on Friday following a retreat on Wall Street amid concerns over rising yields in bond markets. "The 'bond bears vs equity bulls' game continues in the US market with similar reverberations in other developed and emerging markets. The highly valued Nasdaq appears to be in a short-phase of reversion to mean, having declined 10 per cent from record highs. "The US 10-year yield has again spiked to 1.575 per cent giving further ammunition to bond bears," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Back home, both Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) and Domestic institutional investors (DIIs) turned sellers on Thursday, impacting market sentiments, he added. On Thursday, the Sensex had shed 598.57 points or 1.16 per cent, and the Nifty had lost 164.85 points or 1.08 per cent. Foreign investors had offloaded equities worth Rs 223.11 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Thursday, according to exchange data. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading 0.77 per cent higher at USD 64.32 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Wipro acquires London-based Capco for $1.45 billion||Wipro is acquiring London-based Capco (Capital Markets Company) for $1.45 billion in cash. Capco is a global management and technology consultancy providing digital, consulting and technology services to financial institutions in the Americas, Europe and the Asia Pacific. For Bangalore-based Wipro, the acquisition will strengthen its position in the crucial banking, financial services & insurance (BFSI) vertical. The transaction is expected to be completed during the quarter ending June 30, 2021, subject to requisite regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. It will be financed through a mix of internal cash and debt. Capco, which posted revenues of over $700 million in 2020, has more than 5,000 employees across the globe which includes the US, UK, France, Germany, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, Poland, Switzerland, Brazil, India, Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong. In a regulatory filing after market hours, Wipro said the acquisition will provide access to marquee BFSI clients and create a large global financial services practice for the company with a strong consulting footprint. According to Wipro, the acquisition will lead to a global financial services business of $3.2 billion from the current $2.5 billion with strong consulting & business transformation footprint. The combination of Capco’s consulting led expertise and Wipro’s technology offerings would position them well for large-scale transformation deals. Domestic IT services firms such as Wipro have been witnessing positive growth since the onset of the pandemic as clients across industries have opted for digital transformation. For the December quarter of 2020, the BFSI segment contributed 30.5 per cent to its IT services revenues. During this period, the IT service revenues of Wipro stood at $2.07 billion. “We are very excited to welcome Capco’s admirable leadership team and employees, and global clients, to Wipro... Wipro and Capco share complimentary business models and core guiding values, and I am certain that our new Capco colleagues will be proud to call Wipro home,’’ said Thierry Delaporte, CEO and managing director of Wipro. Ahead of the announcement, shares of Wipro ended with gains of 0.78 per cent at Rs 438.85 on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Jet Airways must apply afresh for airport slots: DGCA||The winning bidder for Jet Airways will have to apply for slots as there cannot be any deemed approval for the slots, according to submissions by the civil aviation ministry and regulator DGCA. The ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) and DGCA mentioned their stance to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which had on February 25 sought their responses to Jet Airways’ slots issue. NCLT is considering the resolution plan submitted by Kalrock-Jalan Consortium for the airline. The plan has already been approved by the Committee of Creditors (CoC). Jet Airways shuttered operations in April 2019 after running out of cash and is currently undergoing a resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. According to the replies submitted by the MoCA and the DGCA on Wednesday, they are not in principle objecting to the resolution plan but there cannot be any deemed approval on the slots. The resolution applicant should apply for slots and accordingly, approvals will be granted, they added. The representative of Jet Airways insisted on the principle of historicity to be followed by the DGCA while granting the slots. NCLT’s Mumbai bench, chaired by Mohammed Ajmal and V. Nallasenapathy, directed the MoCA and the DGCA and to file an affidavit regarding the slots. The matter has been adjourned for next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Infosys to double Canadian workforce to 4,000 by 2023||Infosys on Thursday said it would be bringing 500 jobs to Calgary, Canada over the next three years, doubling its workforce in that country to 4,000 by 2023. Infosys, which is India’s second largest IT services firm, has also been focusing on hiring local talent to serve various geographies. The Bangalore-based company said in the last two years, it has created 2,000 jobs across Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa, and Montreal, with plans for further expansion across the country. The Calgary expansion is expected to enable Infosys to scale work with clients in western Canada, Pacific North West, and the Central United States across various industries, including natural resources, energy, media, retail, and communications. The latest expansion was announced by Alberta Premier Jason Kenney, Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi along with Ravi Kumar, president, Infosys, Mary Moran, president and CEO of Calgary Economic Development, and David Knight Legg, CEO of Invest Alberta Corporation. “We are thrilled to expand our presence in Canada and advance our commitment to hiring top tech talent across major hubs. Calgary is a natural next step as part of our Canadian expansion and represents a significant and promising market for Infosys. The city is home to a thriving talent pool that the Covid-related economic downturn has impacted,” said Ravi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||US interest rate unlikely to change, says Jerome Powell||US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell on Thursday said US interest rate are unlikely to be raised from its current near zero levels until the US economy recovers to ensure maximum employment and an inflation rate above 2 per cent — the two objectives that form the core of the Fed’s mandate. Since the pandemic broke out, the unemployment rate in the US has hit 4 per cent —which is fairly low — and inflation has ticked in at 1.4 per cent, far adrift from the desired level of 2 per cent. But the bigger problem for the US economy is that 10 million jobs have been lost since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year and these aren’t going to come back soon, Powell said at the Wall Street Journal’s jobs summit on Thursday. The Federal Reserve will meet on March 16 and 17 to decide on rates. Earlier in the day, stock markets around the world, including India, remained under pressure as they waited to hear Powell’s views on the surge in bond yields and the implications that this might have on Fed policy. A rise in US bond yields on Thursday saw the benchmark Sensex halting a three-session winning run. The Sensex hit an intra-day low of 50539.92 — a 904.73 point crash before closing at 50846.08, a fall of 598.57 points or 1.16 per cent. The Nifty closed down 164.85 points or 1.08 per cent at 15080.75.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Foreign nationals and NRIs stuck in India to submit details of double taxation by March 31||NRIs and foreign nationals stuck in India because of the pandemic and facing double taxation can submit their details to the income tax department by the end of this month. The Central Board of Direct taxes (CBDT) has received various representations requesting for the relaxation in the determination of residential status for 2020-21 from individuals who had come on a visit to India during 2019-20 and intended to leave India but could not do so because of the suspension of international flights. In a circular, the CBDT said if individuals were facing double taxation even after taking into account the relief provided by the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA), they may furnish the specified information electronically by March 31, to the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income-tax (International Taxation). The details have to be submitted in a specified form. Commercial international flights were suspended when the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, 2020. Later, such flights were allowed in a restricted manner under bilateral agreements and the services are yet to resume fully. As a result, many NRIs and foreign nationals had to prolong their stay in India. There were apprehensions that this extended stay could lead to these individuals becoming Indian residents as per Section 6 of the Income Tax Act for taxation purposes. For 2019-20 fiscal, which ended on March 31, 2020, the ministry in May clarified that the period of stay of non-resident Indians and foreign nationals in India during the lockdown period would not be counted for the purpose of determining their residency status for the purpose of taxation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Opec and allied countries agree to leave most existing oil production cuts in place||Members of oil producer cartel Opec and allied countries have agreed to leave most of their existing oil production cuts in place as the spread of new coronavirus variants prolongs concerns about economic weakness. Opec countries led by Saudi Arabia joined with non-members led by Russia to reach the deal in an online meeting on Thursday. Most significantly, one million barrels per day in voluntary cuts from Saudi Arabia will remain in place at least through April. “We are not in a hurry to bring it forward ... We are cautious,” Saudi Arabia energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman told a news conference after a meeting of OPEC+ ministers, adding that Saudi Arabia would decide when to end its voluntary cut “at our time, at our convenience”. Oil prices surged back towards their highest levels in more than a year with Brent trading up 5 per cent above $67 per barrel. A surge in crude is likely to make petrol and diesel more costly in India, unless the Modi-government reduces the excise duty on the fuels. With elections to four states round the corner, including Bengal, the ruling BJP at the Centre just may bite the bullet and cut taxes to prevent a voter backlash. India mulls alternatives Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Opec was not reciprocating to India's approval to an output cut by the cartel during the pandemic as a gesture of support to shore  up the sagging oil prices .  He said India would be forced to look for alternative energy if “it is pushed to the wall”. “During May 2020, demand (for fuels) had collapsed in the market and a country like India was supportive of production cuts in those days. The producers, especially Opec, had assured us that by the beginning of 2021, demand will be coming back and production will be as usual,” Pradhan said on Thursday. “But I am sorry to say, the production is yet to be normal by this time, going by what they have promised,” he said, adding, “this is happening when there is a demand normalcy around the globe, especially in Asia.” Case for fuel in GST Petrol price can go down to Rs 75 a litre across the country if brought under the ambit of the GST, but there is a lack of political will, economists at SBI said. Diesel will come at Rs 68 a litre and the revenue loss for the Centre and states will be only Rs 1 lakh crore or 0.4 per cent of GDP, according to the economists . The calculations were made under the assumption of crude prices at $60 a barrel and exchange rate at Rs 73 per dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||EPFO retains annual rate of interest on provident fund deposits at 8.5 per cent||Retirement fund body EPFO on Thursday decided to retain the annual rate of interest on provident fund deposits at 8.5 per cent for the current financial year. The central board of trustees, the decision-making body on the rates, met in Srinagar on Thursday, to set the rates for its more than five crore active subscribers. The rates will now be placed before the finance ministry for its approval, following which they will be credited into the account of the subscribers. The rates are the lowest since 2012-13 when the EPFO had also paid out 8.5 per cent.  The EPFO had given 8.75 per cent rate of interest in 2013-14 as well as 2014-15. It had paid higher rates since till 2018-19. (See chart). “The Central Board of Trustees recommended 8.50 per cent annual rate of interest to be credited on EPF accumulations in members' accounts for the financial year 2020-21,” a labour ministry statement said. The ministry said the EPFO decided to liquidate investment in equities. The interest rate is combined income from interest received from debt and the income from equities. “This has enabled EPFO to provide higher return to its subscribers and still allowing EPFO with healthy surplus to act as a cushion for higher return in the future also. There is no over-drawal on EPFO corpus because of  this income distribution.” EPFO trustee K.E. Raghunathan said they would have a surplus of Rs 300 crore on maintaining the interest rate at 8.5 per cent in the last fiscal. “The income for the distribution of interest rate stood at Rs 70,500 crore. The exchange-traded funds purchased in the first two quarters of 2017 are being liquidated, which has led to an income of over Rs 4,000 crore,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
05-03-2021||Business||Flipkart exploring going public in the United States||Walmart Inc-owned Indian e-commerce giant Flipkart is exploring going public in the United States through a deal with a blank cheque firm, although a traditional stock market listing is much more likely, people familiar with the matter said. The talks for a deal with a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) are at a very early stage and could fall apart as no plans have been finalised yet, said the people, who declined to be named as the information is confidential. A growing number of Indian startups are considering the SPAC route to public markets as it involves less regulatory scrutiny and gives companies more certainty over the valuation that will be attained and the funds that will be raised. India’s largest renewable energy firm ReNew Power last month struck a deal with a blank cheque company to go public in the United States, while SoftBank-backed online grocery startup Grofers has also held talks with SPACs. At least a dozen more Indian tech and internet startups are expected to choose that route to the public markets over the next six to 12 months, investment bankers have told Reuters. Reuters first reported in September that Bangalore-based Flipkart was preparing for an initial public offering overseas as early as 2021, which could value the firm at as much as $50 billion. Flipkart has already started talks with investment banks for its listing plans, the sources said. Flipkart and Walmart did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comment. Bloomberg reported Flipkart’s latest plans earlier on Thursday. Merging with SPACs, which are shell companies that raise money from public investors intending to acquire a business within two years, will allow Walmart to take its India unit to market at a faster pace than the usual IPO route. Flipkart, which is battling with e-commerce arch-rival Amazon.com Inc and Mukesh Ambani’s retail venture for market share in India, started operations in 2007 and now sells 80 million products on its platforms. Walmart acquired a majority stake in Flipkart in a $16 billion deal in 2018. Earlier in the week, Flipkart said it plans to expand its grocery services to more than 70 cities in the next six months as the Walmart-owned company looks to cash in on the burgeoning e-grocery segment in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
05-03-2021||Business||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India to set up 12-million tonne plant in Odisha||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel (AM/NS) India has reached an understanding with the Odisha government to set up a 12-million tonne plant in the state at an investment of Rs 50,000 crore, as the world’s largest steelmaker makes a fresh attempt to set up a greenfield unit in India. Lakshmi Niwas Mittal, chairman of ArcelorMittal, met Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday in Bhubaneswar where a memorandum of understanding was signed between AMNS India and the state government for the proposed integrated plant. Before acquiring Essar Steel in partnership with Nippon Steel in December 2019 and establishing a meaningful presence in the fast growing Indian market, ArcelorMittal had signed at least three MoUs with as many state governments in the last one-and-half decades, including with Odisha. In 2005, ArcelorMittal had signed an MoU with the Jharkhand government, followed by one with Odisha in 2006 and Karnataka in 2010. None of the projects ever materialised and the company pulled out of Odisha in 2013. Following the acquisition of Essar for Rs 42,000 crore, AMNS — where ArcelorMittal has 60 per cent and Nippon Steel of Japan has 40 per cent — established a presence in Odisha where it operates an iron ore beneficiation plant at Keonjhar district and a pellet plant at Paradip. The capacity of the pellet plant has now been doubled to 12 million tonnes with Rs 2,000 crore investment. Corporate sources said the new proposal would be contingent upon several pre-conditions, including making provisions for land and iron ore mines. The land identified for AMNS is situated at Kendrapara district, about 100 kilometre from the capital Bhubaneswar. The land parcel was earlier earmarked for a similar sized steel plant proposed by Korean behemoth Posco in 2005. It never saw the light of the day, mostly because of local protests over land acquisition. After the project was scrapped, the land is now being carved out between two prospective investors, JSW Steel and AMNS India. Before coming to Odisha, Mittal, who is now the executive chairman of ArcelorMittal, had meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and steel and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in Delhi. A prominent face of the BJP in Odisha, Pradhan is learnt to be keen to make this project happen in the state. In January, Pradhan had visited the AMNS plant at Gujarat’s Hazira and egged the management to explore a new plant in his home state Odisha, where Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD) is in power. Mittal is expected to visit Gujarat in coming days and meet chief minister Vijay Rupani, who is recovering from Covid-19. Aditya Mittal, CEO of ArcelorMittal and chairman of the board of AMNS India, had come to Delhi with his father but did not travel further to Bhubaneswar. Meanwhile, the Odisha  government on Wednesday cancelled a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with aluminium major Vedanta for the establishment of a 500-bed teaching hospital at Bhawanipatna, the district headquarters of Kalahandi district. Citing inordinate delay in execution of the teaching -hospital work by the aluminium major, the government cancelled the agreement with immediate effect after careful consideration, a notification said. The state government on March 27, 2018 had signed an MoU with Vedanta for setting up of the teaching hospital for the medical college with an investment of Rs 100 crore at Bhawanipatna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
05-03-2021||India||Report downgrading India’s status as ‘partly free’ misleading, incorrect, says Centre||The government on Friday rejected a Freedom House report downgrading India's status to a "partly free" country as "misleading, incorrect and misplaced", and said it treats all citizens equally without discrimination and asserted that discussion, debate and dissent are part of Indian democracy. "The Freedom House report, titled 'Democracy Under Siege', in which it has been claimed that India's status as a free country has declined to 'partly free' is misleading, incorrect and misplaced, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said in a statement. The report by the US-based organisation had claimed that the decline in India's status was "due to a multiyear pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies have presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population and pursued a crackdown on expressions of dissent by the media, academics, civil society groups, and protesters. Responding to the findings, the ministry said, "Government of India treats all its citizens with equality as enshrined under the Constitution of the country and all laws are applied without discrimination. Due process of law is followed in matters relating to law and order, irrespective of the identity of the alleged instigator. "With specific reference to the North East Delhi riots in January 2019, the law enforcement machinery acted swiftly in an impartial and fair manner. Proportionate and appropriate actions were taken to control the situation. Necessary legal and preventive actions were taken by the law enforcement machinery on all complaints/calls received, as per law and procedures, the ministry said. The government also rebutted the allegation in the report that the Covid-19-induced lockdown "left millions of migrant workers in cities without work or basic resources" and "resulted in the dangerous and unplanned displacement of millions of internal migrant workers". The government said that the lockdown was announced to control the spread of the coronavirus and the period allowed the government to ramp up production capacity of masks, ventilators, personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, etc. and thereby effectively prevent the spread of the pandemic. India has, on a per capita basis, registered one of the lowest rates of active Covid-19 cases and Covid-19 related deaths globally.  Denying the report's claims that academics and journalists were intimidated, the government said, “Discussion, debate and dissent is part of Indian democracy. The Government of India attaches highest importance to the safety and security of all residents of the country, including journalists. The Government of India has issued a special advisory to States and Union Territories on safety of journalists requesting them to strictly enforce the law to ensure safety and security of media persons”. The report has claimed that though the private media are vigorous and diverse, investigations and scrutiny of politicians do occur, but attacks on press freedom have escalated dramatically under the Modi government, and reporting has become significantly less ambitious in recent years. Authorities have used security, defamation, sedition, and hate speech laws, as well as contempt-of-court charges, to quiet critical voices in the media. Denying this, the government said that 'Public Order' and 'Police' are State subjects under India's federal structure of governance. The responsibility of maintaining law and order, including investigation, registration and prosecution of crimes, protection of life and property, etc., rests primarily with the concerned State governments. Therefore, measures as deemed fit are taken by law enforcement authorities to preserve public order, it said. The report has also alleged that a wide variety of NGOs operate, but some, particularly those involved in the investigation of human rights abuses, continue to face threats, legal harassment, excessive police force, and occasionally lethal violence. Rebutting this, the government said the Indian Constitution provides for adequate safeguards under various statutes, including the Protection of Human Rights Act 1993 for ensuring protection of human rights. On the report's claim that the authorities used assembly bans, internet blackouts, and live ammunition between December 2019 and March 2020 to quell widespread protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and proposals to roll out a citizens' registration process across the country, the government said, "...the temporary suspension of telecom/internet services is resorted to with the overarching objective of maintaining law and order under strict safeguards." Lastly, the government rebutted the claim that the Foreign Contributions Regulation Act (FCRA) amendment led to freezing of NGO Amnesty International's assets, and said the NGO had received permission under the FCRA Act only once and that too 20 years ago (December 19, 2000). Since then Amnesty International, despite its repeated applications, has been denied FCRA approval by successive governments since as per law it is not eligible to get such an approval. However, in order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty U.K. remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by misclassifying the remittance as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), the government said. This malafide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||CBSE releases revised board exam date sheet for few subjects||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Friday issued a revised board exam date sheet for a few subjects, including mathematics, commerce and physics, for classes 10 and 12. For class 10, the science exam has been deferred to May 21. Earlier, it was scheduled for May 15. The mathematics exam which was scheduled for May 21, will now be held on June 2, according to the latest date sheet. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said that for class 12-science stream, the May 13 physics exam will now be held on June 8. Exams for mathematics and applied mathematics, which were earlier scheduled for June 1, will now be conducted on May 31 for class 12 science and commerce streams, it said in the revised date sheet. The board has revised the date for the June 2 geography exam of the arts stream and it will now be held on June 3. The exams for classes 10 and 12 will begin from May 4 and conclude on June 10. Usually, practical exams are conducted in January and written exams begin in February and conclude in March. However, the exams are delayed in this session due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of Covid-19. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. The board exams last year had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Owner of car which caused bomb scare near Ambani's house found dead||Hiren Mansukh, owner of the vehicle with explosives which had been found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence last week, was found dead in a creek in neighboring Thane on Friday, police said. Mansukh, around 45 years old, had gone missing on Thursday night. The body was found on the banks of the creek along the Mumbra Reti Bunder road, a senior official of Thane Police said. Mansukh's Scorpio with gelatin sticks inside was found near `Antilia', Ambani's multi-storey residence in South Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said it had been stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. Crime Branch of Mumbai police had recorded Mansukh's statement in the case. Mansukh, who was in vehicle spare parts business, had said he had lodged a police complaint after the SUV was stolen. On Friday afternoon his family members approached Naupada Police Station in Thane saying he had gone missing. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the death of aprime witness showed that something was fishy. "I reiterate the demand that the case be handed over to the NIA," the BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Modi roots for deepening ties with Sweden in several sectors||India and Sweden can deepen their partnership in several sectors, including smart cities, e-mobility, smart grids and waste management, as also on key priority areas like the important issue of climate change, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. In his opening remarks at a virtual summit with Swedish premier Stefan Lofven, Modi said, "We can further our relationship in innovation, technology, investment, start-ups and research." The prime minister said shared values such as democracy, human rights, rule of law, equality, freedom and justice strengthen the relations and mutual cooperation between India and Sweden. "Smart cities, water treatment, waste management, circular economy, smart grids, e-mobility, digital transformation and several other sectors have potential where we can deepen our partnership," he added. The prime minister also expressed solidarity with the people of Sweden on behalf of all Indian citizens for the recent violent attacks in Sweden and wished for a speedy recovery of those injured. He also expressed condolences for the loss of lives in Sweden due to Covid-19. Modi further said the important issue of climate change is a priority for both the countries and the two can work together on this. "India's culture has always stressed the importance of living in harmony with nature. we are moving ahead on our commitments made under the Paris Agreement. "We will not just achieve these targets, but even exceed them. Amongst G20 countries, India has progressed well on its targets. In the last five years, our renewable power capacity has increased by 162 per cent," he said. Modi said India provided medicines and other essential items to more than 150 countries while the world was fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. "Till now, we have delivered Made-in-India vaccines to nearly 50 countries across the globe and in the next few days, we are committed to delivering it to several more," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Arnab exempted from appearing in court in suicide abetment case||The Bombay High Court on Friday granted interim exemption to TV journalist Arnab Goswami from appearing before a magistrates court at Alibaug in adjoining Raigad district in connection with an abetment to suicide case. The relief has been granted till April 16. Goswami, the Republic TV Editor-in-Chief, and two others are accused of abetting the suicide of Alibaug-based interior designer Anvay Naik, who killed himself in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by the companies of the accused. They were arrested on November 4, 2020. The accused failed to get relief from the HC after which they approached the Supreme Court which granted them bail on November 11. On Friday, Goswamis advocate Sanjog Parab told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale his client has been directed to appear before the Chief Judicial Magistrate at Alibaug, a coastal town 100km from Mumbai, on March 10 for committal of the trial in the case to a sessions court. The HC was hearing a petition filed by Goswami challenging the FIR lodged against him by the Raigad police in the case and the subsequent chargesheet submitted in the local court. The 47-year-old journalist, who has denied charges levelled against him in the case, has sought the HC to quash the FIR. Parab sought the HC to grant Goswami exemption from appearance in the local court. Since we are seized of the matter, we grant the petitioner (Goswami) protection with regard to exemption from appearance till April 16 when we will hear the plea further, the court said in its order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Govt: Overseas Citizens of India need permission to hold ‘Tabligh’, press activities||All Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders will henceforth be required to take a special permission from the central government if they want to be involved in any missionary or 'Tabligh' or journalistic activities in the country. However, the Union Home Ministry has given a major concession to OCI cardholders by allowing them parity with Indian nationals in the matter of tariffs in air fares in domestic sectors, entry fees for visiting national parks, national monuments and museums in India. The ministry, in a notification issued on Thursday night, said the OCI cardholders will be entitled to get multiple entry lifelong visa for visiting India for any purpose but "required to obtain a special permission or a special permit from the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer or the Indian Mission to undertake research and to undertake any missionary or Tabligh or mountaineering or journalistic activities". The OCI cardholders will also have to take a special permit to undertake internship in any foreign diplomatic missions or foreign government organisations in India or to take up employment in any foreign diplomatic missions in India or to visit any place which falls within the protected or restricted or prohibited areas as notified by the central government or competent authority. In March 2020, when the nationwide lockdown was in force following the coronavirus outbreak, over 2,500 Tablighi Jamaat members found to be residing at the organisation's headquarters in Delhi despite guidelines and orders issued against large congregations of people. As many as 233 foreign Tablighi workers were arrested for violations of visa rules and many of them were blacklisted, putting a ban on their future visit to India. Tablighi Jamaat workers, both foreigners as well Indians, indulge in preaching tours across the country also known as 'Chilla' in which a volunteer of the organisation travels for 120 days to various parts of the country and stay in local mosques where they inform the neighbourhood people about their activities besides holding special prayers. The Home Ministry said the OCI cardholders will now be exempted from registration with the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO) or Foreigners Registration Officer (FRO) for any length of stay in India, but they have to inform the FRRO or FRO concerned whenever there is a change in permanent residential address and in their occupation. The OCI cardholders will now enjoy parity with Indian nationals in the matter of tariffs in air fares in domestic sectors in India, entry fees to be charged for visiting national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, the national monuments, historical sites and museums in India. An OCI cardholder is a foreign national holding a passport of a foreign country and is not a citizen of India. They will also get parity with Non-Resident Indians in the matter of inter-country adoption of Indian children subject to the compliance of the procedure as laid down by the competent authority, appearing for the all India entrance tests such as National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, Joint Entrance Examination (Mains), or other such tests to make them eligible for admission only against any Non-Resident Indian seat or any supernumerary seat, provided that the OCI cardholder shall not be eligible for admission against any seat reserved exclusively for Indian citizens, the notification read. The OCI cardholders will get parity in purchase or sale of immovable properties other than agricultural land or farm house or plantation property and pursuing professions like doctors, dentists, nurses and pharmacists in India as per the provisions contained in the applicable relevant statutes or laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||SC relief to Amazon head as Centre has no ‘power to prosecute’||The Supreme Court Friday said the Centre's guidelines on regulating social media do not have any provision for taking appropriate action against digital platforms showing inappropriate content. It also granted protection from arrest to Amazon Prime Video's India head Aparna Purohit in FIRs lodged over web series Tandav. A bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy also issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on Purohit's plea for anticipatory bail in FIRs on Tandav series. The apex court observed that the Centre's regulations on social media are mere guidelines and do not have provision for any action against digital platforms. "There is no mechanism to control social media platforms. Without legislation you (government ) cannot control it,” the apex court said, as quoted by NDTV. "We have gone through your rules and it does not have any teeth. No power for prosecution. No mechanism to control violations," Justice Ashok Bhushan said while going through the guidelines. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the Government will consider appropriate steps and any regulation or legislation on it will be placed before court. The court also directed Purohit to make Centre as a party to her plea. On Thursday, the SC said that some OTT platforms were screening pornography and backed monitoring of content, asking the government to place before it within a day the recent rules regulating such video-streaming services. “Mr Mehta, please submit the regulations on OTT platforms. We are of the view that there should be some screening of OTT content. At times, they are showing pornography too. We are of the view that some screening should take place. In fact some platforms even show pornography,” Justice Bhushan told Mehta, appearing for the Centre, while hearing Purohit’s plea. Purohit has moved the apex court against an Allahabad High Court order dated February 25 rejecting her anticipatory bail plea as she feared arrest by Uttar Pradesh police over multiple FIRs registered against her and some of the principal actors of the series for hurting religious sentiments. Tandav is a nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub. Purohit has been accused of inappropriate depiction of Uttar Pradesh police personnel, Hindu deities and an adverse portrayal of a character playing the prime minister in the web series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||NCB files chargesheet in drugs case related to Sushant death||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday filed a charge-sheet before a special court here in its drugs angle case related to the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput last year. The over 12,000-page charge-sheet has named 33 accused, including actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik. The voluminous document has statements of over 200 witnesses. The NCB began probing the alleged use of drugs in some quarters in Bollywood after the death of Rajput (34) in June last year. The central agency started its probe on the basis of some WhatsApp chats having reference to drugs. The NCB had arrested Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some staff members of Rajput and a few others under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Rhea Chakraborty, Showik and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Almost 17,000 fresh Covid cases, 113 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,11,73,761 with 16,838 fresh cases reported in a day, while the number of patients who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,08,39,894, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,57,548 in the country with 113 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active COVID-19 cases has increased to 1,76,319, accounting for 1.58 per cent of the total caseload, according to the data. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 1,08,39,894, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.01 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,99,40,742 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 7,61,834 on Thursday. The 113 new fatalities include 60 from Maharashtra, 15 from Punjab and 14 from Kerala. Of the total 1,57,548 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for 52,340, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,508), Karnataka (12,350), Delhi (10,915), West Bengal (10,273), Uttar Pradesh (8,729) and Andhra Pradesh (7,171). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Platform ticket prices raised from Rs 10 to Rs 30||The Indian Railways on Friday announced a fare hike for platform ticket across its network in a bid to prevent unnecessary overcrowding at stations amid the ongoing pandemic. A fresh notification by the railways stated that the platform ticket price has been increased from Rs 10 to Rs 30. Along with this, the local fare has also been increased by the railways. The Ministry of Railways in a statement termed the hike as a 'temporary measure' taken keeping the safety of passengers in mind. "It is a temporary measure and field activity undertaken by the railway administration in the interest of the safety of passengers and to prevent overcrowding at stations," the Ministry said in a statement. "Deterring more persons to visit the station, the platform ticket charges are increased from time to time after assessing the ground situation. The power to change charges of platform tickets has been delegated to DRMs due to field management requirements," it added. The Ministry said the measure is in practice for many years and is used occasionally as a short-term crowd control measure and "there is nothing new about it." In February, the Railways had announced the "slight hike" in the ticket fares of short-distance passenger trains to discourage people from unnecessary travel. Earlier, the railways had announced fare hike excluding suburban trains, effective from January 1 this year. While suburban fares remain unchanged, ordinary non-AC, non-suburban fares were increased by 1 paise per km of journey. The railways had then announced a two paise/km hike in fares of mail/express non-AC trains and four paise/km hike in the fares of AC classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||What drives a Twitter storm like #ModiJobDo||The struggle of Ajeet Sonkar from Allahabad offers an insight into why over 5 million youths last week stormed Twitter with the hashtag “Modi job do (Modi, give us jobs)”. Sonkar, who has cleared the combined graduate level (CGL) examination of 2019 after three unsuccessful attempts, has not made it to the merit list although he has got more than the cut-off marks. The CGL examination is conducted by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC) to select employees for various central government ministries and departments. Sonkar has another grouse: after the past two editions of the exam, it had taken close to two years to declare the results from the date of the publication of advertisements for recruitment. Taking the exam since 2016, Sonkar said that earlier, it took around 15 months for the completion of the process. With rising unemployment amid shrinking job opportunities in the private sector, the quest for government jobs among the unemployed has assumed more urgency. Sonkar said candidates often had to cough up money to challenge wrong questions in the CGL exams. The fee to challenge every wrong question is Rs 100. “It has become a money-spinning machine for the SSC, which is a government organisation. The delay in the conduct of exams and the frequent wrong questions forced millions of candidates to vent their anger on social media,” Sonkar said. According to him, the delays started in 2017, when candidates had complained about a paper leak. No action was taken despite protests. The results were delayed by two years. Similar delays were witnessed in the CGL exams of 2018 and 2019, Sonkar said. The exams are held over three legs — preliminary, main and essay writing. Sonkar alleged that although he cleared the 2019 exam cut-off, his name didnot appear on the merit list. He said hundreds of othercandidates had met the same fate. When Sonkar went to enquire at the SSC office in Allahabad, he was advised to approach the Delhi office. Nearly 35 lakh candidates apply every year for 10,000 posts of junior statistical officers, assistant audit officers and similar posts in the central government where candidates are selected through the CGL exams. General and OBC candidates have to pay Rs 100 each to appear for the exams while SC and ST candidates are exempt from paying the fee. Nearly 1 lakh students challenge wrong questions every year, Sonkar said. Sonkar also appeared for the non-technical popular category (NTPC) posts under the Indian Railways in early 2019. The exam was held only last month and the results are awaited. “I am staying on rent in Allahabad to prepare for the test. The results are being delayed and exams are held in an opaque manner. So we started the social media campaign,” he said. On February 25, the “Modi job do” campaign had trended on Twitter, with over 5 million users tweeting with the hashtag. Phone calls from this newspaper to the office of the SSC chairperson went unanswered. An email was sent to the department of personnel and training — the administrative ministry for the SSC — asking about the concerns of candidates, but there was no reply. D.J. Narain, an Indian Railways spokesperson, said the exams were being conducted over the past two months. “It is a massive exercise. Because of Covid protocols, the examinations could not be held (on time). Also, many posts are linked to prospective vacancies. But the candidates should be assured that now the results will come out on time and those successful will join the Indian Railways,” he said. “More than 1 crore candidates have taken the NTPC exam and 40,000 ALPs (assistant loco pilots) have been issued joining letters. Training is going on. Speculation should be avoided,” Narain added. There have been delays in state government recruitments as well. The Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission had advertised 200 posts of assistant professors for government colleges in 2017. The screening exam was held two years later and interviews are being conducted since January 2020 in phases. The commission has recommended to the higher education department the final names for some candidates who have been selected after interviews but no appointments have been made. “The state government is sitting on the recommendations,” said a candidate who has been selected. Avinash Kumar, assistant professor at the Centre for Labour Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said that out of over 100 million regular employment opportunities in 2018, the share of public employment had fallen to below 20 per cent. Government jobs are decreasing year after year yet they remain popular among youths because of security. Studies have shown that job growth had declined steadily between 2011 and 2018 compared to the previous seven years. “The government is to a large extent responsible for this situation because of its neglect in providing public services and ill-conceived policy shocks. When the government itself is sitting over its recruitments for years, it is amplifying the anger of youths,” Kumar said. He described demonetisation as a major policy shock that was based on the flawed claim that people had hoarded black money in cash. “This government promised 2 crore jobs a year while it has no concrete plan on how to fulfil it. On top of it, this government’s political philosophy is based on creating fear among citizens and universalising shock. The result is that the level of confidence among potential job creators has been shaken. The government should have built confidence among all sections of society but it did the opposite,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Shiv Kumar bailed, taken to hospital for medical attention||Trade unionist Shiv Kumar, who suffered grievous injuries in alleged torture while in Haryana police’s custody, was released on bail on Thursday and soon afterwards, was driven to a hospital for medical attention for trauma. Kumar, 24, is the president of the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan and is under trial with Nodeep Kaur, another trade unionist, for three FIRs alleging extortion and attempt to murder during a protest over erratic wage payment at an industrial cluster near Delhi. A member of the Haryana student group, Chhatra Ekta Manch, told this newspaper in the evening that Kumar was showing signs of trauma although he appeared cheerful immediately after his release from jail. The Chhatra Ekta Manch member said: “We are taking him to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, where doctors had earlier examined him. He is in bad shape and is not conversing normally.” It’s a four-hour drive from Sonipat, where Kumar was jailed, to Chandigarh. Kumar’s medical report had recorded signs of post-traumatic stress disorder in addition to physical trauma. The psychological symptoms included “crying spells”, anxiety, “flashbacks of brutality meted out to him” and sleep disorders. Kumar claims he had been behind bars since January 16 after he was picked up from near the Singhu protest site of farmers opposing the new farm laws. Kumar and Kaur had been active in the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border before their arrest. Kumar, the son of landless Dalits in Sonipat district, was received outside the jail by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa of the Shiromani Akali Dal. The committee has been paying for lawyers and bails for all activists involved with the farmers’ agitation who are facing prosecution. Last month, a medical report of Kumar recorded two fractures on his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe caused by a “blunt object”. On Wednesday, he was granted bail in two cases of extortion. On Thursday, he was given relief in a case of attempt to murder and other charges filed for the January 12 clash at the Kundli Industrial Area where Kumar says he was not present. Sonipat sessions judge Yashvir Singh Rathor granted bail on a personal bond and surety of Rs 1 lakh each on grounds of parity as Kaur had already been granted bail in the case by Punjab and Haryana High Court. The police had claimed that seven of their personnel were injured when they tried to “mediate” between the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan and staff of a factory. Kaur had said that workers had attacked the police to save her when cops dragged her by her hair.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Either scrap the farm laws or adopt my compromise formula: Swamy||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy on Thursday urged the Centre to either scrap the farm laws or adopt his three-point compromise formula to break the prolonged deadlock. “At the present, with the declining economy, China grabbing our land and the government mentally not ready for a war, and also elections to fight in the states, I suggest that the government either adopt my compromise three-point solution to the farmers agitation, or scrap the Act,’’ Swamy tweeted. The MP’s remarks about China grabbing Indian land and the economy’s condition run contrary to the government’s narrative. Led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government has been maintaining since last summer that China has not entered or occupied Indian territory.Swamy’s farm formula involves limiting the laws to states that opt for them in writing; a clear statement that every state will be eligible for minimum support price in perpetuity; and allowing foodgrains to be purchased by only those who have no major business or commercial interests other than in agricultural trade. The MP had added that he was personally in favour of the reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Attacks on judiciary could invite contempt of court: Bar Council of India||The Bar Council of India on Thursday deprecated what it called the rising trend of politicians and activists attacking judges and the judiciary even over their oral observations and cautioned that such attacks could invite contempt of court. The Bar Council pointed out that oral observations had no legal sanctity, unlike written orders. The Bar Council is the regulatory body for legal education and advocates. The Bar Council struck the note of caution against the backdrop of criticism of recent observations by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, who asked a rape accused whether he was willing to marry the victim. In another case, the CJI had asked: “If two people are married to each other and are living as husband and wife, the husband may be brutal and commit wrong. But can the act of sexual intercourse between lawfully wedded man and wife be called as rape?” The remarks were widely criticised by a large number of women activists. CPM leader Brinda Karat had said the CJI was being insensitive towards women and sent a letter to Justice Bobde asking him to withdraw the comments. In a statement, Bar Council chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra said: “In the recent past, we have seen the development of a new trend with regard to the reaction of some people against comments and observations of the Supreme Court judges in the course of judicial proceedings even when such comments are not part of judicial orders. A handful of politicians and some so-called social activists are feeling elevated by criticising and making reckless comments against the judges through the social and print media. “In our opinion, such attempts are a direct attack on the independence of the judiciary. It has become a fashion for some motivated people to make personal aspersions against our judges. If this trend is allowed to continue, the institution will lose its sanctity. Therefore, immediate measures will have to be taken to stop this practice of malicious attack through the media or otherwise.” He added: “Freedom of speech and expression cannot be stretched to the extent of maligning and weakening the institution. Writing letters to the Chief Justice of India or any judge and making such letters public through the media are acts of gross contempt of court. We deprecate such actions of Ms Brinda Karat and similar acts of chief minister of Andhra Pradesh (Jagan Mohan Reddy) against the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court.” Reddy is facing 31 criminal cases related to corruption and money-laundering. Fingers were pointed at the second senior-most judge of the apex court, Justice N.V. Ramana, and suggestions were made that he was trying to influence the functioning of the high courts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “Comments made by the judges, not resulting in their orders, have no legal sanctity. Why raise a hue and cry on such comments? Unfortunately, in their pursuit of cheap popularity, some people and even some of the media conceal important/relevant facts of the case and the background in which the comment or query was made by the court. We request Ms Brinda Karat and people like her, with great respect, to first examine and get acquainted with the facts of the case in question,” the BCI said. “Without knowing the full facts, they should not make any reckless comment. Ms Karat should not have made her letter public through the media. This clearly shows that her motive was to get improper political benefit only,” it added. Mishra said that laws meant for the protection of women were being misused flagrantly and innocent people were being harassed or put behind bars. “The way and the manner in which some of the media persons start malicious campaign in public make it a matter of serious concern,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||RSS, Church leaders meet to settle an old property dispute||A senior RSS leader has met members of two influential Christian denominations in Kerala who are looking to settle an old property dispute, the session ahead of the Assembly elections suggesting a last-ditch attempt by the Sangh to win the support of the community. Bishops and other clergymen from the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church and the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church met RSS joint general secretary Manmohan Vaidya at the organisation’s office in Kochi on Wednesday, responding to an invitation from the Sangh and rankling the larger Christian community that has traditionally stayed away from the Hindutva bandwagon. The meeting comes over two months after the leaders of the two denominations met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi in a much-publicised move apparently to find a lasting solution to a century-old property dispute between the two groups. But the RSS initiative ahead of the April 6 Kerala polls has a clear political objective since the Sangh parivar has for decades been trying to lure a section of Christians who form 20 per cent of the 3.5 crore population of the state. Muslims make up another 30 per cent. The acrimonious relationship between the two denominations was due to the dispute that came to a head with the Supreme Court in 2017 ordering the Jacobites to hand over 1,064 of 1,700 churches to the Orthodox Church. While the Jacobites maintained that they had built the churches, the numerically fewer but politically more powerful Orthodox Church refused to budge. Father Sleeba Paul, trustee of priests of the Jacobite Syrian Church who was among those who met Vaidya, told The Telegraph that all they wanted was a permanent solution to the dispute and his Church would back the BJP if it found a remedy. “The LDF (ruling Left Democratic Front) failed, while the UDF (Congress-led United Democratic Front) ignored us but promised to pass a law on the Sabarimala women’s entry issue. So if the BJP comes to our help we will support them,” he declared. The UDF has pledged to pass a legislation to ensure tradition is upheld at Sabarimala, the hill shrine where women of childbearing age are not allowed. “We were a delegation of five, including a bishop, and our only objective was to end this dispute. What is our problem in supporting the BJP if they can help us? All we want is our churches,” Paul said. None of the clergymen and the spokesperson from the Orthodox Church was available for comment, neither was anybody from the RSS. Felix J. Pulludan, chairman of the reformist group Joint Christian Council, described the meeting as “an abject surrender before the RSS, forgetting that it is this very organisation that has always been behind the misery and trauma faced by Christians as a whole”. “The delegations including bishops have shown they are at the beck and call of the RSS. They may say it’s a continuation of the discussions they held with the Prime Minister. In which case, BJP leaders should have helmed the discussions,” he said. But Pulludan expressed hope that the laity wouldn’t follow the bishops in toto. “Gone are the days when the laity blindly followed every word of the clergy. This is a different era, and people in Kerala are well informed to take their decisions.” While Kerala’s Christian community has by and large supported the UDF, there was a significant swing towards the LDF in the recent local council elections. But one of the AICC observers in the state, Ivan D’Souza, rubbished all talk about Christians turning red or saffron. “The Christians have been our mainstay all these years and will remain to be so since we are a truly secular party that represents everyone,” the leader from Karnataka told this newspaper on Thursday after meeting Major Archbishop of Syro-Malankara Catholic Church Cardinal Baselios Cleemis in Thiruvananthapuram. D’Souza was accompanied by Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran and Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty. “We had a cordial discussion and I didn’t see any animosity towards the Congress or the UDF,” D’Souza said. Asked about the impact the initiative taken by the BJP and the RSS could have on the election, D’Souza said they were only eyeing the vote bank. “Where were they all these years if they had any intention of solving this issue? The people will understand their agenda behind this one-day drama by the RSS,” he said. Kerala BJP president K. Surendran and Karnataka deputy chief minister and party observer C.N. Ashwath Narayan had recently called on Major Archbishop Cardinal George Alancherry. Narayan had later said he had promised to field several Christian candidates this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Delhi riots: presence ‘natural’, bail granted to two persons||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to two persons in a case related to northeast Delhi riots, saying their presence was natural at the scene of crime as they resided in the vicinity. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat granted bail to Mohd Shariq and Mohd Shahzad on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 15,000 with one surety of like amount each in the alleged murder of one Prem Singh during the last year riots in the Welcome area. The court noted that both the accused were arrested in November last year, almost seven months after the FIR was registered. The court said though the witnesses were there, yet no judicial test identification parade has been conducted and the alleged identification of the accused had taken place on the basis of their black and white photographs. “According to the prosecution, Imran was identified as a person who had held Prem Singh and Asif as the one who stabbed Prem Singh. The applicant’s (Shariq’s) role is that of participation in the unlawful assembly also constituting of accused Imran and Asif and thereby murder by way of imputation under Section 149 (unlawful assembly) IPC. “The accused (Shariq and Shahzad) resides in the vicinity of the scene of the crime and therefore their presence was natural,” it said in its order. The court directed them not to leave Delhi without its prior permission and not to tamper with evidence. During the hearing, advocate Pritish Sabharwal, appearing for both the accused, claimed they have been falsely implicated in the case. Special public prosecutor Anuj Handa, appearing for the police, opposed the bail pleas saying Shariq and Shahzad allegedly were part of the unlawful assembly that had stabbed Singh. At least 53 people were killed and around 200 injured in the the February 24 riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Taj Mahal evacuated after bomb hoax call||Hundreds of tourists were evacuated from the Taj Mahal premises on Thursday morning after police received a bomb call that later turned out to be a hoax. “We were in the lawn of the Taj Mahal when a large number of policemen, Central Reserve Police Force personnel and bomb disposal squad members rushed in and announced that the two entry gates of the mausoleum would be closed for some reason and that the tourists were expected to leave the premise immediately,” a tourist guide, who didn’t want to be named, told reporters. “We rushed out of the monument and kept waiting outside as CISF officers had told us that we would be allowed to enter again after sometime. They finally told us around 11.30am that we could reenter the premise,” the guide added. A. Satish Ganesh, inspector-general of the Agra zone, said: “We traced the caller to the Nakhi area of Firozabad and identified him as Vimal Kumar Singh, age 30. Police teams are interrogating him and trying to find out why he made the hoax call. Initial reports suggest that he is not of sound mind and is under the treatment of a psychiatrist.” Singh, who had made the call on 112, a police emergency number, told the media in Firozabad after his arrest that he had come to know from someone that a bomb had been planted at the Taj. “I alerted the police after I came to know from somewhere that there was a bomb at the Taj Mahal,” Singh said in Firozabad, 45km east of Agra. However, a relative said on the condition of anonymity that Singh was unhappy with the government because of a delay in recruitment to the Indian Army. “A recruitment test for the post of jawans in the Indian Army, to be held in Agra, had been postponed. He was angry. He is mentally unwell,” the relative said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Delhi High Court seeks autopsy tape and X-ray plate of farmer who died on R-Day||Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Uttar Pradesh police to provide the original X-ray plate and video of the post-mortem of the 25-year-old farmer who died after his tractor overturned during the tractor rally on Republic Day. Justice Yogesh Khanna said he wanted both the original documents to be handed over to the official of Delhi police on March 5 at 2pm and they should be retained by the investigating officer in safe custody. The high court was hearing a plea by deceased Navreet Singh’s grandfather — Hardeep Singh — claiming that the victim suffered gunshot injuries to his head. His post-mortem was conducted at Rampur district hospital in Uttar Pradesh. However, both the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh police claimed before the court that Navreet did not suffer any gunshot wound. Delhi government’s standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi police, told the court that though they had requested Uttar Pradesh police to give original X-ray plate and post-mortem video, the officials of Rampur police and hospital denied the same, unless ordered by the court. Advocate Garima Prashad, representing Uttar Pradesh police and the chief medical officer of the hospital, said they did not have the X-ray report, but only the X-ray plate and the post-mortem report, which they were willing to hand over to Delhi police on the date and time fixed by the court. She said the original post-mortem and inquest reports had already been handed over to Delhi police. Advocate Vrinda Grover, representing the petitioner, sought a copy of the X-ray, post-mortem and inquest reports. When Mehra said they had no objection in giving those documents to the petitioner, the high court said, “Let the needful be done,” and listed the matter for further hearing on March 17. Grover also said once the original X-ray plate was received from Uttar Pradesh police, the court could ask AIIMS or any other forensic department to prepare a report. Delhi police had earlier said that according to the post-mortem report, the young farmer died because of a head injury as a result of the accident. The petition, also filed through advocate Soutik Banerjee, has sought a court-monitored special investigation team to probe the death. Delhi police, also represented by advocate Chaitanya Gosain, have relied upon the footage collected from CCTV cameras located at the site — Deen Dayal Upadhyay marg — where the farmer died, and said he was driving the tractor at high speed and the vehicle overturned after hitting the barricades. Delhi police agreed to show the footage to the petitioner’s counsel. It had said the footage also showed that the police personnel were running away for safety from the speeding tractor and that none of them fired at the vehicle or the driver. Delhi police have also said that the CCTV footage indicated that the protesters did not take the injured farmer to any nearby hospital and instead attacked the ambulances that reached the site after hearing about the accident. It had said the protesters kept the body on the road for five hours and then spread rumours that he was killed in police firing. Uttar Pradesh police, in its status report, had said no FIR had been registered by it in connection with the death as claimed by the petitioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Delhi court grants bail to farmer, veteran in R-Day case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to a farmer and a retired army officer in a case related to the Republic Day violence during the farmers’ tractor rally against the Centre’s three new farm laws. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat granted the relief to Baljeet Singh and Harjinder Singh on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 15,000 with one surety of like amount in the case of the violence in Seemapuri area. Baljeet is a farmer and lives in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, and Harjinder is a retired army officer from 9 Sikh Light Infantry Battalion of the Indian Army. He had served the army for 17 years. According to the police, Baljeet and Harjinder were detained on January 26 at Chintamani Chowk where around 500 protesters on tractors and cars were coming from the Apsara Border flyover and they had allegedly broken the barricade in a violent manner. While granting bail, the court said according to the prosecution both the accused were not driving the tractor nor did they attempt to kill or hurt any police personnel themselves. “The best case of the prosecution is that he had participated in the said rally/unlawful assembly on January 26, 2021, at the relevant time thereby attracting imputation under Section 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC,” the court said. Additional public prosecutor Vikas Kumar, appearing for the police, opposed the bail pleas saying the offences against the accused were serious in nature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||OTTs showing pornography at times: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that some OTT platforms were screening pornography and backed monitoring of content, asking the government to place before it within a day the recent rules regulating such video-streaming services. “Mr Mehta, please submit the regulations on OTT platforms. We are of the view that there should be some screening of OTT content. At times, they are showing pornography too. We are of the view that some screening should take place. In fact some platforms even show pornography,” Justice Ashok Bhushan told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. A bench of Justices Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy agreed to examine the anticipatory bail plea of Aparna Purohit, Amazon Prime Video’s India head, over the screening of the web series Tandav, which allegedly depicts Hindu gods in a disrespectful manner. Purohit has moved the apex court against an Allahabad High Court order dated February 25 rejecting her anticipatory bail plea as she feared arrest by Uttar Pradesh police over multiple FIRs registered against her and some of the principal actors of the series for hurting religious sentiments. Tandav also has episodes that refer to the farmers’ protest and violence on the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus, which too have angered Right-wing organisations. When the Supreme Court asked Mehta about the OTT platforms, the solicitor-general replied: “My Lords, I agree these days they are also showing a lot of filthy things with abuses too.” The bench said: “These days traditional film viewing has become obsolete. People watching cinema on the Internet has become very common. So our question is, should these contents be screened?” Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Purohit, said the issue before the court was not the new OTT guidelines framed by the Centre but that of a citizen’s fundamental right to freedom of speech. Purohit is facing charges under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place, etc), 295 (injuring or defiling places of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religious beliefs), and 505(1) and (2) (statements conducive to public mischief). These apart, cases under the Information Technology Act have been registered against her. Rohatgi said the complainants were “publicity seekers”. “These are all publicity seekers who keep filing cases all over India. Look at the FIR and what’s happening. If you want to watch this web series, you have to pay,” he said. “But it’s a question of creating a balance,” Justice Bhushan said. The court adjourned the matter to Friday to enable the Centre to place before the bench the new guidelines on OTT platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Modi govt had planned to curb media freedom: Congress||The Congress on Thursday referred to a purported report that suggested the Narendra Modi government had during the pandemic peak last year planned to curb media freedom, claiming that such sinister projects had exposed the regime’s anti-democratic mindset. The purported ministerial report, revealed by The Caravan magazine, was the topic of discussion a day after Freedom House, an 80-year-old democracy watchdog mostly funded by the US government, dropped India from the list of “free countries” and suggested that it was being driven towards “authoritarianism”. On Thursday, the Congress drew attention to the claim that central ministers and former journalists working for the BJP had held six meetings with a few reporters to prepare a strategy for curbing the section of the media that had been critical of the government and held it up as evidence of diminishing democracy in the country. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “A government communication report has revealed some very, very disturbing facts. There were five cabinet ministers — Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and S. Jaishankar — apart from four junior ministers who were part of this group. When we thought the government is focused on fighting corona and saving the lives of people, the Prime Minister was actually preparing to stab us in the back by compromising the freedom of speech and expression in the country by controlling free press.” The Congress spokesperson read out from the purported report. Referring to purported interactions between the ministers and BJP leaders during a meeting, Shrinate said: “Smriti Irani talks about tracking 50 negative influencers by the electronic media monitoring committee of the ministry of I&B. “Swapan Dasgupta talks about ‘giving that little bit extra to journalists in a calibrated manner’. What is this extra? Surya Prakash, head of Prasar Bharati, says that ‘the government has enormous power to utilise its position and controlling them’. This is blatant exercise of power.” Former journalist Nitin Gokhale, who worked for national security adviser Ajit Doval, was quoted as having suggested that journalists should be colour-coded. Shrinate said: “They talk about colour coding, green for fence sitters, black for people who are against you, white for those who support you. (RSS ideologue S.) Gurumurthy talked about the ‘Pokhran effect’ — probably creating a big impact to manage headlines and divert attention. Ravi Shankar Prasad says ‘there needs to be a pool of spin doctors, who must give a spin to every government story.’ He is talking about academicians, VCs, retired IFS officers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
05-03-2021||India||'Metroman' E. Sreedharan to be BJP’s CM face in Kerala||The BJP’s Kerala unit has decided to get the party’s central leadership to name “Metroman” E. Sreedharan as its chief ministerial candidate in the poll-bound state. State party president K. Surendran on Thursday announced that the BJP leadership would be asked to project the technocrat for the top post. Sreedharan had said he wanted to helm a BJP government in the state even before officially joining the party. “We have requested the party leadership to make Sreedharan the chief ministerial candidate,” Surendran said. On Thursday, Sreedharan visited the Palarivattom flyover in Kochi that was rebuilt by the Left Democratic Front government after its faulty construction during the previous United Democratic Front government, which faced allegations of corruption and mishandling of funds set aside for the project. The present government had demolished the flyover based on a study conducted by IIT Madras and appointed Sreedharan as the chief adviser of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to supervise its reconstruction. With the flyover to be handed over to the government by Sunday, Sreedharan put his party in a bit of a spot by lauding Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society that rebuilt the bridge three months ahead of its eight-month schedule. “It’s the first time I am seeing such a good contract work,” he said, lauding the Society perhaps not realising that his party had made allegations of corruption against it. Surendran later told reporters that Sreedharan perhaps didn’t know the corruption in the Society. “I am only talking about the corruption and not the technical competence of their work,” he said, trying to minimise the possible impact of Sreedharan’s comment. Before leaving the flyover, Sreedharan said he would not be wearing the DMRC uniform anymore “This is the last day I am wearing this uniform. I wore the DMRC’s typical outdoor uniform for the first time in November 1997 in Delhi. (The) same practice continued for the last 24 years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
05-03-2021||India||Rahul highlights govt’s alleged misuse of central agencies and manipulation of media||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday played on Hindi proverbs to draw attention to the Narendra Modi government’s alleged misuse of central agencies and manipulation of mainstream media, provoking the BJP to hit back in similar fashion. The battle of proverbs came a day after income tax raids were conducted at the homes and offices of actress Taapsee Pannu and film director Anurag Kashyap, among others. Both have been vocal critics of the Narendra Modi regime. Rahul tweeted: “Kuchh muhaware: Ungliyon par nachana — the Central Government does this with Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate and CBI. Bheegi Billi banana — this is what friendly media is before the central government. Khisiyani billi khamba noche — the way the Central Government conducts raids on those who support farmers’ movement.” The three proverbs (muhaware) Rahul cited more or less mean to get someone to dance to your tune, to make someone timid like a wet cat, and an angry cat taking out its frustration on others. A large number of Congress leaders, including ministers and MLAs in Maharashtra, have condemned the tax raids, alleging that Pannu and Kashyap have been targeted for criticising communal politics and supporting the farmers’ movement. The Congress has consistently accused the Modi government of pursuing politics of vendetta and blasted sections of the media for not reporting objectively. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar took on Rahul, using a different set of idioms to recall the Congress’s conduct in the past. Javadekar tweeted: “Rahul ji, remember these idioms as well. 1. Sau chuhe kha kar, billi chali haz ko — the Congress which imposed curbs on media freedom during Emergency is now giving sermons on media freedom. 2. Ungli par gine ja sakna — that’s the plight of the Congress (its strength can be counted on fingers) 3. Ranga siyaar — the most communal party pretending to be secular, party of one family preaching democracy.” Ranga siyaar is an untrustworthy person. Sau chuhe kha kar, billi chali haz ko refers to a person who pretends to be a saint after committing all the wrongs. While the minister’s strategy was to embarrass the Congress by recalling the Emergency instead of defending the Modi government’s own track record, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the raids on celebrities were the outcome of law taking its own course and had nothing to do with political vendetta. Bhatia said: “The Supreme Court has said the CBI had been turned into a caged parrot during the Congress regime. That caged parrot has been freed and has now become a tiger under the Modi government.” The BJP spokesperson added: “The Congress has a strange character. It destroys institutions when it is in power and discredits institutions when it is in Opposition. This is politics of anarchy. In front of law, there are no celebrities. They are just citizens violating the law. And Rahul Gandhi, who is himself on bail, should not lecture us on democracy. He says dialogue is a must in democracy and he refuses to talk to his own leaders called G-23.” Rahul is on bail in the National Herald case, which the Congress portrays as a classic example of politics of vendetta and intimidation. G-23 is a group of leaders who had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi about a drift in the party. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said in a fierce counter: “Arnab Goswami had questioned Javadekar’s wisdom in vulgar language in that (leaked) WhatsApp conversation. Has he sought explanation from him? I am sure he doesn’t have the guts. What Rahulji has said is perfectly true; every institution has been undermined, every agency is being misused.” Shrinate added: “You stand with the farmers, no matter who you are, the IB, the income tax, the ED, the CBI, the NCB will all land at your doorstep. I personally feel you should wear it like a badge of honour. I think the BJP should stop the farce and facade of independent agencies, just merge all these agencies within your organisation, because that’s what you are doing. “And what is Emergency? Isn’t putting people in jail for criticising the government an emergency? Isn’t slapping sedition charges on journalists for asking questions and showing truth an emergency? The income tax department has detected financial irregularities of over Rs 650 crore after it raided two film production companies, two talent management companies and a leading actress, the Central Board of Direct Taxes claimed on Thursday but did not take any names, PTI reported. However, unnamed “official sources” soon started naming those who had been raided on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Left-Cong-ISF alliance names nominees for first two poll phases||The Grand Alliance of the Left Front, Congress and Indian Secular Front (ISF) announced the seats they will contest in the first two phases of the assembly election in Bengal. The Left Front will contest in the largest number of 40 seats in the first two phases, followed by Congress which will fight in 12 seats and ISF in five. It is yet to be decided which party will contest from Egra, Nandigram and Pingla seats but will be decided amicably soon, Left Front chairman Biman Bose said. Lights are trained on the contest in Nandigram as Trinamul Congress supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has announced her candidature from the seat, which is known for its anti-farmland acquisition movement that changed the poliical scenario over a decade ago. "The details will be given once they are finalised," Bose said. Election will be held in 60 out of the total 294 seats in the first two phases of the eight-phased polls which is slated to stretch from March 27 to April 29. The date for the second phase of election is April 1. The Left Front also announced the names of candidates for the seats allotted to it. The prominent among them are CPI-M leaders Susanta Ghosh, a former state minister who had become infamous for the Benachara skeleton case from Salboni and Deblina Hembram , a central committee member of the party and a former state minister from Ranibandh(SC) seat, besides former party MP Pulin Behari Baskey from Keshiari. The Congress and ISF said that they will come out with the names of their contestants later. ISF has been allotted Mahisadal, Chandrakona (SC), Raghunathpur (SC), Saltora (SC) and Raipur (SC). The Congress has already been given Purulia, Bhagabanpur, Balarampur, Baghmundi, Bankura, Bisnupur, Kotulpur, Patharpratima, Kakdwip, Moyna, Kharagpur Sadar and Sabang. Asked to comment on the announcement of contestants of Trinamul Congress earlier in the day, Bose said "I am not sure but there are whispers that the TMC list has been compiled after an understanding with the BJP. " TMC had announced names of 291 contestants. Accusing TMC of directly helping BJP to form the government at the Centre from 2014, Bose said "People are making certain comments with regard to the TMC list, about understanding with BJP. But no such comments are being made about us, about our lists by anyone." He said the Left Front list of candidates will give representation to young faces. Bose said while all the alliance partners will issue a joint appeal soon to defeat BJP and TMC and support secular, democratic and progressive forces. "The Left Front, Congress and ISF will issue their manifestos separately," he said. Asked if an understanding has been reached in 234 other seats, Bose replied "We will". Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya said the names of the party's candidates will be announced by its high command in Delhi. Bhattacharya said even if there are differences over a few seats, it will be "surely sorted out" by the alliance partners. "Our main aim is to unitedly fight against the falsehood spread by BJP and the undemocratic stance of Trinamul Congress," he added. ISF leader Simul Soren said "We will announce the candidates in the next two days from the ISF office." Asked if ISF wants to contest from Nandigram, Soren said "It is subject to discussion." Bose said the LF, Congress and ISF are undertaking joint programmes against the "communal and fascist BJP and reactionary undemocratic TMC" at the block level. He said on March 15 there will be joint protests by the Alliance partners across the state against divesting of the stakes of PSUs. On March 12, the alliance will support its Kishan Morcha rally in the state against the anti-farmer policy of BJP, he said. Congress had won 44 seats and the Left Front, which comprise mainly of CPI-M, CPI, RSP, Forward Bloc, won 33 seats fighting within an alliance in the 2016 state poll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to contest from Nandigram as Trinamul reveals first list of nominees ||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Friday confirmed her candidature from Nandigram seat as she released the list of Trinamool Congress candidates for the upcoming assembly polls for 291 seats with emphasis on youths, minority, women and backward communities.  Three candidates of the Bimal Gurung faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), an ally of the TMC, will be contesting from the remaining three seats in Darjeeling.  Affirming her candidature from the high profile Nandigram seat, Banerjee will vacate her traditional Bhowanipore seat in Kolkata, as she threw a challenge to her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari, who crossed over to the BJP in December.  "I will contest from Nandigram as I stick to my words.  From Bhowanipore constituency, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay will be contesting in the upcoming Assembly elections," Banerjee said while releasing TMC candidate list for the state polls.  "On March 9 we will release our manifesto. On March 10 I will file my nomination for Nandigram seat," she told reporters.  In January this year, Banerjee had announced that she would contest elections from the Nandigram seat in Purba Medinipur district.  When asked about Adhikari likely to be pitted against her from the Nandigram, she declined to comment on it.  This will be for the first time that Banerjee will be in the poll fray from Nandigram constituency represented by Suvendu Adhikari in 2016 and another TMC candidate in 2011.  Though Suvendu Adhikari has time and again expressed his desire to take on his former boss directly in Nandigram, the saffron party leadership is yet to a take a decision on it.  Banerjee and Adhikari were the prominent figures of the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram in 2007 that ultimately catapulted the firebrand Trinamool Congress supremo to power in West Bengal in 2011 ending 34-year-old rule of the Left Front.  "This time we have stressed on more youths and women candidates. Around 23-24 sitting MLAS have been dropped and there are names of about 50 women, 42 muslims, 79 SC and 17 ST candidates in the list," Banerjee said.  Exuding confidence of returning to power for the third consecutive time, Banerjee termed it as the "easiest" election the TMC has ever faced.  "This would be a smiley election for us. We would win it," she said when asked whether this will be the toughest election ever the party had faced since Trinamool Congress inception in 1998.  "After we come to power we will create Vidhan Parishad (Legislative Council) to accomodate senior and experienced leaders. We could not accommodate everybody especially those above the age of 80 years," she said.  Listing out names of candidates, Banerjee sought the blessings of the people of the state and urged them to have faith in her.  "I seek the blessings of people. I appeal to Maa Maati Manush for your faith. Have faith in me, will protect the state and take it to new heights," she said, turning to the slogan that first brought her to power in 2011.  State Finance Minister Amit Mitra won't be contesting elections due to poor health, the TMC supremo said.  Purnendu Bose is another elderly minister missing from the TMC list of candidates and so is veteran legislator Jatu Lahiri from Sibpur.  "We will support GJM in the hills and they will support us in the plains," she said .  Banerjee also challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to deploy as much central force as they want, but the TMC will still emerge victorious.  She also thanked Hemant Soren of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Sharad Pawar of NCP for extending their support to TMC.  "After RJD, SP and Shiv Sena, TMC has received support from JMM and NCP for Bengal assembly polls. We would like to thank all of them," she said.  Though electorally not much relevant in Bengal, the prominent opposition parties- RJD, SP, Shiv Sena, JMM and NCP of Sharad Pawar have prefered TMC to Congress-Left parties and announced their support to Banerjee in the battle royale for Bengal.  Actress Sayantika Banerjee, Koushani Mukherjee, film director Raj Chakraborty along with several other actors and actress have been given nominations.  Cricketer Manoj Tiwari will contest from Shibpur constituency in Howrah district.  Prominent ministers-Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee have been retained from their traditional seats.  Banerjee released her party candidate list from the same lucky room in her Kalighat residence from where she had done so in 2011 and 2016 assembly elections.  In the 2019 general election she had announced candidates names from a different place within her residential premises which proved unlucky for her.  The BJP had won 18 Lok Sabha seats in last Parliamentary poll out of total 42 constituencies in Bengal, only four less than TMC's tally of 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s active cases 3,236 ||Bengal on Thursday logged 217 Covid-19 recoveries, 209 new infections and one death, none from the city. The state now has 3,236 active cases in all, having fallen continuously for 129 days since Vijaya Dashami, when there were 37,190 cases. The state's recovery rate is now 97.65 per cent, ahead of 96.99, the national average. Bengal now has 1.86 per cent of India’s active cases, the share reducing steadily from nearly 7 per cent a couple of months ago. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.67 per cent, having fallen steadily for 105 days. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78 per cent, while the national average is 1.41. Since the first infection was detected on March 17 last year, the state now has a total of nearly 5.76 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.62 lakh recoveries and 10,273 deaths. Of the total toll, 8,627 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Fire ravages famed Darjeeling hotel||Hotel Shangri-la at Chowrasta in Darjeeling, a favourite with many tourists, was ravaged by a fire on Thursday. The fire, which broke out around 11.50am, seems to have started from the south-end of the hotel which used to house the staff room and kitchen. Three fire tenders were deployed for over three hours to bring flames under control, but the reason behind the blaze is not yet clear. “Almost 50 per cent of the structure is gone. The outside might look fine but everything has been destroyed inside. We need to investigate the reason for the fire,” said a fire official. Shangri-la has a famous restaurant and bar on the ground floor and four rooms on the first floor. Samir Rai, one of the first witnesses, said he was basking in the sun when he noticed smoke billowing out of the first floor of the hotel. “I tried to alert people nearby and ran to the police booth,” said Rai. The structure made of stone masonry and wood carries many memories not just for the people of Darjeeling but also for many tourists. Many Darjeeling residents and tourists fondly remembered on social media their time spent at the Shangri-la. The British-era building was called Carburry House.  Darjeeling Properties Limited bought it from an English lady named Rosa Rebecca Rosamund in 1943, said Siddharth Gyalsen, one of the directors of the company. “The property was then run by Bobby Wong who ran the famous The Park Restaurant before the place was again rented to B.S. Lama who ran the restaurant in the name of Shangri-la,” said another company official. Gyaltsen added that he had filed a general diary after the fire “seeking an inquiry into the cause of fire” and has also requested steps be taken “to ensure that no persons whomsoever save and except authorised officials enter the site as it is in a highly dangerous condition”. It is learnt that B.S. Lama’s sons Ranjan and Sonam are running Shangri-la but both are currently abroad. The hotel’s website states: “The hotel is owned by a Tibetan, Ranjan Lama, who owns the very popular hotel Shangri-la Regency, also in Darjeeling.” Ranjan Lama, speaking to The Telegraph over phone from the United Kingdom, said: “I am currently coordinating with my staff in Darjeeling….I would be able to speak in detail tomorrow (Friday).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Fresh row over Visva-Bharati VC’s ‘social boycott call’||A physics teacher of Visva-Bharati, who along with his colleague had recently filed a police complaint against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly confining teachers of the English department, on Thursday lodged another complaint against the VC for allegedly asking, during a virtual meeting on Tuesday, some 300 teaching and non-teaching staff to “socially boycott” him and other dissenters. “…He (Chakrabarty) also incited others to launch a social boycott against me. This happened in the presence of about 300 people. The next day, 03.03.2021, he visited the department of physics, Visva-Bharati, where a meeting was in progress at around 4pm. In that meeting he abused me with threatening gestures,” the teacher wrote in his complaint lodged with Santiniketan police on Thursday afternoon. “I feel insecure enough by now to ask for police help. A call for this kind for social boycott implies ostracism and an attempt to drive me away from my hearth and home. I feel my wife and I face the risk of physical violence,” the senior faculty member added, requesting the police to get the transcript of Tuesday’s virtual meeting. Birbhum police chief Meeraj Khalid said they had received the complaint and would probe into it. Sources said the physics teacher had earned the wrath of the varsity administration for lodging the police complaint against the VC for allegedly confining English teachers on February 26. The teacher, aged around 60, and popular among students, received a showcause from authorities that same day. Two divergent views had emerged on the February 26 incident. While the teachers alleged that they were confined so that authorities could “grab” a copy of a petition to the Prime Minister and president— supposedly critical of the varsity’s current state of affairs — to identify those who wrote it, the varsity authorities later claimed that there was no confinement but a series of meetings, especially on issues such as absenteeism. Many of the physics teacher’s colleagues who had attended Tuesday’s virtual meeting confirmed that the VC had asked a teacher from the journalism department to launch a social boycott campaign against all those teachers trying to “tarnish” the varsity’s image with false complaints. A teacher who attended Tuesday’s virtual meeting said Chakrabarty had expressed “a grudge” against many dissenting voices on campus, including the physics teacher. The VC spoke of launching a social boycott after a teacher of journalism criticised filing “false” complaints against Chakrabarty and the varsity. “Boycott them socially. I told you to boycott those teachers socially. You, who are attending this meeting, write a letter condemning those teachers and submit it to me. I will take steps. Let me send your letter to the President and the Prime Minister,” the teacher quoted Chakrabarty as having said at the meeting. Reacting to Chakrabarty’s purported call for social boycott against dissenting teachers, general secretary West Bengal College and University Teachers’ Association Keshab Bhattacharya, said: “There are no words to condemn such advice (of social boycott), particularly when it comes from the VC’s chair. It proves there is no democratic right of teachers on the campus.” General secretary of All Bengal University Teachers’ Association Goutam Maity agreed it was a crime to call for anyone’s social boycott and it should not have been done by a VC. The varsity’s public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text from this reporter. On Wednesday, Chakrabarty allegedly humiliated some teachers in a meeting by calling them awmanush and Mir Jafar for apparently neglecting to save files from termites during the lockdown. Teachers asked him to behave like a gentleman and virtually shouted him out of the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul seeks to rally women behind Mamata||Trinamul Congress strategists have decided to make women empowerment the theme of the party’s election campaign and have lined up two back-to-back programmes in Siliguri and Calcutta next week to build on the narrative. Mamata Banerjee will lead a road show with thousands of women in Siliguri on Sunday, around the same time Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address an election rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta. On Monday (March 8), which coincides with International Women’s Day, she will hold a similar show in Calcutta with an overwhelming presence of women. “Mamata Banerjee has always worked for empowerment of women in political and social fields. For their socio-economic development, an array of schemes has been floated by her government to encourage girls to continue their education so that they can stand on their own feet….. Women from different sections of the society are with Mamata, who is the sole woman chief minister in the country now. That Mamata Banerjee enjoys unparalleled support among the women would be proven through the two rallies,” Chandrima Bhattacharya, the state president of the Trinamul Mahila Congress, the women’s front of the ruling party, said at a news conference in Calcutta on Thursday. The Sunday rally will commence from Darjeeling More (located in the northern end of Siliguri) and end at Venus More (Hashmi Chowk). The Calcutta road show will start from College Square and culminate at Dharmatala. Trinamul strategists have trained their focus on women who make up more than 49 per cent of the voters in Bengal to cement the chances of Mamata’s third term in the chief minister’s office. The Trinamul leadership and poll consultant Prashant Kishor had taken up a number of initiatives in the past few months to garner women’s votes. On one hand, the party has floated Banga Janani Bahini, a new forum for women. On the other hand, it has come up with the new slogan of “Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay” (Bengal only wants its own daughter). “Trinamul leaders, including the chief minister, have always emphasised the welfare schemes of the state government for the empowerment of women,” said an observer. “The women’s front of the party has also been activated to create a situation where women voters take decisions on their own and do not go by political inclinations of male members in their families, as is the usual trend.” In January last year, Trinamul had managed to host a stellar show in Siliguri by assembling around 35,000 people who had walked with Mamata in protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens. “This time, we want to assemble more people and most of them would be women. All preparations are in progress,” said a Trinamul leader in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Sixty-six companies of central forces for two Midnapores||The Election Commission is set to deploy 66 companies of central forces in East Midnapore and West Midnapore by Monday in a clear indication that the poll panel is worried about the law and order in the two districts regarded as the backyard of Suvendu Adhikari who left the Trinamul Congress to join the BJP. The number of companies for East Midnapore and West Midnapore are 35 and 31, respectively. “Usually, such a huge deployment of central forces is not done during the campaigning phase. It is clear the poll panel is keen to ensure that the law and order doesn’t worsen in the two districts, especially in East Midnapore where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to take on Suvendu (in the Nandigram Assembly segment),” said a senior Bengal government official. The two Midnapores will go to the polls on March 27 and April 1. Sources in the state administration said the political atmosphere in East Midnapore and the adjoining West Midnapore had been charged up after Suvendu’s switch to the BJP. “The atmosphere has become more competitive since the chief minister’s decision to contest from Nandigram whose sitting MLA is Suvendu. If the EC decides to deploy a large contingent of central forces in the district, it is clear the poll panel is keeping a close watch on the developments,” said another official. The sources said 125 companies of central forces had already been deployed in the state. The poll panel is set to send another 170 paramilitary companies to Bengal by March 8. Of the 170 companies, 66 would be deployed in East Midnapore and West Midnapore. The remaining forces would be posted in districts like Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura, Howrah and South-24 Parganas, which will go to the polls in the first three phases. A section of officials at Nabanna said they had never witnessed such a huge deployment in the state even before the formal launch of campaigning by political parties. “In the past, only a few companies, for example three-four companies for each district, used to be deployed after the election dates were declared. Heavy deployment was done three-four days ahead of the polls,” said an official. The sources said Opposition parties, mainly the BJP, had lodged a series of complaints with the EC about the law and order in Bengal. “The EC is perhaps trying to give a level-playing field to all parties ahead of the polls. The panchayat polls in 2018 had made it clear that if the poll panel depends on state police to maintain law and order ahead of the elections, the Opposition parties would not be allowed to campaign,” said a BJP leader. According to the sources, the EC might deploy a total of 650 paramilitary companies in Bengal before the first phase of the voting on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul wants EC officer’s exit from Bengal poll scene||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday questioned the impartiality of deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain and asked the Election Commission to divest him of the responsibility to handle the Bengal Assembly polls. In a letter to the commission, Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien cited the 1994-batch IAS officer’s activities in Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and accused him of bias against Mamata Banerjee’s party. “… we have serious doubt that Shri Sudeep Jain would be impartial, fair and his approach towards all parties would be equal for the reason that all his actions were favourable to and/or are tilted towards BJP and/or are undue, illegal and/or unconstitutional. We have no confidence in Shri Sudeep Jain,” wrote O’Brien in the missive, on behalf of his party. The 51-year-old IAS officer of the Tamil Nadu cadre has been the deputy election commissioner since 2015 and had played a prominent role in the 2016 Assembly elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal. Trinamul cited two actions of Jain to allege he had bias for the BJP. One was his “inaction/illegal” action during the vandalism of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust in Calcutta on May 14, 2019. The vandalism occurred when then BJP national president Amit Shah was holding a road show. The second was an “illegality” in the introduction of a concept of quick response teams comprising state and central police personnel and led by central officers. “In the aftermath of the same (the vandalism of the Vidyasagar bust), Shri Sudeep Jain furnished an erroneous and biased report based on which the Election Commission of India in an unprecedented manner barred election campaigning two days prior to the polling date. Only one political party, Bharatiya Janata Party, was allowed to complete its election campaigning for that day before such a bar was announced,” read the Trinamul letter. Since the vandalism of the polymath’s bust, Mamata has been relentless in her attacks on the saffron camp, with a “BJP versus Bengal and Bengali” spin. Numerous gaffes by the BJP have helped the chief minister reinforce the perception. “No explanation was sought, no show-cause was issued, no action was taken by the Election Commission of India against the perpetrators, i.e., Shri Amit Shah or his entourage,” said Trinamul’s letter. “Shri Jain’s actions were completely biased, partisan, reeked of partiality and tainted.” Trying to substantiate the other charge against Jain, Trinamul said allowing an official of central forces to lead a quick response team was “completely beyond the realm of law”. “… the said decision as introduced and/or communicated by Shri Sudeep Jain was bad in law. Subsequently, the Election Commission of India realised the wrong and the decision for QRT to be led by an officer of the CAPF was withdrawn,” read the letter. “....In light of the above we call upon you to withdraw Shri Sudeep jain as in-charge on behalf of Election Commission of India for West Bengal Assembly elections, 2021,” concludes the letter. Calls and text messages to the top brass of the commission seeking a reaction to the allegations against Jain met with no formal response till late on Thursday. A source in the Nirvachan Sadan said the complaint against Jain had been submitted to Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab and was yet to reach the commission. He added that the commission was yet to decide on Trinamul’s other complaints regarding Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pictures at petrol pumps and on Covid-19 vaccines. The BJP has responded with derision to the Trinamul demand and allegations. “Knowing that it is about to lose, unable to keep up politically or electorally, Trinamul is stooping to such tactics. The people are not taking this seriously. None of this would matter anyway,” said the BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, a Trinamul turncoat. The commission-appointed special observer Ajay Nayak and special police observer Vivek Dube are scheduled to arrive in Bengal on Friday. Both had handled similar responsibilities for the 2019 general election in the state. When the decision of the commission to again send Dube, a retired IPS officer from the Andhra Pradesh cadre of the 1981-batch, had been announced, the Trinamul chief expressed serious reservations. “I would humbly request the ECI not to look at Bengal through the eyes of the BJP. That same man is being deputed as an observer. In 2019, Vivek Dube was the observer here, we know what he had done…. We know all the games, all the tricks, and the drama,” Mamata had said on February 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Carpenter stabbed to dead, cousin arrested in Siliguri||A 30-year-old carpenter was stabbed to death allegedly by his cousin in broad daylight here on Thursday. Police have arrested the assailant and suspect a family dispute led to the murder. Sources said Shankar Das, a resident of Shantinagar in ward 36 of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, was sitting at a local tea stall. Suresh, his cousin, reached the spot then. “The duo had an altercation and suddenly, Suresh took out a dagger and repeatedly stabbed Shankar,” said a police officer. As Shankar collapsed on the spot, Suresh fled the area. Local people came out for help and rushed him to Siliguri district hospital where he succumbed to his injuries soon. The residents, who were horrified over the attack, informed Alok Bhakta, the ward coordinator (former councillor). He went to the spot and informed the police. A team from Ashighar police outpost that is under Bhaktinagar police station went to the spot and initiated a probe. After some time, Suresh was picked up and whisked away. “Preliminary information suggests that the victim had some family dispute with his cousin Suresh who had attacked him earlier on a number of occasions. As I learnt about the incident, I informed the police who came and arrested Suresh,” said Bhakta. Later in the evening, as the victim’s body reached the locality from the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, the residents resorted to a road blockade, demanding exemplary punishment of the accused. A police team went to the spot and it took them about an hour to persuade the residents to lift the blockade. “We are waiting for post-mortem report. A case has been registered and investigation has started. Situation is under control in the area,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Adult male leopard found dead in tea estate||The carcass of an adult male leopard was found near a stream flowing through a tea estate in Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri on Thursday afternoon. The carcass, foresters said, bore injury marks that possibly point to death while fighting with other animals. However, foresters are awaiting the post-mortem report. “The leopard has injury marks in its throat and tongue, and there are claw marks on its body. We suspect a case of infighting but can confirm it after the autopsy report is received,” said Rajkumar Layak, range officer of Khunia. Sources said during the past few weeks, the leopard was roaming in the plantations of Nagrakata tea estate and taking away cattle and poultry. Perturbed residents had informed foresters who laid a trap to cage the leopard. “It could not be trapped and foresters took away the cage. In the past three-four days, we saw its activities again,” said a resident. On Thursday, some workers spotted the carcass near the Sadhukhola stream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India data show export dip||Decline in tea production across India in 2020 has hit its quantum of exports, reveals data published by the Tea Board of India. According to Tea Board numbers, the total export in 2019 was 252.15 million kilos, with the average price being Rs 227.55 per kilo. In 2020, the quantity of export declined by around 50 million kilos and came down to 207.58 million kilos. However, at Rs 248.55 in 2020, the average price per kilo increased from 2019. The data also revealed that 1255.60 million kilos of tea were produced in the country in 2020 in comparison with  1390.08 million kilos in 2019. The dip has been attributed to the Covid-induced lockdown and inclement weather. “Because of less production (the margin being around 134 million kilos), exports have dipped. There had been a rise in average price realisation from international markets, but eventually, the total earning remained less,” said Sumit Ghosh, secretary of the north Bengal branch of Tea Association of India. Another tea planter in Siliguri agreed. “There may have been an increase in the average price but as a whole, the Indian tea industry has lost around Rs 600 crore in revenue because of the reduction in quantity. We hope the industry recuperates this year,” he said. He pointed out that in 2019, the industry earned Rs 5,737.66 crore from exports, which reduced by Rs 578.20 crore in 2020 to Rs 5,159.46 crore. The overseas markets, stakeholders said, however, continued to remain the same. Russia, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and the Middle East continue to remain principal buyers of Indian teas. There have been exports to a number of countries in Europe and the US. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), said initiatives should be taken to find out new international markets to merchandise Indian tea, particularly the CTC variety. “Production is on the rise in the small tea sector but there hasn’t been any major change in the per capita domestic consumption,” he pointed out. He also stressed on more exports. “In 2020, prices have considerably surged due to less production but there is always a risk that the prices may decline if production rises. To ensure that prices remain steady, it is necessary to scout new international markets and augment the exports,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Pre-poll violence in north Bengal ||Incidents of arson and attacks on political workers and leaders were reported from a number of locations of poll-bound north Bengal on Wednesday, prompting both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP to point fingers at each other. In Raiganj, a fire broke out in the outer part of the house of a BJP leader on Wednesday night. Jayashree Chakraborty, the leader who recently joined the saffron camp from Trinamul, and her party colleagues accused workers of her former party of arson. Jayashree’s family members  doused the flames with the help of neighbours. Sources said on Wednesday evening, Jayashree had held a meeting with BJP workers to make transport arrangements for workers attending the public meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled in Calcutta this Sunday. As she returned home at Ashokpally area of the town, she found the outer part of her house in flames, she said. “Some people had set the fire in a planned manner and I suspect they wanted to damage my house. They have also pelted bricks and stones at my house,” the BJP leader said. Senior BJP leaders of the area went to the spot.  BJP leader Abhijit Joshi accused Trinamul of the attack. Trinamul leaders, however, denied the charges. “The BJP is trying to earn sympathy by resorting to such tactics,” said Priyatosh Mukherjee, the Raiganj town block president of Trinamul. In Siliguri, Anit Das, the vice-president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha in Siliguri (organisational) district, was attacked by a group of goons near the indoor stadium in Deshbandhupara of the city on Wednesday night. Anandamoy Barman, a party leader, said some Trinamul-backed goons had attacked Das. “He (Das) was returning home with one of our party workers after attending a wedding. Suddenly, a group of Trinamul supporters attacked them near the indoor stadium. They were beaten with blunt instruments and both of them got seriously injured,” said Burman. Other BJP workers took the duo to Siliguri district hospital and both are under treatment. In another incident, a group of goons, who the Trinamul Congress alleged were BJP supporters, attacked the car of Hiten Burman, a former state minister and Trinamul MLA of Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar on Wednesday evening. Sources said Burman, along with some others, speaking at a public meeting in Nayarhat of Mathabhanga-I block when attackers lobbed crude bombs at his car. Also, some motorcycles of Trinamul supporters were damaged. “The BJP had orchestrated the attack. The attackers also took away the MLA’s bag which had some cash, ATM cards and some documents,” said Partha Pratim Roy, district Trinamul president of Cooch Behar. On Thursday, Roy met senior police officers and sought necessary intervention. A complaint has been filed with the police where 18 persons, mostly BJP supporters, have been named, sources said. BJP leaders have brushed aside the charges. “The incident is a fallout of acute infighting within different lobbies of Trinamul,” said a local leader of the saffron camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Chamling to supporters: Hit streets against govt||Sikkim Democratic Front president Pawan Chamling on Thursday gave a call to his supporters to take to the streets and oppose the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha government tooth and nail. Speaking at the 29th foundation day celebration of the SDF, Chamling said his party had been deliberately lying low for the past two years in order to enable the SKM government to govern without hindrance but the P.S. Tamang (Golay)-headed administration had done precious little since coming to power. “The SKM government has only been scoring suicide goals at the cost of Sikkim. We will score goals at the right end and ensure Sikkim wins. We will now take to the field,” he said. Accusing the SKM of indulging in the politics of intimidation, the SDF president asked his supporters not to be cowed down by threats. “You cannot practise politics by hiding, but you must hit the streets. We must oppose all the wrongs being done by this government,” he said, while urging the youths to front the campaign against the present dispensation. Chamling, who had helmed Sikkim for 25 years as chief minister, was addressing his first public meeting in exactly a year. He and his party had been lying low for close to two years after SDF lost power to SKM in May 2019. Chamling had returned to Sikkim a couple of days ago after spending three-and-a-half months in Delhi. His long absence had come in for criticism from both the SKM and his own supporters and leaders. In fact, 5,000 SDF supporters and leaders had recently shifted their allegiance to the SKM, citing the lack of Chamling’s leadership. Chamling said his party henceforth would practise collective leadership and promised to leave behind a legacy from where the capable youths of Sikkim would take the state forward. “We want to hand over the responsibility of Sikkim to the capable youths of the state,” he asserted. The SDF president admitted that his party supporters were traumatised by the defeat suffered at the hustings in 2019, but they had since recovered. “We might have overestimated ourselves. We might have had some flaws. But, this (the defeat) has provided an opportunity to rectify ourselves,” he said. Listing a whole lot of unfulfilled promises made by the SKM, Chamling promised to lend all his support to the government if it seriously worked towards fulfilling them. “The SKM insulted us for not delivering on those issues and came to power. Yes, we failed to do so. Now the SKM must deliver,’ he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Shiv Sena throws weight behind Mamata Banerjee||The Shiv Sena has extended full support to the Trinamul Congress in the Bengal Assembly polls, saying the BJP was using “money, muscle and media” against Mamata Banerjee in an undemocratic manner. Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut, after a discussion with Maharashtra chief minister and party chief Uddhav Thackeray, said: “A lot of people are curious to know whether the Shiv Sena is contesting Bengal polls or not. Looking at the present scenario, it appears like a Didi-vs-All fight. All M’s — money, muscle, media — are being used against Mamata Didi. Hence, the Sena has decided not to contest Bengal polls and stand in solidarity with her. We wish Mamata a roaring success because we believe she is the real Bengal tigress.” While the Sena doesn’t have much political clout in Bengal, the message is important because it preferred Mamata over its ally Congress, which is contesting the election in alliance with the Left. The Congress central leadership, too, is not very concerned about this decision because it is not interested in harming Mamata in Bengal despite the aggressive posturing of the local leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||North East||Legal service offices ill-equipped for NRC: Survey||A survey carried out by the Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) has revealed that ten District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) offices in Assam were not only “woefully ill-equipped” but could also get “completely overwhelmed” when those excluded from the National Register of Citizens (NRC) approach the DLSAs legal aid. The Mumbai-based human rights organisation released the findings of the survey on Thursday, three days after filing a petition before Gauhati High Court seeking directions to the state to formulate effective and robust modalities for legal aid in terms of having trained panels of lawyers and adequate front offices in light of the impending appeals to be filed before Foreigners Tribunals by people from marginalised sections to prove their citizenship. The next date of hearing is April 5, 2021. According to the survey carried out between September to January, the ten DLSAs found wanting on  vis-a-vis personnel, infrastructure and other facilities included   Baksa, Barpeta, Bongaigaon, Chirang, Darrang, Dhubri, Goalpara, Hailakandi, Kokrajhar and Udalgiri. “After it was discovered that more than 19 lakh people had been excluded from the final NRC, CJP swung into action to provide paralegal and legal assistance to those excluded from the final NRC. This is how CJP’s Assam Team noticed that there was a lack of concerted efforts being made by the state government for providing legal aid to those excluded from NRC, as directed by the ministry of home affairs (MHA),” the CJP said in a statement. Located in district courts complex, a DLSA provides free legal services to the weaker sections of the society, among others. Zamser Ali, the chief adviser of the Assam Chapter of the CJP, told The Telegraph that the survey was carried out between September and January. “Our findings reveal that these DLSAs are presently overburdened with FT cases. These are not only woefully understaffed but also undertrained. “Therefore, it is our request that they be made effective and all lacunae fixed to address both FT cases and the NRC cases . “To deal with 19,06,657 cases of the NRC excluded, we will need a huge number of  lawyers who are also trained in dealing with citizenship issue because the nature of the case is different,” Ali, 49, said, adding at present it was providing legal aid to around 100 people in the FTs. The NRC is a register of genuine Indian citizens and the updated NRC was published in Assam on August 31, 2019. The CJP’s Assam team conducted the survey to verify the claims made by the Assam State Legal Services Authority (ASLSA) about availability of personnel and other resources to deal with citizenship related cases, once those excluded from the NRC start getting their reasons for rejection. The objective of the survey was to test the Assam government’s claims about the spread and expanse of the  DLSA. “Over 19 lakh people who have been excluded from the NRC are expected to defend their citizenship before Foreigners’ Tribunals (FTs). Most of them belong to financially and socially backward communities and cannot afford to pay for legal services required to present their case before the designated FT. They will rely on DLSA lawyers and paralegal volunteers,” the CJP said. Overall the findings found that these 10 districts have about 273 active advocates devoted/appointed especially for legal aid, and 333 Para Legal Volunteers (PLVs); the minimum qualification of PLVs in seven districts is Class VIII pass, in Chirang it is Class X pass, in Goalpara the PLVs are Higher Secondary (HS) pass to Graduates and in Dhubri the minimum qualification is HS. Moreover, in none of the 10 districts surveyed, has any training on the citizenship, immigration, NRC, Foreigners Act, etc. been provided so far. The  team also discovered that some of the DLSA staff (like in the case of Barpeta) was contractual and that the criteria of selection and reselection appeared arbitrary. In some places there was a fixed tenure, in others there was no limit and people could be reselected depending upon the senior official’s decision. “Also, it is difficult to gauge the nature of communication between DLSA officials and people seeking legal aid, as it was office staff of the DLSA, and not the lawyers or paralegals that initially spoke to the people who came for legal aid.” As far as front office was concerned, there was “none” in Dhubri and Baksa and in few it was “very” small (Barpeta) and others were “badly” maintained (Darrang) and inadequately staffed (Udalguri, Goalpara), among others. The CJP harped on the mindboggling numbers that will confront the the FTs once the NRC cases pour in.  Extrapolating from data available from 10 districts, there are less than 1,000 advocates (273 x 3.3 = 900.9) in the DSLAs in the total 33 districts of Assam, the CJP said “Assuming all 19-lakh people go to 1,000 DLSA advocates, each advocate will have to handle 1,900 cases! Assuming each case requires a minimum of at least three hearings to provide documentary evidence and then witness testimony to authenticate the presented documents, and the day the FT passes its order, each advocate will have to handle 5,700 hearings!” “Now assuming they handle three FT hearings a day, given that their other non-citizenship related cases also require attention, they will still spend a bulk of 1,900 days on FT hearings, which comes to more than 5 years… at the very least! “This does not include the time spent on getting information on the case in the first place and arranging for documents and witnesses,” the CJP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
05-03-2021||Opinion||Rich pickings: billionaires on the rise||Contradictions can be illuminating. Covid-19, the World Bank stated in 2020, had led to the largest ever contraction in the global economy in eight decades. The Indian economy suffered heavy losses, manifest in unprecedented shrinkages in GDP growth, massive unemployment as well as periodic retrenchment. Yet, in the same year, the world added 607 new billionaires — effectively more than three billionaires every two days, says the 10th edition of the Hurun Global Rich List. India, a poor nation, had a sizeable kitty of the super rich, adding 55 new billionaires which amounts to the emergence of one billionaire every 10 days. An exponential rise in the value of financial assets, such as shareholdings in profitable companies, led to a further deepening of select pockets. Wealth creators or wealth creation need not be vilified. The former can serve as symbols of the engines of growth. Indeed, the Indian prime minister is known for his generous views on wealth creators. The problem per se lies not in wealth creation but in the distribution of wealth. This process is marked by horrific inequalities that, studies say, have been further aggravated by the pandemic. Research by international agencies found that in 2020, the wealth of global billionaires rose by 3.9 trillion dollars while the combined earnings of global workers fell by 3.7 trillion dollars. One of the consequences of this anomaly has been a rising backlash against private wealth. India has not been immune from this development and neither can this collective animosity be blamed on mischievous political agenda or residual romanticism for a socialist ethos. The deepening poverty among large segments of the population — industrial workers, the various segments of cultivators as well as agricultural labourers, employees of the informal sector — compounded by the absence of social security has led to the consolidation of suspicions of an unholy, expanding nexus between the State and the Corporation. Economic policies directed at redistributing wealth, creating social safety nets and kick-starting moribund economies to generate employment may act as a balm. But economic interventions, given the cyclical troughs experienced by capitalist economies, can only offer temporary reprieve. A renewed, robust commitment to equality and justice by the State and the myriad political systems around the world is the need of the hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Opinion||Strange question: SC asks rapist to marry victim||Sir — The Supreme Court recently raised a question in the context of a case: should brutality in sexual intercourse on the part of the husband be tantamount to rape (“CJI marital rape query”, March 2)? The answer should be a resounding yes. It is a different matter that the apex court was also contemplating whether consensual physical relationships under the false promise of marriage can be termed rape, but just because two people are married, it does not give either partner the right to sexually abuse the other. In this case, the woman reportedly has medical reports to prove that she had sustained severe injuries on her private parts. It is therefore truly a mystery why marital rape continues to be difficult to understand and acknowledge in India. Another shocking question raised by the apex court — although in a separate case — was to a rape accused, who was asked whether he would marry the alleged rape victim (“CJI asks: Will you marry her?”, March 2). The suggestion itself is preposterous. The accused, if found guilty, should be punished for violating the woman and kept away from her at all costs. One wonders how such an offer can even be made. Besides, the woman had apparently already rejected his proposal to marry her and even complained that he threatened to throw acid on her if she did not comply with his advances. Giving such a man the option to have any kind of relationship with the woman in question is abetting such crimes against women. Many men in India already consider women their personal property, and sexual violence is often used to assert ‘rights’ over them. Some men may even think that sexually assaulting a woman who has rejected them would make her unacceptable to other men, leaving her no choice but to accept her attacker. This must be stopped at once, and it is hoped that the judiciary, led by the apex court, will take the first step in that direction. Srabani Bhowmick,Calcutta Sir — Two recent observations of the Supreme Court appear disturbing. First, a rape accused was asked whether he was prepared to marry the victim as a possible atonement for his alleged crime. But the woman whom he had reportedly violated was not asked whether she was prepared to accept him. Second, in a separate case, the apex court asked if sexual intercourse between husband and wife can be termed rape, however brutal the husband might have been. This would wrongly imply that a man can rape a woman and marry her, and continue to be violent with her with impunity because, in the eyes of the law, there is no such thing as marital rape. Bhaskar Roy,New Delhi Sir — The Supreme Court asking a rape accused whether he would marry the alleged victim — she was a minor during the purported crime — was deeply unfortunate. It defies all logic that someone who has caused such hurt to a young girl — physically and mentally — could even be given a choice to marry her. It is widely known that in Indian society, an immense amount of social stigma remains attached to issues such as rape, and rarely do victims and their families come out to name the guilty. On top of that, if the judiciary takes such a stance then it will be a great setback for all rape survivors. The judiciary must not entertain such thoughts. An apology should be in order for the woman and her family. Bal Govind,Noida Act now Sir — Based on a report, the United States of America has rightly decided to impose sanctions on Saudi Arabia on account of the murder of the journalist, Jamal Khashoggi, in 2018. But it is disappointing that no action will be taken against the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman, who had reportedly approved the murder, just so that the diplomatic relations between the two countries are not hampered (“Punish MBS: Khashoggi fiancée”, Mar 3). This shows that, as is mostly the case, people in power seldom have to pay for their excesses. The brutal murder of Khashoggi — his body was reportedly chopped and dissolved in acid — should not be forgotten. It was not only an assault on journalism and dissent but also a blow to any notion of civilization. Abhijeet Sardar,North 24 Parganas Sir — Washington released a long-delayed intelligence report that accuses Mohammed bin Salman of approving the murder of Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul in 2018. This has drawn a rebuke from Riyadh, which has strongly rejected the assessment. Joe Biden’s decision to not penalize the crown prince over Khashoggi’s killing, fearing a breach in ties with long-standing partners in the Middle East, is disappointing. The New York-based Human Rights Foundation has rightly called on the US and the European Union to urgently place sanctions on the crown prince. The former US president, Donald Trump, had sought to shield the kingdom’s de facto ruler. On the other hand, Biden had pledged during his campaign to make the kingdom a “pariah” after it got a free pass under Trump. Now it seems that the new president is instead adopting a middle path. Nothing less than justice for Khashoggi was expected from Biden, but he appears to have reneged on his promise. The demand of Khashoggi’s fiancée, Hatice Cengiz, to punish the crown prince is justified. S.S. Paul,Nadia In chains Sir — An academic, Simon Evans, recently revealed that in east and southeast Asia, the practice of deriving traditional medicines from the body parts of tigers — bone, skin, intestine — continues to thrive at an alarming pace. Worse, the condition of the ‘tiger farms’ — over 8,000 tigers are held captive across China, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam — is appalling. This situation must be rectified at once. Organizations fighting against animal cruelty should take steps to save the tigers from such a pathetic fate. It is perhaps of some solace that India has made remarkable progress in increasing its tiger population. Reba Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Opinion||About Turn: CJI mixes rape with marriage||At certain moments the current of history can almost be seen to turn back and plunge into an abyss. The Bombay High Court had set aside the anticipatory bail given by a sessions court to a person accused of repeatedly raping a minor girl of Class IX. The high court reportedly felt that the sessions court’s decision was ‘atrocious’. The physical restraints and threats during the serial violence allegedly drove the girl to attempt suicide. In spite of the gravity of the charges, including two under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, the sessions court gave the accused, a government servant, anticipatory bail; he had pleaded he would lose his job if arrested. This is just one instance of India’s surreal values. A government servant’s perquisites apparently extend to protection from the consequences of his alleged crimes, however violent and cruel, as long as they are perpetrated on women or girls. When the accused appealed against the Bombay High Court’s ruling in the Supreme Court, the Chief Justice of India reportedly mentioned that he should have thought before he seduced and raped a girl — he knew he was a government servant. Among the cruelties and injustices towards women that activists have fought against for years is the convenient idea that if a girl is married off to her rapist, she is freed of stigma and the attacker freed of criminal charges. Shame, after all, is the girl’s alone. In this case, the girl’s mother, who prevented her daughter’s suicide, did not go to the police when the man’s mother promised that her son would marry the girl when she turned 18. The girl complained of rape when that did not happen. The acceptance of violence and injustice through marriage did not stop with the survivor. While hearing the man’s petition, the CJI reportedly asked him if he were ready to marry the complainant. The court could ‘help’ him then, or he would have to go to jail. The Supreme Court had, in some cases, ruled against mixing rape with marriage. Apart from demolishing women’s rights, this association reveals that Indian institutions have the weirdest ideas about sex and marriage. The court has given the petitioner interim protection from arrest for four weeks. The current of history is having a tough time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Opinion||Step ahead||Allow me a twist on the popular story of Vikram and Betaal. Life resembles the king with the riddle-loving vampire on his shoulder; it is always you and your baggage. The latter keeps gathering mass. Everybody has his/her demon to slay during a morning run. I have mine: it is usually a chorus of voices reminding me of how little money I made in life and how my happiness hangs by a slender thread. My Betaal loves to do this. There are days when he disappears quickly; there are days when no matter how far I run he stays there, chattering away. Some people are strong enough to run with the demon on the shoulder. Ever since its annual marathon became popular, Mumbai has served as the informal capital of amateur running in India. By November-December, the main road hugging the city’s west coast and leading to Marine Drive witnesses a long line of early morning runners logging their miles. The noise level is rarely high — all you hear is the sound of breathing and feet shuffling by. It is a beautiful experience, but it does not silence the Betaals around. Once in a while, you hear ongoing conversation about the share market and how the real estate bubble is faring. You hear chatter about the latest in job-hopping. Sometimes, the conversation is around office politics. This is not surprising because there is heavy corporate involvement in running, with companies spawning teams and employees showing up to train as groups. But who benefits from all that exercise if the baggage cannot be exorcised — Vikram or Betaal? Fed well, the corporate Betaal hangs on tenaciously into race day. Most runners try to give their best at the annual marathon. Who does not like a personal best in timing? And if you helped somebody get his/her personal best, it is both a good article for the in-house magazine and, hopefully, a gesture not easily forgotten by the beneficiary. At a previous edition of the event, I remember somebody nearby discussing anxiously with his friend whether he did the right thing by ditching his slow-moving boss so that he could salvage his own timing — “I kept him company for a long time but he was slowing me down. So I had to eventually leave him and move ahead. It’s okay, no? I took his permission…” At the finish line, the man decided to go back looking for his boss. Maybe it was corporate team spirit; maybe it was our habitual search for brownie points from superiors — who knows? Either way, Betaal was having a field day perched on runners’ shoulders. Talking of shoulders, a defeated posture is what one of my neighbours sported while speaking of his frustration with running. Despite his best efforts, his timing was not improving and given he worked in a company where running was a major fad in the hierarchy, this Betaal hurt much the same way regular work-related stress did. I asked him why it should matter. Couldn’t he let go of this obsession with timing; couldn’t he find peace in his own pace? “You know, there is a notice board in the office where good runners display their timings,’’ he said sadly, adding how such tactics improved one’s chances of being in the good books of the mighty. It was like social media: the greater the visibility, the greater the chance of bagging a reward. That was a formidable Betaal, strong enough for the runner in question to run in ways in which he could end up injured. But he didn’t give up. He joined hands with others to organize races. Betaal would approve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Opinion||Death by wish||A member of parliament, Mohan Delkar, was not a widely-known politician. However, in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the tiny Union territory, and in the tribal districts in south Gujarat, he was seen as quite a phenomenon. He was elected as MP several times and held sway over most assembly constituencies in the southern tribal talukas of Gujarat. Over a week ago, he was found dead in a hotel in Mumbai. A suicide note left behind by him points to victimization and harassment by official agencies as the cause for his decision. The note is not as elaborate as the 60-page-long note left behind by Kalikho Pul, a one-time chief minister of Arunachal Pradesh, who ended his life in August 2016. He had placed on record, under the title, “Mere Vichar” — “My Thoughts” — an elaborate account of his rise in politics and the rot he saw around him. It gave details of how even Supreme Court judges carried a price tag and how judgments could be influenced. The indictment of the system by individuals who can no more be summoned to give further testimony as witness has an obvious limitation as fact-sheets. However, they need to be read not as fact-sheets but as pointers to harsh truths. In the same year, 2016, another suicide note was left behind by a young student in Hyderabad. It said that he had wanted to be a writer, but there was a big gap between his mind and his body. His body, Rohith Vemula felt, was a fatal accident. This student wrote, “The value of a man was reduced to his immediate identity and nearest possibility. To a vote. To a number. To a thing. Never was a man treated as a mind.” Vemula’s note lays bare the social malaise arising out of caste identity. So does the suicide note of Payal Tadvi, a tribal woman who trained as a gynaecologist and worked at the Nair Hospital in Mumbai. She realized that her social identity as an adivasi was coming in her way as a medical professional. Like a caged animal, she decided to end her life barely a year after she started her medical practice. The notes by Kalikho Pul and Mohan Delkar express their utter dismay with politics in India. Do these tragic shockers have a message for us as a country? Nearly six decades ago, the historian, Upendra Thakur, published a study under the title, The History of Suicide in India (1963). He observed that the incidence of suicide in India is normally much higher than the cases reported in official data. The National Crime Records Bureau keeps the record. It reported 1,35,445 deaths by suicide in 2012. The NCRB, read in the light of Thakur’s well-researched observation, indicates that suicide cases have an alarming scale. The World Health Organization, too, maintains suicide statistics. The latest WHO data rank India at the 16th top place on “suicide profusion scale” among the 194 countries covered by it. The global average is 10.6 points (suicides per hundred thousand persons). Suicide incidence in India is 16, which is one and half times of the global average. Quite alarming, although the alarm tends to get neglected by conflating farmers’ indebtedness leading to their self-annihilation with the desire to reject the world which is an even more serious sign of our times. It has been quite some time since India left its farmers to die a slow death. The present regime’s complete indifference to them is its climax. However, suicidal tendency and the incidence of suicide prevail in other sections of society as well. Guru Dutt, Silk Smitha, Nafisa Joseph, Kuljeet Randhawa, Kunal Singh, Jiah Khan and Sushant Singh Rajput were celebrities, not nameless farmers. The truth is that suicidal tendency in the Indian population cannot be understood if it is merely seen as cold numbers. If numbers alone are the truth, the deaths by Covid-19, as I write this piece, come close to 1.6 lakh, while deaths by suicide for the same period, projected from the NCRB’s available three-year-old data, may be almost similar in terms of numbers. The pandemic surely deserves so much national attention; suicide, too, should deserve it. The question involved here is not as much about death as about the medical or anatomical aspect. It is also not about the criminal aspect associated with suicide since committing or abetting suicide is in the list of crimes. The question that this alarmingly large number of suicides makes one ask is if there isn’t something fundamentally wrong with India driving some of us to reject the order of things. I was recently going through the Dictionary of Martyrs (1857-1947) prepared by the Indian Council of Historical Research. Its volume for the old Bombay state lists nearly 1,500 names of individuals who died, in most cases knowing that they would die, in the name of freedom for India. These include persons from all castes, communities and cultural backgrounds. Many of them were the second or third generation ancestors of the farmers who committed suicide in recent time. The martyrs’ acceptance of death, painful and tragic for them and for their families, had no shade of rejection of the human order. It was, if one may imagine on their behalf, an affirmation of hope for a glorious tomorrow. The suicides of India’s farmers, artists, social activists, medical professionals, IIT students, housewives and politicians are an indication that the rot is not just in the economic inequality, in its caste discrimination, in its oppression of women and in its hopelessly bankrupt knowledge systems. It is much deeper than that. It was India that produced thousands of young men and women who willingly sacrificed their lives during the freedom struggle. Suicide is not merely death. It is death invited as an escape. Guru Dutt’s outcry in his classic of despair, Pyaasa — “Jala do, jala do, jala do yeh duniya” — accurately captures that sentiment. Suicide, apart from all the other things it means, is a declaration of the degeneration of things. The rampant incidence of suicide is a telling comment on how we have abetted the degeneration of every system, every source of hope, from the Constitution to the courts, from school to sachivalaya, from ideal to idiom. We may be a GDP-fat country, but are we doing well on the Happiness Index? No, clearly not. We need to envision India, once again, perhaps. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist; ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||BSL team visits JSCA in Ranchi for international cricket stadium at Bokaro||A high-level team led by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) director incharge Amarendu Prakash visited the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) International Cricket Stadium in Ranchi, and met members there on Friday. A proposal demanding land from BSL by the JSCA for the construction of an International Cricket Stadium at Bokaro inched closer to get finalised with the visit. Prakash assessed the facilities and infrastructure of the stadium at Ranchi, and also held a meeting with former BCCI acting secretary Amitabh Chaudhary and members of the cricket association. The BSL team reviewed various parts of the stadium including the dressing room, club house, gym, VVIP room, etc. Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan was also present at the meeting. The conditions which BSL has put before JSCA for transferring of 20 acres of land for construction of the stadium at Balidih on National Highway-23 was also discussed. Prakash was accompanied by executive director, personnel and administration, Rajiv Kushwaha, general manager, Manikant Dhan, among other officials. It has been reported that a mutual agreement has been reached between the two parties on various subjects. The BSL team was told that the proposed stadium will be more modernised and state-of-the-art than one at Ranchi. Prakash said that “some points have been discussed about the terms and conditions of transfer of land with the JSCA team. We hope that it will be finalized soon and the project will move quickly”. Narayan said, “the meeting was very positive. It is expected that soon after this meeting the process of land transfer will be completed. Construction of an international cricket stadium in Bokaro will put the city on the world map.” A JSCA team visited the proposed site in Balidih last Saturday. They also held a meeting with Prakash and deputy commissioner Bokaro Rajesh Singh. Before finalizing the land transfer process, the BSL management had placed conditions before the JSCA members asking for few rights over branding and seating. According to sources, BSL has sought adequate advertising rights for SAIL inside and outside the stadium. Adequate seats for SAIL officers and seats for invited guests of SAIL in VVIP box, and SAIL's representation in the management committee of the stadium have also been demanded. This will be the third international cricket stadium in Jharkhand after Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The cost of the project will be around Rs 250 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad is second last in ease of living index, Ranchi slightly better||Dhanbad was second last with a rank of 48 in an ease of living survey conducted by the Centre among 49 cities with capital Ranchi faring marginally better with a rank of 42, prompting residents to list out the primary inadequacies as unplanned development, lack of a working sewage system and poor public transport. Bangalore and Shimla were the top two cities in the Ease of Living Index-2020 released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs that looked at cities with a population of more than 10 lakh. Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rajesh Gupta said, “Unplanned development is the main reason for poor ranking as here in Dhanbad roads have been developed first. Then, these same roads have been dug up for constructing drains and for laying cables. This led to crater-filled roads that were waterloggd during the monsoon." “In fact, the government should have fixed the responsibility of repairing dug up roads on the contractors, but there is no such system here," he rued. He said the best example of poor development were the multistoried apartment complexes that were allowed to come up in colonies with narow,    less than 10 feet wide roads. "In case of emergencies, even a fire engine cannot get in," added Gupta, a book trader who is president of Pustak Vyavsai Sangh. Most prominent areas of the town, like DRM Chowk, Shivam Colony near CIMFR, Bartand, Tapovan Colony, Barmasia, lacked proper sewerage systems, he also  alleged. As for public transport, Gupta pointed out  that  over 70 buses provided to the district under the Millenium City project of Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission in 2010 were lying idle. "It is time Dhanbad Municipal Corporation learn lessons from past mistakes and run the buses efficiently," he said. Mahurendra Singh, a social worker and former co-patron of Bartand Chamber of Commerce, added that even existing resources like dust sweeping machines, procured at a cost for Rs 2.5 crore, were lying idle. "This is a classic example of wastage of public money and mismanagement of resources," he said. General secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association Rajiv Sharma, who is a member of Jharkhand State Pollution  Board said, “How can we expect better ranking in Ease of Living Index when several localities of the town are deprived of basic facilities like drinking water?. Similar is the condition of solid waste management as garbage collected from the localities is being dumped in the heart of town at Bartand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Electricity cables gutted in Hill Colony fire ||A major fire broke out at the Hill Colony area of Dhanbad on Friday, damaging electricity cables worth crores before five fire tenders doused the blaze. The fire, which broke out just 100 metres away from Rail DSP Sajid Khan’s house in an open space, soon spread over several parts of the colony due to which residential quarters were evacuated. The cause of the fire, which broke out at 12:30 pm, has not been known yet, but officials suspect that a short circuit was the reason behind it. The damaged cables were property of the signalling and telecom department of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway. Divisional Railway Manager Ashish Bansal and other senior railway officials reached the site to supervise the fire-fighting operation. Ashok Jha, a resident of the colony said, “The railway division has been carrying out maintenance work in the area due to which huge stock of cables have been brought here. These were lying scattered at several places and the fire spread so soon due to it.” Jha feared that the fire could have done more damage had it broken out in the night. “The residents of the colony were  frightened due to fire but the timely intervention of the fire control department helped control it,” he said. DSP Sajid khan said a lot of people had witnessed the fire from far-off places, which helped in timely information to the fire department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Sachin Pilot inaugurates XLRI fest, Imtiaz Ali, KK, other stars to participate||XLRI’s three-day annual flagship event  Ensemble- Valhalla -2021 kicked off on Friday after Congress leader Sachin Pilot inaugurated it on Thursday evening on a virtual platform. The event, held online for the first time, will see a participation of noted celebrities from all fields including film and television personalities like Imtiaz Ali, Rajat Sharma, Ali Fazal, Anjum Sharma Harshita Gaur and Mithila Palkar, and singers KK and Ankit Tiwari. Spread over three days from March 5 to March 7, “Ensemble Valhalla 2021” will be organised on the theme : "Escapade - A New Journey Awaits." During the Idea Summit, Imtiaz, Ali Fazal and Mithila will share their experiences with students. Emerging YouTubers including Janis, Yash Raj, Sejal, Prajakta, Barkha and Divyanshu will also elaborate on their struggles and journey during the festival. While Ensemble celebrates business sense and logic, Valhalla promises to be a cultural extravaganza that salutes sportsmanship, creativity, and passion. "Through the events and festivities, Ensemble-Valhalla hopes to transcend a great leader to even greater heights," said an official associated with the event. "The event  will also be an opportunity to host literary, cultural and business events, giving students the opportunity to interact with their effective leaders. We have invited many institutes and their alumni for participation at the three-day  fest through online medium," the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Governor calls for lost-cost tech to help small farmers||Jharkhand Governor Droupadi Murmu has stressed on developing and extending need-based, low-cost, system-responsive farm technologies for small and marginal farmers who constitute over 80 percent of in the state. Inaugurating the three-day eastern region regional Agrotech-2021 Mela at Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) on Friday, she said a major part of the state’s arable land remained fallow during the rabi season due to the prevalence of rain-fed farming amid inadequate irrigation facilities. She clalled for focussed research on developing early maturing crop varieties with low water requirement. “Integrated farming,  incorporating animal husbandry, poultry, fishery and forestry in to the system, should be promoted for minimizing losses and insyances of crop failure due to aberrant weather conditions,” she said. The cCentral theme of the three-day event is "Rural prosperity through diversification of agricultural enterprises." Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth said the railway ministry has agreed to his proposal for starting Kisan Rail from Jharkhand for transporting agricultural produce, especially perishable commodities, at cheaper rates to help farmers get the right price for their crops. “Jharkhand being a surplus state in vegetables is already sending pea, capsicum, French bean and cauliflower to various cities of the country by air cargo. Bero, a key vegetable cultivation centre of Ranchi, is sending about 50 truck loads to Chhattisgarh every day,” he said. “On our Prime Minister’s appeal to explore opportunities in calamity during the COVID-19 phase, hundreds of engineering and management graduates opted for innovative agriculture, dairy and other rural enterprise in Ranchi and other districts of Jharkhand leaving their lucrative jobs in metros,” the MP added. BAU Vice Chancellor Dr Onkar Nath Singh said water conservation & management, seed replacement with improved varieties and farm mechanization for reducing cost of cultivation of small farm holders were priority areas for the university. Kanke MLA Samri Lal, Vice Chancellor of Nilamber Pitamber University, Medininagar, Dr Ram Lakhan Singh and Director Extension Education Dr Jagarnath Oraon also underlined the importance of agrotech exhibitions as an effective tool of technology dissemination. Various government departments, units of BAU, ICAR institutes, banks and dealers of tractors, farm machinery, seeds, fertilizers, along with NGOs have displayed their expertise, products and services in respective stalls, in all numbering 150. Fresh crop of white turmeric having low curcumin and red turmeric with high curcumin are on display at the horticulture show. The department of veterinary surgery has displayed very low- cost crutches for supporting small and large animals developing fractures. These can be made easily by animal farmers using aluminium hangers and iron rods available in homes. A model of a low-cost egg incubator of 50 egg capacity, operated by power and battery, costing about one fifth of its market price,  is also on display. Forty processed products including those made of nutricereal ragi, prepared by department of home science are on sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Athlete misses shot at representing country in Special Olympics||Special athlete Rakesh Bagh's luck seems to be running out when he needs it the most. The 24-year-old, a resident of city's Sitaramdera locality, could not join his mates Sital Sikka (East Singhbhum) and Rahul Kumar Sharma (Giridih) who left for Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh) on Friday to attend the national floorball preparatory camp scheduled from March 6-11. This is the second time the special athlete has missed a camp. Abhiranjan Kumar (Ranchi) and Himanshu Giri (Jamshedpur) are accompanying the special athletes as coach and manager, respectively. "Rakesh's parents informed us in writing that they will not allow their son to attend the national camp. Rakesh's injury has aggravated and he was still limping. We, on our part, were against taking any risk whatsoever since the issue involves a special athlete. But we feel sad as this is the second time that Rakesh has missed the national camp. He is a good floorball player and stood a positive chance of getting selected in the Indian squad for the Special Olympics World Winter Games scheduled to be held in Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28, 2022," Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota said. Notably, Rakesh missed the national powerlifting camp for Special Olympics World Winter Games in 2019 (in Abu Dhabi) as he fractured his collar bone after falling down from his bike. It is the final preparatory camp in Bilaspur after which the national side for the World Games will be selected. Rakesh injured his left leg after a recent road mishap. He fell down from his bike and suffered an injury. Though the athlete attended a short camp in Jamshedpur, he was seen limping and complained of pain, casting doubts over his participation in the national camp. The SOJ had specifically asked parents of intellectually impaired to not allow their wards to drive bikes but Rakesh's parents did not pay heed. Sahota informed that the passports of the athletes has been prepared and they had been asked to leave Jamshedpur with their aadhar card and other relevant documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to use robots to paint murals for Swachh Bharat Mission ||The steel city will have a robot to "paint" murals to create awareness among residents about Swachh Bharat Mission-2021, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee choosing the high-tech option after seeing Tata Steel unveil a portrait of Naval Tata created by bots. "Doing wall paintings and murals are an integrated part of the campaign for the Swachh Bharat  Mission-- 2021 in JNAC command areas. But this time we are going to use robots to create murals at a number of places and spread the word about the benefits of cleanliness among people, " said Sandeep Kumar Singh, city manager of JNAC. Singh said he has approached Tata Steel subsidiary Jusco to extend a helping hand for the use of robots. On Tuesday, Tata Sons chairman Ratan Tata was in town to inaugurate a new wing of the Naval Tata Hockey Academy at Golmuri. In the front panel of the hockey academy is a mural of Naval Tata which was made by a robot. "As it was extremely impressive, we decided to use the same technique to create murals for the Swachh Bharat Mission," said Singh. A senior official of Jusco said an Estonian company had been roped in by the Tatas through a Bangalore intermediary to create the mural. "Robo Muralist made the robotic painting machine which was used for the first time in India at the Naval Tata Hockey Academy through KVM, a Bangalore-based company. KVM is known for introducing latest technologies in various fields in India," said the official. CEO of KVM Ashish Kumar said the Naval Tata mural was the first mural to be created by a robot in India. "It is a miniature computer which controls a moving paint printer. Hardware is connected to a controller by wifi which moves in coordination and prints on a vertical wall dot by dot. Paint cans are inserted in the robot from below. It injects paint in the form of dots through an injector, " Kumar explained to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Simdega to host two national hockey events||With two back-to-back national events lined up in Simdega, hockey enthusiasts are elated that the game close to their hearts is making a comeback in a big way after a long gap during the pandemic. While the Hockey India sub-junior women’s national championship 2021 will be held at Simdega Astroturf Hockey Stadium during March 10-18, the junior national women’s championship will take place at the same venue during April 3-12. “Hockey India has entrusted us to conduct the events that will be the biggest sporting events in the state after those remained suspended during the lockdown,” informed Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh, adding they were getting full support from the state government in organising the events. “There will be 26 teams in each of those events and over 500 players and team officials are expected to participate both the times,” he further informed, adding arrangements for their accommodation, etc have already been done for the sub-junior championship beginning next week. On the first five days, the participating teams will have to play the pool matches and the top eight teams will then vie for the national title to be decided on knock-out basis, Singh further informed. The quarter-final matches will be played on March 15 and 16 and the semis on March 16 while the finalists will clash for the title on March 18, he added. They will, however, have to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) as received from Hockey India and also issued by the state government from time to time and will take all safety measures such as maintaining social distancing by officials and spectators, he further said. “Most of the players and officials will reach near-by Rourkela station in Odisha and they would be brought here by bus,” informed Hockey Simdega secretary Manoj Konbegi, adding many committees were formed for smooth conduct of the event.   “The Covid-19 restrictions will surely dishearten many enthusiasts as they all can’t get entry into the stadium, otherwise the venue would be flooded by them,” Konbegi further said from Simdega, referring to the popularity of the game in the region. Simdega, along with neighbouring Khunti and Gumla districts, is known as the hockey belt of Jharkhand that produced many famous national and international players, both men and women. Often beginning with bamboo sticks and worn-out balls, the local boys and girls, mostly belonging to poor tribal families, mastered the wizardry with their stick work and went on to represent the district, state and finally the county for winning laurels in World Cups and Olympics. “But we will surely give priority to players and interested students so that they get to witness these national events, particularly when those are being organised at their own place,” Konbegi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi lags behind Patna on Centre's ease of living index ||The residents of Ranchi may not accept it easily but according to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry, Patna is a better place to live in. The ease of living index (EoLI) released by Hardeep Singh Puri, the Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs, in New Delhi on Thursday placed Ranchi at the 42nd spot in the country while Patna occupied the 33rd place on the list of cities with over a million population. While Bangalore was adjudged the best city, Dhanbad is the only other city of Jharkhand that found a mention at 48th place in the list of 49 such cities. Even in respect of municipal performances in which Indore was adjudged as the best city in the country, Patna at the 16th spot was better placed than Ranchi that got 39th spot. Even Dhanbad was better than Ranchi at 35th spot. The EoLI was assessed for 111 cities that had over a million population in July 2019 and participated in the assessment exercise in 2020 that aimed at measuring quality of life and impact of various initiatives taken for urban development. Compared to 66.70 points scored by the topper, Bangalore, Patna had a score of 53.26 points while Ranchi and Dhanbad had 50.31 and 46.96 respectively. “EoLI provides a comprehensive understanding of participating cities across India based on quality of life, economic ability of a city and its sustainability and resilience,” said a release issued by housing ministry. “They may have certain parameters for assessing service delivery system but I still find Ranchi is a better place to live in than Patna because of its climate and well mannered people,” said Mrinmoy Roy, a retired central government employee who lives in Ranchi but was once posted in Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
