06-03-2021||Calcutta||Who has TMC fielded in Calcutta and its neighbourhood ||Aroop Biswas Constituency: Tollygunge Profession: Politician Age: 57 Known for: Manages the Tollywood clan of Trinamul Date of polling: April 10 Partha Chatterjee Constituency: Behala West Profession: Retired as a senior manager with a corporate house Age: 68 Known for: His association with the party supremo Date of polling: April 10 Madan Mitra Constituency: Kamarahti Profession: Politician Age: 60 Known for: One-term MLA, he is a bit of a social media sensation now Date of polling: April 17 Manoj Tiwary Constituency: Shibpur Profession: Cricketer-turned politician Age: 35 Known for: Former India player; long-time Bengal captain; and a champion in Twitter sarcasm Date of polling: April 10 Raj Chakrabarti Constituency: Barrackpore Profession: Film director Age: 45 Known for: A Bengali film director who delivered some of some of the biggest hits in the past decade Polling date: April 22 Lovely Maitra Constituency: Sonarpur South Profession: Actor Age: 30 Known for: Her television serials like Mohor and Jol Nupur Date of polling: April 10 Firhad Hakim Constituency: Calcutta Port Profession: Business Age: 62 Known for: Outgoing mayor of Calcutta and currently state urban development minister Date of polling: April 26 Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay Constituency: Bhowanipore Profession: Never lost an MLA election since 1991. Currently the power minister in the state cabinet Age: 77 Known for: Straightspeak. Also prides himself on being a boxer Date of polling: April 26 Debasish Kumar Constituency: Rashbehari Profession: Business Age: 61 Known for: Four-term councillor of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation Date of polling: April 26 Subrata Mukherjee Constituency: Ballygunge Profession: Social worker Age: 74 Known for: Mayor of Calcutta between 2000 and 2005. Currently state panchayat minister Date of polling: April 26 Chandrima Bhattacharya Constituency: North Dum Dum Profession: Politician Age: 61 Known for: Heads the law and justice department Date of polling: April 22 Shashi Panja Constituency: Shyampukur Profession: Doctor Age: 59 Known for: Minister of women and child development department Date of polling: April 29 Bratya Basu Constituency: Dum Dum Profession: Theatre personality-cum-politician Age: 51 Known for: Party spokesman Date of polling: April 17 Sadhan Pande Constituency: Maniktala Profession: Lawyer Age: 70 Known for: Eight-term MLA. Currently consumer affairs minister in the state cabinet Date of polling: April 29 Atin Ghosh Constituency: Cossipore-Belgachia Profession: Business Age: 62 Known for: Outgoing deputy mayor of Calcutta Date of polling: April 29 Javed Ahmed Khan Constituency: Kasba Profession: Business Age: 64 Known for: Three-term MLA Date of polling: April 10 Debabrata Majumdar Constituency: Jadavpur Profession: Chartered accountant Age: 56 Known for: Good with number games. Headed the tax department of the CMC as a mayoral council member. Four-time councillor Date of polling: April 10 Ratna Chatterjee Constituency: Behala East Profession: Business Age: 49 Known for: Fielded from the seat that Sovan Chatterjee, her estranged husband, had won in 2016 on a Trinamul ticket. Sovan is now with the BJP Date of polling: April 10 Abdul Khaleque Molla Constituency: Metiaburuz Profession: Retired primary school headmaster  Age: 75 Known for: Earned 30,000 votes as an independent candidate from the seat in 2011 Assembly elections  ate of polling: April 10 Firdousi Begum Constituency: N Sonarpur Profession: Homemaker Age: 42 Known for: Became a councillor at 26 Date of polling: April 10 Nayna Bandyopadhyay Constituency: Chowringhee Profession: Social worker Age: 52 Known for: Actor, three-term MLA Date of polling: April 29 Swarna Kamal Saha Constituency: Entally Profession: Retired PSU bank officer, now runs a business Age: 72 Known for: Three-time MLA Date of polling: April 29 Vivek Gupta Constituency: Jorasanko Profession: Editor of Hindi daily Sanmarg Age: 45 Known for: Former Rajya Sabha MP Date of polling: April 29 Paresh Paul Constituency: Beleghata Profession: Quit his govt job to join politics Age: 74 Known for: Defeating CPM’s Shyamal Chakraborty in 1996 & 2001 Date of polling: April 29 Rana Chatterjee Constituency: Bally Profession: Doctor Age: 45. Known for: A popular pediatrician in Howrah Date of polling: April 10 Arup Roy Constituency: Howrah Central Profession: Politician Age: 65 Known for: A minister of the cooperative department Date of polling: April 10 Kanchan Mullick Constituency: Uttar Para Profession: Actor Age: 49 Known for: A popular comedian on TV and films Date of polling: April 10 Tapas Chatterjee Constituency: Rajarhat-New Town Profession: Politician Age: 59 Known for: An influential leader Date of polling: April 17 Goutam Chowdhury Constituency: Howrah North Profession: Politician Age: 48  Known for: Former mayor-in-council of Howrah Municipal Corporation Date of polling: April 10 Nandita Chowdhury Constituency: Howrah South Profession: Business Age: 60 Known for: Former vice-president of Howrah Date of polling: April 10 Sujit Bose Constituency: Bidhannagar Profession: Politician Age: 58 Known for: Fire and emergency services minister Date of Polling: April 17 Aditi Munshi Constituency:Rajarhat-Gopalpur Profession: Kirtan singer Age: 32 Known for: Popular  face on TV Date of polling: April 27 Tapas Roy Constituency: Baranagar Profession: Politician Age: 60 Known for: Minister of state for parliamentary affairs Date of polling: April 17||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||Country looking up to Bengal to resist anti-people BJP: Farmer leader||The country is looking up to Bengal to “resist the anti-people measures of the BJP regime”, a farmer leader from Singhu told a Calcutta rally on Thursday. “Bengal and Punjab are the cradle of revolutionaries, having contributed most in India’s freedom struggle. Punjab has already launched a full-scale protest against the black farm laws. The protests are spreading across the country. Now, if Bengal throws its full weight behind these protests, the BJP regime will have no place to hide,” said Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, a leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha is the joint platform of farmers’ organisations spearheading the movement against the new farm laws. The farm laws will ultimately hit the middle class, Singh said. “It is absolutely wrong to assume the new laws will only affect farmers. They will affect two-thirds of the population dependent on the PDS (public distribution system). The middle class will also not be spared. So, it is the duty of every section of the society to protest against these black laws,” Singh told the audience. “From farm laws to rising fuel prices, the condition of the working-class population has seldom been so challenging in the country,” he added. Singh, who hails from Deep Singh Wala village in Faridkot, Punjab, has been camping at the Singhu border near Delhi for over three months. He was among the SKM leaders to have called out “pro-Khalistani” groups’ attempts to “sabotage” the Republic Day tractor rally.  “Since then,  my wife and I have been receiving several abusive messages and threats on social media from the pro-Khalistani groups. The irony is, my own government is also branding me an anti-national,” Singh told this newspaper. Bengal, and every other state, should take part in the protests because the contentious farm laws “not only undermined farmers but were detrimental to the food security of millions of Indians”, he added. The 38-year-old, who represents the Kirti Kisan Union, one of the many organisations in the SKM, was on a one-day visit to Calcutta. On Thursday afternoon, he was the star speaker at a rally called under the banner of a “Forum to save the Indian Constitution and the state of West Bengal from Fascist Forces”. The rally was held near the headquarters of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation near Esplanade. “According to the new law, the government will not intervene unless the price of potato and onion increases by over 100 per cent. Say, the price of onion is now Rs 60 per kilo. It can shoot up to Rs 110 per kilo. But the government will do nothing. You will have two options, either burn a hole in your pocket or stop eating onion,” he said. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, implies that the government could impose limits on hoarding only if there is a 100 per cent increase in the retail prices of horticulture produce, such as fruits and vegetables, or 50 per cent in the retail prices of non-perishable items such as cereals, pulses or oil. Singh said more leaders from the SKM would visit Calcutta in the coming days, as Bengal gears up for the polls. “They will tell people to vote for anyone but the BJP,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||City tour operators want Thai quarantine rule revoked||The Thailand government must do away with its 14-day quarantine rule so that tourists can start visiting the country again, tour operators of Calcutta told the Thai authorities on Friday. At an interactive session, Calcutta’s travel agents told the Thai authorities that many people from the city now want to resume leisure travel to the southeast Asian country but the strict visa and quarantine norms, implemented because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Thai authorities said there were plans to withdraw the quarantine rule in phases and also to introduce a new norm where a person with a certificate of Covid-19 vaccination could be allowed into Thailand with eased rules. Friday’s meeting between representatives of the Tourism Authority of Thailand, Thai consulate in Calcutta and the travel agents was the first such interaction since the Covid-19 pandemic stopped international travels last year. Thailand is one of the most favourite destinations of the tourists from Calcutta and other parts of India. According to Thailand tourism officials, in 2019, 20 lakh Indians had visited Thailand. In 2020, nearly three lakh Indians had visited Thailand till March after which international travel had stopped to the country. Now, Thailand has strict SOPs in place and is issuing special tourist visa under a long-stay programme for foreign nationals. “As international travel is starting to resume slowly, there is a pent up demand from tourists in Calcutta to visit a place like Thailand...,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. “But to go there one needs to make a plan for at least 20 days because of the quarantine norms and strict visa rules,” he said. Manav Soni, chairman, Travel Agents Association of India, eastern region said: “India is ready to travel to Thailand. Now, we are waiting for a positive response from the Thai authorities.” Vachirachai Sirisumpan, director of Tourism Authority of Thailand, said the Thai government is considering proposals to ease restrictions. “A vaccine certificate for travellers is being considered....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||Off the blocks for ‘smiley poll’ to save soul of Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced the candidates in all but three of the 294 seats in Bengal, calling the impending battle for Bengal a “smiley poll” in which her party would “khelenge, larenge, jeetenge (play, fight and win)”. Mamata said this election was about preserving the culture of Bengal and ensuring that those who know the state and its history and who live here would be in the seat of power. A snapshot that emerged from the Trinamul Congress list with 291 names: ⚫ Mamata will contest from Nandigram as she had promised. But she will contest only from there, which means she is switching from her home turf in Bhowanipore. ⚫ 30-odd new faces with a heavy presence of Tollywood actors. ⚫ 50 women, 79 from the Scheduled Caste segment, 17 from the Scheduled Tribes. Hard calculations reflecting the new ground reality in Bengal politics were apparent and the impact of caste-based identity politics was hard to miss. The 79 candidates from the Scheduled Castes are 11 more than the number of seats reserved for the community. The BJP had made significant gains among the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Lok Sabha polls. “One has to keep in mind the caste and community considerations, which didn’t exist earlier. The BJP’s divisive politics has brought about this change,” Mamata said. ⚫ 42 Muslim candidates, down from 57 last time. The BJP has been harping on “appeasement” for long. ⚫ At least five ministers and 23 sitting MLAs have failed to make it to the list — for a variety of reasons like age, ailment and local and caste considerations. Finance minister Amit Mitra is among those who are not contesting. Kajal Sinha will be fielded from Khardah, the seat held by Mitra. ⚫ But if she returns to power, Mamata has mooted a proposal to revive the Bidhan Parishad, the legislative council to which members can be nominated on the basis of the strength in the Assembly. This would suggest that if a Trinamul dispensation is re-elected, some of the ministers who are not contesting now can be nominated. But the revival of the council (it was in existence till the mid-1960s) is easier said than done: it requires parliamentary approval. ⚫ Mamata has sought to ring-fence some leaders, such as Atin Ghosh, Debasish Kumar and Udayan Guha, by including them in the list to keep off potential poachers. But some insiders pointed out that the tactic was fraught with risk as poachers can strike after the polls, too. ⚫ The vacant three seats have been set aside for “friends” in the hill constituencies of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. Releasing the list in the afternoon, Mamata said: “This is an easy poll, I call it a smiley poll…. On May 2 (the day of counting), we all will smile.” As in the past, Trinamul was the first to announce the list of candidates while the Left-Congress-ISF released the names later in the afternoon. The BJP’s list for the first two phases of the polls was scheduled for Thursday night or Friday morning but it was still awaited on Friday night. Confidence is key “We have 101 per cent faith in people and we are leaving it to their judgement,” said the chief minister. “Khelenge, larenge, jeetenge,” she added, explaining the theme of the battle at hand. Exuding confidence after wrapping up the news conference at her office on 30B Harish Chatterjee Street, Mamata sat down with a synthesiser in her room to set score to some of the poll songs that will be played in Trinamul rallies. She was heard telling senior party colleagues like Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee and Subrata Bakshi that the list was the best possible one she could have drawn up in view of the prevailing situation. Mamata handed over a list — with a “best of luck” note scribbled in calligraphy — to poll consultant Prashant Kishor who, along with Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, played a key role in drawing up the draft that Mamata finalised after gathering inputs from party colleagues across Bengal. While the chief minister was visibly happy with the list — she described it as a perfect mix of old and new faces and representative of the state’s demography — its release was followed by protests by ticket aspirants in different parts of the state. Some party insiders pointed out that although they were expecting sweeping changes to beat anti-incumbency, Mamata chose to be risk-averse by opting for “bits and pieces alteration”. Battleground Nandigram Mamata may have been risk-averse while selecting her team but she did not hedge her individual bet as she announced that she would contest only from Nandigram. “I keep my word. I had said that I would contest from Nandigram and I am going to do that,” said Mamata, who had thrown the gauntlet down at Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, a two-time MLA from the East Midnapore seat, at a public meeting there on January 18. She took care to explain that she would continue looking after Bhowanipore, a seat she has won twice, which she vacated in favour of party veteran Sovandeb Chatterjee. The decision may gift the BJP a chance to attack her by saying she has fled Bhowanipore because Trinamul managed only a slender margin over the BJP in the last Lok Sabha polls. Trinamul can always contest this narrative by saying that unlike many others, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she was against the idea of hedging her personal bet by contesting from two constituencies. “I have always contested from the city seats…. Nandigram is a rural seat and it played such an important role in the anti-land acquisition movement. So, I will contest only from there,” said Mamata, who has already sent party colleague Purnendu Basu to the constituency to oversee campaigning. Mamata is likely to go to Nandigram, which goes to poll on April 1, on March 9 and file her nomination the next day at 3.30pm. “I will start my political programmes from March 13,” she said before adding that her detailed itinerary for the poll season was yet to be drawn up. Sources in the party said that special care would be taken to zero in on the venues for 130-odd meetings that she would address in the poll season. “We hear that the Prime Minister will address 30-odd meetings…. Didi will also not be sitting idle,” said a source. Support from peers Mamata thanked a clutch of national leaders — like Tejashwi Yadav of the RJD, Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party, Arvind Kejriwal of AAP, Hemant Soren of the JMM and Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena and several others — for extending their support to her. Most of these leaders have already expressed their desire to come to Bengal to campaign for her. “I thank all of them for their support…. If they come, we will be happy,” said Mamata, whose attempt to stitch together an alliance of non-BJP parties before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections had bombed. All the leaders who had responded to her call in 2019 have started throwing their weight behind Mamata now, ensuring that the battle for Bengal has drawn national attention and the label of  a mini-referendum on the Narendra Modi regime. “I can’t use such technical words like referendum or not… But people of this state know the dangers from the BJP. They realise that only Trinamul can retain the culture and heritage of Bengal,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||Trainee doctor lodges harassment complaint in Calcutta||A post-doctorate trainee doctor in a government hospital has lodged a complaint of sexual harassment against one of her seniors in her department with a south Calcutta police station on Friday. The mother of one has brought charges of demanding sexual favours at the workplace against the senior doctor and complained of threats from the doctor to ruin her career if she did not yield to his demands. The woman also accused her head of department of conspiring with the senior doctor in the alleged offence. According to her, she had reported the matter to her department but no action was taken. “I have been subjected to this torture for the past one year. It started from February 2020,” the woman told Metro. In her complaint the woman mentioned: “In spite of my denying several times he (senior in the department) kept on convincing me, sometimes even threatening me to ruin my career… He also started sending messages and calling me at odd hours, sometime in the midnight (when I was not on duty at hospital). He started seeking my presence in his chamber in close proximity when nobody was inside the chamber and without any reason.” “When I refused, he started maligning me and threatened to ruin my social life and my life as a student and doctor,” the complaint reads. The woman has reported to the police that her alleged harasser had been sending objectionable text messages to her, which she would submit to the police as an evidence. “Initially, I had tried to turn down the demands gracefully without getting into any confrontation as he was a senior in my department. But when he crossed the line, I reported the matter to the department. But surprisingly there was no action against him. I was left with no other option but to seek police help,” the woman said. She alleged that she was forced to work long hours at a stretch and humiliated in front of others for her “refusal”. “The allegation is very serious because it involves non-action from a government institute,” said complaint’s lawyer S.K. Salim Rahaman. A senior police officer said they have registered a case and have initiated a probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||On-campus tests see dip in scores in Calcutta||Teachers have reported sketchy answers, incomplete answer scripts and a dip in performance from the evaluation of pen-and-paper exams that have been conducted across city schools. Usually, students are better prepared for rehearsal exams than they are this year, several heads of schools said. The dip in performance is across subjects. Toposheet and map work in geography and English spellings have deteriorated, teachers said. In at least one school, the head has decided to speak to parents of Class XII students and tell them that they need to “sit up”, based on feedback from teachers after paper corrections. At another school, teachers said they will speak to students about the need to pull themselves up before the boards. “We feel certain concepts need to be cleared and students have not had the kind of practice that is required. Performance of students is not as it should have been, especially for ISC candidates, where the requirement is much higher,” said Suvina Shunglu, principal, Sri Sri Academy. “In a regular year, by this time (before boards) the students have an intense preparation and have written three exams in school. But this year, they could write one so far and that too only those who opted for it,” said Shunglu. Schools had shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid and students attended online classes and wrote online exams. Following a nod from the state government, schools reopened for students of Classes IX to XII on February 12 and have held on-campus exams, especially for board classes. “In the pre-boards, we expect students to present good answers but there is sketchiness now and answers are not complete. Writing long answers has been impacted, which is apparent in subjects like history and sociology,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally. She said that in subjects like history, a student has to memorise and that works with repetition, which has not happened this year. This is being reflected in the performance. Teachers are also noticing that a section of students performed better in the online exams than they are now. At The BSS School, the Class X practice tests are over and the Class XII ones are underway. “For Class X, teachers have given feedback that for a section of students, the performance is low across subjects. They were more comfortable online and have struggled in the on-campus exams. They have not done as well as we had expected or as they had done in the (online) practice test in January. We plan to have another practice before the boards and expect them to improve by then,” said Sunita Sen, principal, The BSS School. Sen said that the writing speed had gone down and the practice of writing an exam in a controlled school environment had suffered. “The average students did better in the online mode and are struggling to complete papers now and therefore not performing as well,” said Janet Gasper Chowdhury, the president of St Augustine’s Education Society, which runs St Augustine’s Day School in Barrackpore and Shyamnagar. Students are finding it difficult to transition from online to offline, said Richard Gasper, principal, St Augustine’s Day School in Calcutta. “It is showing in their performance and marks are going down,” he said. Students have not had physically invigilated exams and seem to be having “exam phobia”. “In physical school, regular tests are held, teachers check the progress and inform parents accordingly to keep the performance levels up. Usually, just before the boards, we have three parent-teacher meetings, especially with the below-average performers, but this year we could have just one,” Gasper Chowdhury said. At Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, a state board-affiliated school in South 24-Parganas, teachers have started conducting class tests. “But the scores are low even in class tests. We will hold mock tests before the boards,” said headmaster Chandan Maity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||BSF rescues exotic birds near Nadia ||A menagerie of birds that include a Helmeted guineafowl, two Eclectus parrots, a couple of Scarlet macaws and lovebirds were rescued on Friday while they were allegedly being smuggled into the city from Bangladesh, an officer of the Border Security Force (BSF) said. The BSF had received an information that several birds would be smuggled into the city from Bangladesh near the Vijaypur border outpost near Nadia, a BSF officer said. A patrol team posted at the border outpost spotted three men moving suspiciously with two large gunny bags on their heads, the officer said. When they were asked to stop, they dropped the bags and ran into the forest. “On closer inspection, our men found 16 birds crammed inside small plastic bags,” he said. The BSF contacted the forest department, who identified the birds, and advised them to give the birds some fruits and water. The birds will be handed over to Alipore zoo, the officer added. The birds will be in quarantine for at least 14 days, an official of the zoo said. ‘The Helmeted guineafowl and Eclectus parrots are highly sought after as pets and the price can go to several lakhs,” Bapai Sen, the secretary of the All Bengal Bird Lovers’ Organisation. Earlier this month, three Keel-Billed toucans that were handed over to the zoo were stolen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
06-03-2021||Business||Crude price jumps to highest level after Opec and allies hold cuts||Crude prices jumped to their highest levels in more than a year after Opec and its allies agreed to extend most of the oil output cuts till April stating the demand recovery from the coronavirus pandemic was still fragile despite a recent price rally. Brent crude on Friday was ruling at almost $69 a barrel nearly 3.5 per cent higher than Thursday’s close. Goldman Sachs has now forecast crude to rise to $80 per barrel by September. The analysts at Goldman said Opec was very conservative in their demand estimates and a future ramp-up in production was likely to lag actual demand. All this does not augur well for the Indian economy where petrol prices are simmering at around Rs 100-per-litre level in some parts of the country while rising diesel prices are likely to trigger an inflationary impact on the economy. Saudi Aramco CEO Amir Nasser said at the CERAWeek conference that demand was expected to improve in just a few short months, with demand from China, east Asia, and India creating most of the increase. “Current demand in the market is about 94m bbl/day, our expectation by next year will be about 99m bbl/day,” Nasser said, adding that there was a good case for oil demand optimism. Opec’s leader Saudi Arabia on Thursday said it would extend its voluntary oil output cut of 1 million barrels per day (bpd) and would decide in the coming months when to gradually phase it out. Opec+ had cut output by a record 9.7 million bpd last year as demand collapsed during the pandemic. As of March, it is still withholding about 7 million bpd, or 7 per cent of world demand. The voluntary Saudi cut brings the total to about 8 million bpd. Under Thursday's deal, Russia was allowed to raise output by 130,000 bpd in April and Kazakhstan by another 20,000 bpd to meet domestic needs. “Everybody (else) is going to maintain the freeze,” Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman told a news conference to outline the deal. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Centre under pressure to cut duties after Opec’s output cut decision||The Modi government is coming under increasing pressure to cut duties after Opec and allies decided to play hardball on output cuts. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday admitted there was a case for tax cuts to ease the burden on consumers but said the states should also cut their levies. With political parties sounding the poll bugle, the ruling BJP runs the risk of being labelled insensitive to the plight of the common man. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan told Reuters Opec’s decision would undermine consumption-led recovery and hurt consumers. Earlier, Saudi oil minister energy minister Abdulaziz bin Salman fobbed off Pradhan's repeated pleas for an output hike by Opec. He said New Delhi should take some of the crude out of storage that they had purchased at very cheap rates last year. “With regard to India, very simple. I would ask my friend (Pradhan) that he withdraw some of the cheap oil that they bought in April, May and June,” bin Salman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Centre likely to challenge $1.4 billion arbitration award to Cairn Energy||The Modi government is likely to challenge the $1.4 billion arbitration award to Cairn Energy. “Where I find arbitration award questioning India’s sovereign authority to tax... if there is a question about the sovereign right to tax, I will appeal, it’s my duty to appeal,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters on the Cairn Energy award. Last year, the government lost two high-profile arbitrations over the levy of taxes on British firms Cairn and Vodafone, using legislation that gave it the power to levy taxes with retrospective effect. “We have made our position clear on retrospective taxation. We have repeated it in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, till now. I don’t see any lack of clarity,” she said, referring to the government’s stand of not raising any new tax demand using the 2012 legislation. She did not make any direct reference to appealing against the Cairn award. While the government has already challenged in a Singapore court an international arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes from Vodafone Group Plc, it hasn't yet done so against a December 21 award asking India to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund stopped to adjust a Rs 10,247 crore tax demand on Cairn. The Centre has time till March 21 to challenge the award. The statement comes days after her ministry officials held three rounds of talks with Cairn executives, including CEO Simon Thomson to find a solution. The statement indicates that the possibility of an alternative solution to the issue that had seemed as a possibility has fizzled out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 440 points as rising US bond yields rattle global investors||The benchmark BSE Sensex tumbled over 440 points and the NSE Nifty cracked below the psychological 15000-level on Friday because of profit booking in financials and IT stocks in line with relentless sell-offs in global equities as the US bond market turmoil continued to rattle investors. The 30-share BSE barometer declined 440.76 points or 0.87 per cent to close at 50405.32, continuing its falling trend for the second day due to concerns over bond yields. Intra-day, the index swung around 726 points. The NSE barometer Nifty ended lower by 142.65 points or 0.95 per cent at 14938.10. “Domestic equities corrected for the second consecutive day as a rise in 10-year USA Treasury yields and commentary from Federal Reserve chairman on rising bond yields weighed on investors’ sentiments. Barring FMCG, all key sectoral indices witnessed sharp pullback with metals and PSU bank indices witnessing steeper correction in the range of 3-4 per cent,” said Binod Modi, head - strategy at Reliance Securities. Over the last two sessions, the Sensex has shed 1039.33 points or 2.02 per cent and the Nifty has lost 307.5 points or 2.01 per cent. However, on a weekly basis, the Sensex gained 1305.33 points or 2.65 per cent and the Nifty added 408.95 points or 2.81 per cent. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Dr Reddy’s, NTPC, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech and Bajaj FinServ emerged as major laggards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Consortium of lenders agree to close bankruptcy process of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd||A consortium of lenders has agreed to close the bankruptcy process of beleaguered Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd by accepting a conditional proposal of JSW Steel. Lenders voted with 97 per cent majority to accept a Rs 19,350-crore upfront payout from the Sajjan Jindal-led company on the condition of reversing the payment in case of an adverse order from the Supreme Court. The company indicated it would like to conclude the deal within March, racing to beat the fiscal year deadline and take control of the assets, including a large downstream unit in Serampore. The JSW offer represents a 58.97 per cent haircut for the financial creditors that had a combined exposure of Rs 47,158 crore to BPSL, which was promoted by Sanjay Singhal and his family, before the company went into bankruptcy proceedings. BPSL is one of 12 large sticky assets which were mandated to the corporate insolvency resolution process by the RBI. Some of the other prominent names that found buyers are Essar Steel, Bhushan Steel, Electrosteel Steels, Monnet Ispat and Alok Industries. BPSL has a 2.8 million tonne steel plant in Odisha, a power plant and several downstream units across north India. The transaction will pave the way for JSW Steel to mark its manufacturing presence in eastern India, which has so far been the strongholds of Tata Steel and SAIL. There was an urgency from the lenders to close the deal within this fiscal as they would be able to write back some of the exposures in BPSL. JSW also agreed to play ball, given that steel prices, margin and demand continue to remain robust. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) approved JSW’s resolution plan, overcoming initial challenges from Tata Steel and Liberty of the UK, in September 2019. But the pitch was queered by the enforcement directorate (ED), an arm of the finance ministry, which attached assets worth Rs 4,025.23 crore under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act of BPSL, following on a case against the erstwhile promoter. Even though the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal set aside the ED’s attachment, the latter has moved the apex court challenging the decision. ED also contended that JSW would not be able to take refuge under Section 32A of the bankruptcy code. ED argued before the SC that JSW was a ‘related party’ to BPSL as they were JV partners for a coal block in 2008. JSW contested the claim countering that the JV was guided by the policy of the day for the allocation of blocks. Apart from ED, Sanjay Singhal has also contested JSW’s plan in the SC. JSW has sought an assurance from the lenders that it would only pay up if the lenders promised to return the funds in case of an adverse judgment. SBI will be the biggest beneficiary having Rs 9,825.67 crore admitted claim, followed by PNB’s Rs 4,399 crore. An asset reconstruction firm has debt of Rs 5,275 crore, while Canara and Allahabad Bank have Rs 2,244 crore and Rs 2,130 crore, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Max group’s Analjit Singh receives over 1.67 lakh shares of three group companies||Max group’s Analjit Singh has received over 1.67 lakh shares of three group companies as a gift from his son Veer Singh who has exited his personal holdings in Max Ventures, Max India and Max Financial Services, according to exchange filings on Thursday. Veer Singh has gifted 1,00,000 shares held by him in Max Financial Services; 47,637 shares in Max Ventures and 20,000 shares in Max India Ltd without any consideration on March 2, 2021, to his father Analjit Singh, according to separate exchange filings from these entities. With this, Veer Singh will not hold any shares in these entities. Analjit Singh, Neelu Analjit Singh, Piya Singh, Tara Singh Vachani and Max Ventures Investment Holdings Pvt Ltd constitute the promoter and promoter group shareholders in Max India with a total holding of 40.89 per cent equivalent to 2,19,91,013 shares post the transfer of gift shares to Analjit Singh by Veer Singh. Similarly, these five entities will together constitute 17.26 per cent holding in Max Financial Services Ltd (MFSL) after the gift of the shares. While these five entities along with Siva Enterprises Pvt Ltd and Ravi Vachani will collectively hold 49.68 per cent as promoter and promoter entities in Max Ventures and Industries Ltd post the gift shares’ transfer to Analjit. MFSL shares closed 0.87 per cent lower at Rs 916.15 apiece on the BSE. Max Ventures ended down 0.33 per cent at Rs 61.20 and Max India closed 3.85 per cent higher at Rs 67.45 apiece.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||ICICI Bank cuts interest rates on home loans to 6.70 per cent||ICICI Bank on Friday has cut interest rates on home loans to 6.70 per cent on a par with market leader SBI, as part of a limited period offer. The second largest private sector lender said the interest rate offering, which is valid till March 31, is the lowest in a decade. Over the last week, there have been a slew of similar announcements by lenders on interest rates which were at a 16-year-low at the systemic level. SBI cut its rate first to 6.70 per cent to best rated borrowers, which was followed up quickly by smaller rival Kotak Mahindra Bank that slashed its rate to 6.65 per cent. Non-bank leader HDFC has also reduced rates. “We see resurgence in demand from consumers, who want to buy homes for their own consumption, in the past few months. We believe that this is an opportune time for an individual to buy his/her dream home, considering the prevailing low interest rates,” ICICI Bank’s head for secured assets, Ravi Narayanan, said. The new home loan rates are effective from March 5, the bank said, adding borrowers of up to Rs 75 lakh will get credit at 6.70 per cent, while those above that threshold will need to pay 6.75 per cent. In November 2020, the bank had crossed the Rs 2 lakh crore mark in mortgage loan portfolio, becoming the first private sector lender to attain the mark. PNB Housing, Yes Bank tieup PNB Housing Finance on Friday said it has tied up with Yes Bank for a strategic co-lending service that will facilitate retail home loans at competitive rates. PNB Housing and Yes Bank will synergise capabilities to provide an efficient and seamless experience to existing and new retail home loan customers, PNB Housing Finance said in a filing to bourses. This strategic co-lending agreement will offer “convenient and customised retail loans to homebuyers at competitive interest rates”, it added. PNB Housing and Yes Bank will jointly do a due diligence and co-originate the loan at an agreed ratio. PNB Housing will service the customers through the entire loan lifecycle, including sourcing, documentation and collection with an appropriate information sharing arrangement with Yes Bank, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
06-03-2021||India||Farmers’ protest completes 100 days as unions stand firm on grounds||Farmer leaders on Saturday said the protesting unions stand firm on their demand of a complete repeal of the three agri laws and asserted that they are ready for talks with the government, but that should be held without any condition. Earlier in the day, thousands of farmers blocked the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway at some places in Haryana to mark the completion of 100 days of their agitation at the Delhi borders. Darshan Pal, a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the going protest, said farmer unions stand firm on the demand of repeal of three agri laws. "Since the beginning of our agitation, our demand remains the same which is the repeal of three new agricultural laws. We are ready to resume talks with the government, but it should be held without any precondition," Pal told PTI. In January, the government had proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for 1-1.5 years and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community, which the protesting unions had then rejected. Another senior farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said farm unions have never said "no" to talks with the central government, adding that their stand on talks as well as demands have been the same from the beginning. He said the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha has called a meeting on March 9 to decide the next course of action to intensify their ongoing agitation. "Everyday, more people are joining the farmers' protest. There are over 1.25 lakh people at the four border points here in the capital itself," Sandhu claimed. Abhimanyu Kohar, another farmer leader, said farmers are always ready to holds talks with the government. "In democracy, any solution would come only through talks. But those in power should send us a formal invite -- just like they did during the earlier rounds of talks. Talks with terms and conditions from the government's end is not a solution and won't serve any purpose," Kohar told PTI. During the blockade of KMP expressway on Saturday, farmers holding black flags and wearing black armbands and some women protesters with black 'dupattas' shouted slogans against the BJP-led government for not acceding to their demands. Protesters in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts and some other places brought their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles and parked them in the middle of the KMP Expressway in some stretches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Apply ‘test, track, treat’ strategy to contain Covid, Centre tells states||The Centre has asked states and Union territories witnessing a surge of new Covid-19 cases and high active caseload to continue with the strategy of "test, track and treat" that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher infections on mission mode. At a meeting on Saturday, they have been asked to collaborate with private hospitals to open up vaccination time-tables for a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 28 days at a time. They have been asked to increase the share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing, refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing clusters of cases and carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog Member (Health) Vinod K Paul on Saturday interacted with health secretaries and mission directors of the National Health Mission of Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the Union territories of Delhi and Chandigarh, the Union Health Ministry said. "These states and UTs have in the recent past seen increased positivity and increased number of daily positive cases," it underlined. They reviewed the ongoing public health measures of surveillance, containment and management of Covid cases in wake of the steep rise in daily new cases of Covid and the high number of active caseload being reported from these eight states and UTs, the ministry said in its statement. In a detailed presentation, it was pointed out that nine districts in Delhi, 15 in Haryana, 10 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Odisha, nine in Himachal Pradesh, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa, one in Chandigarh continue to be of concern as these districts are seeing a decrease in total tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity and low number of contact tracing of the Covid positive cases. These together can pose high risk of transmission to the neighbouring states and UTs. A granular analysis of the Covid-19 response in the districts was shared with the states and UTs for further action, the statement said. States were specifically asked to continue with the effective strategy of 'test, track & treat' that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic, improve overall testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing. They have been asked to refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing clusters of cases, carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case and focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths, the ministry in the statement. They have been asked to actuate their health infrastructure to provide effective clinical management to all the patients as a surge in cases also affects the case fatality rate in those districts. "Accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Make optimal use of the available vaccine doses and focus on critical districts," the ministry said. They have been asked to collaborate with the private hospitals to open up vaccination time-tables for a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 28 days at a time and promote Covid-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement, the statement said. "Stress was laid on prompt isolation and on medical supervision of those active cases presently in home isolation for early identification of progressive deterioration of the disease. The states were also asked to actively watch out for super-spreading events and share their best practices in breaking the chain of transmission," the statement stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Modi to address mega rally at Brigade grounds in Calcutta on Sunday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will sharpen BJP's campaign for the high-octane Assembly elections in Bengal with a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday. The Prime Minister's Sunday rally is said to be the culmination of the "Parivartan Yatra" launched by the saffron party in the poll-bound Bengal in February this year. "The Prime Minister will set the tone of the election campaign with a rally at Brigade grounds," a BJP leader said. Sunday's rally will be the first major event of the saffron party in Bengal after declaration of eight-phase elections in the state. The BJP has planned to make it a grand success with a record crowd presence which the iconic ground has never witnessed. The saffron party, which was scheduled to come out with the candidate list for the first two phases on Friday, had decided to postpone it for the brigade rally. "We have decided to postpone the release of the candidate list for the brigade rally. Once it is over, we would come out with our list," BJP leader Rahul Sinha said. Along with Modi several top senior BJP leaders will be present at the rally. The BJP has gone all out to campaign for the rally launching innovative campaigns, from social media to the streets. Party activists have been hosting flash mobs over the past few weeks at several locations across the state, including busy traffic intersections and crowded localities to rally a large number of people at the Sunday event. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the ruling Trinamool Congress's main rival by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal 2019 general elections,only four less than TMC's tally of 22. With the BJP's strength increasing in the state in the last few years, its leaders are upbeat that the party will end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year rule in the state polls. Elections for the Bengal Assembly will be held in eight phases beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Delhi to have a separate board for city schools||The Delhi government on Saturday approved the formation of a separate school board for nearly 2,700 schools in the city. In the beginning, 21-22 state government schools will be affiliated to the Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) and in the next four-five years all the schools will be brought under it, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press conference. There are around 1,000 Delhi government schools and about 1,700 private schools, most of them affiliated to the CBSE, in the city. The new Board will have a governing body headed by the Education minister of the Delhi government and an executive body headed by a chief executive officer, Kejriwal said. The DBSE will be aimed at imparting such education that prepares "fiercely patriotic" and self-dependent students who serve the society and the country in a selfless manner, he said. The Board will bring in best international practices and high-end techniques in school education. It will impart education as per the aptitude of the students, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Farmers block KMP expressway in Haryana to mark 100 days of their protest||Farmers protesting the Centre's three agriculture laws on Saturday blocked the six-lane Kundli Manesar Palwal expressway at some places in Haryana to mark the completion of 100 days of their agitation at the Delhi borders. The protest, which began at 11 am, would continue till 4 pm. The call for blocking the expressway was given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the agriculture-related legislations. The 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway is also known as the western peripheral expressway. The 53-km Manesar-Palwal section was inaugurated by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 and the 83-km Kundli-Manesar section was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018. We will block the KMP expressway. However, emergency vehicles will be allowed, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), Jagmohan Singh said. Farmers in Haryana's Sonipat district brought their tractor-trolleys and parked them in the middle of a stretch of the KMP expressway. Protesters, including women, carrying their respective union flags as well as black flags shouted slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre for not acceding to their demands. "Our agitation against three farm laws will continue unless the Centre withdraws these laws. We will not step back," a protester in Sonipat said. In Palwal district too, farmers staged a dharna. The KMP expressway was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution. It provides a high-speed link between northern and southern Haryana districts and gives an uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Taapsee Pannu breaks silence on IT raids||Breaking her silence on the IT department raids against her, actor Taapsee Pannu on Saturday put out three tweets on an alleged bungalow in Paris, the alleged receipt of Rs 5 crore and her memory of 2013 raid. On March 3, the Income Tax Department searched the homes and offices of Pannu and filmmaker Anurag Kashyap as well as his partners who launched the now shuttered production house Phantom Films. Pannu posted a three-point statement on Twitter and also took a jibe at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's statement that the actor was raided in 2013 as well. Three days of intense search of 3 things primarily 1.The keys of the alleged' bungalow that I apparently own in Paris. Because summer holidays are around the corner, read the first post. The second said, 2. The alleged' receipt worth 5 crores to frame n keep for future pitching coz I've been refused that money before. The third dealt with Sitharaman's comment. 3. My memory of 2013 raid that happened with me according to our honourable finance minister P.S- not so sasti' anymore." Sitharaman on Friday said the same people were raided in 2013 as well, but no issue was made out then as it is being done now. Refusing to comment on individual cases, she said it is in the national interest to know if some evasion is happening. Pannu and Kashyap resumed shooting for their film Dobaaraa on Saturday, both using social media to speak for the first time since I-T raids on their premises with posts indicating their spirit remained intact. "With all our love to all the haters", Kashyap said in a message on Instagram to announce the resumption of shooting of his new film and share an on-set picture of Pannu and himself laughing and showing the victory sign. Following Pannu, Kashyap, who was working on "Dobaaraa" with the actor before the IT raids, also decided to break his radio silence on social media with a special message for the "haters". "And we restart #DoBaaraa... with all our love to all the haters..." the filmmaker wrote alongside the photograph. The searches targeting Pannu and Kashyap, known for their outspoken views on a range of issues, is part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films. They also covered Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhasish Sarkar and some executives of celebrity and talent management companies KWAN and Exceed, officials said. The others searched included some employees of Phantom Films, which was dissolved in 2018, and its then promoters Kashyap, director-producer Vikramaditya Motwane, producer Vikas Bahl and producer-distributor Madhu Mantena. The business transactions of films made under the banner of Phantom Films are also being probed. Kashyap, however, refrained from directly addressing the raids. "Dobaaraa" marks the second collaboration between the actor and the filmmaker, who previously worked on the 2018 romance drama "Manmarziyaan".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 18,000 after more than a month||India's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,11,92,088 with over 18,000 fresh cases being reported in a span of 24 hours in the country after 36 days, while active cases registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday and were recorded at 1,80,304, according to the Union Health Ministry. The death toll reached 1,57,656 with 108 more fatalities, while a total of 18,327 new cases were registered in a day, the ministry's data showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours after which the daily rise in fresh cases remained below 18,000. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,54,128 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.98 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload has increased to 1,80,304 which now comprises 1.61 per cent of the total infections. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,06,92,677 samples have been tested up to March 5 with 7,51,935 samples being tested on Friday. The 108 new fatalities include 53 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 11 from Punjab. A total of 1,57,656 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,393 from Maharashtra followed by 12,513 from Tamil Nadu, 12,354 from Karnataka, 10,918 from Delhi, 10,275 from West Bengal, 8,729 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,172 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Assaults on women: Brinda Karat blasts Bar Council of India||CPM leader Brinda Karat on Friday asserted that even oral observations by judges have their “own impact on society”, skewering the Bar Council of India for springing to the defence of the Chief Justice of India after she questioned his comments in two cases of alleged assaults on women. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had asked a man accused of raping a woman  whether he was willing to marry her. In another case, he had wondered whether sexual brutality by a husband on his wife can be termed rape. The Bar Council of India had cautioned against criticism of such statements and adopted a resolution saying  such oral observations had no legal sanctity. In a rejoinder, Karat said: “Nowhere does the resolution contradict the reports. In other words, there is no dispute that such comments were indeed made.” Karat said: “Whether or not the comments form part of the judgment is immaterial. The fact that such comments were made and reported has their own impact on society at large.” Karat said such comments made by higher authorities have a most damaging impact on victims of crimes and, in this case, they tend to dilute the enormity of a crime against a minor. “Comments may not have legal sanctity but certainly provide legitimacy to retrograde social approaches, which I have mentioned in my letter. In fact the Bar Council, if indeed it wanted to react, should have upheld the best judicial practices and standards and taken up the negative impact of such comments with the court concerned,” she said. Karat had sent a letter to Justice Bobde, asking him to withdraw the comments. Karat ridiculed the Bar Council of India, the regulatory body for legal education and lawyers, for passing the resolution that said there was a  “written agreement” between the parents of the alleged rapist and the minor girl. “Is there anything legal about such an agreement? Under which law?  Is the Bar Council not aware that the girl tried to commit suicide? Is the Bar Council not aware that the girl refused the marriage offer? And also most importantly, if such an agreement was made on behalf of the girl when she was a minor, once she became an adult, is it not the bounden duty of the court to ask her opinion first, before asking the rapist if he would marry her?” she asked. “It is indeed distressing that the Bar Council resolution does not at all show any sensitivity whatsoever to the minor victim. It requires examination why a council of such senior lawyers should not see the necessity of judicial processes, more so in cases of rape of a minor, to put the interests of the victim, not the perpetrator, at the centre of the process for justice.” Karat pointed out that the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court had rejected the bail granted by the lower court. “He would have been arrested but for his appeal. However, the Supreme Court has given him protection for a month to apply for ‘regular’ bail. The Bar Council resolution says this ‘should be appreciated’. I strongly believe giving time of one month constitutes protection against immediate arrest.” The council “does not have the right to damn an opinion on this as being ‘motivated’,” Karat said while referring to the criticism made by council against her for writing to the CJI on the issue. Karat also took exception to the council resolution for making certain comments against a woman who had accused her husband of subjecting her to brutal sexual attacks. “You have attacked her reputation. I think this is objectionable. The issue here is not the merits of a specific case. The issue is the comments made by the court which were of a general nature, regarding the relations between a husband and wife or those in a live-in relationship. Here again, it is not disputed by the council that the comments made were ‘however brutal the husband is... the man cannot be accused of rape’. “In other words, it is a general comment about husbands, which has the most grave implications for cases of domestic violence, including marital rape. Rape is a coercive act of sexual intercourse without the woman’s consent. “It is true that there is no law against marital rape at present in India. The petition is pending before the courts. However, for the apex court to make comments such as ‘however brutal the husband is’ gives licence to brutality,” Karat added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Prime Minister to address top commanders of defence forces in Gujarat ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the top commanders of the three defence forces at the Combined Commanders’ Conference at Kevadia in Gujarat on Saturday. For the first time, 30 junior commissioner officers (JCOs) and jawans from the tri-services will take part in the conference to be addressed by Modi. A defence ministry statement said the apex-level military leadership of the country would review the security situation and defence preparedness of the armed forces and deliberate on organisational issues for evolving a joint military vision in the three-day conference that began on Thursday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh addressed the conference on Friday. “I spoke on a wide range of issues pertaining to the defence and security of the nation, the emerging nature of military threats, the critical role of the Armed Forces in meeting these challenges and the nature of warfare in future,” Singh said in a tweet. “In a major change from the past, the scope of the conference this year has been expanded to make it a multi-layered, interactive, informal and informed event with the added participation of about 30 officers and soldiers of various ranks from the three services,” the defence ministry said in a statement. Sources said the suggestion to include JCOs and jawans came from the Prime Minister’s Office. Colonel (retd) Ajai Shukla said in a tweet; “Are we a neo-Nazi republic? A civilian prime minister starts appearing in public in combat fatigues, and insisting that enlisted ranks participate in commanders’ conferences! This constitutes bypassing the chain of command. Why are the chiefs silent?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Hit, humiliated, not allowed to sleep: Activist||Shiv Kumar is under treatment in hospital for injuries caused allegedly by police torture in custody but the 24-year-old labour rights activist said he would take the police up on a threat against ever setting foot in the industrial town where he worked. “While in their custody, police warned me never to be seen in Kundli if I am released or they would pick me up again. But I shall go back. Workers have to fight for their rights because the police are a tool in the hands of the capitalists and we can’t expect justice from them,” Kumar said over the phone from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. The young man, who says he was picked up by plainclothes policemen from the Singhu farmers’ protest site on January 16, was freed on bail on Thursday and taken to hospital for treatment of broken toenail beds, fractures and symptoms of post-traumatic disorder. “I was abducted, not arrested,” he told The Telegraph. “I was at the farmers’ protest site when they suddenly pounced on me and took me away. I remember being taken into the Criminal Investigation Agency-1 (police unit) in Sonipat’s Gur Mandi. From January 16 to 23, I was constantly hit with sticks, abused and humiliated referring to my caste. I was not allowed to sleep. They were inhuman. They were always in plainclothes. None offered me first aid,” Kumar, a Dalit, said. The police say they arrested Kumar on January 23 as part of the investigation into a protest on January 12 by the Majdoor Adhikar Sanghatan, of which he is the president, in Kundli in which seven policemen were allegedly injured. Three FIRs have been filed against him, accusing him of attempt to murder and extortion. His arrest and that of fellow activist Nodeep Kaur drew international attention after American activist Meena Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, tweeted about Kaur’s alleged torture in custody. Kaur has also been freed on bail. “I was beaten and then shown videos of the protest (on January 12) and asked to identify people. I asked them how I could identify people when I was not there. At the time, I was at the Singhu border protest. People have taken footage of me at Singhu border. They would keep hitting me on my toes with lathis. They did all kinds of brutality and I was constantly in pain.” Kumar’s father Rajbir, a landless Dalit from Sonipat district, moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which ordered a five-member medical board to examine him in Chandigarh on February 20. The youth’s statement recorded by the board says: “They tied both his feet, lay him on the ground, and hit him on the soles. His 2nd, 3rd and 5th toe nails of the right foot were torn and the nail of big toe of left foot became blue. They also hit him on the buttocks with flat sticks, then they tied his hands and stretched his legs. He was made to lie on the ground with both legs straight and a metal pipe was placed on his thigh and rolled over the thighs by two people. They also hit him on both hands and palms and also on the back of his head. He was not allowed to sleep for three days, the C.l staff took his statement and asked him to give names and when he could not do so. They tied him to a chair and poured water to his head... He was mentally and physically abused in the police remand and they also poured hot water on his feet and any blisters that formed were burst by them.” Besides the fractures and three torn toenails, the board observed “post traumatic disorder” symptoms. An acquaintance who has accompanied him to PGIMER told this paper: “His toes are blue-ish and he seems to be psychologically affected. He is in shock and doesn’t respond to things the way he used to. Several tests have been conducted here and the doctors will tell us what to do after the results come.” During the interview with this paper over the phone, Kumar blanked out several times but then collected himself and spoke on. He said he was taken to Sonipat Civil Hospital on January 24 for what was supposed to be a medical check-up. “There was no check-up. Policemen forced me to put my thumb impression on some paper. I was later told that they have obtained my remand for 10 days,” the activist said. From January 29 to January 31, he said, he was taken on a road trip, supposedly as part of the investigation into his links with suspects in other states. “I was first taken to Samalkha police station in Panipat district, then to some other police post in that district. At night they took me to some restaurant on a highway and handcuffed me while they drank liquor and made merry. The next morning we went to Haridwar where I was kept in an ashram all day while the policemen were again drinking. I was not questioned on this trip. They were busy partying,” he said. On the way back to Sonipat the next day, they stopped to see a relative of a policeman in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district, Kumar said. On February 2, he was sent to judicial custody in Sonipat’s district jail. “I was still in pain but I was scared to ask anyone for help in jail after what the police had done to me. No doctor examined me nor was I offered any first aid,” the activist added. Sonipat superintendent of police J.S. Randhawa has not responded to questions from this paper about Kumar. Kumar, who started working in Kundli in 2018 after finishing a diploma from Sonipat’s Industrial Training Institute, said he started organising workers in 2019 because as he was “disappointed with existing unions whose leaders are rude to workers and have spoilt the name of trade unions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||Supreme Court pushes  for OTT  ‘porn’ filter||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to come out with suitable legislation to prevent OTT platforms from screening pornography as the existing guidelines had no “teeth”, even as it restrained Amazon Video country head Aparna Purohit’s arrest by Uttar Pradesh police over the Tandav web series. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, assured the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy that the Centre would consider the court’s suggestion and bring legislation. “Mr Mehta, we have gone through the intermediary guidelines filed by you. But there are no teeth to it. There is no power of prosecution or fine. These are just guidelines. There has to be a proper legislation. Without legislation, there cannot be any effective control,” Justice Bhushan, heading the bench, said. The court made the observations after going through The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, placed before it. On Thursday, the bench had said a mechanism to screen serials and movies released on the OTT platforms had to be put in place as many were showing pornography. The bench made the observations while dealing with Purohit’s anticipatory bail plea in connection with the multiple FIRs against her in Uttar Pradesh over the Tandav series. During Friday’s hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Purohit, denied that the OTT platforms were showing pornography. “I can show your lordships hundreds of movies on Amazon, there is no porn. I watch these movies in the evenings. These are great movies,” he said. The bench clarified that it did not say that all movies being shown were porn. It passed the following written order: “One of the issues which have cropped up.. is regarding control and regulation of platform on which web series are released. Mr Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel, informed us that the Government of India has issued notification dated 25.02.2021 and introduced rules namely The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. “A perusal of the Rules indicates that the rules are more and more in the form of guidelines and have no effective mechanism for either screening or taking appropriate action for those who violate the guidelines. Mr Tushar Mehta, the learned solicitor-general, submits that the government shall consider and take appropriate steps for regulation or legislation as may be found fit by the government and the same shall be placed before the Court.” It further added: “Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submits that with regard to the FIR lodged at Lucknow being FIR No. 31/2021, she is cooperating with the investigation and the high court has already granted protection (in another FIR) to the petitioner. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that she is ready to co-operate with the investigation in FIR 14/2021.” “It is submitted that the petitioner is not involved with the production, writing and direction of the web series and is merely an officer of the company which owns the platform on which the web series was released… we direct that the petitioner shall not be arrested in FIR No. 14/2021 subject to her co-operation with the investigation. She shall appear before the investigating officer as and when required.” The Tandav series had caused considerable resentment among some sections of the viewers for allegedly portraying Hindu gods in a poor light. It also faced flak from some quarters for oblique references to the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the handling of the JNU students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||98% Indians don’t eat enough vegetables: Survey||About 98 per cent of India’s adults eat inadequate levels of fruits and vegetables, according to a nationwide survey that researchers say has flagged multiple lingering lifestyle-related habits that enhance risk for non-communicable diseases. The survey described as the first comprehensive and nationwide effort to measure risk factors has found that 98.4 per cent of sampled people aged between 18 and 69 years eat less than the recommended 400gm fruits or vegetables a day. It has also found that the average salt intake is 8gm per day, corroborating through the first direct measurements –through spot urine samples -- earlier findings that Indians consume excess salt. The World Health Organisation recommends that adults consume less than 5gm salt per a day and describes reducing salt intake as “one of the most cost-effective measures countries can take to improve population health outcomes.” The survey also found that about 51 per cent of men and 13 per cent of women consumed smoked or smokeless tobacco, 10 per cent of men reported heavy episodic drinking and 41 per cent of the adults did not have adequate physical activity. “We now have for the first time comprehensive baseline data on risk factors for non-communicable diseases,” Prashant Mathur, head of the Indian  Council of Medical Research National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research, Bangalore, and the study’s principal investigator told The Telegraph. Illness and premature deaths from non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disorders, diabetes, or cancers have increased in India over the past two decades and accounted for 6.1 million, or about 65 per cent, of India’s deaths in 2019. The Union health ministry had a decade ago launched a national programme for the prevention and control of cancer, diabetes and non-communicable diseases, but the country’s progress on prevention remains unmeasured amid a dearth of data. Earlier, studies to measure the prevalence of risk factors have been limited to small samples or were ad-hoc studies focused on specific risk factors such as blood pressure or tobacco smoking or blood sugar levels. In their survey, Mathur and his collaborators from medical colleges across the country examined the dietary habits, exercise levels, weight, and blood pressure and sugar levels from a representative sample of people from over 10,000 households. Among subsets of their sample, they found 98.8 per cent of 5,732 women and 98 per cent of 4,714 men did not eat five servings of fruits or vegetables a day, a practice long recommended by doctors to reduce the risk of non-communicable diseases. The diet continues to dominated by carbohydrates, roots and tubers, Mathur said. “This could be either because of lack of awareness of the importance of fruits and vegetables or because of affordability,” he said. Public health researchers say a similar study two years from now would allow India to measure progress on reducing the prevalence of risk factors that they say ideally need to be tackled through education, poverty, and income levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||BJP U-turn on CM face for Kerala||The BJP has made a hurried turnaround on whether it would project “Metroman” E. Sreedharan as its chief ministerial candidate in poll-bound Kerala. A day after declaring that he had asked the BJP high command to project Sreedharan as the party’s chief ministerial face in Kerala, BJP state president K. Surendran on Friday claimed that it was not what he meant. “I had only said the people and the party want Sreedharan to be projected as our chief ministerial candidate,” Surendran told reporters on Friday. Hours after Surendran’s announcement on Thursday, minister of state for external affairs V. Muraleedharan had clarified that the party had not decided on any chief ministerial candidate. While Sreedharan had unilaterally declared that he wanted to be the chief minister if Kerala voted the party to power, the BJP has been cautious since it usually does not name anyone for the top post. According to a party source, Surendran’s announcement did not go down well with the state unit. “These matters are decided by the national leadership,” said a BJP source. He said the issue had come up at a BJP core committee meeting on Friday. Although the BJP had so far won just one seat in the Assembly, that too in 2016, the party has launched a massive campaign to carve out a toehold in the state this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||GST pinch for post-graduate medical test aspirants||Students aspiring to pursue a post-graduate medical course in the country will have to pay Rs 5,015 this year, a steep increase from Rs 3,750 last year. The amount includes 18 per cent GST that has been levied for the first time this year. No other entrance test in India charges such high fees. The National Board of Examinations (NBE), which conducts medical entrance exams, raised the fees for the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET)-PG 2021 from Rs 3,750 last year to Rs 4,250 this year. Together, with the GST, the total fee works out to Rs 5,015. Students of the Diplomate of National Board (DNB), a post-graduate programme equivalent to MD/MS degrees whose fees is also fixed by the NBE, will have to pay Rs 22,500 more annually because they too will be paying GST. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) charges Rs 2,000 for entrance tests to select students for PG courses in institutions of national importance that include all the AIIMS, the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. No GST is charged. Nearly 1.5 lakh students apply for NEET-PG every year for around 35,000 seats in government and private colleges across the country. Under the GST law, while core education activities are exempted from tax, educational services are taxable. While the PG course is core education, entrance exams are considered an education service. However, the government exempts certain exams from GST. The Common Admission Test (CAT) conducted by the IIMs, for instance, does not charge GST. “The NBE was not charging GST on NEET-PG fees till last year. It has started levying the charges suddenly without explaining the reasons behind this decision,” a student from Calcutta who has applied for the exam said. The student said despite hiking the fees, the NBE provides poor services, such as a difficult online application process and delayed publication of results. “It takes hours for the OTP to be delivered on the mobile phone of the candidate while filing the application form. The AIIMS announces its PG medical entrance tests results within a week from the test. But the NBE takes 40 days,” he said. The NBE collects Rs 25,000 from each student for counselling for admission into PG courses in government medical colleges and Rs 2 lakh for private colleges, private universities and deemed universities. “Though the NBE is supposed to refund the amount immediately after counselling, the money is refunded to those who get a seat after around eight to ten months. AIIMS does not charge any counselling fee,” the student said. Dr Vaibhav, a Gwalior-based medical practitioner, said: “It seems there is a tendency to make profit by charging exorbitant fees from students. Levying GST on the tuition fees of DNB students is also unique. Neither AIIMS nor any other institutions of national importance are charging GST on tuition fees of students after enrolment in their degree programmes.” A Delhi-based DNB student said the annual fee for the 2018 batch was Rs 80,000. From the 2019 batch, the NBE increased the fee to Rs 1.25 lakh per annum, including Rs 20,000 for accommodation. The NBE issued a notice last month to charge a GST of 18 per cent, raising the fee to Rs 1,47,500. It made this fee applicable to all the ongoing batches, including those admitted before 2019. The students pay the fee to the NBE, which transfers the money to the respective hospitals where they are enrolled. “The NBE notice said those hospitals that do not have hostels would refund the accommodation charges. The hospitals are refunding only Rs 20,000, without the GST, which has been already charged,” he said. An email was sent to Pawanindra Lal, executive director of NBE, on Thursday to seek his views on the students’ concerns over GST charges and higher entrance fees. A message was sent on his mobile phone, too. He is yet to respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||India: We did not clear Adani group project at Colombo port||India on Friday denied Sri Lanka’s announcement that New Delhi had cleared the proposal of an Adani group company to develop the West Container Terminal (WCT) at Colombo port. “Our high commission in Colombo has already conveyed to the government of Sri Lanka that their media release in so far as the reference to the approval of the high commission was concerned, is factually incorrect. We understand that the government of Sri Lanka has engaged directly with investors on this project,’’ external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. This is the first time the ministry has commented officially on the Lankan government’s announcement. “Cabinet approval has been granted on 01-02-21 to develop the West Container Terminal of Colombo South Port as a private public limited company in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority and parties nominated by Indian and Japanese government,” the Lankan announcement on Tuesday had said. It added that the proposal presented by Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ Consortium) had been approved by the Indian high commission. Asked on Friday if India had got the formal offer for participation in the project, spokesperson Srivastava did not give a specific answer. He said: “Our high commission in Colombo has already conveyed to the government of Sri Lanka that their media release in so far as the reference to the approval of the high commission was concerned, is factually incorrect. We understand that the government of Sri Lanka has engaged directly with investors on this project.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||Congress creates social media storm on rising prices of petroleum products||The Congress on Friday created a social media storm on rising prices of petroleum products, alleging that the Narendra Modi government was working on a sinister plan to establish the monopoly of a few capitalists. Rahul Gandhi led the party leaders in attacking the government, alleging a planned dacoity to help crony capitalists. He said the money collected by the government was not being used in funding education and healthcare of common people. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government was only offering false excuses to justify its anti-people policies. The SpeakUpIndia campaign trended throughout the day on Twitter with many Congress leaders posting videos with appeals to rise against the oppressive government. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said: “Modi wants to burden the people and destroy India in his quest to help a few capitalists. The high prices are artificial. When crude oil was selling for over $100 per barrel, Manmohan Singh kept the prices of petrol and diesel low. Now when crude oil is hovering at $30-$60 per barrel, petrol-diesel prices are touching Rs 100.” Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate pointed out that the lockdown and economic recession whittled down incomes and snatched jobs but the government was using this crisis to fill its coffers. Alleging that “Modi and truth had no relations with each other”, she contested the charge that the states were responsible for the price rise. The party also held a media conference to highlight the issue of price rise and clubbed the planned sale of profitable public sector units to paint a grim picture. Spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said, “The government has no revenue model. It has collected lakhs of crore only by taxing fuel available cheap in international market. There is no other source of revenue generation. We request the government to change the name of the department of investment and public asset management, which works under the finance ministry, to distress privatisation drive management department.” Vallabh added, “The Modi government’s motto is: Hum do, hamare do/Jo bhi mile, bech do. The entire budget this year reverberated with cries of sale. This is distress sale. There is no strategic disinvestment. This is a privatisation drive. We all know who will buy these national assets, I don’t have to reveal who bought airports, ports, mines and shipping corporation. The entire country knows who will own all these assets. The government is misleading by talking about V-shaped recovery as they are working on K-shaped recovery. Some people, we all know who, will rise fast and others will fall. The unemployment rate has started rising again. The K-shaped recovery is obvious.” He accused the government of deliberately creating situations in which profit-making PSUs can be handed over to crony capitalists for cheap. He said, “The LIC is a case in point. This government forced the LIC to make risky investments worth Rs 10 lakh crore in sick companies. That much investment was not made in decades by the LIC. During the UPA’s time, the LIC’s NPA was 1.5 per cent. Today it is 8.7 per cent. All this is being done to sell these assets to crony capitalists.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||‘Owner’ of Antilia car found dead in Thane||Hiren Mansukh, the purported owner of the vehicle that had been found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last week with explosives inside, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday, police said. Mansukh, around 45 years old, had gone missing on Thursday night. The body was found on the banks of the creek along the Mumbra Reti Bunder Road, a senior Thane police official said. Mansukh’s Scorpio with gelatin sticks inside was found near Antilia, Ambani’s multi-storey residence in South Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said it had been stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. The crime branch of Mumbai police had recorded Mansukh’s statement in the case. Mansukh, who was engaged in a vehicle spare parts business, had said he had lodged a police complaint after the SUV was stolen. On Friday, his family members approached Naupada police station in Thane saying he had gone missing. An accidental death report has been registered and a probe is on, the Thane police official said. Speaking to the reporters in Mumbai, leader of the Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the death of a prime witness showed that something was fishy. “I reiterate the demand that the case be handed over to the NIA,” the BJP leader said. Earlier, Fadnavis had raised the issue in the state Assembly, seeking a probe by the National Investigation Agency. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the deceased was not the real owner of the vehicle. He said the original owner of the SUV had handed it over to Mansukh for some interior work. Deshmukh said Mansukh’s body bore no injury marks. “The autopsy report was awaited and Maharashtra police were perfectly capable of investigating the case,” he said. Fadnavis said Deshmukh had not been briefed properly about the case as Mansukh had told the police that he was the owner. Parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab said it is not necessary that the person told the truth. “Let the police probe the matter. Give them some time and have faith in them,” Parab said, adding that the NIA was already conducting a parallel probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||Gold-smuggling case: Illegal cash transaction slur on Pinarayi Vijayan||The customs department has informed Kerala High Court that a key accused in a gold-smuggling case has named chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, among others, for their close connections with a UAE consul general and “illegal money transactions.” The affidavit filed on Friday was based on a confidential statement recorded earlier by Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold-smuggling case. “She (Swapna) has made shocking revelations about the chief minister’s close connections with the previous Consul General of the UAE and illegal money transactions carried out,” customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said in a statement filed before the court. “She has also stated with clarity about the smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of Hon’ble Chief Minister, and Hon’ble Speaker with the help of the Consulate. She has also clearly stated about the improper and illegal activities of 3 Hon’ble Ministers of the state cabinet and the Hon’ble Speaker,” the statement told the court. While Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan was already under fire for his friendship with Swapna, who used to be a secretary at the UAE consulate, the statement did not name the three ministers. Swapna is a key accused in the attempt to smuggle 30kg of gold valued at Rs 14.82 crore in a diplomatic parcel addressed to the attache of the consulate general of the UAE in Thiruvana­nthapuram. The airport customs had busted the attempt in July 2020. Her statement was recorded under Sections 108 (power to summon to give evidence) and 164 (recorded before a magistrate) of the Customs Act before a magistrate in Ernakuklam on “different dates” more than three months ago. The alleged smuggling of US dollars is related to a kickback scam involving a local builder and some consulate officials who were entrusted by Emirates Red Crescent to build new homes for victims of the 2018 floods in Kerala. They had allegedly smuggled the dollar bills from Thiruva­nanthapuram to a Gulf country. With just a month to go for the April 6 state elections in which the ruling Left Democratic Front is widely forecast to win a second consecutive term in office, the statement instantly revived the debate around the gold smuggling and related scandals. The customs statement cited Swapna as admitting that she was privy to the discussions between those named in her statement and the UAE consulate official since she was the interpreter of the conversations that transpired in Arabic and Malayalam. But the statement made it clear it had no concrete evidence and only Swapna knew what transpired. “It may kindly be noticed that most of the facts revealed in the statement are matters which are exclusively within the personal knowledge of the 1st respondent (Swapna) and can be tendered as evidence in appropriate proceedings only by her.” While the customs had subjected her to various spells of custodial interrogation, she revealed the alleged involvement of the high-profile leaders during the last interrogation from November 25, 2020. Subsequently, she recorded the statement before a magistrate. This was just days after an audio clip leaked on November 19, 2020, with the voice purportedly that of Swapna lamenting how some officials of a central agency were coercing her to name the chief minister in the scandal in exchange of being made an approver. In the 35-second audio clip that found way to the media, Swapna was heard saying:  “They did not allow me to read the statements since sixth (not clear which month)…(but) asked me to sign after quickly scrolling (the pages).” “They (investigators) are asking me to ratify that (statement in court) to make me an approver. When I said I will never do that, I was told they will come to jail and force again,” she had said sparking a massive outcry against the conduct of the agencies. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress wasted no time in demanding the chief minister’s resignation. “This is a shocking revelation. The contents of this affidavit clearly shows how relevant were our earlier demand that the chief minister should resign. The chief minister does not have the right to continue in power even for a minute. This chief minister has committed treason.” But the ruling LDF came down heavily upon the customs for trying to cover up the overall failure of three central agencies in unearthing solid evidence against anyone. Convener of Left Democratic Front A. Vijayaraghavan slammed the customs department for trying to discredit the chief minister and the state government ahead of the election. “The customs has taken over the political campaign of the BJP and UDF (Congress-led United Democratic Front),” he said informing that the LDF would march to the customs offices on Saturday. “The objective of filing a statement in the high court citing a confidential statement by one of the accused is as clear as day light…Central agencies have degenerated to being mere tools of election campaign,” the CPM state secretariat said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||Political legacy of Biju Patnaik revisited||The political legacy of Odisha’s legendary chief minister, Biju Patnaik, father of present incumbent Naveen Patnaik took the centre-stage on Friday as Naveen called upon people to keep alive his father’s core ideology of “service and self-esteem” on the leader’s 105th birth anniversary. Leading the state in paying tributes to Biju Babu as the late leader was fondly called by friends and colleagues, Naveen underscored the importance of service and self-esteem which his father, who was twice the chief minister of the state, followed all his life. “Offered floral tribute to the legendary statesman, great freedom fighter, visionary leader and the architect of modern #Odisha, #BijuBabu on his birth anniversary. He will continue to guide and inspire all of us,” Naveen tweeted. The day was marked by cycle rallies and mini marathons organised by the young followers of Biju Babu after whom the state’s ruling party, Biju Janata Dal, has been named. The state government observed the day as “Panchayati Raj Day” as Biju Patnaik was instrumental in decentralising power to the grassroots level. Biju Babu was also a pioneer in the field of empowerment of women. He was the first leader in the country to reserve 33 per cent seats for women in the three-tier panchayat elections during his tenure as the chief minister between 1990 and 1995. His younger son and present chief minister Naveen enhanced the women’s quota to 50 per cent in the panchayats and urban local bodies polls when he came to power. He is now campaigning for implementation of 33 per cent reservation for women in state Assemblies and Lok Sabha polls. Addressing a function on the occasion Naveen said that Biju Patnaik was the epitome of Odia pride and dedicated his life to the service of the people while maintaining Odia “Swabhiman” (self-esteem). He said that the state was making progress by following the ideals of Biju Patnaik. The Odisha government’s department of sports and youth services organised a mini marathon at the Kalinga Stadium here to mark the 105th birth anniversary of the leader. Sports minister Tarun Kanti Behera flagged off the marathon in presence of hockey legend and BJD leader, Dilip Tirkey. The ruling BJD’s youth and students wing also took out a mass cycle rally from Biju Babu’s birthplace in Cuttack to Bhubaneswar. The rally starting from Anand Bhavan in Cuttack culminated near Bhubaneswar airport. Naveen inaugurated India’s first World Skill Centre (WSC) at Mancheswar Industrial Area in the evening to mark his father’s birth anniversary. With an aim to make Odisha the global capital of trained manpower, each floor of the 18-storey WSC building will be dedicated to different skills and trades. Meanwhile, tributes poured in from across India on the occasion. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Odisha governor Gabneshi Lal and many Union ministers took to twitter to pay tribute to Biju Patnaik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP names 57 candidates for Bengal polls, pits Suvendu against Mamata||The BJP on Saturday released its first list of 57 candidates for the Bengal Assembly polls and fielded Suvendu Adhikari from his home turf of Nandigram, from where Trinamool Congress president and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has already announced her candidature. Former Indian cricketer Ashoke Dinda and ex-IPS officer Bharati Ghosh are among the BJP candidates, party general secretary Arun Singh said at a press conference, adding that it has conceded one seat to ally AJSU. With this the party has announced candidates for all but three of the 60 seats which will go to polls in the first two of the eight-phase elections to be held between March 27 and April 29. "Jungle raaj" prevails in the state, and voters have made up their mind to oust the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and elect the BJP to power, Singh claimed. The BJP on Friday shied away from announcing its candidates for either of the first two phases of the Bengal Assembly elections. The delay in publishing the list, a section of workers said, was to avoid any possible “sabotage” of Narendra Modi’s rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday by those denied the BJP nomination. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address a rally in Calcutta’s Brigade Parade ground on Sunday, his first after the announcement of the poll dates. Nandigram, the site of protests against the Left government which had ignited a popular upsurge and catapulted the TMC to power in 2011, is set for one of the keenest electoral battles in the state with Banerjee taking on her former protegee and now BJP leader Adhikari. Adhikari had won from the seat in 2016 and resigned recently before crossing over to the saffron party. Banerjee announced her candidature from the seat while leaving her traditional constituency of Bhowanipore in Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Six BJP activists injured in bomb attack in Bengal||Six BJP activists were injured, two of them critically, in an alleged bomb attack by the rival TMC workers in West Bengals South 24 Parganas district, police said on Saturday. Family members of those injured alleged that a few members of the local Trinamul Congress hurled bombs at them while they were returning home in Gosaba area of the district from a marriage ceremony late Friday night. Police, however, claimed that the accident happened inside the house of a BJP activist where the crude bombs which were being manufactured went off accidently. "We have listened to the claims of the family members of those injured but it seems that they were manufacturing bombs when it exploded. "We are investigating the matter and talking to the locals," the officer said when contacted over the phone. Unconfirmed reports said that on Friday night, Gosaba witnessed clashes between TMC-BJP activists when bombs were hurled at each other, leaving six injured. Nobody has been arrested in connection with the blast,the police officer added. The injured are undergoing treatment at Canning Sub- Divisional Hospital, he said. A huge number of policemen have been deployed there as sleuths of the bomb squad and forensic department reached the spot, the officer said. Gosaba reserved assembly is scheduled to vote in the second phase of the assembly elections on April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Former TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi joins BJP||Former Trinamul Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi joined the BJP on Saturday, weeks after he announced quitting his Rajya Sabha membership on the floor of the House deploring "violence" in poll-bound West Bengal. He joined the BJP in the presence of its president J P Nadda, and Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan besides other leaders. Lauding Trivedi as a principled politician, Nadda said he was earlier a right person in the wrong party and was now in the right party. Trivedi said he had been waiting for this "golden moment" and added that family is supreme in some parties but it is people who are supreme in the BJP. He also praised the Modi government for its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and the issues involving neighbouring countries. A number of TMC leaders have quit the party in recent months to join the BJP as the saffron party mounts an aggressive all-out campaign to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year-old reign in the state. Trivedi (70) was once a close confidant of TMC president Banerjee and was her choice for holding the important railway ministry portfolio in the Union Cabinet during the UPA government. Though his ties with her strained resulting in him being removed from the cabinet, they later patched up. After losing the Lok Sabha election in 2019, he was sent to the Rajya Sabha by the party. With the BJP being successful in wooing over a number of TMC leaders to its fold, the saffron party has said that this underscores an increasing unease in its rival camp and is a pointer to its "decisive" victory in the assembly polls to be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: BJP holds candidate list||The BJP on Friday shied away from announcing its candidates for either of the first two phases of the Bengal Assembly elections, a move attributed to two contradicting theories. A section of BJP leaders said the announcement was put on hold as the saffron camp was planning to reap dividends from the dissent in Trinamul because of omission of 23 sitting MLAs and five ministers from the list of 291 that Mamata Banerjee announced on Friday. “The list doesn’t have the likes of Smita Bakshi (of Jorasanko), Mala Saha (Cossipore-Belgachia) and Rabindranath Bhattacharya (of Singur)…. We have to try and take advantage of the discontent,” said a source explaining why a pause button was pressed on publication of the list. The delay in publishing the list, another section said, was to avoid any possible “sabotage” of Narendra Modi’s rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday by those denied the BJP nomination. Sources within the state BJP said there were “intense differences” between rival factions over candidature in at least 10 of the 60 seats going to the polls in the first two phases. “Yes, the list for the first couple of phases was to be announced yesterday evening or this morning. But that didn’t happen, and only candidates for two Assam phases were announced instead…. There are fears of sabotage of the Brigade rally by influential sections disappointed by denial of candidature,” a source in the BJP said on Friday. “It is no secret that the BJP here is a divided house. For these 60 seats, around a thousand names have been submitted. There can only be 60 candidates in the end. The party does not want the disappointed sections to deliberately contribute towards less crowd count, or some other unwarranted act of defiance,” said the source. A state BJP functionary said candidature in at least a sixth of the seats in the first two phases was yet to be decided. “Those are highly winnable seats for us. Every influential lobby wants those seats for its own preferred candidates. That is why there has been no final decision on those 10-odd seats,” he said. “The candidates will be announced after the Brigade event is over,” he added. Suvendu reaction Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s catch of the poll season, vowed to make the chief minister lose in the Nandigram seat and turned the bohiragawto (outsider) tables on her. “The people of Nandigram are saying, this time, they want a bhoomiputro (son of the soil), and not a bohiragawto,” said the former minister at a Panskura rally. Former cabinet colleague Rajib Banerjee, a fellow Trinamul turncoat now in the BJP, has already said Adhikari told their new party’s national leadership that he would like to take Mamata head-on, by contesting from Nandigram. “The Trinamul netri (woman leader) has to go back empty-handed to Calcutta.” “Why is she running away from Bhowanipore? Because she is sure that she will lose there, if she tries to contest. You are most welcome to contest only from Nandigram. We will meet on the battlefield. On May 2, during counting, saffron will replace green here,” he added. “The margin of defeat in Nandigram will be thrice that of Bhowanipore.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court stays charge withdrawal ||Calcutta High Court on Friday stayed orders passed by two judicial magistrates of a court in Tamluk allowing the state government to withdraw criminal cases against 13 Trinamul Congress supporters accused of murders. The killings had taken place on March 21 in 2007 in East Midnapore’s Nandigram. Hearing a petition moved last week by Nandigram resident Niranjan Adhikari challenging the orders of the lower court, a division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan held on Friday that the judiciary should not indulge any government to withdraw criminal cases against murder accused. The division bench then stayed the orders of the Tamluk court. The then Left Front government had lodged criminal cases against the 13 Trinamul activists accusing them of murdering four persons. The murdered people included a cop also. The two separate incidents were during the anti-land acquisition movement in 2007. Based on complaints filed by families of the deceased, the then government had lodged cases against the 13 accused. While a judicial magistrate’s court in Tamluk was holding trial for a case involving nine accused, another judicial magistrate was dealing with the case wherein four had been accused of murder. Earlier this year, the state government had moved the lower courts to withdraw the cases against the 13 accused. The two judicial magistrate courts in Tamluk had allowed withdrawal of the cases and the orders were subsequently challenged in the high court last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||EC backs deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain||The Election Commission on Friday threw its weight firmly behind deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain and took ownership of his decisions during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Trinamul Congress had written to the commission demanding that the 1994 IAS officer be divested of his responsibility to hold the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls. Trinamul had cited two instances during the 2019 general election — Jain’s “inaction/illegal” action during the vandalism of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust in Calcutta and “illegality” in the introduction of a concept of quick response teams comprising state and central police and led by central officers — to accuse him of bias for the BJP. Jain had been in charge of Bengal during the 2019 general election also. In a statement issued on Friday, the poll panel said: “The commission would like to categorically state that all our deputy election commissioners and other officials posted in the ECI headquarters and/or working in the field are discharging their duties strictly as per Constitution of India and the various extant rules regarding the conduct of elections.” “There could be an odd exception here or there in which case EC takes corrective action immediately. In the immediate case, the Commission has full faith in the integrity and fairness of Shri Sudeep Jain, DEC,” it added. “Unfortunately, it is not for the first time that a concerted campaign is mounted against senior officers of the commission on the eve of/during the process of elections.” The statement virtually ruled out the possibility of Jain’s removal as in-charge of the Bengal polls. The commission also owned responsibility for two instances cited by Trinamul to question Jain’s neutrality in the 2019 polls. “It is clarified that both these decisions were taken by the Commission in the interest of holding free fair and peaceful elections and implemented by the district election machinery under supervision of DEC....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata opts out of one-strategy-suits-all format while choosing candidates||Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee did not opt for one-strategy-suits-all format while choosing candidates for seats that were represented by heavyweights who left the party to join the BJP. The chief minister would contest from Nandigram, which was represented by Trinamul turncoat and BJP’s star campaigner Suvendu Adhikari. “I will contest from Nandigram as I always stick to my words,” Mamata said in Calcutta on Friday. Apart from fielding herself in Nandigram, Mamata opted for strategic candidates in seats like Uttarpara in Hooghly, Behala East in Calcutta and Domjur in Howrah from where three prominent leaders of the party switched over to the BJP in the past few months. “Didi has adopted specific strategies for each seat from where prominent faces of Trinamul left the party in the run up to the Assembly polls. The possibility of the turncoat contesting from their old seats on BJP tickets is high. So, Trinamul has fielded those candidates who can create pressure on those who switched sides,” said a Trinamul leader. In the Behala East Assembly segment, Mamata has fielded Ratna Chatterjee, the estranged wife of former Calcutta mayor and minister Shovan Chatterjee who joined the BJP, along with his friend Baisakhi Banerjee. “Shovan Chatterjee is likely to contest from Behala East and just think about the embarrassment he would face to take on his wife. Shovanda publicly said he would contest from the same seat and Ratna has expressed the confidence of defeating him,” the Trinamul leader added. Shovan Chatterjee publicly said he would request his party to provide a ticket to contest from Behala East. In Uttarpara, Mamata’s choice is actor Kanchan Mallick. The actor, who joined Trinamul recently, was fielded after local MLA Prabir Ghoshal joined the BJP. BJP insiders said Ghoshal was likely to contest from Uttarpara and Mallick’s popularity was likely to put pressure on the Trinamul turncoat. In the case of Rajib Banerjee, Mamata adopted a different plan and picked an organisational hand to take on the defector to the BJP at Domjur. “Rajib had won from Domjur in 2016 but it was Kalyanendu Ghosh who had conducted the election. The party has fielded Ghosh to take on Rajib. Ghosh had been sidelined within Trinamul because of infighting,” said a Trinamul leader in Howrah. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ghosh said: “I had conducted the polls for Rajib in 2016 and this time, I will work to defeat him in Domjur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Tears and protest greet  TMC list in Bhangar in South 24-Parganas||The announcement of Trinamul Congress candidates sparked protests at several places in the state on Friday despite Mamata Banerjee trying her best to keep defectors to the BJP under pressure. At Bhangar in South 24-Parganas, Trinamul leader Arabul Islam broke down while expressing his annoyance with the party for not declaring him as a candidate. Arabul’s supporters blocked a road and allegedly ransacked a Trinamul office to register their protest against the decision to field Rezaul Karim, who had contested as a CPM candidate from Birbhum in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “The party is close to my heart but today the party does not need me anymore. What I do next will depend on the advice of the people of Bhangar,” said Arabul. Mamata, however, said those who had been left out would be accommodated in the Legislative Council that would be formed once Trinamul rode back to power. Senior Trinamul leader and former deputy speaker Sonali Guha, and MLA from Birbhum’s Nalhati Moinuddin Shams, also broke into tears openly after being denied party tickets. A section of Trinamul Congress supporters turned violent and blocked the Basirhat-Taki road for over an hour on Friday by setting tyres on fire for the denial of nomination to party leader A.T.M. Abdullah Ronny from the Basirhat North Assembly constituency. At several places in the constituency, Trinamul workers erupted in protest after the leadership nominated turncoat MLA Rafikul Islam to fight the polls and left Ronny in the lurch. In 2016, CPM’s Rafikul had defeated Ronny by 498. Rafikul had defected to Trinamul in 2020, four years after he had left Trinamul on being denied a ticket to contest the Assembly poll. A Trinamul activist in Basirhat said: “It is unfortunate that the party preferred to choose at the expense of a loyalist like Ronny.” Speaking to The Telegraph, Rafikul said: “This is a minor issue. I am hopeful that all party supporters will fight the polls unitedly.” However, a large number of Trinamul supporters, including elected members of panchayat bodies, met Ronny and urged him to fight the poll as an Independent. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Eight MLAs denied tickets, 15 new faces fielded in north||The names of eight sitting MLAs in north Bengal were dropped from the Trinamul Congress’s list of candidates by Mamata Banerjee who on Friday also nominated around 15 fresh faces in the region for the contest. At a number of locations, Trinamul supporters joined celebrations, held rallies and started drawing graffiti on walls after the announcement. But an underlying tone of disgruntlement prevailed in many Assembly seats, with occasional outbursts by Trinamul supporters witnessed at some locations. As Mamata read out the list, it was found that eight sitting MLAs have been dropped from the fray. Three from Cooch Behar, two from North Dinajpur and one each from Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and South Dinajpur districts were denied tickets. Those who have been dropped include Bachchu Hansda, the Trinamul MLA of Tapan in South Dinajpur, who is the minister of state in the north Bengal development department. In north Bengal, the party nominated around 25 candidates for the first time. “However, among them are a number of sitting MLAs who had defected to Trinamul after 2016 and also former MLAs who had contested in earlier elections. Apart from them, around 15 new faces have been fielded in north Bengal seats,” said a political observer. Protests rocked Raiganj since Friday morning as over 100 Trinamul supporters hit the streets, demanding that the party field a “son of the soil” in the Assembly seat. They raised slogans in support of Arindam Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader who is also the immediate past vice-chairman of the local civic body. The demonstrations continued as the party announced the name of Kanaialal Agarwala, the district Trinamul chief of North Dinajpur, as the candidate for Raiganj. “He is based in Islampur. The party should have found some other seat for him. It is disappointing that he has been sent here and aspirations of party leaders and workers of Raiganj subdivision have been ignored,” said a Trinamul worker. The protests left Agarwala and other district leaders red-faced. “We will talk to them. They should understand that the final decision is taken by the top leadership,” he said. Supporters blocked NH34 for one hour at Itihar in North Dinajpur as sitting MLA Amal Acharya was denied the Trinamul ticket. Such outbursts were also witnessed in Siliguri as Mamata named Omprakash Mishra as the candidate for the seat. Nantu Paul, a veteran party leader, was the first to register his disappointment. “We had made it clear that the candidate should be a Siliguri resident. But the party has taken some other decisions,” said Paul, who is the vice-chairman of the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority. Hundreds of residents across the city were also found venting their grudge through the social media and raising questions as to why the ruling party of the state could not find a local candidate. “In 2011, we had fielded Rudranath Bhattacharya, a local doctor, and had achieved success. But in 2016, the party made an experiment by bringing in Bhaichung Bhutia who was defeated. It is surprising to see why the party leadership is making the same mistake,” said a Trinamul leader. The residents of the city also asked if state tourism minister Gautam Deb could be fielded in a seat that covers some areas of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and if local candidates could be found for Matigara-Naxalbari and Phansidewa — the two other Assembly seats of Siliguri subdivision – why the party could not find a “son of the soil” for Siliguri, considered as the most prestigious seat of north Bengal. According to Trinamul sources, a number of local party leaders have been vying for the candidature. “There was a chance that if one of them is made a candidate, there might be inner differences and thus the poll results can be affected. That is why, it seems, the party has decided to field somebody from outside,” said a source. There are, however, others, who refused to buy the theory. The same logic was elaborated when Bhaichung’s name was announced in 2016 but the strategy eventually did not work, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Left Front keeps Nandigram out for now ||Left Front chairperson Biman Bose on Friday announced the names of Left Front candidates for the first two phases of Assembly elections but did not name anyone for the Nandigram seat which he flagged as a “heavyweight centre”. For the 60 seats which will go to the polls in the first two phases, 39 candidates were declared by the Left Front. The Congress and the Indian Secular Front are allotted 12 and five seats, respectively. The Nandigram seat has not been allotted to any party and discussions were still on, a Left leader said on Friday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will contest from Nandigram where her ex-confidante Suvendu Adhikari might be the BJP candidate. “We are not declaring the names of candidates in Nandigram, Pingla and a few other seats as negotiations are yet to be completed. Nandigram has become a heavyweight centre, so we are keeping it vacant for now,” Bose told a news conference at the CPM state headquarters at Alimuddin Street here. Nandigram will go to the polls in the second phase on April 1. Although the Left parties named their candidates, many of whom are youths, for the first two phases of the polls, the other two allies of the Sanjukta Morcha — Congress and the ISF — did not name their respective nominees on Friday. The last date for filing nomination for the first phase of the poll is March 9, while for the second phase, it is March 12. In a departure from the past and carrying forward the reflection of the large turnout of youths at the February 28 Brigade rally, the Left list is full of young faces like Sheikh Saddam Ali, 28, who is the CPM candidate for the Kharagpur seat. However, veterans like Susanta Ghosh, Pulin Behari Baskey and former minister Debolina Hembram have also made it to the list. Reacting to the Trinamul’s list, Bose said: “Trinamul and the BJP have an understanding in drawing up their list of candidates. So, we are not concerned about what Trinamul has announced.” “We also fielded several young faces,” Bose added when told that the Trinamul list had several young faces. Veteran Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya, who was present at the CPM headquarters on Friday, said: “Names of the candidates of our party are announced at the all-India level. So, we cannot announce the names of our candidates here. The drama that has been started by the BJP and Trinamul will be stopped by our force.” “We are united in our goal and the ISF has joined us.” ISF president Simul Soren, who represented the party at the press meet held to announce the list of candidates of the Left, said they would announce their list within a day or two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||SC and ST nominees up on TMC candidate list||Mamata Banerjee said on Friday that finalising the list of candidates was “difficult” in the backdrop of a sudden change in Bengal’s political landscape because of “caste and community considerations” because of the BJP’s divisive politics. The statement lends credence to the hypothesis that caste-based identity politics will play a key role in determining the outcome of the 2021 Assembly polls. “Preparing the list of candidates is difficult. Not only do you have to strike a balance between the new and the old…. One has to keep in mind the caste and community considerations, which didn’t exist earlier. The BJP’s divisive politics has brought this change,” said Mamata while releasing the party’s list of candidates for the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls. “We have to think about minorities, SCs, STs…. Also we have to ensure representation of women,” she added while rolling out the list of factors that were considered to select the list of candidates. Multiple sources in Trinamul said that navigating through the new realities of poll arithmetic was a challenge for the Trinamul leadership since the 2019 Lok Sabha election results revealed the change in the rules of the game in Bengal, where 34 years of Left rule had reduced the relevance of caste and community questions. Over the past one-and-a-half years, Trinamul has tried to match the BJP’s might in this game of identities, primarily with the expertise of poll consultant Prashant Kishor, whose team apparently played a key role in drawing up the first draft of the list of candidates based on local inputs and caste and community considerations. The proof of the effort was visible in the list that had 79 SC candidates — 11 more than the number of reserved seats for the community — and 17 ST, one more than the mandatory fielding of tribal nominees in 16 reserved seats. Besides, the Trinamul list had 42 Muslim candidates and 50 women nominees. Some party insiders said fielding so many SC candidates and betting on Santhali actress Birbaha Hansda, from an unreserved seat like Jhargram were smart moves against the backdrop of the party’s plan to woo the two communities ahead of the polls. In the Lok Sabha polls, the BJP’s lead in 34 and 13 Assembly segments out of 68 and 16 seats reserved for SC and ST communities, respectively, became game changer for the party. “The leads from these Assembly segments were so big that at least four BJP nominees became MPs…. So, the focus this time was to ensure proper representation of the SCs and STs,” said a source. According to him, Birbaha was fielded from an unreserved seat to send a message to the tribal people. As Birbaha’s election is on the first day of poll, the party will use her in remaining phases for campaigning in tribal pockets across Bengal, the source added. “The effort is visible as the list has four Namo Shudra candidates, which is aimed at wooing Matua voters, who had swung big time in favour of the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls,” said another source. The party has fielded Rajesh Lakra, a pastor with a significant following among the tribal community in north Bengal, from Madarihat in Alipurduar. Keeping with the identity theme, Trinamul has left the three hill seats vacant for “friends”, which mean that Mamata is keen on getting Gorkha Janmukti Morcha nominees for the seats to address the identity issue in the hills. Sources aware of the strategising in Trinamul on candidate list said though Team PK got the inputs from the ground level and the first draft of candidates was drawn up based on these feedback, Mamata gave the final verdict whenever there were differences. To elaborate on how Mamata prevailed over others about the candidate list, a source referred to the selection of Kajol Sinha to contest from Kahrdah, a seat won by Amit Mitra in 2011 and 2016. Though the party had plans to field someone else as Mitra hasn’t been physically fit, Mamata insisted on Sinha and got him included. “The party is on a firm footing in Khardah and so she wanted to put up a political candidate there,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakrabory. In neighbouring Barrackpore, where the Trinamul was lagging behind the BJP in the last Lok sabha polls, she, however, put Tollywood film maker Raj Chakraborty to try and wrest the seat with their star appeal. Selection of Sayantika Bandyopadhyay from Bankura and Sayani Ghosh from Asansol South was also driven by the same logic. Another important feature of the candidate list was Mamata’s strategy of ring-fencing potential defectors to the BJP with nomination. Inclusion of long-time councillors like Atin Ghosh and Debasish Kumar on the candidate list was aimed at preventing their switch to the saffron camp, said Chakraborty. “These two leaders were holding discussing with the BJP… Mamata retained them in the party’s fold with nomination,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee message for paramilitary||Mamata Banerjee on Friday said she expected that state and central forces would work together properly to ensure free and fair conduct of the eight-phase Assembly polls in Bengal, the message was a reiteration of the Trinamul Congress narrative that the paramilitary personnel often try to favour the BJP because of instructions from Delhi. “I want the central and state forces to work together properly… It should not happen that forces coming from Delhi are sent with an instruction,” the chief minister said on Friday while announcing the Trinamul candidate list for 291 Assembly segments in the state from her residence at Kalighat here. “We notice that some people are working according to the instructions given from the BJP office. This should not happen. We want an impartial election. We want free and fair polls,” she added. A section of state government officials said Mamata’s comment would send a smart message to the Election Commission at a time it was planning to give free hand to the central forces after their deployment in sensitive areas in Bengal. “For example, it has been decided that quick response teams would be led by central force commandants and not state police officers. Moreover, deployment of central forces would largely depend on the opinion of police observers. The chief minister perhaps wanted to highlight these issues,” said a source. Trinamul insiders said the top brass of the party was worried over the roles to be played by the central forces. “During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the central forces deployed at booths and in other areas took care of the complaints lodged by the BJP but ignored the grievances of Trinamul. This should not happen this time,” said a Trinamul MLA. Sources close to the chief minister said she had raised questions about the impartiality of the central forces and also some EC officials ahead of the polls very tactically as that would put the poll panel under pressure. “In 2019, the EC had taken several steps, including removal of officials and deployment of central forces based on the complaints lodged by the BJP. This time, the chief minister aired her concerns about the impartiality of some EC officials very tactically so that the poll panel thinks twice before initiating steps based on the complaints of the BJP,” said a source. As the EC removed the ADG (law and order), Jawed Shamim — known as an upright officer — within 24 hours of the election dates being declared, the ruling establishment has become apprehensive of more changes in key positions ahead of the polls. As the Trinamul leadership thinks such “unnecessary changes” put the state bureaucracy under undue pressure, the party had officially lodged complaints against deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain raising questions over his impartiality. Jain is a key person in holding polls in Bengal. Not only Jain, the ruling party in Bengal has also raised questions over posting of Vivek Dubey, a former IPS officer, as a special observer in Bengal as Trinamul had several complaints regarding use of central forces during the last Lok Sabha polls. Dubey had worked as a special observer in Bengal during the 2019 general election. “It is clear that she is concerned about the activities of these two officials as they are retired from service. She is all set to get the party to send another letter to the poll panel.… It is considered to be a smart move as it definitely puts the poll panel under pressure. If a chief minister expresses her displeasure with some EC officials, it sends a message throughout the country,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
06-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC leaders clueless about three hill seats||Mamata Banerjee’s announcement on Friday that the Trinamul Congress would not field candidates in three hill Assembly seats and instead let her “friends” contest put party supporters in a quandary as they were confused which faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha was “dearer” to the chief minister. The Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang camps of the Morcha, which are both allies of Trinamul, have decided to field own candidates from Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong Assembly constituencies. “In the three hill Assembly seats, my friends will contest the election,” Mamata said on Friday in Calcutta. In Darjeeling, Trinamul leaders had no immediate answer regarding the faction they were supposed to support. “Maybe, a directive will come to us. In fact, we were discussing the same issue right now,” L.B. Rai, president, Trinamul (Hills), said when asked about the chief minister’s statement. Rai admitted that the issue was “serious”. “The issue is serious as we have many supporters in the hills and hence, the party should tell us clearly. We will, however, follow whatever the high command directs us.” Hill Trinamul leaders are planning to come down to Siliguri on Sunday and meet Mamata, who will be holding a rally in the plains town, to discuss this issue. “We are trying to meet her in Siliguri on Sunday,” Rai said Not only Trinamul leaders but also functionaries of various cultural organisations who support development boards in the hills are also facing a similar dilemma. “We too are waiting for an appropriate directive. I think the directive will come in a subtle manner. As of now, we have no clear answers,” said a leader of a cultural organisation that supports development boards in the hills. The Mamata Banerjee government set up 16 cultural development boards for various hill communities since 2014. A political observer said since 2017, hill Trinamul leaders and those associated with the various development boards had been working closely with the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp of the Morcha. “The same does not hold true with the Bimal Gurung camp,” the observer added. Gurung dumped the BJP, a 13-year-old ally, only a few months back and realigned with Trinamul. The Tamang-Thapa faction had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election and Darjeeling Assembly bypoll as an ally of Trinamul. Gurung, however, claimed he could be a decisive factor in “10 to 15” seats in the Dooars. A triangular contest involving the two Morcha factions and the BJP-GNLF alliance is likely to be played in the three hill seats. Each of the three constituencies has a voter strength ranging from 2 lakh to 2.4 lakh. “In such a situation, the role of Trinamul and even leaders of cultural organisations supporting development boards will be of much importance to the two factions of the Morcha,” said the observer. Bista plea Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista on Friday wrote to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, seeking the removal of board of administrators at the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration as they were “non-elected political nominees”. “These unelected administrators are now using the GTA to influence voters in our region by promising them employment, permanent jobs, contracts and funds,” Bista alleged. The GTA is being run by nominated administrators since 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Plastic shields Calcutta trekker after fall from 250ft ||Sambhu Roy Chowdhury, 62, a Calcutta trekker who had gone missing for nearly 24 hours at Sandakphu, situated at an altitude of more than 11,000 feet, braved the cold winter night on empty stomach and  wrapped himself with “plastics” to escape from near sub-zero temperature. Chowdhury got separated from a 10-member senior citizen trekking group on Tuesday and was rescued the following day after having spent the night taking shelter under a tree nearly 250 feet downhill the main trekking route in the Singalila National Park. When the group reached Rimbick, about 60km from Darjeeling and a place with steady mobile connectivity along the trekking route, on Thursday night, Chowdhury recalled the incident to The Telegraph. “I was walking in a group of three and around 11am on Tuesday, I decided to respond to nature’s call. I think there was ice (probably frost) and I suddenly slipped downhill,” said Chowdhury. He believes that he felt almost 250ft downhill and for some time, he was “unconscious”. The area was wrapped in dense fog and even though his team consisted of nine other members, trekkers don’t march in columns like patrolling defence personnel. “Since everyone has his own pace, the distance between trekkers varies. The fog was also dense and they (other trekkers) probably realised after a while that I was missing,” said Chowdhury. The group, which consists of former office colleagues and friends from his Netaji Nagar neighbourhood in Calcutta, had started the search for Chowdhury from Tuesday afternoon. Chowdhury is a retired central government employee. Once the trekker regained consciousness after some hours of his fall, he tried to climb uphill. “I was hurt on both my hands,” he said. When the fog is dense, finding a proper route even during the daytime in the hills is difficult, especially when the terrain is new. As hours passed and the day slipped into night, Chowdhury, who had undergone survival skill training, decided to take shelter under a tree. “I had no food, no medicine with me. I wrapped myself in plastics that I was carrying and broke ice to drink as I had no water with me,” he recalled. Temperatures during night can be near sub-zero and strong freezing cold are common in that area. Going by the video immediately recorded after the rescue, Chowdhury was not adequately dressed for an outdoor night. That day, the team had started trekking from Gorkhay and not the usual Maneybhanjyang end. They were trekking from Phalut to Sandakphu when the incident took place somewhere near Molley. The following morning, Chowdhury tried to find his way uphill despite being weak and tired. “As I was trying to crawl uphill, our guide Janam Singh was the first to reach me, followed by the SSB personnel and other rescuers,” said the trekker. The team will be reaching Calcutta on Saturday. “I was saved because of God’s will,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
06-03-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi to contest Assam elections from Sibsagar||Jailed activist Akhil Gogoi will contest the upcoming elections in Assam from Sibsagar as a candidate of his newly-floated Raijor Dal. Announcing the list of 18 candidates that the party fielded in the first two phases, Raijor Dal working president Bhasco De Saikia said that Gogoi, who is in judicial custody after arrest during the protests over CAA, will contest from the Sibsagar constituency in Upper Assam. In the first phase, the party will contest in 12 seats, and in the second phase, it has fielded candidates in six constituencies. "We have decided to contest in only 18 seats with the intention of not dividing the votes so that the BJP is defeated and to ensure that there is an anti-CAA government in the state," Saikia said. In the first phase, besides Gogoi from Sibsagar, the party named Dwiponjyoti Phulan from Chabua, Mohini Mohan Ligira from Moran and Lohit Gogoi from Mahmara. The other candidates who will be contesting the elections in the first phase are Kabindra Chetia Phukan (Teok), Jiwan Bora (Bokakhat), Najrul Islam (Rupohihat), Mehboob Muktab (Dhing), Alok Nath (Tezpur), Anup Saikia (Bihpuria), Bijay Tirki (Rangapara) and Dharjya Konwar (Thowrah). In the second phase, it fielded Ruhul Das in Raha, Hareswar Barman in Rangia, Jotil Deka in Kamalpur, Sahabul Islam Choudhary in Dalgaon and Dilwara Choudhury in Jamunamukh. Gogoi was booked under the stringent UAPA during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December 2019 and has been in judicial custody since then. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi began their Assam campaigns from Sibsagar, and with Gogoi deciding to fight the election from the seat, it assumes significance. The elections to the 126-member Assam assembly will be held in three phases, beginning on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
06-03-2021||North East||Opposition Congress launches website for unemployed Assam youth||The Opposition Congress on Thursday not only launched a website in poll-bound Assam for online employment registration for unemployed youth — www.congressor5guarantee.in. — but also announced a ministry of job creation as part of its guarantee to provide five lakh jobs in five years if it is voted to power in the upcoming three-phased Assembly elections. During the launch of the website, AICC general secretary in charge of Assam Jitendra Singh and other senior leaders elaborated on, how they will be generating 5 lakh jobs in the public sector and 25 lakh jobs in the private sector, during the course of their tenure if they regain power from the BJP-led alliance. The move is primarily aimed at assuring the voters that the party was accountable to the guarantees they have made unlike the “unfulfilled promises” made by the BJP since 2014, including the “25 lakh jobs promised before the 2016 Assembly polls but could provide about only 80,000”. All India Mahila Congress President and Outreach Committee Chairman Sushmita Dev said the job guarantee was given only after studying the state budget and consulting economists. “If Haryana and Punjab with similar population as Assam can have around 5.5 lakh government employees, why does Assam have only 4.3 lakh? Do we not need state capacity? Do we not need more doctors, teachers engineers? The incoming Congress government will create a new ministry — the ministry of job creation. “Anyone who is unable to find a job should just catch hold of the minister,” Dev said. CLP leader Debabrata Saikia, Pradyut Bordoloi, Gaurav Gogoi, Rakibul Hussain and Abdul Khaleque were also present during the announcement. Jitendra Singh said the one big issue that people from every constituency highlighted was the unemployment. “Youth do not have jobs & we found it from Tinsukia to Dhubri, from Karimganj to Nowgong, unemployment is the biggest issue. Even those who got employed in last five years are extremely under-paid. “They are earning so little that they wonder why they got an education. Youth voted because they were told they will get 25 lakh jobs and they only got CAA. Youth from all over Assam have told us how they were cheated by the party currently in power.” Ripun Bora said the reason why the Congress wants to create 5 lakh new government jobs is because they’re needed. “They’re needed for 2 reasons: Shortage of government staff and for a plan to make drastic improvement in Assam’s development. The Assam government currently has around 4 lakh 37 thousand employees. There are another 58,000 sanctioned posts that are vacant. Why has Sonowal not been filling up the vacant posts? They’re not creating new posts, and not even filling the posts falling vacant. “With a similar population as Assam, Punjab and Haryana both have around 5.5 lakh government employees,” Bora said. AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on March 2 announced the party’s “five guarantees” to the people of the poll-bound state if voted to power, including a law to nullify the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, if voted to power, generation of five lakh government jobs; raising tea workers’ daily wage to 365; free electricity up to 200 units per household; and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives. Thursday’s launch of the registration website and announcement for ministry for job creation has to be seen in this backdrop. “The Congress is firm on implementing its guarantees,” Bobbeeta Sharma, PCC media department chairperson, said. By evening, Bora tweeted, “More than 1000 job guarantees given out with just 2 hours of registration launch- speaks volumes about people’s faith in Congress Party’s ideology & leadership! #CongressGivesJobGuarantee #Congressor5Guarantee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
06-03-2021||North East||AGP gives Prafulla Kumar Mahanta’s seat to BJP candidate||The ruling BJP not only sealed its seat-sharing deal with its allies in Delhi on Friday night but also announced the names of 70 party candidates for the three-phased Assembly polls in Assam. At a joint press conference, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh said the party would be contesting 70 seats while allies Asom Gana Parishad 26 and United People’s Party Liberal eight seats. The BJP is fielding eleven new faces, Singh said, adding the remaining candidates will be declared in due course. Assam has a 126-member Assembly. One of the highpoints of the declaration was the AGP leaving the Barhampur seat to the BJP, a seat which was held by former chief minister and AGP founder Prafulla Kumar Mahanta since 1991. Mahanta, who has been an MLA since 1985, had fallen foul of the AGP for his strong opposition to the contentious CAA. He was also not keeping well of late. The future course of the 1952-born Mahanta, who is returning from Delhi on Friday night, is not known but the possibility of the former two-time chief minister joining the AGP (Progressive) which was “revived about ten days ago” is not ruled out. He may also throw his weight behind the Congress-led seven-party alliance opposed to the CAA. “Please wait till tomorrow,” a close aide said. BJP’s Jitu Goswami will contest from Barhampur. Senior Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma figures on the list of candidates. He will contest from Jalukbari. Sarma had in February 2020 written to state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass that he was not keen on contesting the polls but left the final decision to the party leadership. Sarma said the AGP was allotted 27 seats but left the Patacharkuchi seat for Dass to contest as a goodwill gesture. Dass was the sitting MLA from Sorbhog but BJP insiders said the seat was no longer safe, more so after the Congress and the AIUDF joined hands. “We have allotted one seat to our ally Rabha Jautha Mancha. They will contest on our symbol (Lotus). “We are now a four-party alliance and we are sure of retaining power,” Sarma said in presence of AGP president Atul Bora, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who is once again contesting from Majuli, Dass and Singh. The BJP had in 2016 won 60 seats and the AGP 14. The BJP allied with UPPL in Bodoland after it snapped tied with Bodoland People’s Front, its ally in 2016. The BPF has since joined the Congress-led alliance. The BJP-AGP-BPF alliance had comprehensively defeated the well-entrenched the Congress in 2016. The Congress too has intensified its seat-sharing talks and is expected to announce its candidates by Saturday, a party general secretary said. Assam goes to polls in three phases — March 27, April 1 and 6. Most of the new BJP faces are Sarma loyalists, most from his days in the Congress, such as Jayanta Malla Baruah, Diganta Kalita and Taranga Gogoi. If the two Congress MLAs, only Ajanta Neog was nominated, one of the four women nominees. The recently-formed Assam Jatiya Parishad too announced the names of 18 candidates on Friday night, including president Lurinjyoti Gogoi (Duliajan) and general secretary Jagadish Bhuyan (Sadia). Congress insiders said it has left 21 seats for the AIUDF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
06-03-2021||North East||Meghalaya government launches online registration portal for migrant workers ||The Meghalaya government on Friday launched  the online registration portal for migrant workers under the Meghalaya Identification Registration (Safety and Security) of Migrant Workers Act 2020. The legislation passed in March last year ensures the maintenance of public order and protection and safety of migrant workers in Meghalaya through identification and mandatory registration of all such workers in the northeastern state. Meghalaya  deputy chief minister P. Tynsong, who launched the portal at a function organised by the state labour department in Shillong, said  the authority for issuing labour licences now lies with the state government under the act. Registration of workers, maintaining their proper records and issuance of identity cards to them are also mandatory under the act. The launch of the portal comes close on the heels of the attack on  a group of labourers from Assam in West Khasi Hills, leaving one dead and seven injured.  A group of masked men had carried out the attack. The portal enables migrant workers and persons/contractors employing migrant labourers/workers to register them, failing which they will be liable to a fine of up to Rs 5000. Registration through the portal can be made from any part of the country, or through the common service centers or a help desk at the registration office with a payment of Rs 50. Stating that the launch of the online portal will improve the ease of doing business, Tynsong urged all stakeholders to utilise the portal so that a record of genuine migrant labourers/workers is maintained in the state. Pointing out that this move is crucial for the development of the state as labour forces from outside are required to complete projects of different departments, the deputy chief minister reiterated that only those migrant workers/labourers who fulfill various criteria stated under the Act will be issued with a labour licence. Meghalaya has been of late regulating the entry of outsiders in the state — migrant workers or tourists. In December,  Meghalaya inaugurated its first facilitation centre at Umling  amid growing demand  to set up entry-exit points by pressure groups to regulate the entry and exit of visitors to check influx of migrants. A visitor now has to provide details about himself, his address and where he is staying during his stay in Meghalaya with his/her photograph, among others. The demand to regulate entry of outsiders/tourists through the Inner Line Permit  and the Meghalaya Residents, Safety and Security (Amendment) Bill, 2020 for the safety and security of its residents, gathered  momentum after the Centre started pushing the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill. The MRSSB was passed last March. The contentious citizenship bill passed in December 2019, making it easy  for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. The Meghalaya assembly had on December 19, 2019, adopted a resolution seeking ILP, a travel document, which is presently required  to enter Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur and Nagaland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
06-03-2021||Opinion||For shame: world food wastage||Sir — The revelations of Richard Swannell, the development director of the Waste and Resources Action programme — he said that if all the wasted food in the world were packed into 40-tonne container trucks parked end-to-end, they would circle the earth seven times — are shameful, especially when global hunger has been exacerbated by the pandemic. The amount of food thrown away by households, retailers and the hospitality industry in 2019 was far more than previously suspected. The suffering wrought by the pandemic requires governments to tackle several serious problems deftly. Will the problem of food wastage be given the importance it deserves? Pranav Ganguly,Calcutta Immense show Sir — I would like to draw attention to the six sixes scored in the same over by the West Indies captain, Kieron Pollard, off the Sri Lankan spin bowler, Akila Dananjaya, in the first Twenty20 match between the two teams in Antigua. Ironically, in the same match, before being hit for six sixes, the same spinner had become the 15th player and fourth Sri Lankan to take a hat-trick in a T20 international. This goes to prove that cricket is a game of uncertainty. Pollard’s performance in that over changed the course of the game in the West Indies’s favour. There are many such instances of a match being turned around; the latest instance is the Indian team’s performance against England in the ongoing Test series. Joe Root and his boys, after their fruitful 2-0 series win against Sri Lanka on the latter’s soil, seemed to have been dreaming about repeating the same against Virat Kohli and his team. They succeeded in decimating the Indian team during the first Test, taking a 1-0 lead in the series. Root was in his prime, and celebrated his 100th Test with a double tonne; the rest was taken care of by James Anderson and Dom Bess. However, as was the case in Australia, our boys bounced back during the second Test at Chepauk to inflict a humiliating defeat on Root’s team to level the series 1-1. They also won the pink-ball Test in Ahmedabad to take a 2-1 lead in the series. It remains to be seen what comes of the third Test. Vinay Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — It was thrilling to watch Kieron Pollard hit six sixes off Akila Dananjaya in what was a frenetic chase in the T20 match played at Antigua. He became the second player after Yuvraj Singh to score six sixes in an over in T20 international cricket. His first six went high over long-on, the second straight into the sight screen and the third over long-off. The fourth six was sent to the mid-wicket region, well over the fence. The penultimate six went over the long-on region. It was nerve-wracking to watch, so one can only wonder what must have been going through Pollard’s mind as he prepared himself to go for a final big hit. His efforts paid off as the sixth six went flying over the mid-wicket boundary. Ashwika Raj,Calcutta Unkind words Sir — I am a PhD research scholar specializing in children’s literature. As such, the article, “Booked young” (March 2), was of some interest to me, since it was ostensibly about young, published authors. However, upon reading it, I was taken aback by the condescending and demotivating approach it took towards its subject matter. The actual focus on young writers and creators, who are confidently carving a place for themselves in an arena where adults have traditionally exerted control, was minimal and cursory, barring a few perfunctory mentions. The bulk of the article is unfortunately focused on the comments of two men — one is a publisher, the other an author — who seem to be using their positions of privilege to disparage the efforts of these children. It is unfortunate to witness adults adopt such discouraging attitudes towards the child authors they talk about. Articles such as these can have terrible repercussions on readers — children and adults alike. In order to get perspectives on child authors that are unbiased and encouraging, the views of smaller publishing houses and authors might prove to be valuable. Ritwika Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
06-03-2021||Opinion||Word games: 'creative' mantra for the govt||One of the greatest talents of the politicians in power at the Centre is their ability to infuse old words with new meanings. ‘Freedom’, for example, seems to mean something other than what was generally understood so far. They have now become creative with the word, ‘creative’. There is to be a creative writing contest for teachers and parents of Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya schools before the prime minister’s discussion with students on examination stress. The idea of the prime minister as the students’ friend is creative enough, particularly when he mentors them about examination stress. His own youthful experience must be the source of his wisdom. That the prime minister, who is not noticeably fond of academics and students who speak their mind, should insert himself directly into young people’s thinking and mould their attitude to examinations is the very acme of creativity. But the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government wants more. More inventiveness than the gau mata examination entailed. The topics for the creative writing contest, which pupils in higher classes can join, indicate immediately that the word ‘creative’ means something new. Shorn of its association with freedom, creativity for parents is a kind of homework: lessons in the way they will reduce their children’s stress. “Your words make your child’s world — encourage as you have always done”, for example, has the government placing itself between parents and children and trying to regiment their attitudes with instructions about the child and parent writing each sentence in turn. “Be your child’s friend — keep depression away” is an order, not a creative writing topic; the parent is instructed to write the child a postcard saying why he or she is special. But to have parents join a contest — test, in effect — is a sign of the government’s creativity about its own rights. And do its aided schools teach that segment of students alone in which all parents are able to participate in a written contest? The topic given to teachers is about the benefits of online teaching and how to make it better. This is designed to stifle all descriptions of the problems faced by an enormous number of teachers and students all over India which deeply affect inclusivity and achievement, while condemning children to the monotony of screen communication without dynamic engagement with teachers, peers and physical surroundings. To write about the benefits alone would be truly creative; it is the kind of creativity underlies most of the government’s favourite agendas. The topics form a package. Students must write on examinations being festivals — must they be creative contortionists? — on incredible India, on aspiring not to be but to do and, most tellingly, on being grateful. The bleak irony of having to get creative about being grateful does not seem have struck the wise men at the Centre. Seen as a package, the topics make perfect sense. There is little scope for misunderstanding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
06-03-2021||Opinion||Life in music: Paul McCartney’s forthcoming autobiography 'The Lyrics'||Sir Paul McCartney’s forthcoming autobiography, The Lyrics, which will be published on November 2, has certainly caused a buzz. It is expected to reveal just how much India influenced The Beatles. From February till April 1968, the band relaxed in Rishikesh with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who plied the impressionable youngsters with talk of Indian philosophy, vegetarian food with no spice and transcendental meditation. But this was also a very productive period for The Beatles, who composed between 23 and 48 songs, some 17 of which were included in their White Album. McCartney was there with his girlfriend, Jane Asher, while John Lennon, Ringo Starr and George Harrison had come with their (first) wives, Cynthia Powell, Maureen Starkey and Pattie Boyd, respectively. McCartney’s unconventional autobiography is described as “the ‘extraordinary’ story of his life for the first time through the prism of 154 song lyrics”. It will be published in two 480-page hardback volumes priced at £75. Harrison, who had spent months in Bombay learning the sitar from Ravi Shankar, wanted to delve deeper into Indian spirituality. The work is edited by the Pulitzer prize-winning Irish poet, Paul Muldoon, based on conversations with McCartney over a five-year period. McCartney, now 78, explained: “I know that some people, when they get to a certain age, like to go to a diary to recall day-to-day events from the past, but I have no such notebooks. What I do have are my songs, hundreds of them, which I’ve learned serve much the same purpose. And these songs span my entire life.” My song was always “Hey Jude”, which I would play in Calcutta during the long vacations from university in England. Beautiful tracks Sophia Loren, now 86, was wonderfully engaging when she was a guest on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs last week, following on from Malala Yousafzai the previous episode. I went back and played “Lara’s Theme” from Dr Zhivago, which she had picked as one of her eight pieces of music. “This was the film that my [late] husband Carlo [Ponti] was... most proud of — he fought for this music to be in the film,” she said. I know the Italian legend would love to be invited to India. One of my Cannes highlights from 2014 was attending a ‘masterclass’ given by Sophia in the packed Salle Buñuel theatre. She had first come to Cannes in 1955. At one point Loren insisted, “I have never been beautiful”, and spoke instead of the beauty of Indian actresses. “We see many of your films on Italian television — and they are very beautiful. And the actresses are lovely, beautiful, great. Yes, yes, yes!”Old grudges The Financial Times definitely wasn’t amused by the Indian prime minister’s decision to rename the ‘world’s largest cricket stadium’ after himself in his own lifetime. The pink paper said in a leader that “Modi’s act of vanity is part of a wider effort to rewrite the country’s history and sense of self,” adding unkindly that “there is one other reason why political leaders start naming places after themselves while they are still in power. It is that they are not confident their nation will be quite so keen to honour them once they have gone.” But Narendra Modi is in good company. Sir Winston Churchill’s grandson, Sir Nicholas Soames, a former Tory cabinet minister, reminded us last week in a paper in Policy Exchange, a think-tank, that Churchill College, “the first one at Cambridge University to be named after a person living at the time of its founding, is the National and Commonwealth Memorial to Sir Winston Churchill and was to be the embodiment of his vision of how higher education can benefit society in the modern age”. Only Soames now wants Churchill College to be stripped of its name because he says his grandfather’s reputation is being trashed under its Master, Dame Athene Donald, who has sanctioned a year-long programme of events to discuss the wartime leader’s allegedly racist views on Empire, especially relating to the 1943 Bengal Famine. Soames wondered whether the College should continue to retain its name: “The College benefits enormously from Churchill’s name. If they traduce it, should they be able to have their cake and eat it?” The great betrayal I knew Roy Greenslade when we were colleagues at The Sunday Times. It puzzled me when, as The Guardian’s media columnist, he wrote a disobliging piece about one of my race stories about an English actor ‘blacking up’ to play Jinnah (this role was later taken by Christopher Lee). Last week his shocked former colleagues turned on him with a vengeance I have never seen before, after Greenslade, who also lectured on ‘media ethics’ as professor of journalism at City University, London, admitted he had for four decades secretly supported the Irish Republican Army’s bombing campaign in which countless lives were lost. As a young Daily Telegraph reporter, I had raced around covering one bomb blast after another.“I came to accept the fight between the forces of the state and a group of insurgents was unequal and, therefore, could not be fought on conventional terms,” admitted Greenslade, who also wrote a column supporting the IRA under the pseudonym, George King. “In other words, I supported the use of physical force.” Footnote Boris Johnson shouted, “[P]lease shoot that ******* dog,” after Dilyn caused expensive damage at Chequers, the PM’s country residence, by chewing antique furniture and soiling the carpet. But the rescued Jack Russell cross, loved by Boris and his fiance, Carrie Symonds, is staying despite anonymous briefings against him. A Downing Street official defended Dilyn: “He is a lovely little fellow but does not appear to have got enough training when he was a puppy... he doesn’t know... better.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
06-03-2021||Opinion||Deeper impact||A middle-ranking American diplomat who was posted in Calcutta in the early 1980s after serving in Dhaka had a disarming way of avoiding the risk of infection in the subcontinent. Declining ice or water in his drink, he would say, “Sadly, I don’t have your advantage of hundreds of years of immunization!” That excuse might explain the riddle of Indians in India appearing to have escaped initial grim predictions of mass slaughter while British South Asians (and blacks) suffered grievously from the coronavirus. I say “appearing” because not all the evidence from India can be relied on. At the same time, a wealth of statistics about the British situation seems to project an impression of race-based discrimination. That alone justifies revisiting a subject that this column discussed a month ago. However, if racism still lingers in Britain, it is not overt but ‘structural racism’, meaning that substantial numbers of people from minority backgrounds are unable to benefit fully from social institutions and facilities. Boris Johnson’s well-founded boast of heading the most racially inclusive government in British history offers little protection against this exclusion, the resentment it provokes or its fatal impact. Rishi Sunak’s budget did not address the peril directly. It did not do much for the hard-pressed National Health Service on which the future depends, and even less specifically for black and minority ethnic (Bame) communities whose medical plight is rooted in inequality. “It’s the economy, stupid” is as true of Britain today as it was of the United States of America in 1992. Well-designed and well-funded social welfare measures to raise Afro-Asian living standards would be more effective than the culture minister’s exhortation “to defend our culture and history from the noisy minority of activists constantly trying to do Britain down”. Their exuberance explodes from time to time in the vandalization of statues of national heroes and a clamour to ‘decolonize’ school and university curriculums. Widespread ‘taking the knee’ demonstrations express solidarity with the African-American whom the Minneapolis police killed last year. A huge Black Lives Matter hoarding flashes on and off down the road from where I am writing this in the heart of London’s Kensington. Only the intervention of the vaccines minister, Nadhim Zahawi, prevented the London-born ethnic Nigerian, Samuel Kasumu, quitting in a huff as the government’s adviser on ethnic minorities. Not that the revolution is lurking round the corner. Many Bame Britons might dismiss the pandemic as conspiracy but others are fully compliant. Rich tributes were paid to Ameta Rooplal, a nurse from Trinidad and Tobago who died recently of Covid-19 in Birmingham. Zara Mohammed, the Muslim Council of Britain’s new 29-year-old secretary-general, is busily rallying the community to meet the challenge. Farzana Hussain, a British-Bangladeshi general practitioner, has vowed to telephone every patient who had been offered but not accepted vaccination. There’s no concerted resistance. As Guddi Singh, an eminent paediatrician of Indian descent, pointed out, there are more genetic differences within the group than between it and whites. Disparities have improved for Black Africans, Black Caribbean, Chinese and Indians but have worsened for Pakistanis and Bangladeshis. The complaint that many of the thousand or so Afro-Caribbean settlers who arrived in 1948 are still in the same lowly slots hardly applies to Indians. Leave aside the brilliant examples of Sunak and Priti Patel, the three Indian news agents in Kensington High Street disappeared some years ago when their children won university places and they moved up the social ladder. To some extent, however, relative deprivation still links most Bame groups. It results in obesity which affects 36 per cent of people in poor areas against 21 per cent among the more affluent. It reduces life expectancy by eight years at lower income levels. A recent television exploration of colour and coronavirus claimed that a black person is 70 per cent more likely than a white person to live in a deprived area, implying pollution, congestion, poor housing and limited access to education and employment. The figures for Bangladeshis and Pakistanis were 114 and 246 per cent, respectively. People of colour are not more likely to get the coronavirus, but they are more likely to die if they get it because many of them already suffer from chronic ailments. They are all also more prone to infection. The programme’s author, David Harewood, himself suffers from asthma, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. As a 55-year-old black man, he is three times more likely to die from Covid-19 than his white friends of the same age. “This virus seems to have my name on it, which is worrying,” he says. Some affinities defy income, bearing out Harewood’s finding that 63 per cent of the health workers and a dizzying 95 per cent of the doctors who died of Covid-19 were coloured even though “doctors aren’t poor”. But — and here lies the rub — he says these front-line workers are less likely to be listened to on issues of protective equipment and personal safety because although Asians and Afro-Caribbeans make up 21 per cent of NHS employees, the management is white-dominated. Last year’s scandal of contracts for personal protective equipment worth billions of pounds — over 8,600 valued at £18 billion were awarded by July 31 — going to suppliers with high political contacts but no proven track record reflected on the Johnson government’s integrity. It had no automatic bearing on either the pandemic or race relations, but could affect both. It would be wrong to suggest no corrective action has been taken. As Kemi Badenoch, the ethnic Nigerian equalities minister, puts it, “this is not a one-size-fits-all situation”. The official multi-pronged approach involves working with more than 50 minority groups in 10 languages through 43 TV channels. Since the languages include Sylheti, I was curious to see what script was used. Although that pleasure was denied to me, the repertoire includes plenty of imaginative innovations like ‘Community Champions’ to act as trusted voices in their communities and a cross-government unit to “mythbust” (officialese!) false information about the virus and vaccine. Appealing though these steps might be, they can hardly be adequate now that South Asians in exile have lost the traditional immunity the American diplomat mentioned. Doctors speak of the pallid English sun being of little use in compensating for vitamin D deficiency in dark-skinned people. The novel challenges they face in a new environment include mental pressures and a sense of being needed but not wanted. With 10 per cent lopped off the economy and many shops, restaurants and bars forced to close, 2.2 million people (6.5 per cent of the workforce) are expected to be unemployed by year-end. The dismal long-term prospect is that instead of being a great leveller, the pandemic may exacerbate existing inequalities. Structural racism will aggravate differences unless substantive measures are taken to create a more level society. Sunak won brownie points last year by proposing that British coins commemorate Commonwealth achievers like Khudadad Khan, the first Indian Army recipient of the Victoria Cross, Noor Inayat Khan, a World War II spy, and even Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. He may have lost them this week by rejecting pleas for a pay rise for NHS staff — at least 230 front-line workers died in the pandemic — which would have benefited a large number of Bame workers. Kailash Chand, the first Asian to be elected deputy chair of the British Medical Association, and decorated for his services to the NHS, was especially scathing about fobbing off the service with “clapping and badges” instead of funding. With fears of the Kent variant of the virus, said to be 70 per cent faster than others and 30 per cent more deadly, running rampant, society’s most vulnerable potential transmitters need special attention to preserve society as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 7000 elderly vaccinated in Jharkhand||More than 77 per cent of those vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Saturday were either senior citizens or people above the age of 45 years with comorbid conditions, highlighted the data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). As per NHM’s statistic, of the 11,845 people administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state on Saturday at least 7668 were senior citizens and 1459 were middle-aged individuals with comorbid conditions. Only 2,718 healthcare workers and frontline workers were inoculated, thereby forming only 9 per cent of the 31,683 healthcare workers and frontline workers registered for the vaccination on Saturday. In Ranchi, as many as 1200 senior citizens and 310 middle-aged individuals with comorbid conditions were inoculated, while 1382 elderly and 72 middle-aged people with comorbid conditions were administered the vaccine in Bokaro. As many as 1066 senior citizens were inoculated in Bokaro on the day. However, East Singhbhum’s poor run with vaccination continued on Saturday with only 548 senior citizens being inoculated. Meanwhile, the second dose of the vaccine was administered to 7,595 of 38,430 registered beneficiaries on the day, stated the NHM report. As per data furnished in the report, at least 900 people were administered the second jab Ranchi on the day, while 1047 people were vaccinated in Dhanbad and 653 in East Singhbhum. As per government data, as many as 3,50,159 people have been administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand since the launch of the immunisation programme on January 16. At least 32,914 senior citizens and 4054 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been inoculated in the state since the launch of the second phase of vaccination on March 1. So far, the state has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in Jharkhand on the day, causing a dip in the number of active cases. As per a bulletin released by NHM on Saturday night, the state reported 44 cases against 64 recoveries and the number of active cases dropped to 461 by the end of the day. Ranchi accounted for 28 fresh cases and 41 recoveries, which brought the count of active cases here down to 266. As many as 120217 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The state has so far reported 1091 Covid casualties. However, no casualties were reported on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Three-month-old dies following Pentavalent vaccine inoculation||A three-month-old infant lost his life within 10 hours of being administered with the Pentavalent vaccine at Lavagada Anganwadi Centre of Arjuwa Panchayat under Pertawar Police Station on Friday. The baby was the only son of villager Girish Karmali, who with other locals alleged negligence on part of the sahiya and the ANM. However, Civil Surgeon AK Pathak on Saturday brushed off the claims. “It is difficult to say that the baby died due to vaccination. As six other babies were administered the vaccine from the same vail on the day. They are fit and fine. We are probing into the matter,” he said. Pathak formed a two-member committee of the District Reproductive and Child Health Officer and the Surveillance Medical Officer of WHO to ascertain the cause of death. Despite this, the baby’s body was not sent for postmortem. Karmali said it was the sahiya or Anganwadi assistant who had informed them about the vaccination drive, after which he and his wife took the baby to the centre for inoculation. “The child was completely healthy before vaccination. After taking the vaccination, the infant did not cry nor did he feel any pain. This was not taken seriously by ANM and others. At night about 11.30 pm, he died following nose bleeding.” Karmali accused ANM Kumari Babita and her colleagues who had vaccinated the baby. On receiving the news, Petarwar BDO Shailendra Kumar Chaurasia, Medical in-Charge Albarka Kerketa and Petarwar Police reached the spot and talked to the family. Karketta said that information has been taken from the family about the incident, in which they have accused ANM of negligence. A show cause notice has been issued to all those who were involved in the vaccination drive. They have been asked to reply within 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||26 brave and bright girls of Khunti 'conquer' English||As many as 26 girls, most of them survivors of child marriage and human trafficking, were conferred with certificates by the US Consulate General in Khunti on Saturday for successfully completing a two-year foundation course in speaking and learing English. The English Access Microscholarship programme, funded by the Regional English Language Office of the U.S. Embassy New Delhi and the U.S. Consulate General Calcutta, is a two-year programme which provides a foundation of English language skills to bright, economically disadvantaged 13-20-year-old girls through after school instruction and intensive sessions. Monica Shie, the director of the American Center in Calcutta, extended her best to the students through video conferencing. “Today you will be joining the global Access family of more than 100,000 students across 85 countries. I feel so proud to address this all-girls Access graduation ceremony. Women’s History Month this year honors women of courage, and the theme is #ChoosetoChallenge. You all are women of courage, and you have chosen to challenge limitations, challenge stereotypes, and challenge yourselves. Each of you has shown indomitable strength and resilience through the pandemic to step into leadership roles in your communities, and to commit to a better future for yourselves and your families. I congratulate each and every one of you.” Launched in November 2018, to help empower disadvantaged youth with little or no exposure to either English or the United States, the batch that graduated on Saturday was the first to do so in Jharkhand.  These girls were imparted English-speaking skills, critical thinking skills and computer knowledge after the end of their daily school hours at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) in Khunti, about 40 km from Ranchi. Shobha Kumari, one of the 26 graduates, said that she aspired to open a free school in her village for deprived girls. "My dream is to ensure that not even one child has to give away her dreams because of poverty or other social restrictions," she said. Another graduate, Nisha Kumari expressed her interest in joining the Border Police Force and serving the country as a soldier. "I think we need more brave woman officers. And I want to not only join the police force but also encourage other girls of my village to do the same," she said. KGBVs are residential schools that cater to girls from challenged backgrounds including survivors of child marriage, human trafficking, and gender-based violence. The schools are monitored by the government. Most of the students who joined the programme are first generation learners from tribal families. Access is much more than just a scholarship programme to learn English.  The Access program also boosts students’ self-esteem, opens their minds, gives them courage, and shows them just what they are capable of, officials from the US Consulate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma guest house already full, booked till end-March ||Accommodations at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, 30km from Jamshedpur, are bursting at the seams in early summer when people prefer to spend quality time amid natural surroundings. The three residential quarters at the entrance of Pinderbera forest guest house atop the hills and the Makulakocha AC and non-AC cottages on the foothills are full till March 31. The four-room forest guest house at the entrance to the sanctuary is also full. The rooms here have attached toilets, a large kitchen-cum-hall, and ample space in the front. The rooms and toilets as well as the kitchen space have glazed tiles. New beds, mattresses and blankets are also in place. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said they cannot accommodate more guests in March. “The facilities near Pinderbera and Makulakocha are full. We also have plans to let out the mud cottages to the tourists. We discussed this matter on Friday and soon the facilities would be available for the visitors,” he added. According to Chandra, a sizable section of tourists from Calcutta have booked the accommodations. "People can book our facilities for next month onwards," the range officer informed. Foresters are helpless and not entertaining any booking requests. “We are getting booking requests in large numbers almost daily. Most of the bookings are from Bengal-based tourists as Dalma is the most preferable getaway in the region,” said an official at the forest range office in Mango. The 192 sq km elephant abode reopened for tourists on March 2 after remaining out of bounds for almost a year due to Covid-19. "We adopted first come first serve policy when it came to bookings. The footfall of tourists is going to be impressive through the summer," Chandra said. A forester said temperatures are still pleasant in the area and tourists can have  a cosy stay at the residential quarters. "The watering holes are full and waiting for the elephants, some of whom are still stationed on the foothills. It will not be long before the jumbos proceed uphill. Tourists will have ample opportunity to sight the elephants near the watering holes," he added. The Dalma authorities utilised the Covid-induced closure of the sanctuary by having the roads mended. "Tourists can enjoy a smooth ride to the top. The roads have been mended," the forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant plans new industrial and investment policy for Jharkhand||Jharkhand is working on a new industrial and investment policy which will be launched soon to spur industrial growth and jobs in the post lockdown period, chief minister Hemant Soren announced on Saturday while chairing a stakeholders’ meeting in Delhi to deliberate on the way forward. During his address to the invited audience to discuss a possible draft of the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, Hemant assured potential investors of a red-carpet welcome if they were willing to pump in funds in Jharkhand and be a part of the state’s growth story. On the need for a fresh policy, he said, “Covid-19 has created a crisis in industrial output and adversely affected value chains. The more I travel to the interior areas and the more I interact with the people there, I get the feeling that the industrial sector needs some help to overcome the strain caused by an extended and unplanned lockdown. “For a revamped industrial growth, there is a need for a fresh relook at the policies to create jobs at a faster pace as well as generate revenues. Hence, we are coming up with a renewed policy for investment promotion for which we are here to collect your feedback.” Hemant said he believed feedback of stakeholders during the drafting stages of the policy was crucial. “Stakeholders should have a say in any policy that is meant for them. So rather than coming to you all after drafting the policy, we are here to collect your feedback on ways we should shape your policies,” he said. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh said unlike earlier, political instability wasn’t an issue anymore and that Jharkhand was only waiting to expand its horizon. “Yes, we faced problems due to political instability for about a decade and-a- half but that is passé now. Today, we have a stable government in the state which offers a plethora of opportunities and easily available resources required to press the growth button,” he said. Providing an outlook of the draft Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, industries secretary Pooja Singhal explained the various focus sectors, especially the high-priority sectors like textiles & apparel, automobiles, auto-components & electric vehicles, agro-food processing & meat processing, pharmaceuticals and electronics system design & manufacturing (ESDM). She also provided a brief overview of key incentives offered in the policy including the Anchor Unit Subsidy, Early Bird Subsidy and Incentives on VAT/ GST. “The focus of the new policy is to generate five lakh jobs and seek investments to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore in the next five years. We are treating this policy as a pathway for Jharkhand’s economic revival post the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. On land availability, which has always been a contentious issue in the state, Singhal said that the government had plenty of space to cater to different needs. “We have about 9,906 acre in our land bank at the moment. Of this 2,015 acre is readily available for allotment across key industrial regions like Adityapur, Ranchi, Bokaro and Santhal Parganas,” she said, adding that the biggest unique selling point of their upcoming policy will be to develop every district as a potential export hub. “In all 24 districts, each has its unique products which require value addition. The state government has already set up export promotion councils at the district level to map products and plan tie-ups and other interventions,” she said. Apart from the chief minister, chief secretary and industries secretary, the CM’s principal secretary Rajiv Arun Ekka was also present. This was the first major event aimed at discussing industrial growth even since the Hemant government came to power in December 2019. MoUs signed with Ficci, Flipkart The state industries department signed MoUs with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries (Ficci) and Flipkart Internet Private Limited. While Ficci will offer technical handholding for investment promotion, Flipkart will work towards infrastructure and industrial development, including social development. As per the MoU, Flipkart will operate Flipkart fulfilment centres and facility hubs across the state, creating about three thousand direct and indirect jobs. The Jharkhand government will facilitate the new investment and ongoing investment operations of the Flipkart Group within the state. The department and Flipkart will work together towards the construction of a warehouse and logistics structure within the state. The Jharkhand will also help Flipkart invest with various departments through a single-window system. Flipkart will partner with the government and empower all logistics and warehousing policies related to e-commerce to provide a favourable business environment to the sector to encourage startups and small to medium enterprises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals allowed to administer vaccine 24x7||The Jharkhand government has allowed private hospitals in the state to provide vaccination facility 24x7 if they get sufficient number of registrations and have the infrastructure to run the campaign, officials heading the immunization programme in the state said on Saturday. “A letter has been issued to all private hospitals stating that they can administer vaccines to senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions 24x7 if they get sufficient registrations,” said the state immunization Officer, Dr Ajit Prasad. “The decision has been taken to speed up the vaccination process in the state and ensure that registered beneficiaries can get the jab at any time depending on their convenience,” he added. As of now, only eight of the over 450 private hospitals empaneled for the immunization programme have started vaccinating beneficiaries against the Covid-19 virus. Private hospitals, as per government’s latest decision, cannot charge more than Rs 250 for each dose of the vaccine. The vaccine jabs are, however, provided free of cost at government healthcare centres. In Ranchi, only two private hospitals – Raj Hospital and Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital – have started vaccinating senior citizens and people above the age of 45 years who suffer from comorbid conditions since March 1. These two hospitals have so far inoculated more than 1,500 people, hospital authorities said. However, owners of private hospitals in the state feel that running a vaccination programme 24x7 would help only once vaccination is made open for everyone. Yogesh Gambhir, the president of the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and owner of Raj Hospital, said that senior citizens were unlikely to visit hospitals late in the night for vaccination and, therefore, the move may not help to a great extent. “I think the government should first address the loopholes in their web portal to ease the registration process. There were days when we could vaccinate only 100 people in a day because of tech issues. The number may increase significantly if the loopholes in the government’s web portal are addressed,” said Gambhir. Gambhir said that running the vaccination programme till 8pm was still feasible as people would bring their parents for vaccination after returning from work. “I doubt people would bring their old parents for vaccination at midnight. We can start 24x7 vaccination once it is open for everyone,” he added. As per government data, as many as 25,249 senior citizens and 2,589 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand since March 1. The state has also administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 3.37 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||12-year-old girl found pregnant in Palamau district||Rescue of a 12-year-old girl of Jharkhand’s Palamau district with two-month pregnancy working in an orchestra unit at neighbouring district of Garhwa in February has exposed the sexual exploitation of minor girls in the garb of performance during public and private functions through the orchestra groups in the state. The 12-year-old girl was rescued in February along with nine others from an orchestra group in Garhwa after a raid by the district childline representatives — Roma Keshri and Rahul Kumar — and district child protection officer Ashok Nayak. But after a medical test of the girls, the 12-year-old girl was found pregnant. “We have found during questioning and counselling of the girls that the orchestra group was run by two partners Upendra Choudhary (from Palamau) and Gorelal Choudhary (from Garhwa). They used to employ mostly orphan girls and widows in their orchestra group. “We were surprised at the medical report of the girl in which she was found to be pregnant. We have submitted a report to the Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak for necessary action. We have sent the girl to the shelter house in Palamau as she was a native of that district,” said chairperson of child welfare committee, Garhwa, Upendra Nath Prasad. The girl is at present staying at the Ujjwala Griha (a state-owned shelter house for girls and women in distress) in Palamau. Surprisingly, even after so many days the proprietor of the orchestra group are still scot-free. “We are providing legal aid and counselling to the girl at the Ujjwala griha. Since the Garhwa district does not have any such shelter house they have transferred the girl to us. It is for the Garhwa district administration to initiate legal action against the culprits and owners of the orchestra group,” said Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan. Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak promised action. “We have got the report and will take statements of the victim girl before magistrate as per legal norms and then take action against the culprits. We will not spare anyone who is involved in such activities,” said Rajesh Kumar Pathak. Upendra Nath Prasad said that the arrest of the two partners of the orchestra group would reveal the kingpin involved in the activities. “It is only after the arrest of the two can we know the real kingpin behind such activities forcing minor girls in flesh trade,” said Upendra Nath Prasad. Palamau district child protection officer Prakash Kumar said that a total of five girls, all minors have been kept in the Ujjwala Griha in Palamau. “There are five girls kept in the Ujjwala Griha, out of which three are from Palamau and two are from Garhwa. Only one girl is pregnant,” said Prakash Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
