07-03-2021||Calcutta||Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, sole surprise in language||The BJP on Saturday announced a list of 56 candidates for the first two phases of the Bengal polls, predictably fielding Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari against chief minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram. The party left a 57th seat — Baghmundi in Purulia — for its Jharkhand ally, the All Jharkhand Students Union. Sixty constituencies are to vote on March 27 and April 1. The BJP list, released after a delay of at least two days, contained no big surprises but for the language the party chose to announce the names in at a time it is fighting a perceived “cultural disconnect” with Bengal. The BJP list, announced by general secretary Arun Singh in New Delhi, was printed in English and Hindi but not in Bengali. Trinamul too had published its list in English and Hindi but Mamata Banerjee had made the announcement in Bengali. The Left opted only for Bengali while releasing its list. The matter would not have drawn much attention had a section of BJP leaders in Bengal not commented about it. “How many people in rural Bengal understand English or Hindi?” a BJP leader asked. Apart from fielding defected MLAs such as Adhikari, Tapasi Mondal (from the Left) and Sudip Mukherjee (from the Congress), the BJP has mostly rewarded long-time workers. Former India medium-pacer Ashoke Dinda is the lone celebrity on the list. Shortly before his name was announced, former minister Adhikari -- who had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda to let him contest from Nandigram -- thanked the Election Commission for the way it had drawn up the poll schedule for Bengal. Mamata has publicly accused the commission of catering to the BJP’s interests in Bengal. Throughout Saturday, the BJP remained busy communicating with most of the 28 outgoing Trinamul MLAs whom Mamata had dropped from her candidate list on Friday, hoping to engineer last-minute defections. The BJP has not named its candidates for the remaining six phases, which account for 234 seats. Satgachhia MLA Sonali Guha, once considered close to Mamata, Shibpur MLA Jatu Lahiri and former Bhangar MLA Arabul Islam have publicly indicated the possibility of switching sides. Various places across the state have witnessed demonstrations and clashes stemming from some Trinamul leaders’ and workers’ displeasure at the candidate list. Earlier in the day, former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Dinesh Trivedi joined the BJP at its national headquarters. “It’s a golden moment for me; I was waiting for this,” said Trivedi, who has had three terms in the Rajya Sabha and two in the Lok Sabha when he was backed by either the Congress or Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
07-03-2021||Calcutta||'During Covid pandemic, the  government failed to treat  humans with dignity'||If you are reading this as you head to Calcutta, Prime Minister, you might want to consider a rejig to your rhetoric on the Brigade Grounds this afternoon: your handling of the Covid pandemic has been pronounced a failure. When the hands went up at the conclusion of the debate, the motion of the evening had won hands down. At the Calcutta Club The Telegraph National Debate 2021, presented by Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management, powered by Calcutta Business School, a unit of Shikshayatan Foundation, in association with Pan Bahar, the motion went: “In the opinion of the house, in the year of the pandemic, India failed to balance lives with livelihood”. As it turned out, the proposers of his botching of the sweeping humanitarian crisis didn’t require to stretch themselves; it was a contest won in facile fashion, so facile that Mahua Moitra felt obliged to say sorry shots hadn’t been fired. It isn’t often she has to seek forgiveness for being short on gunpowder in her bandolier, but she was never provoked to the trigger in the first place. “I apologise if the debate has turned out to be a bit of a damp squib,” Moitra said towards the end, already quite assured her side had the run of the floor. It was never a fight, Prime Minister, your advocates tamely lost, with little more to offer than tatty whataboutery and dubious parading of numbers. Economist Prasenjit Basu, who briefly promised to make a fist of it, became too absorbed in rubbishing Nehruvian socialism and schmoozing Modi’s New India to bring credibility to his argument. “In Modi’s India,” Basu claimed to incredulous sighs rising from the back of the house, “every household has a clean toilet to use.... Modi’s India has actually strengthened the state of the economy, it has massively outperformed the world and Nehruvian history.” He may have mistaken the stage and the day by a bit; Basu was probably imagining himself speaking from Modi’s Brigade dais to Modi’s audience with Modi listening in. Sanjay Hegde, senior advocate at the Supreme Court and battler of many causes, drew first blood, accusing Modi of making the wrong decisions with the wrong people around and creating a situation where the “consequences of the virus will haunt us long after the virus has gone”. When the pandemic was about to break, “everything was put on hold because we had to shout ‘Kemchho Trump’... we kept our airports open because we had to let people in for the jamboree… we did all sorts of unscientific drills like utensil banging”. Hegde also flagged the qualities of good leadership and recalled Gen. Sam Manekshaw rebutting Indira Gandhi’s orders to prepare for a mid-monsoon war to liberate East Pakistan, arguing the season would be disastrous for waging battle. “Manekshaw said ‘no’, he argued he needed time and was given time. Is there anyone who can say ‘no’ to the current incumbent?” It was a theme Dr Kunal Sarkar would later labour on too, saying the Prime Minister had surrounded himself with not the right men but with yes-men. Sardonic of mien as few can be, Sarkar also ribbed the Modi government on reacting late. “We let the virus float in from the world over, we knew but lakhs of infected people came in.... Of course in Bengal we are foresighted people. Our leaders had taken measures to shut international flights years ago, we have been preparing for decades, we don’t have international flights barring Bangkok-Tangkok.…” Real estate and hospitality magnate Harsh Neotia played the balancing game to near-perfection, clearly taking no risks to commit himself on the eve of the high-voltage battle for Bengal. He was no politician, he clarified at the outset; he wasn’t going anywhere near tarrying with the torrid business of it. “Team India has done well, and Bengal, which is part of Team India, has done better to help Indian averages,” was the burden of his calm and careful act; he has things off the evening to quote to Modi; he has things to quote to Mamata Banerjee. His colleague on the opposing side, former Tripura and Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy, came troubled with the proposition itself. “How can lives be likened to livelihoods?” he asked to general bafflement. “What is the connection, one is a matter for doctors, the other the concern of economists, what is the connection, I cannot understand. This is wrong.” Mahua Moitra, speaking grist ahead of Roy, had just defined the link. “Most poor people in this country do not have the luxury of staying at home and eating from home. A crisis is different for the rich and the poor. The binary between lives and livelihoods is false, for the poor their livelihood is their life, and it is that understanding, that dignity that the government has failed to display towards the poor,” she argued. “In my district (Krishnagar) alone, three to four lakh migrants came back, and you know what they told me? ‘Didi, this pandemic will not kill us, hunger will’. That is where this government failed; in treating humans with dignity and providing for them, it failed spectacularly.” Her opposing side, she’d have been pleased to note, failed even more spectacularly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
07-03-2021||Calcutta||2021 Bengal Assembly elections: Groups launch ‘No Vote to BJP’ drive in Calcutta||A clutch of social organisations that had protested against the new citizenship matrix and supported the poor when a sudden lockdown was forced on them has launched a campaign called No Vote to BJP. The campaign has reached various districts, organising meetings, performing skits, distributing pamphlets and putting up posters with one clarion call — “vote any party you want but the BJP”. On Saturday, the people behind the campaign released a 103-second Bengali video that shows people of various ages, from varied backgrounds and in diverse clothes dancing to a peppy track that explains the “perils” of voting the BJP. The video was launched on the Facebook page of “No Vote to BJP” on Saturday morning. By 4pm, it had registered “8.3k views” and been shared “758” times. “The idea was to reach out to as many people as possible through a catchy medium. The song explains why people should not cast a single vote to the BJP,” said Kasturi Basu, the convener of the forum behind the campaign. Set to organise a rally in central Calcutta on March 10, the forum is reaching out to people from all sections of the society for participation. The video released on Saturday is well on course to — if the Internet traction is anything to go by — garnering support in the virtual world. The lyrics are hard hitting: “Bikash atke gecche RSS jhandae; kalo taka phirlo na Modijir fundae (Development is stuck in the RSS flag; black money has not come back according to Modiji’s theory)”. The recurrent message that keeps coming back in the video, — “Banglar manush dichhe dak, Banglae BJP nipaat jak; Dosher michhil jonotar raye, BJP ke ar ektio vote noye (The people of Bengal are calling for the downfall of the BJP; the rally on 10th reflects public opinion, not a single vote to the BJP)”. The make of the video is smart and crisp. The characters are people you see everywhere around; students, office goers, theatre workers, transgenders and senior citizens, all dancing to the peppy track, all in the backdrop of three words written in a large font size — "Banglae bibhed noye (No discrimination in Bengal)”. If colourful props lend a vibrant character to the video, the participation of common people bring in an element of freshness and spontaneity. Sabyasachi Mukherjee, 23, who has coauthored the song, said the challenge was to blend issues like “UAPA”, “JNU and Jamia” and “farm bills and NRC” into a verse that will have a mass appeal. “Dalit porano ar dharshan humki, Krishi bill NRC sabkichhu gunchhi (Burning Dalits, rape threats, farm bills and NRC, we are keeping a count of every single thing),” the song says towards the end. “No Vote to BJP is Bengal’s gift to the larger Indian electoral politics. It is a viable font that can unite all secular and democratic parties,” said Ronny Sen, filmmaker and photographer who is part of the team that has made the video. Samantak Sinha, 37, an independent musician and playback singer, has sung the track. “The video is very contemporary. The EDM (electronic dance music) soundtrack blends seamlessly with Bengali rap,” said Sinha. The execution of the video took a week, the makers said. “During the recce, we asked random people if they wanted to be a part of this. We told them about the campaign. They readily agreed. One of them was a man who was selling peanuts at Gariahat,” said Basu. “We want to convince people, especially those who have swung towards the BJP in the recent past. We tell them that this time they should not make the same mistake again,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
07-03-2021||Calcutta||One flier tests positive for South African variant in Calcutta||An international flier, who reached the city recently, has been found positive for the South African-strain of the coronavirus and three others have tested positive for the UK-strain, senior officials of the health department said on Saturday. The confirmation about the presence of these strains reached the health department on Friday, days after the samples were sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani. Officials said these passengers had flown into Calcutta in February end and had undergone the mandatory RT-PCR test for Covid-19. Till Saturday evening, one of the three passengers with the UK-strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus has been admitted to the Infectious Diseases (ID) Hospital in Beleghata, health department officials said. “One of the four passengers have been found to be positive for the South African-strain and three others have tested positive for the UK-strain of the coronavirus...,” Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services, told Metro. The person who has been admitted to ID Hospital is a resident of Nadia district and is 30-year-old. A team of Covid-19 doctors has been engaged to monitor the patient’s condition round the clock. His contacts back in Kalyani have been asked remain in isolation and their samples have been sent for tests. “The patient is doing fine,” said a senior doctor of the hospital. In January, a 38-year-old UK-based professional, who flew into Calcutta, had tested positive for the UK-strain. On Saturday, immediately after the results of three others reached Swasthya Bhavan, a team of officials called up the family members of these fliers and asked them to go into isolation. The fliers have been asked to regularly check the saturation level of oxygen in their blood till the time they are admitted to the ID Hospital. A report with details of these passengers was sent to the Union ministry of health on Saturday along with measures that the state government has taken in handling them. “So far we have found that all the four, tested positive with mutant strains of the coronavirus, are asymptomatic,” said a senior health department official. “Specific protocols about how to handle such patients and what needs to be done after they have been tested positive for mutant strains of the coronavirus has been developed. There is no reason to get unnecessarily alarmed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
07-03-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph National Debate 2021: ‘Blind to plight of migrant workers’||WHAT Calcutta Club The Telegraph National Debate 2021, presented by Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management, powered by Calcutta Business School, a unit of Shikshayatan Foundation, in association with Pan Bahar WHERE Calcutta Club Lawns MOTION During the pandemic, India failed to balance lives with livelihood VERDICT The motion was carried Sanjay Hedge Supreme Court advocate The first Covid case appeared in India on January 27 in Kerala’s Thrissur. It was a medical student who had come from Wuhan. At that point of time India was greatly looking to something else on a war footing. On February 24, Donald Trump was to come to India and we were to say kemchho kemchho kemchho. Everything was put on hold for that. The one thing that we needed to put on hold, the one place we needed to check — our airports — were kept open. We kept them open because we needed the international press, we needed our NRIs who wanted to come to the jamboree not to be disturbed. So we let them come. On March 24, we were all told: sit in your houses. What we did not envision was those who were barely one payment away from starvation. As somebody put it: Guna passport-o ne ki/ aur sazaa mili ration card ko. Even today, the thinking is still the same. We are now among the world’s largest producer of vaccines. If we are to balance between lives and livelihoods, why is this that our vaccine producing factories are not working to full capacity? That is a question that Delhi High Court has asked the government. If we had ramped up vaccine production and delivery, that itself would have generated employment. But no, we have to have our vaccines delivered in a regulated form. It doesn’t matter even if it takes us three years to vaccinate everyone at the current rate. You are tomorrow (on Sunday) going to welcome the Prime Minister here. Please ask him where are the vaccines? You (the Prime Minister) promised them in Bihar, are you at least bringing them to Bengal? Kunal Sarkar Cardiac surgeon No matter how triumphantly nationalistic you are, Covid, unlike the Internet, jet engine and everything else, did not originate in India. It is not quoted in Indian mythology, it happened somewhere else and it had to be brought to our country. It is not a pandemic that spread by physical movement but by flights. As Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, every country in physical proximity of China had shut their gates down in late December (2019), early January (2020), we waited till March 20. In the last seven days that the flights were open, something around 20 to 25 lakh passengers came in from Europe and the US at a time Europe and the US were running an infectivity rate of around 20 per cent which meant that we invited around five lakh infections only in the last week through the main airports of Delhi and Mumbai. In Bengal, we are far sighted. So, 20 years ago, our forefathers had cautioned. So, we don’t have any international flights. We were all ready for the pandemic. But yet migrant labourers introduced the infections to us and even the poor Bengali was not spared. We had the entire three million square kilometres of India locked down monolithically at once. That is not possible. India is not going to behave as a homogenous contiguous entity. We had a stringent lockdown. But what was missing? When we contained people, we did not trace them adequately. We lost our enthusiasm for contact tracing. We satisfied our physicality of the lockdown but the epidemiological core of the problem was not addressed. Answer me one question this evening. Who is India’s chief epidemiolo-gist? Every civilised nation on the earth knows who is leading their epidemiology programme. There is an entity in India, called the Centre for Disease Control, located in Pune. Perhaps the central government thought it was in hostile territory, in Maharashtra. So… I am going to hand over the control to ICMR, which is an august body of very peace-loving quite gentlemen and women who are engaged in research…. Not because you have the right men there but because you have the yes men. One month into the lockdown, there was a meeting of the empowered committee…. The chairman of the empowered committee, speaking on April 24, guaranteed everybody that there will not be a single RNA molecule left in India by May 16. This is the intellectual input that went into the formulation of the lockdown. Mahua Moitra Trinamul Congress MP Today actually I will steer clear of the politics of it and stick to what the real issue at hand is. We can start with whether Nehru, actually Babur or the marauding Mughals were to be blamed for Covid being brought into India. I could start with that, but I don’t think it would take us anywhere. What this pandemic has shown us… is that there is such a wide gap in our understanding of India, especially crises in India. Lockdown, on the face of it, was the right thing to do. But the government, which has the ability to mobilise lakhs of troops overnight, surely had the ability to give clarity to the movement of the migrant workers — 30 million people who were stuck in different cities. That is where this government failed… no government is here to be rewarded on what they did right. That’s is what is needed to be done. We cannot be applauded for saying “I saved so many lives”. The question is 30 per cent of India’s workforce is made up of migrant workers. What the government did in the manner they did it, was completely blind and callous to the plight of these migrant workers. I think that is where we failed completely to balance lives and livelihoods. We had Mr Basu talk about the direct benefit transfers. Shall I give you one statistic? The direct benefit transfers that were handed out by the government till date are to the tune of Rs 113,000 crore. This government took back from the same people exactly hundred and thirteen thousand crore by way of extra cess on gas and patrol. When we talk of the collateral damage… we had over 800 migrant deaths due to road accidents. How many people like you and me died due to road accidents because we happen to be working on the road during the pandemic and truck mowed down? Having to deal with two to three lakh people who came back to my district alone, getting off the trains, looking after them, one thing that will stay with us, is as a nation we have dehumanised our people. More than anything else, whether this government has failed or whether this government has failed to improve the economy…. I think what this pandemic has done, has brought shame, the feeling of shame and feeling of humiliation among us, which will stay with us for a long time. Harshavardhan Neotia Industrialist Obviously we had a terrible first quarter. We had also a significant recession of almost 8 per cent, but in the third quarter we are seeing some green shoots with a marginal recovery above the zero point and we hope that we will have a better fourth quarter. I must mention here that as a businessman I am someone who has been directly impacted by this pandemic. I am in real estate and hospitality business. These have been in the front of taking the brunt of the pandemic…. In fact, you see this salt and pepper beard (pointing towards his beard). It is also outgrowth of the terrible stress that I went through. A friend of mine on a lighter note said: “Harsh, you have lost weight”.  I said: ‘Yes’. The loss is directly proportional to the loss in wealth and income. But having faced the brunt of this, I see in the last few months a sharp recovery. People are coming back to the restaurants, people are coming back to buy properties. Construction is now almost at full swing. Things are opening up. City properties are not doing so well because we still have air connectivity internationally down. My personal view is that we have been, as a country, both able to manage relatively better than the rest of the world. Of course we have lost lives, of course we have lost livelihoods. But the question is: how do you respond in the event of a pandemic. I think Bengal, as a state, has done remarkably well in both seeing to it that succour and help reach the people on time. I think, as a country, we have responded with the given knowledge, with the given situation reasonably well. Prasenjit K Basu Economist and history enthusiast Let me start with what Kunal Sarkar said about east Asia (Sarkar had lauded the effort of East Asian countries in containing the pandemic). East Asia did not just have this recent pandemic. East Asia had several. They had faced the SARS pandemic in 2003. There have also been several bird flu epidemics. East Asians have a lot of experience. Taiwan has in particular done very well during this pandemic because they had the terrific experience of dealing with a pandemic. In India, the proportion of death is so much lower than what the epidemiologists suggested. While 5 per cent of Indians died from the coronavirus of 1919, 0.1 per cent India’s population died from the coronavirus of 2020.  India now accounts for 17.7 per cent of the world’s population but accounted for 6 per cent of global deaths from the current coronavirus. When some 20 million internal migrants returned to their rural homes, Modi’s new India provided them options — either take on an emergency Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) job to help create some capital assets in your village or borrow a MUDRA micro loan to help create and start a new enterprise. Or after an appropriate period of lockdown, rest, take up a new industrial job taking advantage of the new labour codes that are resulting in a rebound in both domestic and foreign direct investment in this country. Tathagata Roy Former governor I have been at a loss to understand the motion of the debate. Saving lives is a matter of medicine. Saving livelihoods is a matter of economics. The two don’t have much to do with each other but we have tried to connect the two in the motion which, to me, makes little sense but I was reassured by the fact that I had to speak against the motion. Can anyone plan for a bolt from the blue? I would say that we were plunged into a sea of uncertainty that can be compared to the state of Columbus when he was navigating across the unknown Atlantic. Was it possible for anyone in this country or any other country to device methods of doing things in a most beneficial and optimal manner? I think not. Despite all the uncertainties, we tried to create a regime in which people could be persuaded to behave in a particular way and which will prevent deaths. In the process, we were plunged into great confusion also. When the lockdown was imposed, it was for three weeks. Eventually, it was extended for many more months. Why was it initially imposed for three weeks? Because we did not know where we were going. But certain people had certainties. So, they said ‘this is not pandemic’. Donald Trump said it in the US and someone said in Calcutta: “this is merely a subterfuge to draw people’s attention away from the communal riots in Delhi”. The things started getting worse and worse and the narrative gradually changed. The knocking of utensils had brought forth a lot of ridicule. Knocking of utensils would not drive away corona. Nobody ever said it would drive away corona. But it was required the consciousness in people that we were to behave in a certain way in these circumstances. Partha Ghose President, Calcutta Club 2020 was a devastating year for humanity, causing unprecedented suffering, loss of lives and livelihood.... The lockdown versus no-lockdown debate, that is life versus livelihood debate, was sparked off by two academic groups, one based in the University of Oxford and the other at Imperial College, London. Many countries opted for lockdown as did India, though a bit late. After nearly a year, the so-called curve has flattened considerably... and luckily vaccines are also available. But Covid-19 won’t go away. It is here to stay because it started mutating before vaccines were available. Remember, small pox took nearly a decade to eradicate and polio is still around after 30 years of vaccination... Common cold is also a coronavirus and we are all used to it. We have to get used to Covid-19 as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
07-03-2021||Business||Insurance premium to rise by 15-20% in April||Premium rates for term life insurance policies could go up by 15-20 per cent in April as reinsurers drive a hard bargain with life insurance companies in renewing contracts amid rising risks and losses. Insurance companies have a risk sharing arrangement with re-insurers with the former transferring a part of the risk off its book. Swiss Re, Munich Re, Lloyd’s India, Allianz, AXA are among the key players in the reinsurance market. The price of term life insurance products had gone up in April 2020 and changes in reinsurance rates drove the premium for term policies by 25-30 per cent. The insurance industry is expecting another round of increase next month. The increase will be primarily to cover the rising risks because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, industry observers point out that high competition among life insurers to boost new business premium and increase market share has resulted in term policies being significantly cheaper in India compared with similar products overseas. “Because of competition over term policies, insurers in India were simply reducing prices to an unrealistic level. When the claims have started happening and reinsurers — many of whom are global players — are losing money, they are insisting on higher rates as no one is willing to take a loss,” said Arvind Kumar Khaitan, managing director of Salasar Services Insurance Brokers Private Ltd. “Covid has hit reinsurers all over the world. It may remain like this for the next 2-3 years,” he said. According to data from insurance regulator Irdai, the total loss of all foreign reinsurance branches was Rs 1,115 crore in 2019-20 against a profit after tax of Rs 10 crore in 2018-19. The incurred claim ratio of reinsurers increased to 98.60 per cent in 2019-20 from 89.51 per cent in 2018-19. The incurred claims ratio in the life segment was a staggering 417.63 per cent in 2019-20 and the pandemic has only heightened the risk profile of the industry and squeezed the bottomline of reinsurers. While the insurance companies remained tight-lipped about the increase, industry sources said that at least two private players may face termination of contracts from a global reinsurer unless the revised prices are accepted. “The prices have to match the mortality experience. Term policies have wafer thin margin and the market is extremely competitive. So the increase is likely to be passed on,” said an industry source. Sources also said the reinsurers are in favour of changes in the policyholder onboarding process. Instead of tele check-ups, reinsurers are insisting on physical check-ups of new policy buyers for better risk selection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
07-03-2021||Business||Boeing CEO receives stock benefits despite refusing bonus||Boeing CEO David Calhoun declined a salary and performance bonus for most of last year but still received stock benefits that pushed the estimated value of his compensation to more than $21 million, according to a regulatory filing on Friday. The aerospace giant struggled last year with the continuing fallout from two deadly crashes involving its 737 Max jetliner and a downturn in demand for planes because of the pandemic. Boeing lost nearly $12 billion and announced plans to cut about 30,000 jobs through layoffs and attrition. Calhoun, who became CEO in January 2020, received $269,231 in salary for the period before he disavowed his salary in March. He also got $289,715 in other compensation, mostly perks such as the use of company planes, retirement benefits and home-security expenses. But most of Calhoun’s compensation — valued by Boeing at more than $20 million — came in the form of stock benefits that will vest in the next few years, assuming he remains CEO. Those grants include $7 million worth of stock for returning the Max to service after it was grounded in 2019, $10 million worth of shares to compensate for pay he left behind at his previous job at The Blackstone Group, and $3.5 million in long-term incentive awards. All would vest over the next three years. Calhoun, 63, was a longtime Boeing board member before being named CEO after the firing of Dennis Muilenburg in December 2019. The Chicago-based company filed its proxy statement ahead of its April 20 annual shareholder meeting, which will be conducted online. Shareholders will elect 10 directors. Pension funds in New York and Colorado are suing current and former board members and executives, including Calhoun and Muilenburg, in a Delaware state court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
07-03-2021||Business||15th Finance Commission chief justifies tax share math||The 15th Finance Commission opted for continuity and predictability and, hence, retained the share of tax devolution to states at 41 per cent of the total pool, its chairman N.K. Singh said on Saturday. At a webinar organised by the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), Singh said each Finance Commission in the past had somewhat increased the total amount of devolution to states, but the 15th Finance Commission weighed all the options considering that the fiscal space of both states and the Centre has shrunk on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi highlighted that the share of the divisible pool is slowly shrinking as the “cess and surcharge” component in the gross tax revenue is increasing. The 15th Finance Commission has recommended that states be given 41 per cent of the divisible tax pool of the Centre during the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, which is at the same level as recommended by the 14th Finance Commission. Finance Commission is a constitutional body that gives suggestions on Centre-state financial relations. According to the commission, the gross tax revenue (GTR) for the five-year period is expected to be Rs 135.2 trillion. Of that, the divisible pool (after deducting cesses and surcharges and cost of collection) is estimated to be Rs 103 trillion. The states’ share at 41 per cent of the divisible pool comes to Rs 42.2 trillion for the 2021-26 period. The report of the 15th Finance Commission was tabled in Parliament on February 2. Singh said each Finance Commission has somewhat increased the total amount of devolution as a percentage of the divisible pool. “We had an option of continuing this trajectory, we had an option of enhancing this devolution to somewhat higher figure. We had the option of somewhat recalibrating downwards looking at the constraints on the fiscal space of the central government. Finance Commission is not an encounter with shock and awe, Finance Commission has a legacy which believes in stability, continuity and predictability. We opted for continuity and predictability,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
07-03-2021||Business||M.G. George Muthoot passes away||M.G. George Muthoot, largely credited for making the Muthoot Finance a pan-India and the largest gold loan NBFC, passed away on Friday evening. As a chairman of the company, he played a pivotal role in taking Muthoot Finance to new heights, expanding its reach across the country and even overseas especially to the Middle East. The 71-year-old Muthoot was for long based in Delhi even though his diversified group that runs over 20 businesses from gold loans to securities, realty estate to infrastructure, hospitals to hospitality and education, has its headquarters in Kochi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
07-03-2021||Business||Reliance Home Finance Ltd defaults on Rs 40cr loan||Reliance Home Finance Ltd (RHFL) on Saturday said it has defaulted on a loan of over Rs 40 crore from Punjab & Sind Bank even as the company has enough cash and cash equivalent which it cannot use due to a court order. The Anil Ambani-controlled Reliance Capital’s subsidiary defaulted on the loan on February 15, 2021, and the current amount of default is Rs 40 crore alongside an interest of Rs 15 lakh. The company’s total obligation is of Rs 200 crore on a five-year tenure secured term loan at 9.25 per cent per annum from Punjab & Sind Bank, RHFL said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
07-03-2021||India||Maharashtra records 11,141 new Covid infections in a day, highest in over 5 months||After reporting more than 10,000 fresh coronavirus positive cases on two days in a row, Maharashtra on Sunday added 11,141 new infections, taking the tally to 22,19,727 while 38 deaths pushed the toll to 52,478, the state Health department said. On Friday and Saturday, the state reported 10,216 and 10,187 cases, respectively. Mumbai city reported 1,361 fresh cases during the day while Mumbai division, including Mumbai and satellite cities, added 2,493 new infections. Mumbai city's case tally reached 3,35,569 while the overall death toll rose by four to 11,504, the department added. As against 11,141 new infections during the day, 6,013 people were discharged, taking the count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 20,68,044, the department said, adding the case recovery rate in the state now stands at 93.17 per cent and the mortality rate is 2.36 per cent. The recovery rate in 21 districts including Mumbai is more than the state's average recovery rate, it stated. On the other hand, the average COVID-19 mortality rate in 15 districts is more than the state's average mortality rate. The mortality rate in Sangli, Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Parbhani, Solapur, Osmanabad, and Satara is more than three per cent, it said. The doubling rate of cases in Maharashtra now stands at 170.94 days which is now left with 97,983 active cases, the department said. Currently, 4,39,055 people are in home quarantine while 4,650other remain admitted in institutional quarantine. With 91,235 new tests, the number of samples tested for coronavirus so far in Maharashtra went up to 1,68,67,286, the department said. Nagpur reported 1,073 new cases, followed by 993 in Pune city, 573 in Pimpri Chinchwad, 469 in Aurangabad, 384 in Amravati, and 200 in Nanded, it said. Ahmednagar city saw 157 fresh cases, while Jalgaon and Nashik cities added 237 and 224 infections, respectively. In other parts of the state, Nashik division reported 1,043 cases, Pune division 2,173, Nagpur division 1,860, Latur division 506, Aurangabad division 770, and Kolhapur division 115, the department said. In Mumbai division, Thane city, Kalyan, Dombivali, Bhiwandi, Mira Bhayander, Palghar, Vasai, Virar and Raigad did not report a single COVID-19 fatality during the day. Nagpur city also did not report a single death due to the COVID-19 disease. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 22,19,727, deaths 52,478, recoveries 20,68,044, active cases 97,983, total tests 1,68,67,286, tests conducted today 91,235. The state cabinet which met under Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday discussed various aspects to tackle the rising number of cases, sources said, adding that no decision was taken on the exact measures to be adopted. The government is keeping a close eye on the situation, they said. As per the department, 14,94,770 people in Maharashtra have so far taken their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine including 7,59,788 health workers,4,34,787 frontline workers, and 41,989 people in the age group of 45 to 59 with comorbidities. A total of 2,58,206 people above 60 years of age have also taken the first dose of the vaccine, the department said. The second dose of the vaccine has so far been administered to 2,49,954 beneficiaries, including 2,45,926 health workers and 4,028 frontline workers, it said. 'Partial lockdown' in Aurangabad In view of the spike in coronavirus cases, the administration in Maharashtra's Aurangabad on Sunday decided to impose a "partial lockdown" in the district between March 11 and April 4, as part of which markets, malls and cinema halls shall remain shut during the weekends, officials said. The world-famous heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora, and other tourist spots in the district will also remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays, while marriages will not be allowed to be held in function halls during the lockdown period, they said. Colleges, schools and training institutes will remain shut, they said. The decision to implement this partial lockdown across the district was taken during a meeting of the 'task force' comprising Collector Sunil Chavan, Municipal Commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, Police Commissioner Nikhil Gupta, Superintendent of Police Mokshada Patil and other officials. "The partial lockdown in Aurangabad district will come into force from March 11 and will continue till April 4," collector Chavan told reporters after the meeting. "Markets shall remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays, but essential services shall operate on these days. Marriage ceremonies will not be allowed to be held at function halls and banquet halls during this period to avoid crowding. But the facility of registered marriage will be open," he said. Malls and cinema halls will remain shut during the weekends. Restaurants and hotels can operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity till 9 pm everyday and people can order food from them till 11 pm, he added. According to Chavan, online education shall continue as colleges, schools, and training institutes shall remain shut and libraries shall operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity. "Political, religious, social meetings, marches will be prohibited during this period. Swimming pools, sports competitions shall not be permitted," Chavan said. The world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora along with other tourist spots in the district shall remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays, he said. Industries will continue to operate in this period but the the workforce there will be instructed to undergo RT-PCR tests, the collector said. The administration has decided to shut Jadhavwadi market in Aurangabad city for seven days from March 11, he said, adding, "If traders from this market commit to follow guidelines we can rethink of this decision later." "Bringing activities to a halt will not be done if partial lockdown works. If cases continue to go up, the option of imposing a stricter lockdown is open," Chavan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India|| East Coast Railway says no to hike in platform ticket price in its jurisdiction||The East Coast Railway (ECoR) on Sunday said that it has not increased the price of platform tickets in any station in its jurisdiction. The cost of platform tickets has recently been increased by up to Rs 50 in a number of stations across the country and the railways said that it is a "temporary" measure aimed at preventing crowding during the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement, the ECoR said that no passenger is being allowed at platforms without a confirmed ticket or waitlisted ticket, and hence there is no question of inconvenience of passengers or extra financial burden on them. Within the ECoR's jurisdiction, the price of platform tickets was only increased for three days at Bhubaneswar station during the initial phase of the lockdown, it said. During festival seasons such as the Rath Yatra and major fairs, the price of platform tickets is increased within the ECoR jurisdiction to avoid rush at stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||India in Covid-19 pandemic endgame now, says health minister||India is on the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic and to succeed at this stage, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said, politics should be kept out of the vaccination drive. He said people should trust the science behind vaccines and ensure that their near and dear ones get vaccinated on time. Speaking at the Delhi Medical Association's (DMA's) 62nd Annual Delhi State Medical Conference (MEDICON 2021) in collaboration with Dharamshila Narayana Hospital on Sunday, Vardhan said over 2 crore Covid-19 vaccine shots have been administered so far and the vaccination rate has been increased to 15 lakhs per day. "Unlike most other countries, we have a steady supply of Covid-19 vaccines that are safe with proven immunogenicity and efficacy. Based on the initial results, these Made in India vaccines have shown some of the lowest adverse events following immunization (AEFI) anywhere in the world," he said. Vardhan asserted that today children in the entire world need to be vaccinated against poliomyelitis only because Pakistan and Afghanistan failed to eradicate this disease from their respective countries, the statement said. "Similarly, India cannot be safe from coronavirus and Covid-19 if the rest of the world continues to be unsafe, which is why it is essential to curb vaccine nationalism. "If poor and underdeveloped countries continue to harbour the novel coronavirus, we shall not be able to ensure safety for all. A fair and equitable distribution of the vaccine is the biggest need of the hour," he said. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India, has emerged as the world's pharmacy, and it supplied 5.51 crore Covid-19 vaccines to 62 different countries, he said. "At a time of global crisis, under the leadership of Modi Ji, India has emerged as an example to the world in international cooperation," he was quoted as saying in the statement. "It was Modi ji's insistence that Covid-19 vaccines should be provided with no strings attached, and the countries without the vaccine supply should not be taken advantage of at the time of a global humanitarian crisis," he said. Looking at the possibility of eradication of the pandemic in India, Vardhan said, "We are in the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, and to succeed at this stage, we need to follow 3 steps: Keep politics out of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, trust the science behind Covid-19 vaccines, and ensure our near and dear ones get vaccinated on time. The government has already involved private players in Covid-19 vaccination, and if hospitals want, they can conduct vaccination 24x7, the minister said. "My request to everyone is that just like people embraced 'Jan Andolan for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour', they should embrace Jan Andolan for Covid-19 vaccination and get all Covid-19 vaccine shots whenever they are eligible," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Women’s Day: females to take over farmers’ protest sites||From managing the stage, food and security to sharing tales of their struggles, and significance of taking part in the farmers' agitation, thousands of women farmers, students and activists will take over key roles at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur protest sites at Delhi's borders on International Women's Day on Monday. Noting that women contribute significantly to the country's farming sector, the organisers have laid out elaborate plans to let women farmers take centre stage and all the space under the sky to acknowledge the big but unrecognised part of the farming community. Thousands of women farmers especially from Punjab and Haryana will congregate at Delhi's borders on Monday and the day will be entirely dedicated to women farmers, activists and students, farmer leaders said. Marked annually on March 8, International Women's Day (IWD) is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The day also marks a call to action for accelerating gender parity. “To celebrate women's day, the stage will be managed by women, and the speakers too will be women. And there will be a small march at Singhu border, the details for which will be shared later. We are expecting more women to join at different protest sites, senior farmer leader Kavita Kurugranthy, who is also a member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM),” told PTI. On the occasion of International Women's Day, around 15,000 women farmers along with college principals, teachers and social workers will join the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri borders, the organisers said. Women are a big part of the farming community but they don't get recognised. In fact, they work more than the men. Approximately 10,000 women from different parts of Punjab and Haryana will come to the borders to be part of the women's day program, farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said. Sandhu said they have also asked women farmers to join the different protest sites in Punjab and Haryana on the occasion. Women protesters will talk about their rights, struggles and significance of participation in the movement at the two stages at Tikri border, one of the organisers said. “...Women will be taking over security roles at Singhu border. Hundreds of women from different parts of Punjab are coming in vehicles and will join us at the borders tomorrow. We are expecting a gathering of around 15,000 people at Tikri and 4,000 people at Singhu to mark International Women's Day,” said Jagmohan Singh of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), Punjab. Farmer leader of Krantikari Kisan Union Avtar Singh Mehma also said that stage management at all borders will be done by women on the occasion of International Women's Day. Those delivering speeches on the stage will also be women, whether they are from a student organisation, a farmer organisation or simply an organisation doing social work, Mehma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||ISRO’s new satellite will provide real-time images of Indian borders||India plans to launch on March 28 an earth observation satellite that will provide it near real-time images of its borders and also enable quick monitoring of natural disasters. GISAT-1 is slated to be lofted into space by GSLV-F10 rocket from Sriharikota spaceport in Andhra Pradesh's Nellore district, about 100 kms north of Chennai. "We are looking to launch this Geo imaging satellite on March 28, subject to weather conditions", an official of the Bengaluru-headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) told PTI on Sunday. The rocket will place the spacecraft in a geosynchronous orbit. It will be subsequently positioned in geostationary orbit, about 36,000 kms above earth's equator, using its onboard propulsion system. The launch of GISAT-1 onboard GSLV-F10 rocket was originally planned for March 5 last year but postponed a day before the blast-off due to technical reasons. Experts said positioning the state-of-the-art agile earth observation satellite in geostationary orbit has key advantages. "It's going to be a game-changer in some sense for India", a Department of Space official said. "With onboard high resolution cameras, the satellite will allow the country to monitor the Indian landmass and the oceans, particularly its borders continuously". Listing the objectives of the mission, ISRO has earlier said the satellite would provide near real-time imaging of the large area region of interest at frequent intervals. It would help in quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic and any short-term events. The third objective is to obtain spectral signatures of agriculture, forestry, mineralogy, disaster warning, cloud properties, snow and glacier and oceanography. GISAT-1 will facilitate near real-time observation of the Indian subcontinent, under cloud-free condition, at frequent intervals, ISRO said. The planned launch of GISAT-1, weighing about 2,268 kg, comes close on the heels of the successful February 28 PSLV- C51 mission that orbited Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passengers, including five built by students. Secretary in the Department of Space and ISRO Chairman K Sivan told PTI last week that the technical issues that led to postponement of GISAT-1 mission have been resolved and the further delay in the launch was due to COVID-19-induced lockdown which affected normal work. According to sources, GISAT-1 will be followed by the maiden flight of Small Satellite Launch Vehicle, ISRO's compact launcher, likely in April. SSLV has been designed to meet "launch on demand" requirements in a cost-effective manner for small satellites in a dedicated and ride-share mode. It is a three-stage all solid vehicle with a capability to launch up to 500 kg satellite mass into 500 km low earth orbit (LEO) and 300 kg into Sun Synchronous Orbit (SSO). By comparison, PSLV -- the workhorse launch vehicle of ISRO -- can take up to 1,750 kg payload into SSO of 600 km altitude. With lower per kg launch cost, the mini launcher will have multiple satellite mounting options for nano, micro and small satellites. Sivan had earlier termed the SSLV an innovative vehicle which can be assembled in just 72 hours. "Instead of 60 days (for building a PSLV), it (SSLV) will be assembled in three days; instead of 600 people (needed to build a PSLV), it (SSLV) will be done by six people", he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Army converts bus stand to ‘street library’ for JK children||In a novel initiative, the Army has converted a dilapidated bus stand in a South Kashmir village into a ‘street library’ to help students of neighbouring areas to prepare for competitive exams and higher studies. The library, set up in the last week of February by the 18 Rashtriya Rifles of the Army, has become an instant hit among the students of Ranipura, Chittisigpura, Kejrival and Devipora villages, officials said. Seeing students of higher classes getting engrossed in books, the younger lot from primary classes surrounded Lt Col Rohit Jha, Commanding officer of the 18 RR, which comes under the Victor Force that looks after South and central Kashmir, and demanded that some story books be kept for them too. A pleasantly surprised Lt Col Jha immediately ordered some comics having a social message and books which can increase their knowledge, officials said. The ‘street library’ opens early in the morning and within no time, children are seen flocking to the bus stand and other story books which have been donated by 2-Sector Headquarters of the Rashtriya Rifles, a forced carved out of the army for fighting terrorism in the hinterland. The bus stand located at Devipora-Chittisingpora junction in Anantnag district has now virtually become a hub of knowledge which is often flocked by youngsters appearing for competitive exams and higher studies. The army unit has also tied up with 'Books of India' society which has agreed to supply some books for the cause. The Army said it is not only about reading, books can also be used to relax minds of students. In order to help students, they have also kept a ‘book jar’, from where children pick up a slip of paper and take out a book ranging from realistic fiction to science and historical fiction or romance to fantasy or mystery books. The ‘street library’ showcases India-2020 of late President A P J Abdul Kalam and compilation of Khalil Gibran or the world's greatest short stories. The bus stand was burnt down by miscreants in 2016 and a quote of famous American writer Sidney Sheldon was an inspiration for setting up the ‘street library’. “Libraries store the energy that fuels the imagination. They open up windows to the world and inspire us to explore and achieve, and contribute to improving our quality of life.” The Army plans to open more such street libraries in the near future to help the youth achieve the power of knowledge and look out for their better future. The ‘street library’ has a notice board to announce new arrivals of books besides pasting Quick Response or QR code of national level entrance exams and a guide on how to be a part of the Army. The officials said that some students have also started demanding some books which the Army tries to procure the market or through some NGO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Modi attacks Mamata, promises ‘real change’ for a better Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched a blistering attack on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of "betraying and insulting" the people of the state who trusted she would bring about a change after the Left rule. He also accused her of nepotism by choosing to play the limited role of "bua" (aunt) to her "bhatija" (nephew) instead of becoming "Didi" (elder sister) to the people. Addressing a massive BJP rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds, his first in Bengal after the announcement of the dates of Assembly polls, Modi hit out at his detractors who accuse him of favouring a handful of his businessmen friends. "You have betrayed and insulted the people of Bengal who trusted that you will be the harbinger of change after the end of the Left rule. You smashed to smithereens (chaknachoor) their hopes and dreams," he said, excoriating the TMC supremo. He alleged Banerjee promoted nepotism while neglecting the people who fondly called her 'Didi'. "Bengal chose you in the role of 'Didi' but you preferred being 'bua' to your 'bhatija'," he said. The BJP has been accusing Banerjee of trying to install her nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek as the next chief minister. Hitting back at rival leaders like former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Banerjee, who often accuse him of favouring his industrialist friends, Modi said given his humble background he valued friendship. "All 130 crore people of India are my friends, I work for them. I gave 90 lakh gas connections to my friends of Bengal. I have special affinity with tea, and the tea garden workers of Bengal are my friends for whom I have implemented a social security scheme," he said. Modi has often spoken about how he used to sell tea at a railway station and on trains as a small boy. He also attacked Banerjee for triggering the insider- outsider debate. "When those believing in Marx and Lenin and a party like the TMC, an offshoot of the Congress, are parties of insiders, how the BJP, for whose foundation Syama Prasad Mookerjee was the source of inspiration, can be a party of outsiders," he said. The prime minister said he was committed to bringing about "asol parivartan" (real change) in Bengal where all sections of people progress but nobody is appeased, and infiltration is stopped. "Be it North Bengal or South Bengal, ordinary people or refugees....all will progress but nobody will be appeased. Infiltration will be stopped completely," he asserted, reaffirming his commitment to the Mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas'. Accusing the TMC government of destroying the democratic system, he alleged 'loktantra' (democracy) was replaced with 'lootantra' (systematic plunder) in the 10 years of its rule. "Lotus is about to bloom in Bengal because of the 'kichad' (muck) created by you, Didi," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls: DMK gives 26 Assembly seats to Congress||After tough negotiations that stretched for days, the DMK on Sunday allotted 25 assembly seats and the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency to its key ally, the Congress. A formal pact for the April 6 Assembly election was signed by DMK president M K Stalin and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee chief K S Alagiri at the Dravidian party's headquarters 'Anna Arivalayam' here. After days of deliberations, a point of conclusion was reached late Saturday night and Congress leader and Tamil Nadu in charge Dinesh Gundu Rao told reporters that the agreement was signed in "a spirit of cooperation" when the country was facing a 'threat' from the BJP. Rao and Alagiri called on Stalin at his residence here last night and said the pact would be signed on Sunday, but declined to give an indication on the number of seats that would be allotted. Asked if his party was satisfied with the number of seats allotted by its ally, Rao said the only aim was to ensure the victory of the secular front led by DMK. "Once we sign an agreement, we have to be satisfied because this has been done after a lot of deliberations. Our only aim is now to see that the secular front wins. The time for being satisfied or dissatisfied is over. Now we are in the battlefield. We have to take on our opponents," Rao said. The decision on accepting the DMK's offer was taken only after consulting all senior leaders and the high command and "there is no difference of opinion within our party on this issue," he added. TNCC chief Alagiri, however, pitched in, saying, "we are fully satisfied." Rao said the battle against the saffron party was not confined to ideology alone, but extended to "saving democracy" from its clutches. The country was being run like a "dictatorship" and elected governments of opposition parties were toppled, he alleged. Recently, the Congress government in neighbouring Puducherry lost majority after its MLAs resigned and Chief Minister V Narayanasamy Cabinet resigned. Rao alleged that the BJP was using "money and government" power to destabilise and finish off the opposition parties. "Their agenda in Tamil Nadu is also the same," he claimed, adding that by aligning with the AIADMK, the BJP's intention was to "finish off" that party too. "This is a very dangerous situation the country is facing," he said. The secular front of DMK, Congress, Left and regional outfits in Tamil Nadu would send a message across the country that "fascist forces" shall be prevented from gaining ground when like-minded parties joined hands, he said. Congress always stood for democratic principles, Rao said and expressed confidence that the secular alliance would sweep the elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The bypoll to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency was necessitated following the death of H Vasanthakumar, who was elected from that segment in 2019. Kumar passed away last year due to Covid-19 and the seat fell vacant. The Tamil Nadu Assembly has 234 seats. The DMK has so far allotted 48 seats to allies. While Congress has got 25, MDMK, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and CPI have got six each, the IUML three and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Varavara Rao released from Mumbai hospital||Poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has been discharged from Nanavati Hospital here, sources said. The 82-year-old activist, who was granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the Bombay High Court on February 22, was discharged from the private hospital late Saturday night, they said. Rao, arrested in 2018, was admitted to the medical facility in November last year due to ill-health. The HC had last month directed that he be released immediately on bail after being discharged from hospital. While granting him bail, the high court had asked Rao to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two solvent sureties of the like amount. Rao later requested the court that he be allowed to furnish cash surety as the process of submitting solvent sureties was taking time. The court last Monday allowed Rao to furnish a cash surety of Rs 50,000 and gave him time till April 5 to submit the two solvent sureties of the same amount. The case is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The HC while granting him bail imposed various conditions on his release, including a direction to remain in Mumbai, within the jurisdiction of the NIA court here. After the six-month period, Rao will have to either surrender before the trial court or approach the HC for extension of the bail period. The case pertains to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Covid: over 18,000 cases for second straight day||The daily rise in new coronavirus infections were recorded above 18,000 for the second consecutive day taking India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,12,10,799, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day and the Covid-19 active caseload increased to 1,84,523 which now comprises 1.65 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has dropped further to 96.95 per cent, the ministry data stated. A total of 18,711 new infections were registered in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,57,756 with 100 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,68,520 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.95 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 22,14,30,507 samples have been tested up to March 6 with 7,37,830 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||EC asks health ministry not to use Narendra Modi’s photograph on Covid vaccine certificates||The Election Commission has asked the Union health ministry not to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph on Covid vaccine certificates in the five poll-bound states, responding to a complaint from the Trinamul Congress. The ministry has been given “two to three days” to modify its computer system, which generates these certificates for those who receive the vaccine, a commission source said. Trinamul had last week approached the poll panel over national-level violations of the model code of conduct, objecting to Modi’s images being displayed at petrol pumps and on the vaccination certificates. A senior Election Commission official told The Telegraph: “We wrote to the health ministry and they said it was a central scheme being implemented across India, and that the certificates were computer-generated. So, we wrote to them on Friday (saying) the MCC (model code of conduct) must be implemented in letter and spirit. The official added: “We told them to come up with a solution, such as a filter in the template, within two to three days so that the (Covid vaccine) certificates printed in the poll-bound states do not carry such images during the poll period.” The Prime Minister’s photo also appears on publicity material of the Ujjwala subsidised cooking gas scheme for households below the poverty line. In 2018, the Consortium of Indian Petroleum Dealers had said they were being compelled by PSU oil marketing companies to publicise the scheme at fuel stations. In recent elections, the poll panel has prohibited such display during the election period. On Wednesday, the Election Commission gave fuel stations 72 hours to remove or cover up these photos in Assam, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, where the poll process has begun. Clause 4 of Paragraph VII of the model code of conduct prohibits, during elections, government advertisements that seek “publicity regarding achievements”. The poll panel has used this to order the removal of similar publicity even from government websites during polls. A health ministry source said: “We will peruse the instructions of the ECI (Election Commission of India) and then comply with the directions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||J&K election authorities stir PoK questions ||Jammu and Kashmir’s election authorities have disqualified from contesting polls two women from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir who are married to Indian Kashmiris, prompting questions over New Delhi’s claim about PoK being an integral part of India. Somiya Sadaf and Shazia Aslam had contested the District Development Council elections from the Valley’s Drugmulla and Sonawari constituencies in December. They are married to former Valley militants who had crossed the border to receive arms training but returned under the government’s rehabilitation scheme of 2010. Counting was stopped at both constituencies after complaints were lodged saying the two women were not entitled to contest the elections. The state election commission has now declared the elections to the two constituencies invalid and ordered a fresh vote. The two women have been disqualified from contesting elections and orders have been issued to delete their names from the voters’ list. The commission has said the two women were “reportedly” not from this country and had entered wrong information while declaring their place of birth and citizenship. It said the women had failed to prove their Indian citizenship. “Now therefore in terms of Rule 21(A) of the Registration of Electors Rules, I960, the name Shazia Begum and Sumiya Bagum are treated as deleted ab-initio from electoral roll of Panchayat Halqa Sadunara-A,” the commission said. Somiya and Shazia, who had filed their nomination papers as Independent candidates, can appeal against the order. People’s Democratic Party spokesperson Najmus Saqib said the two women’s disqualification was bizarre in the light of a parliamentary resolution that says the other Kashmir is an integral part of India. “I see a huge contradiction (between) the claim (by the Centre) and the situation on the ground,” Saqib said. “In Parliament they claimed that Pakistan-administered Kashmir was an integral part of India and that they would take it back. Now they are denying their own citizens the right to contest elections here.” Women from PoK and Pakistan who live in the Valley allege discrimination on multiple fronts, and have been demanding deportation to Pakistan if they are not accepted as Indian citizens. Pakistani and PoK wives of Indian Kashmiris have to go through the normal process of acquiring Indian citizenship, after the mandatory waiting period. However, tens of thousands of people who had migrated from mainland Pakistan to Jammu and Kashmir shortly after Partition were granted domicile and other rights following the abrogation of Article 370 provisions in 2019. Saira Javaid, a Pakistani woman married to a Kupwara resident, said the latest orders had reconfirmed that the Indian government had no intention of accepting women like her. “In that case, we should be deported to Pakistan along with our husbands and children,” she said. Saira said some women from across the border had in the past contested panchayat polls and been elected as sarpanch or panch. “If we can’t contest elections, how were they allowed to do so?” she said. Election officials in Kashmir did not respond to calls or text messages from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Health ministry sends teams to probe Covid surge in Maharashtra and Punjab||Amid rising Covid cases in multiple states, India’s health ministry on Saturday sent expert teams to probe worrying surges in Covid cases in Maharashtra and Punjab and flagged deviations from standard testing protocols in eight other states. The public health teams in Maharashtra and Punjab will visit hotspots, ascertain reasons for the surge and guide local authorities on surveillance, containment and control measures, the health ministry said. In both states, the seven-day average of daily new cases has increased more than three-fold over the past four weeks — from around 2,500 to 8,600 daily cases in Maharashtra and from 199 to 741 in Punjab. Health officials have identified 63 districts in eight states — Delhi (nine), Haryana (15), Andhra Pradesh (10), Odisha (10), Himachal Pradesh (nine), Uttarakhand (seven), Goa (two), and Chandigarh (one) — where the Covid tests have fallen. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog and a top adviser to the Centre on Covid, spoke on Saturday with officials from these states, pointing out the decreased testing and contact tracing. They have asked the states to improve testing, so that cases do not remain undiagnosed, intensify surveillance and containment in areas with clusters of cases and accelerate vaccinations for priority groups in districts with a large number of cases. The surge in multiple states has pushed up India’s overall seven-day average of daily new cases by over 5,000 in the past month — from 11,000 daily cases in early February to 16,000 on Saturday. A central health team that probed the surge in Maharashtra has said the exact causes remain “unknown” but has cited “Covid inappropriate behaviour” due to lack of fear of the disease, pandemic fatigue, and crowding from gram panchayat elections, marriage season, opening of schools and crowded public transport. Instead of fearing the disease, people fear being detected positive and being isolated and pulled away from work, the team said in a report submitted to the health ministry earlier this week. The team said political, religious, and marriage gatherings have contributed to the surge in several of Maharashtra’s districts. The report cautioned that the epidemic could “flare up” in other states such as Bengal where elections are coming up. The team said the virus appears to be spreading to “hitherto unaffected areas” and people are not forthcoming, following quarantine restrictions or getting tested. The health machinery may have become lax after cases fell since September, it said. In Nagpur, for instance, the team learnt that senior doctors and specialists do not actually attend to Covid patients, leaving clinical management to juniors, impacting nuanced therapy such as oxygen delivery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Bollywood actor Taapsee mocks ‘memory of 2013’||Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu on Saturday put out a three-point statement to address the allegations of tax evasion against her. Income tax officials had on March 3 launched raids on the homes and offices of Pannu  and film director Anurag Kashyap, both fierce critics of the Narendra Modi government. Breaking her silence, the actor tweeted: “3 days of intense search of 3 things primarily 1. The keys of the “alleged” bungalow that I apparently own in Paris. Because summer holidays are around the corner. “2. The “alleged” receipt worth 5 crores to frame n keep for future pitching coz I’ve been refused that money before. “3. My memory of 2013 raid that happened with me according to our honourable finance minister.” Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had, in reply to a question whether the Modi government was going after its critics using central agencies, said on Friday the same individuals were raided in 2013 as well but no issue was made out of it then as is being done now. “First of all, I am not commenting on any A or B individual. (But) since the names were taken, (I want to say) the very same names were raided in 2013,” Sitharaman said during an interaction with journalists at the Indian Women’s Press Corps. While Kashyap had faced a service tax evasion case, none of the officials this paper spoke to could recall a raid on Pannu in 2013, when she was still a newcomer in the film industry. Pannu ended her last tweet with a post script: “‘Not so sasti’ anymore”, taking a swipe at actor Kangana Ranaut’s earlier comment that the Pink star was Ranaut’s “sasti (cheap) copy”. Ranaut, a self-confessed Modi supporter, was last September accorded Y-category security by the Centre after a tussle with the Maharashtra government. Kashyap and Pannu have been outspoken critics of the government and have freely expressed their views on various issues, including the farmers’ protests and the new citizenship regime, at a time when most film stars have chosen either to remain silent or toe the government line. Recently, Pannu had appeared to criticise the show of solidarity by celebrities, including actors Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn and filmmaker Karan Johar, with the government in response to pop star Rihanna’s post drawing attention to the farmers’ protest. Pannu had tweeted on February 4: “If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system, not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others.” Kashyap also tweeted on Saturday, saying he and Pannu had resumed work. He shared a photo that captured a leisurely moment with Pannu during a shooting session. “And we restart our shoot #DoBaaraa,” Kashyap wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Farmers complete 100 days of protest,  Congress calls it a dark chapter of brutality||As farmers completed 100 days sitting outside Delhi’s borders, the Congress on Saturday said this was a dark chapter of India’s democracy because the insensitive Narendra Modi government had crossed all limits of brutality instead of democratically responding to their genuine demands for withdrawal of the black laws. The Congress also stuck its neck out by linking the outcome of the impending election in five states to the farm laws, with the party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala appealing to voters to teach the BJP a lesson for being so cruel to the farmers. Defeat would open the eyes of the government that had crossed all “limits of insensitivity and brutality” in the last 100 days, he said. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Whose sons lay their lives on the nation’s borders, this government planted nails for those people on Delhi’s borders. The farmers are fighting for their rights, the government offers atrocities.” In another tweet, Rahul hailed the patience and determination of the farmers, saying: “They wait for the crop for months after sowing seeds, not intimidated by bad weather. The government will have to withdraw these laws.” Posting a video encapsulating the suffering and grit of the farmers, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted: “Hundred days of farmers’ struggle, of the fight for rights and self-esteem, of following the path shown by Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Nehru, Shastri and Bhagat Singh. Hundred days of BJP government’s arrogance, of assault on farmers, of lies and humiliation of farmers.” While the video shows how police blocked their way, dug up roads and planted nails and barbed wire, used water cannons and lathicharge, Surjewala said in a statement: “The Prime Minister said the government is a call away from the farmers. While Modi is in constant touch with the capitalist friends, he is constantly out of coverage area for the farmers. He fully understands the ill-effects of these farm laws, how the mandi system will be finished and unrestricted storage will allow price manipulation. But he will not scrap these laws because he has conspired to hand over the agriculture trade worth Rs 25 lakh crore to his capitalist friends.” Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “Farmers have braved the government’s brutalities, extreme winter, defamatory narrative and deaths of their colleagues. While most of us are busy handling our daily chores and paying EMIs despite extreme miseries and frustration, one section has shown the courage for raising the voice against injustice. The farmers are not only fighting for themselves but for the entire poor and middle class who will suffer the dangerous consequences of these laws.” He added: “This is a dark chapter of our democracy. The farmers were demonised for holding peaceful protests, called terrorists…. We may be entering a dangerous arena as we don’t know how this regime will behave after being cornered. We have seen farmers protest in Delhi during Rajiv Gandhi’s time when they sat at Boat Club (just in front of Parliament). The government then didn’t try to remove them or malign them by calling them terrorists or agents of foreign powers.” Farmer appeal The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the farmers’ movement, on Saturday issued an appeal to all citizens of Haryana to mount pressure on their legislators to vote against the M.L. Khattar government in the March 10 vote of no confidence. The motion has been moved by the Congress on the issue of the farmers’ protests. “SKM appeals to all citizens of Haryana to approach their legislators, especially from BJP and JJP, and ensure that the anti-farmer state government of BJP and its allies is defeated in this no-confidence motion,’’ the Morcha said. The SKM has warned that MLAs who do not stand with farmers “will be taught a lesson by people in future’”. The farm protests enjoy popular support across the state. The BJP-JJP alliance has 50 legislators in a House with an effective strength of 86.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Kerala official  to Left Front: Don’t  intimidate||A senior customs official who filed a statement containing serious accusations of “illegal monetary transactions” against Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has declared an open war against the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) whose members marched to various offices of the department in protest on Saturday. “A political party trying intimidation, will not work,” customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said in a Facebook post just around the time when thousands of LDF workers marched to customs offices in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode on Saturday morning as part of their protest against the timing of the statement that came ahead of the April 6 elections. Along with the comment, Kumar posted two news clippings of the story about Vijayan being linked to the scam. The officer had on Friday filed a statement before the Kerala High Court quoting a confidential statement recorded by Swapna Suresh, one of the key accused in a gold-smuggling case. In her statements, Swapna has named the chief minister, the Assembly Speaker and three ministers in the smuggling of $190,000 (approximately Rs 1.3 crore) by the consul-general of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. A former secretary of the consul-general, Swapna has been accused of attempting to smuggle 30kg of gold ingots from Dubai in July 2020. Her statement that raised serious allegations against Vijayan, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan and three unnamed ministers, comes at a time the state elections are just a month away. This made the LDF cry political vendetta and manipulation by central agencies to tarnish the government. The alleged smuggling of dollars is linked to a kickback scam in the construction of homes for the 2018 flood victims. It is alleged that the UAE consul-general had sought the kickback in dollars from a local contractor assigned for the project entirely funded by Emirates Red Crescent. The money was allegedly smuggled to Muscat by a former financial head of the consulate. Thiruvananthapuram district secretary of CPM Anavoor Nagappan said he would be surprised if customs officers did not post such messages on social media. “I am not surprised at this since they are not just investigating officers, but agents of the BJP.” He accused the Centre of deploying the RSS sympathisers in government bodies, including central investigating agencies. “The Centre has communalised almost all constitutional bodies and have no shame in doing so,” said Nagappan, who was among those who marched to the customs office in Thiruvananthapuram. CPM politburo member M.A. Baby accused the customs department of getting Swapna to make such a statement under duress since she was never known to make any such revelation when the customs, Enforcement Directorate and National Investigation Agency interrogated her for 32 days. “These three agencies interrogated Swapna for 32 days. She did not make such a statement then. (This statement) is because of their pressure and threats,” he told the protesters outside the customs office in Thiruvananthapuram. The customs department has meanwhile served a notice to Sreeramakrishnan asking him to appear before the investigating team on March 12 in connection with the dollar-smuggling case. They had in January recorded the statement of his assistant private secretary K. Ayyappan in connection with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||BSF jawan shoots self with service rifle at Koraput base camp||A BSF jawan allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service rifle at his base camp in Koraput district, about 500km from here, on Saturday, reports our correspondent. The jawan Indra Singh, who belonged to the 15th battalion of the BSF deployed to counter the Maoist threat in the tribal dominated district, had returned to the base camp on Friday after completing his leave vacation in his home state of Rajasthan. On Saturday, his colleagues rushed to his camp hearing the gunshot. They found Indra Singh lying in a pool of blood. His service rifle was found near the body. The BSF, which has been deployed in Koraput and neighbouring  Malkgangiri to counter the Maoist activities, has begun an investigation into the incident which seems to be a case of suicide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Odisha government sets up World Skill Centre for youths||The Odisha government has set up a World Skill Centre (WSC), a premier advance skill training institute to hone the skills of the youth, make them employable in different industries and create globally employable youth in the state. Inaugurating the WSC on Friday on the occasion of the 105th birth anniversary of legendary chief minister Biju Patnaik, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “Odisha has made rapid strides in skill development in the last five years. We have created new avenues for our youth to compete with their counterparts anywhere. Our aim is to meet their aspirations, to make them globally employable.” Naveen said the government is intensely investing in the future of youth by creating infrastructure and mechanism for making them future ready. “World Skill Centre will significantly accelerate this endeavour by providing advance skill training to our youth and prepare them for competing at Global level,” Naveen said. Officials maintained that the 18 storey World Skill Centre is being modelled around leading TVET Institute (Technical and Vocational Education and Training), ITE (Institute of Technical Education) Singapore and seeks inspiration from World Skills, Russia and GIFTS (Global Institute for Transferring Skills), South Korea. WSC is being established under Odisha Skill Development Project assisted by the Asian Development Bank with ITE Education Services (ITEES) Singapore as knowledge partner. Minister for skill development and technical education Premananda Nayak, chairman, Odisha Skill Development Authority (OSDA) Subroto Bagchi, chief secretary S.C. Mohapatra, director general Asian Development Bank Kenichi Yokoyama, chief executive officer ITEES Bruce Poh, commissioner cum secretary Skill Development & Technical Education Sanjay Kumar Singh conveyed their wishes on the inauguration of the World Skill Centre. Industry leaders were also present at the event. Highlighting the achievements of “Skilled-in-Odisha” during the last five years, Subroto Bagchi said: “The state will create Odisha Skill Vision 2030 and expand skill development to village level.” Highlighting the role of the WSC in the skill ecosystem of India, Sanjay Singh said, “The World Skill Centre will act as the Centre for Industry Partnership and landing point for industries in Odisha for their employment needs.” Set up at a budget of nearly Rs 1342.2 crore, the Centre would run long-term manufacturing and services programmes as a finishing school for the best among the ITI and Polytechnic students as well as serve as a centre for capacity building for ITI and polytechnic teachers. “The World Skill Centre is ready to roll out the first set of courses in areas like refrigeration & air conditioning, mechanical & electrical services, vertical transportation, precision engineering, mechatronics and electrical technology along with a few other courses in the services sectors like hair fashion & design and beauty & wellness,” Singh said. The WSC is going to be the nodal agency for preparing Odisha’s youth for the World Skills Competition. It will act as the centre for industry partnership and landing point for industries in Odisha for their employment needs. “The World Skill Centre will be Nodal agency of the state for the state chapter of world skills and will prepare Odisha’s youth for global glory,” said CEO, OSDA, Rashmita Panda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata holds ‘padayatra’ in Siliguri to protest LPG price hike||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee led a 'padayatra' in Siliguri on Sunday to protest against the steep hike in the price of LPG cylinders. Accompanied by thousands of supporters, Banerjee set off on the protest march from Darjeeling More around 2 pm. Many were seen holding red-coloured cardboard replicas of LPG cylinders at the 'yatra', which was led by the TMC supremo, and joined by her ministerial colleague Chandrima Bhattacharya, and party MPs Mimi Chakraborty and Nusrat Jahan. "Narendra Modi and Amit Shah are the only syndicate in India. Covid pandemic happened, fuel prices rose but the prime minister is nowhere to be found. You get free rice but to cook it you spend on gas," Mamata said at the rally. Launching a fresh tirade against Modi, she said he was "peddling lies to mislead the voters" in the poll-bound state. The chief minister , addressing a rally following her protest march , said the prime minister made many "empty" promises over the years, and people no longer trust him. She sought to know "why the PM has not yet deposited Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of every citizen, as promised by him before 2014 Lok Sabha polls". "You have made many empty promises. People will not accept your falsehood every day. We demand you make LPG cylinder affordable to every citizen of the country. You have made LPG cylinders inaccessible for the common man," Banerjee said in her address. The CM also said that Modi should be "ashamed of his habit of telling lies". "He gives speech in Bangla, but the script in always written in Gujarati, and kept under a transparent sheet of glass before him. He just pretends that he knows Bangla well," she said. "Your party had vandalised Vidyasagar's bust. Your party dishonoured Birsa Munda. Your party wrongly said Rabindranath Tagore was born in Santiniketan. This shows your depth of knowledge about Bengal and its culture," she said. Asking people to raise their voice against the "riot- mongering BJP," Mamata said, "People of Bengal, who had been living in peace casting aside barriers of community and language, would come under grave threat if a divisive force such as the saffron party comes to power in the state." Earlier in the day, the PM, during his mega rally in Calcutta, accused Mamata of "betraying and insulting" the people of the state who trusted that she will bring about a change after the Left rule. "Bengal chose you in role of 'Didi' (elder sister) but you preferred being 'bua' (aunt) to your 'bhatija' (nephew Abhishek Banerjee)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Always felt at home in West Bengal: Gautam Gambhir||BJP leader and MP Gautam Gambhir who is likely to join party's campaign in poll-bound West Bengal on Sunday said he always felt at home in the state. The former top order Indian batsman, who had captained Kolkata Knight Riders, is likely to campaign in West Bengal from March 22. He is expected to campaign in all eight phases of the assembly polls in the state as well as in three phases of the Assam assembly polls, said an aide of the East Delhi MP. This will be Gambhir’s first full-fledged election campaign for the BJP outside Delhi. Earlier, he had campaigned for former hockey player Sandip Singh in Haryana assembly polls last year. However, his plans for a visit to Jammu and Kashmir during the district development council (DDC) polls in December 2020 did not materialise. Gambhir said he felt ‘sad and dejected’ over West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s remarks that the BJP was a party of ‘outsiders’ and it had no place in the state. “Not even for a brief moment was I made to feel that I was an outsider and was not born or brought up in Calcutta or anywhere else in Bengal, that I had not attended Presidency College or Jadavpur University or that I did not have egg rolls from Park Street while growing up. “I always felt like a part of this huge and happy family which showered me with love and blessings every time I visited the state,” said the former cricketer. Gambhir, under whose captaincy Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) won two finals of the IPL, has a fan following among the youth of the state where polls for 294 assembly seats will begin on March 27. The fate of the West Bengal people and the state cannot be decided by bombs and bullets, Gambhir said expressing concern over “incessant and mindless” killings of political workers and violent clashes between parties. Multiple reports of bomb making factories working in overdrive have surfaced in recent times, he said. “Intimidation, threats and violence have been made new normal by the Left and the Trinamool Congress for decades and it has now become a part of the political culture of Bengal?,” he alleged. He said the ruling party is willing to go to any extent to silence any opposition in the state. This is not the ethos of Bengal and the voters in the state must make it clear, the BJP leader said. People in Bengal have to put their foot down and decide whether they want the rule of ‘syndicate’ or a ‘sonar Bangla’, nepotism or merit, and whether they want crime and corruption or poribortan, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP at Modi’s Brigade rally||Veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty on Sunday joined the BJP at Brigade Parade Ground here ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mega rally.  Chakraborty was welcomed into the fold by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and state president Dilip Ghosh among others.  The National Award-winning actor, after being handed the saffron party flag by Ghosh, said he had always wanted to work for the underprivileged, and the saffron camp has given him a platform to fulfil his aspiration.  He also asserted that he was proud to be a Bengali.  "I always wanted to do something big in life, but had never dreamt of being a part of such a huge rally which is to be addressed by world's most popular leader Narendra Modi. I wished to work for the poorer sections of our society, and that wish will now be fulfilled," he said.  Amid huge cheers from supporters, Chakraborty, borrowing a dialogue from one of his films, said, "Ami joldhorao noi, bele borao noi... ami ekta cobra, ek chobol-ei chobi (Don't mistake me for a harmless snake, I am a cobra, can kill people in one bite)," he said.  Vijayvargiya, who visited Chakraborty at his residence here on Saturday evening, had announced that he would be participating in the rally.  Last month, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat met the actor at his Mumbai bungalow over breakfast, setting off speculation that he might join the BJP. Chakraborty, who earlier maintained close ties with Mamata Banerjee, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the TMC in 2014.  He, however, quit the Upper House seat in 2016 citing health reasons, after his name surfaced in the Saradha ponzi scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers hurt in blast in South 24-Parganas’ Gosaba||Six BJP workers suffered injuries in an explosion in South 24-Parganas’ Gosaba late on Friday night, with the police claiming they had been making bombs and the saffron party alleging an attack by Trinamul-backed goons. Villagers said that around 11.30pm on Friday, they heard a deafening sound at villager Balaram Mandal’s home in Arampur-Kantakhali, Gosaba. They found the home in flames and the injured unconscious. Villagers took the injured Sovon Debnath, Bikram Sil, Sujan Kurali, Mahadeb Nayak, Arpan Debnath and Anal Mandal to Gosaba rural hospital from where they were referred to Canning subdivisional hospital. Later, four of them were admitted to Chittaranjan hospital in Calcutta. A senior police officer said: “Prima facie it appears that the injured persons were making bombs when the blast occurred by accident. There are claims that the victims had been attacked by goons but we are yet to arrive at any conclusion. A probe is on.” No arrest was made till Saturday evening. A forensic team visited the site earlier in the day, but refused to comment. Trinamul MLA and party nominee Jayanta Naskar alleged that a section of the BJP leadership with the support of goons had been trying to unleash terror in the area. BJP leader Sanjay Nayak accused the police of trying to malign  party with the support of the ruling Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: GNLF duo eye Darjeeling||Two key leaders of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), Ajoy Edwards and sitting Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba are locked in a subtle battle for the Darjeeling ticket in the Bengal polls. The GNLF is an ally of the BJP. Edwards, GNLF Darjeeling branch committee president, and Zimba, GNLF leader who won the Darjeeling seat on a BJP ticket maintain they would obey the party’s decision. But, their social media posts and recent media interactions tell a different story. Edwards, who has shot to political prominence through his social work right from the Covid-19 lockdown days has stated in his Facebook status: “Not in a Race….Just in Love with my people and my place.” In fact, even Zimba recently acknowledged Edwards’s social work and termed him a “socially political leader” while calling himself (Zimba) a hardcore politician. Zimba is also upfront about his hopes of contesting from Darjeeling in recent media interactions. “After playing the semi-final, who will play the finals? After scoring a goal in the semi-final, it is not the right system to play another player in the finals,” Zimba recently said in Darjeeling, adding that ultimately he would agree with whatever the party decides.  In the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly bypoll, Zimba defeated Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang who had been supported by Trinamul. Zimba apparently referred to this win as a “semi-final” and Bengal polls as the finals. Shadow games between Edwards and Zimba spilled over to some GNLF supporters. “We want Edwards to be the candidate from Darjeeling because we feel he has better chance of winning. Zimba should be given a ticket from Kurseong,” said one. Zimba’s supporters maintain there is no reason why the sitting MLA would not win the Darjeeling seat. While Zimba had to fight on a BJP ticket due to “coalition compulsions” in 2019, some in the party now wants the BJP to support GNLF in Darjeeling. “We cannot say for other two hill seats, Kalimpong and Kurseong, but in Darjeeling we want our candidate to fight under the GNLF banner and be supported by BJP. Our candidate should not contest under the BJP symbol,” said a supporter who believes that the GNLF has become a force to reckon with in Darjeeling. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman, Morcha (Binay camp) on Saturday questioned Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista on issues such as tribal status for 11 hill communities and a “permanent political solution” for the region. “Do not eye the GTA but concentrate on your work...Where is the tribal status, where is PPS permanent political solution?” said Pokhrel. The Binay camp was reacting to Bista’s letter to the chief election commissioner, Sunil Arora, to remove “non-elected political nominees” from GTA alleged they were using the hill body to influence voters. Binay camp leader Anit Thapa currently heads GTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Tusker injures tea worker near Banarhat||A wild tusker went on a rampage in the workers’ quarters of Gairkata tea estate near Banarhat under Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri on Friday night and damaged a number of quarters. A tea worker who was wounded while trying to flee  is under treatment. Sources said a wild tusker came out of the Moraghat forest in search of fodder, walked along the Gairkata-Nathua Road and entered the garden. It damaged the kitchen of tea worker Santuram Oraon and devoured rice and vegetables. As Oraon and his family raised an alert, their neighbours started beating utensils to drive away the animal. The elephant then walked into workers’ quarters in Hindupara division of the garden, tried to get into a quarter and damaged a wall. A worker and his family escaped unhurt as parts of a wall fell. The tusker ate whatever food there was in the house. Some residents tried to steer the elephant back to the forest. The angered animal gave them a chase. Kartick Nag, a worker, fell on the ground and suffered injuries. The elephant stayed in the quarters for a couple of hours. Past midnight, it left for the forest, said residents. Rajkumar Pal, range officer of Moraghat forest range, said those who faced losses  will be compensated under government rules. “We are preparing detailed reports of the damage caused by the tusker,” he said. Six shops and an adjacent hutment at Bagrakote, ward 20 of Siliguri, were gutted in a blaze that broke out around 2.30am on Saturday. The fire also damaged four two-wheelers and an e-rickshaw parked nearby. Three fire tenders from Siliguri fire station doused the flames in two hours. A short-circuit is being suspected, but nothing has been confirmed. Asok Bhattacharya, chairperson of the board of administrators at Siliguri Municipal Corporation, said he would appeal to the election commission to allow them to provide relief materials to affected people. “Many have suffered damages in the blaze. It is because of the alertness of local residents that major damage was averted. There is an allegation that fire engines delayed in reaching the area. I will urge officials of the department concerned to conduct an inquiry,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP turnout target for Modi rally ‘too stiff’||BJP leaders in many south Bengal districts are facing a challenge they dare not publicly admit — meeting the party’s stiff target of over 50,000 people per district to the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Sunday rally. On Saturday evening, many BJP leaders on the ground admitted without wanting to be named that meeting such targets were “practically impossible” from areas with a substantial minority population and where the party’s organisational strength is poor. These apart, there are smaller yet significant hurdles. For instance, BJP workers said that in districts such as East Burdwan and Hooghly, many supporters are farmers busy with potato harvesting. BJP leaders said the local leadership — for instance at booths — was told to go out of their way to maximise the turnout at the Brigade for Modi’s event because it is a show of strength for the party. “Big targets have been given to all districts as the BJP plans to at least double the crowd of February 28 Brigade rally of the Sanyukt Morcha (the Left Front, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front). I do not think there will be any problem in making this a historic rally,” said Hooghly’s Subir Bag, a BJP state committee member. Leaders on the ground begged to differ. Birbhum, for example, has 3,039 booths, with around 950 booths that have a substantial minority population. In Assembly seats Murarai and Nalhati, the minority community comprises over 60 per cent. The BJP set a target of at least 15 from each booth area to meet the state leadership’s target of 45,000 people from Birbhum. “We needed to omit the booths from minority areas as we have practically no support in those pockets….The target given to us is unrealistic,” said a BJP worker in Birbhum. Dhruba Saha, BJP’s Birbhum unit chief, admitted that many booths “will have no representative”, but predicted “60,000 people from Birbhum will be at the Brigade”. “We are getting 300-odd people each from hundreds of other booths.” BJP’s state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said there was no “target fixed for districts” but the party asked for representation from all booths. On ground-level problems, he said: “We understand there are attempts to stop our people from coming to the meeting, but we have confidence in our workers and organisers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to flag LPG hike, woo women||Trinamul leader Mamata Banerjee here on Saturday indicated that her party will keep on flagging rising LPG cylinder prices and affirmed she would hit the streets in Siliguri on Sunday to protest the hike. On Sunday, Mamata is scheduled to walk a 3.5km rally from Darjeeling More of the city to Venus More (Hashmi Chowk), her first public programme after her name was announced as Trinamul’s candidate in the Nandigram Assembly seat against the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. “On one hand, rice is available for free (by the state government through the PDS) while on the other hand, LPG prices are increasing steadily and going beyond the reach of people. This cannot simply go on. Tomorrow (Sunday), we will carry cylinders at the rally in protest,” Mamata told journalists at the Bagdogra airport after her arrival. Earlier this week, women Trinamul leaders of the state had announced the event  had been planned on the same day as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s arrival in Calcutta. Trinamul, party insiders said, is keen to tap women voters who form around 50 per cent of Bengal’s electorate. “LPG price hike is an issue any household can easily relate to. On Sunday, thousands of women, including leaders and elected representatives of our party, will join the party supremo (Mamata) in the rally. We expect she will address the gathering and it is significant that it will be her first public speech after her name was announced as our party’s Nandigram candidate,” said a Trinamul leader. The event planned within 48 hours of Trinamul announcing the names of its candidates of 291 seats — barring three of the hills — can also help the party address the discontentment brewing among some party leaders and workers over the selection of candidates. To cite an instance, on Friday, some Trinamul leaders and workers had expressed disappointment over the party’s decision to field Omprakash Mishra from Siliguri instead of a “son of the soil”. As Mamata landed here on Saturday afternoon, she was accompanied by party MPs Nusrat Jahan, Mimi Chakraborty and others. Mishra travelled with her in the same flight. Mishra told the media about his north Bengal roots and that he had born in Malbazar, subdivisional headquarters in Jalpaiguri district in western Dooars, and about his father — a prominent face in the trade union movement. “I am not new to the region,” Mishra said. “I have studied in North Bengal University and was actively associated with student politics. We will all work together to ensure Trinamul’s victory here. The BJP might have won some Lok Sabha seats here in 2019 but their support base has steadily eroded since.” Mishra’s remarks show that he intends to drive home the point that he is not an “outsider”, said political observers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar BJP MP’s broom operation ‘shady’||District Trinamul leaders posted a minute-long video clip on social media on Saturday that claimed local BJP MP Nisith Pramanik had recently resorted to a “publicity stunt” with a broom on Cooch Behar palace grounds. After a cultural event at the royal palace, the MP and his associates threw garbage on palace premises and his aides shot a video of the parliamentarian and some others sweeping the place with brooms, Trinamul’s district chief Partha Pratim Roy alleged, with the short clip to apparently back it up. Pramanik, in Calcutta for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Sunday rally, could not be contacted by this paper, but district BJP leaders brushed aside Trinamul’s claim. In the video, some persons, one of whom appears to be the MP (The Telegraph could not independently verify the authenticity of the video) are seen scattering items that appear to be pieces of white paper or plastic on palace grounds. After some time, they are seen sweeping the grounds with brooms while two or three persons are recording the activity on their phones. “This is what the MP and his party leaders do for cheap publicity, using videos shot in a planned manner. First they scatter so-called garbage and pose for a cleaning-up video. The video I posted was shot by a visitor in the palace,” Roy claimed. Sources said after Union ministry of culture and tourism hosted the three-day Rashtriya Sanskritik Mahotsav on palace premises from February 14 to 16, Trinamul leaders alleged that the palace grounds had been dirtied. Then, Pramanik allegedly took up the task to clean the premises, and videos and pictures of him sweeping the palace grounds surfaced on social media to appreciative comments. On Saturday, when Trinamul leaders shared the new video of the “staged” clean-up, many commented on this too. Sanjoy Chakraborty, the district general secretary of BJP in Cooch Behar, said he had not seen the clip uploaded by Trinamul. “I suspect it is a ploy by Trinamul to try and tarnish us (the BJP) ahead of the state elections. Such tactics won’t work,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Truck hits van, kills 4 bystanders along the Chandrakona-Midnapore state highway||Four persons were killed when a speeding goods truck rammed into a van parked along the Chandrakona-Midnapore state highway near Koanpur village in West Midnapore late on Friday. The deceased have been identified as Sentu Ghosh, 55, Joydeb Sen, 45, Jiten Pujari, 35 and Karthik Nayak, 55. Two critically injured persons were admitted to Midnapore Medical College and Hospital. “They are still critical,” said a doctor on Saturday. Sources said around 11pm on Friday, six persons from nearby Koanpur village were sitting and chatting near the parked Maruti van when the truck skidded off the road and rammed into the vehicle. The stationary vehicle moved forward and hit the six persons, four of whom were later thrown into the way of the speeding truck that fled, said an eyewitness, Anirban Das. Sen and Ghosh died on the spot while Pujari died early on Saturday at Chandrakona Hospital. Nayak succumbed en route to Calcutta on Saturday. The police tracked down the truck and arrested the driver on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||North East||Assam polls: Congress suffers setback as tea leader joins BJP||The Congress’ ongoing efforts to reach out to the tea tribes before the polls in Assam suffered a setback with Rupesh Gowala, the general secretary of the influential Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha, joining the ruling BJP here on Saturday afternoon. ACMS is the apex body of tea workers in Assam affiliated to the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC). It has over eight lakh members. It participates in talks with the government and the management over daily wage and other welfare issues of the workforce. The BJP will field Gowala from Doomdooma constituency in Upper Assam in the upcoming Assembly polls, at present held by Congress’ Durga Bhumij. A reason for Gowala leaving the Congress was the denial of the Doomdooma seat, though PCC  insiders said he was offered other seats. Gowala became the ACMS general secretary in 2018 but has been associated with it since 2005 as its Doomdooma branch secretary. The Congress is expected to release its candidates’ list by Sunday. The BJP released its list of 70 candidates on Friday night along with its seat-sharing deal with its three allies. Gowala’s joining was kind of a coup effected by the ruling party which has been actively wooing the tea community and its leaders since 2014. The tea community, which plays a decisive role in as many as 42 of the 126 Assembly seats in the state, has been a key factor in the BJP’s surge in Upper and Central Assam in the 2016 Assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Congress too has started reaching out to the community of late. Senior party leaders —Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi — during their recent visit to the state to mobilise support for the Opposition Congress have gone all out to woo the community by tapping into the “unfulfilled” promises the BJP made for the welfare of the tea community. While Rahul announced Rs 365 as daily minimum wage for a garden worker, Priyanka turned it into one of the party’s five guarantees for the community if the party is voted to power. She also guaranteed a sum of Rs 2000 a month to all housewives, a step triggered by her visit to a tea garden in Biswanath district to understand the problems faced by the garden workers, especially the women. However, the 42-year-old Gowala’s joining the BJP is set to undermine its reach-out efforts. “I was attracted by the BJP’s development agenda. Moreover, there is too much confusion in the Congress. Its alliance with the AIUDF has also not gone down well in Upper Assam. More from Doomdooma constituency will be joining the party,” he said. Congress insiders said Gowala’s departure will have an impact on the party’s prospects in the polls but more worrisome is the party’s inability to groom and retain young leaders. “He was an emerging face from the tea community which sadly has no face that can engage with the community at a macro level. The party leadership needs to think beyond veteran tea community leaders,” one of the party insiders said. Saturday also saw the Congress having a tough time in dealing with reports about Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev resigning from the party following differences over seat-sharing with ally AIUDF and candidate selection in Barak Valley. However, Dev told The Telegraph that she had taken up the issue of seat-sharing with PCC president Ripun Bora but everything was well between her and the party. “All these are rumours. I have already conveyed my position to our senior leader Randeep Surjewala and PCC media department chief Bobbeeta Sharma. All is well,” she said. ‘ Both Surjewala and Sharma havce termed the reports of her resignation baseless. When asked whether she was joining the BJP at a rally in Bengal to be addressed by prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, she said, “ It is a lie.” Apart from Gowala, the ruling BJP received another boost with former Asom Sahitya Sabha president Dr Paramananda Rajbongshi joining the party in the same function attended by state BJP chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass. Rajbongshi, who resigned from the AGP on Friday, will be fielded ftom the Sipajhar constituency. AGP is an ally of the BJP and will be contesting 26 seats in the three-phased polls to be held on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
07-03-2021||North East||Myanmar authorities seek return of police officers in Mizoram||Authorities in Myanmar have asked India to return several police officers who sought refuge to avoid taking orders from a military junta that seized power in the country last month, an official in Mizoram said on Saturday. Around 30 Myanmar police and their family members came across the border seeking refuge in recent days, as the junta’s suppression of protesters has turned increasingly violent, with dozens killed since the February 1 coup. The senior-most official in Champhai, a district in Mizoram, said she had received a letter from her counterpart in Myanmar's Falam district requesting the return of eight policemen “in order to uphold friendly relations.” Deputy Commissioner Maria C.T. Zuali said on Saturday that she was “waiting for the direction” from the Union home ministry. Although there have been instances recounted on social media of police joining the civil disobedience movement and protests against the junta, this is the first reported case of police fleeing Myanmar. In the letter, Myanmar authorities said they had information on eight police personnel who had crossed into India. The letter listed details for four police, aged between 22 and 25 years, including a female officer. “In order to uphold friendly relations between the two neighbour countries, you are kindly requested to detain 8 Myanmar police personnel who had arrived to Indian territories and hand-over to Myanmar,” the letter said. The Union home ministry did not immediately respond to questions. The foreign ministry responded to a request for comment by referring to a statement given at a media briefing on Friday which said the ministry was still “ascertaining the facts.” Mizoram shares a 510km  porous border with Myanmar. A top official of the state’s home department had said on Friday that 16 people from Myanmar have crossed over to India over the last few days, of which 11 have claimed that they were police personnel. Sources in the Assam Rifles, which guards the Mizoram-Myanmar border, said about 35 Myanmarese have sneaked into the state so far. Assam Rifles DIG Brigadier Digvijay Singh said security has been stepped up along the border to stop infiltration from the trouble-torn country. “Several people have attempted to cross the border.... We did not push them back by force but politely told them that they cannot illegally enter the Indian territory. Many of them have returned,” Singh, who is camping at Champhai, said. Sources said four people who are currently staying in Champhai district were the first to reach Mizoram on February 28. Twelve more crossed the border and took refuge in the state later. They are now in Serchhip and Hnahthial districts. Mizoram is already home to thousands of Myanmar’s Chin community people, who share the same culture and ancestry as the Mizos of the state. Meanwhile, chief minister Zoramthanga said: “We have learnt that several refugees have crossed over to Mizoram. We will provide shelter and relief to those who seek refuge in the state till their return to their country.” Addressing a programme to celebrate the Chapchar Kut, a major festival of Mizoram, on Friday, Zoramthanga said: “We have sanctioned money for the purpose.” Six districts of the state -- Champhai, Lawngtlai, Hnahthial, Siaha, Serchhip and Saitual— share a border with Myanmar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
07-03-2021||Opinion||Health first||Sir — A nationwide survey found that about 98 per cent of adults in India eat inadequate levels of fruits and vegetables. Moreover, Indians also consume salt in excess. This is alarming. The absence of a balanced diet puts people at a greater risk of non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disorders, diabetes or cancers, often leading to premature death. While many Indians do not have access to adequate food, even those from middle- or high-income households, forgo fruits and vegetables in favour of processed food. Every region in India grows a vast selection of fresh produce throughout the year. It is time we learnt to eat well and prioritize our health.Priyadarshini Moitra, Calcutta Fresh start Sir — As the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccinations kicked off, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, was one of the first people to get inoculated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (“Modi takes jab, app trips on first day rush”, March 2). Though approximately 1.19 crore front-line healthcare workers in India have been administered vaccines so far, the vaccination drive is yet to match up to the huge expectations and potential. Many people seem reluctant to take the vaccine, questioning its safety and efficacy. It is high time the ruling party as well as Opposition leaders came together to send a strong message to the masses about the importance of getting vaccinated. People in India are also likely to listen to sportspersons and actors. Thus, vaccination campaigns with celebrities at the helm tend to have a greater impact. Leading healthcare professionals should continue to send strong messages to the public regarding the dangers posed by the coronavirus and the importance of vaccines. We cannot let fear or distrust grow, especially when we are exporting vaccines to many other countries around the world.Reba Ghosh, Calcutta Sir — India kicked off an important phase in its vaccination drive recently by roping in private healthcare providers to augment the effort. It is heartening that the prime minister was among the first to get vaccinated in this phase. This is an important move in pushing back against vaccine hesitancy that can slow down progress. In the current phase, India is moving towards controlled market conditions to drive the vaccination process. The Centre will procure the vaccines and use state governments and private healthcare providers affiliated to state medical insurance schemes to carry out the inoculation drive. The price, therefore, has been capped at Rs 250 per dose and the beneficiaries were restricted to senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities. The expansion of beneficiaries is a step towards normalization of social activities. It is hoped that eventually this will help the economy to get back on track. Khokan Das, Calcutta Sir — There is no doubt that India’s vaccination strategy is very closely intertwined with its economic fortunes. According to government estimates, the economy contracted by a staggering 8 per cent in the year 2020-21.  To recover lost ground, the service sector, which accounts for 50 per cent of India’s gross domestic product, needs a confident restart. However, a resurgence in infections over the past few weeks has led to renewed concerns regarding the pace of recovery. It seems that only rapid mass vaccination can instil confidence in businesses as well as consumers. Industry mavens are proposing an intensive three to four month vaccination effort that can cover 70 per cent of the population. This will require more vaccine approvals, greater manufacturing capacity, an open market and more private vaccination centres. If we take these steps, the economy will get a much-needed boost.N. Sadhasiva Reddy,  Bangalore Sir — As India witnesses a surge in Covid-19 infections, it is crucial that senior citizens as well as persons with comorbidities get vaccinated at the earliest. Considering the size of our population, there are certainly going to be numerous challenges along the way.Oishi Sarkar, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||Injured democracy||Myanmar remains in the midst of a pro-democracy uprising that continues to challenge the country’s generals more than a month after the military coup. While the protesters and the civil disobedience movement are using various tactics on the street to maintain momentum, the strikes are continuing and wreaking havoc on the economy. The banks are closed, government offices empty and the country’s fuel supplies running dangerously low. Hospitals, universities and schools are mostly closed and most factories have also been idle. Meanwhile, the military is sticking to its battle plans and preparing to crush the protest movement. The security forces have put up barricades and blockades across strategic roads and thoroughfares in many of Myanmar’s prominent cities to enable better crowd control and dispersal. Greater number of troops and police have been strategically positioned everywhere, with convoys of soldiers and sailors being sent in as reinforcements to strategic towns. Tanks and water cannons have also been deployed in the major cities. After four weeks of relatively restrained action, the military has been progressively ratcheting up its response. This was highlighted by the tragic events in the last weekend of February that claimed 18 lives, although local monitoring groups believe that the toll is higher. The fear is the closer it gets to March 27 — Armed Forces Day, the premium anniversary celebrations for the military — the latter will not be able to tolerate the continued civil disobedience campaign nor the protests on the street. So expect the army to deploy its full military might against the protests before then. But parallel to their war against civilians on the country’s streets and neighbourhoods, the coup leaders are rolling out their plans for political reform that will cede them a continued and permanent role in the political structure. A game plan has been developed by the military over the last three years with more than 200 members having formed a secret think-tank, including senior officers taken off active duty and retired generals, preparing various scenarios behind the scenes, ready to roll them out at a moment’s notice. Myanmar’s top generals understand that the iconic, pro-democracy leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, remains the most significant thorn in their side and the greatest obstacle in the way of their plans. So they have launched a surgical strike against her — the country’s most popular civilian leader — in an effort to stain her character and end her political career permanently. The Lady, as she is widely known, has had a plethora of charges laid against her over the last few weeks. Each time she appears in court, extra charges are read out. She is also facing charges of corruption, sedition and, possibly, treason. Initially she was charged with violating government restrictions relating to imported walkie-talkies and breaking Covid restrictions during a campaign rally — the international community and human rights groups regard these as frivolous. But more charges are being prepared, according to sources close to the military. If convicted, it will prevent her from standing in future elections. The coup leaders have promised elections sometime next year after the state of emergency they have imposed is lifted. The authorities are still investigating more serious accusations related to receiving foreign funds, which could amount to treason. While many analysts and commentators are drawing analogies with the pro-democracy struggle of 1988, the army is much better prepared now than it was then, although there are some elements of comparison. The new junta is desperate to be recognized internationally, claiming the power grab was done legally and in accordance with the 2008 Constitution, which it drew up to legitimize a form of civilian-military government. The junta claims this coup, unlike the one that crushed the mass movement in 1988, is merely an administrative change. But as most commentators and diplomats point out, this cannot be further from the truth. Some parallels and echoes are there: after the resignation of the former dictator, General Ne Win, and the subsequent military coup, the State Law and Order Restoration Council formally took control of the country’s executive, legislative and judicial functions, much like the current State Administrative Council that is also governing by edict. It also gave birth to the notion that a multiparty democracy was the best fit for Myanmar, and was enshrined in the 2008 Constitution that was drawn up later. It created the military’s nemesis: the National League for Democracy and the emergence of Aung San Suu Kyi as the living symbol of the country’s aspirations for a democratic future. The current intense struggle is between the democratic aspirations of the majority — including those of ethnic minorities — and the army that is desperate to regain its shrinking authority and control over the country’s transition to democracy, which it defines as ‘guided democracy’ with the army in a supervisory role. These competing visions of democracy are currently being played out on the streets of Myanmar. Both sides are preparing for a long battle. In the short run, the coup leaders’ plan is transparent: convict Aung San Suu Kyi and prevent her from competing in future elections. Other prominent NLD politicians, including the president, Win Myint, and the Mandalay chief minister, Zaw Myint Maung, have also been charged with breaking Covid-19 restrictions. A case of corruption is also being prepared against the Yangon chief minister, Phyo Min Thein, according to government sources. The army sees the NLD as a snake and is intent on lopping off its head so the NLD cannot speak out or organize. But the army may have misjudged the mood of the people. A new generation of political leaders is already emerging. On its part, the army has put in place its roadmap for the future: promising fresh multiparty elections after the current state of emergency expires in a year’s time — although under the Constitution it can be extended for up to another year — and pledging to hand over power to the duly elected majority party or the coalition that it prefers to see. This is similar to what happened in 1958, when the then prime minister, U Nu, temporarily handed over power to the army chief, General Ne Win. Fresh elections were held in February 1960 — four months after the military caretaker government took office. Having crafted a Constitution in 2008 that catered to its political vision, the army is now trying to correct some of the perceived inadequacies that have emerged as a result of its abject failure to understand the people’s deep desire for democracy as represented in the second overwhelming electoral victory of Aung San Suu Kyi and the NLD in the November 2020 elections. Before it can hold another round of elections, the army needs to eliminate the NLD in order to have a repeat of the sham elections of 2010 that brought in the ‘quasi civilian’ government of Thein Sein. So the military commanders are intent on preparing a case against the NLD in order to ban it from politics and declare it an illegal organization. The military foresees a political future where the army is an integral part of the political set-up, integrated into the power structure and administration along the lines of Thailand. In fact, the commander-in-chief, who is personally fond of Thailand, sees this as a model — an important role for the army where the military’s economic interests are protected, a self-sufficient economy and a ‘democratic’ outlook, resisting leftist, socialist or communist leanings. It is a concept of pluralist democracy with no interest group having a dominant role or power, allowing the army to continue to play a critical role. To strengthen this vision of politics, the coup leaders are planning to change the voting system from first-past-the-post to proportional representation, which will mitigate big parties dominating elections and having a massive majority, particularly in Myanmar where there are more than 90 registered political parties. This would allow the military a quarter of the parliamentary seats to control the legislature and the selection of the executive in coalition with some like-minded parties. The coup leaders also see the ‘roadmap to democracy’ of the former Senior General, Than Shwe, developed in 2003 by the then intelligence chief and prime minister, Khin Nyunt, as part of the model to be followed. The projected final stage, before a more liberal form of democracy, was a coalition government of national unity. That is what the military is currently rolling out as part of its current administration. It aims to ensure that this happens after the next election. The author is a former BBC World Service news editor for Asia and is based in Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||Quiet revolutions||An American actress had once observed, rather caustically, that marriage is nothing but a financial contract. Indian women and their maternal families, unfortunately, would appreciate the sarcasm. This is because India, in spite its righteous claims of being a modern, knowledge-based economy, loses, according to data, as many as 20 of its daughters every single day on account of harassment related to dowry, a regressive custom that reduces marriage to an unequal, transactional compact. Social capital — education and employment — or the lack of it is no insurance against this venomous tradition. Recently, in Ahmedabad, a woman — young, educated, with a decent job — ended her life; her family says that she could no longer cope with the ceaseless demands of money and the torture from her husband’s family. Calcutta, too, is also reading about the death of another young woman, who, it is being alleged, faced similar harassment from her in-laws. At the other end of the spectrum are families in South Asia that are, studies show, driven to chronic poverty on account of exorbitant dowry payments that are far higher — by as much as 200 times — than their incomes. Several factors are attributed to explain the endurance of this nauseating practice cutting across classes: the imbalances in prevailing inheritance laws that give miniscule rights to women, ineffective deterrents — India’s Dowry Prohibition Act is one example — are among them. Bride price — the sum that the groom needs to pay to the bride in some cultures — has also been known to be a cause of friction and, often, violence. The battle against anti-progressive customs that discriminate against women needs to be fought on multiple fronts. Existing laws must be complemented by prompt, fair investigations, with punitive action taken speedily when guilt is established. Public awareness campaigns must be invested in to expose the troubling implications of such demands. But there is also a need to open a second front: an intelligent harnessing of tradition itself as a means of empowerment. Hearteningly, women and, on some occasions, men are showing the way by harnessing orthodoxy to a liberal agenda. Earlier this month, a young Muslim woman in Murshidabad set an example to her neighbours by demanding — and receiving — 60 books as part of her mohor. Such a welcome ‘transaction’ seems to be gaining ground with educated couples choosing knowledge over primitiveness: in the South 24 Parganas, a teacher — he loves reading — received, much to his surprise, a gift of nearly 1,000 books in another incident. This coupling of tradition with progress — the two need not always share strained ties — could yield encouraging results. It could put a healthy distance between institutions — marriage, for instance — and their gross material underpinnings. The jaundiced notion of linking a woman’s life and dignity to wealth could also be challenged without proposing radical alternative interventions that may not find wider acceptance in a conservative milieu. Emancipation is incremental. The challenge, for policymakers and administrators, is to nurture this flickering flame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||Sasikala’s Gold Standard||While the rest of our politicians are busy with the de rigueur stuff --- switching parties, plotting raids, doling out sops, getting caught in sex scandals, diving with the fishermen, posturing as The Successor ‑ one woman, commonly described as a late politician’s powerful aide, has moved out of prison after four years and climbed onto a very high perch. Till recently, chief minister of Tamil Nadu and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami had been going hoarse crying “It will not happen. It will not happen”, referring to Sasikala’s readmission into the AIADMK. But Chinnamma’s announcement last week has silenced his thundering all right; for the lady has gone on to declare that she wants no part in the legacy tug of war and instead has pledged to continue to pray to Puratchi Thalaivi and god for the establishment of the “golden reign of Amma” Now, you could say an abstemious politician or a politician’s protégé is a rare thing. You might scream fake and fraud and poser, or you might want to listen closely to what Ms Sasikala is saying. In her two-page statement “quitting politics”, she has invoked Jayalalithaa’s golden reign. And indeed, it was a glittering reign. At the time of her death, the Karnataka government had in its possession the Tamil Nadu CM’s gold jewellery worth 21,280.3 grams. She had 1,250 kilos of declared silver. She was accused of amassing properties worth Rs 66.65 crore in her first term alone. After her death, during the multiple raids conducted on the premises of Sasikala, the IT department reportedly unearthed unaccounted wealth to the tune of Rs 1,400 crore; 187 premises were raided, 15 bank lockers were under prohibitory orders. Before being released from the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison in Bengaluru, the woman who ran a video parlour in Mylapore till the mid-1980s paid a fine of Rs10 crore. According to the IT department, in 2016, at the time of demonetisation, while Jayalalithaa was in hospital, Sasikala had purchased property worth Rs 1,674.5 crore with banned notes. The long list includes two malls, a software company, two paper mills, two sugar mills, 50 windmills. Over the years, Sasikala turned housekeeper of Poes Gardens, was campaign manager and keeper of funds, till at some point she became Jayalaithaa’s family and her family became Jayalaithaa’s.  Even after her release from prison this January, there were reports about more properties owned by Sasikala that were being attached --- in Tanjavur, in Kanchipuram, in Tiruvarus. In her statement, Sasikala said, “I have never been after power or position even when Jaya was alive. Won't do that after she is dead.” Golden words. If you didn’t hear it like it is, that’s on you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||Tell me please where we are||I mean is our map the same as it used to be? But of course it has been altered and altered many times. We do not even have the original. We are not agreed on the original. There is no original. Everything is a copy. Or a copy of sorts. Look at yourself. Are you original? You really think you are? Let’s call Friar Mendel, that Gregor of the peas and the rabbits. Don’t know him? Google, employ the reigning Gospel. He will tell everything is a mixture of everything and what goes into the making of one thing also goes into the making of another, though it is not necessary one and the other will be the same or different, although it is fairly certain everything is a mix of many things, a proper hodge and podge, kedgeree as they use to say. It used to be good to be part of mixed things, melting together in pots, getting from each other and giving, and become richer and richer in the process. All sorts of shapes and sizes and dimensions, each distinct and each inseparable from the other. Things like those in the picture kind of things, different and woven into a seamless one. It used to be the way we were. Now we are not the way we were. We are separate things, sifted, picked out, kept, and kept out. That is the sort of thing we have become. We do not fit into a picture, we are not the things that together form and make one picture. We are torn and fractured things, ripped away from ourselves and the things we also were part of and woven into. Where have we come, will someone please explain? How did we get here, will someone please tell? Where are we headed? Would you know? It’s dark outside, and from all that is visible, or not visible, there is nothing leading anywhere. Koi hai? Torch please! But are you sure? I mean about calling out for a torch? Considering where we are? Torches can torch. You know that. Or you must, by now. Things can suddenly be aflame and all can turn to embers and ash. And nobody will be able to tell whose embers and whose ash. It will all become a bygone sameness. But we don’t want that, do we? A sameness that is achieved as a consequence of the act of burning and charring? No that’s not the same we want. We want a sameness, but a sameness of differences co-existing as a larger sameness. But why do you forget, we do not want differences; we want a sameness, we want the homogeneity of embers and ashes. Is that where we are? Is that where we are going? In this darkness? I am asking simple questions. Why is it dark? Who brought us here? Where are we going? Will no one offer an answer? Why are answers so difficult to find? Have we become bereft of sense and reason on the way here? Or of our ability to speak and tell? Or do we know the answers and are too afraid to tell? Who of? Or are we merely reconciled we will be told lies and be commanded to be happy with them and not dare question them, and therefore we have come to this pass that we no longer bother asking. I mean, we did ask that question we asked at the very top, didn’t we? Have we been forced to become another shape on the map? Do we look different from what we used to until a while ago? Did someone violate our fences? Is someone sitting there, having violated us, and telling us to be happy with the shape that we have now been battered to? Dented. Then painted. Painted over so nobody can tell the dent. We asked. We were not clearly told. Or we were told things we don’t want to believe because we know them to be not true. There are so many such things that we are told but we know not to be true. There are so many questions whose truth we are not told and whose lies we live with. Is that where are are? Can we not go someplace else? Yeh kahan aaa gaye hum Yuunhi saath-saath chaltey? Yeh kya jagah hai dushmanon Yeh kaun saa dayaar hai?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Opinion||In Assam, BJP caught in a bind over two CM aspirants||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday announced the name of the senior Assam cabinet minister and its go-to man in the northeast, Himanta Biswa Sarma, as one of the 70 party candidates for the upcoming three-phase assembly polls starting March 27 even though the latter had formally expressed his unwillingness to contest in a letter to the state unit president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass. Although the move was along expected lines, given Sarma’s prowess when it comes to winning elections since his days in the Congress, his nomination has once again revived debate over the chief minister’s post. The incumbent chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, was named for the top post during a pre-poll rally by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, in 2016. However, the party has not made any such announcement till now, leaving state unit leaders and workers guessing because they are the ones who have to answer to the charges levelled by rivals, especially the Congress, of the state being run by a ‘double-engine’, alluding to Sonowal and Sarma. The last five years have seen Sarma do everything possible to impress the party leadership, and party insiders say that it was time that the leadership took a call on the issue in the greater interest of the party in Assam. Clearly, the BJP leadership has to think beyond winning the 2021 polls in the northeastern state. At a time when rising petrol and diesel prices have stumped the BJP in its campaign for state assemblies, party leaders in Kerala have been vying with one another with offers to sell the commodity cheap if they come to power in the state. While the state president, K Surendran, had once reportedly claimed that petrol and diesel could be sold for less than Rs 50 a litre by slashing state taxes, the veteran party leader, Kummanam Rajasekharan, has now promised to sell the fuel for Rs 60 a litre. The party would not explain the disparity between the two offers but many are of the opinion that the BJP can even afford to promise fuel for free since the party is not coming to power any time soon in the southern state. No Indian cricket fan would have forgotten how the skipper, Sourav Ganguly, took off his shirt after Team India defeated England in the famous NatWest Series finals at the Lord’s in 2002. The Congress member of legislative assembly, BK Sangamesh, replicated that action in the Karnataka assembly on Thursday, although for a different reason. Sangamesh took off his shirt alleging that he and his family were booked in false cases by the BJP and its affiliates. Although the state party president and lawmaker, DK Shivakumar, kept urging him to put his shirt back on, Sangamesh continued with this unique form of protest and, in the process, got suspended from attending parliamentary proceedings for seven days. It was, after all, not that easy to pull it off in the House, as against Dada’s epic celebration at the Lord’s. In spite of the near total domination of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo over the government and the party, there are some leaders who are silently rebelling. The former Rajasthan chief minister, Vasundhara Raje, continues to be irrepressible, despite the best efforts of the current regime. Defying all attempts by the leadership to sideline her, the “Maharani”, as she is popularly called owing to her royal connection, is back in action. She has started to pitch herself as the face of the party in Rajasthan although polls are scheduled in 2023. Leaders close to her think that she is not taking any chances, apprehending she could be edged out as the chief-ministerial face by election time. Raje is well entrenched in the state’s politics and feels the need to be assertive to scare the leadership. The Central leadership seems to be upset with Raje’s current activities but finds it difficult to take action against her. The Modi-Shah regime has systematically tried to replace the old order with an order of its own. It has picked relatively younger leaders and promoted them to build a loyal team. However, some like Raje still dare to resist. That the control of the Congress high command over the party has weakened because of the leadership crisis created by Rahul Gandhi’s unexpected exit after the debacle in the parliamentary election of 2019 is now manifest in different forms. Although Rahul is still being treated as the supreme leader in the party, Sonia Gandhi’s presence at the helm more like a ceremonial head than a functional one is affecting the organization the most. While Sachin Pilot organized farmers rallies in Rajasthan without overt support from the pradesh committee, the same oddity is now being repeated in Madhya Pradesh. The former chief minister, Digvijaya Singh, has launched his own kisan mahapanchayats in the state, without involving the state unit. When asked about his solo run, he reportedly said he had consulted Kamal Nath. But he was obviously keen to make his distinct mark on the programme as he asserted this was strictly apolitical. Several meetings have allegedly taken place over the past three to four days without any party flags or political discussion. Singh explains the problems in the farm laws and pleads with the farmers of the state to strengthen the ongoing movement. This was unthinkable earlier, when the high command controlled every activity, from state to district levels. Although Singh and Nath have better relations than what Ashok Gehlot and Pilot have — an explicitly bitter enmity — that the kisan mahapanchayats are not being led by the state chief has raised eyebrows in the party. The Rajya Sabha member, Subramanian Swamy, is going on the offensive and the leadership appears to be afraid of acting against him. Peeved over the BJP embracing the 88-year-old former ‘metro man’, E Sreedharan, as the CM candidate for Kerala, Swamy has used this to raise questions over seniors like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi being denied tickets to contest elections. Many others in the party also feel that Sreedharan’s case could give courage to other retired leaders to speak out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||ASI excavates the tallest statue at Hazaribagh village||Twenty kilometers away from Hazaribagh, archeologists of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) at Bahronpur in Sitagarha, discovered one of the tallest statues from the excavation site. Archaeologist Virendra Kumar said the statue was found from the central shrine discovered by them. He said the statue is 6feet 7 inches long. However, they are yet to ascertain whose statue it is, as the backside of the statue is visible. ASI was permitted to dig the mounds of Bahronpur in Nov 2019, following which they began working at the site after Buddhist monk Bhante Tiswarro shared the details of Bahronpur, which was considered to be a popular monastery during that era. Tiswaro discovered this place based on an ancient Buddhist map which was having details of Bahronpur. On his initiative, ASI began excavation at the site. The relics discovered by the central agency have established that Bahronpur was not only a shrine or a monastery but also a well-developed city. The ASI began excavation at the site in November 2019 but had to stop their work for a few months because of the pandemic. ASI has excavated several statues of Gautam Buddha and Ma Tara made of white sandstone. The structure of idols and recovered potteries are similar to those found in Itkhori of Chatra which is known as the confluence of three religions and having 9th-century temples. It was considered that Bahronpur also had structures similar to those during the Pala dynasty which was ruling this area during the 9th century. Kumar said, “We are trying to bring out this tallest statue. We have been instructed to move ahead cautiously so that no damage is done to the idol.” He said that Bahronpur became the hotspot since the relics were discovered. According to him, over 1000 individuals are visiting the site daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two arrested for killing pregnant teenager||Two people have been arrested for allegedly killing a pregnant 17-year-old girl and burying her body in the Sone riverbed in Jharkhand's Palamu district, police said on Sunday. The deceased's 18-year-old lover and his friend were arrested from Koriyadih village in Hussainabad police station area on Saturday, Superintendent of Police Sanjeev Kumar said. The murder was a fallout of the victim pressuring her lover to marry her and the latter refusing to do so. He had contacted a nurse who had demanded Rs 10,000 for abortion but he failed to arrange the money, the officer said. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused had taken the girl to an unknown location on February 21 and killed her by stabbing her on the neck with a knife. The two accused then took the dead body to Sone river and buried it in the riverbed, he said, adding the body was found on February 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Private health centre to administer Covid-19 vaccine free of cost||At a time when a dozen of private healthcare centres are providing Covid-19 vaccines for Rs 250 in steel city, one of the private centres has decided to administer the shot to a selected few categories of people free of charge. Mango’s Ganga Memorial Hospital at Sankosai has decided to provide the Covid-19 vaccines for free. Those entitled to get the vaccine free of charge are the family members of army staff, people belonging to below poverty line (BPL), handicapped individuals, and lepers. The management of the nursing home through a notice has called upon people belonging to these four categories to get registered at the healthcare centre from Monday. Dr. N Singh, director of Ganga Memorial Hospital said, “The beneficiaries are required to get their names registered from 9 am on Monday and they will be administered the vaccines the next day, that is from Tuesday.” He added, “Presently, we do not have any stock of Covaxin or Covishield vaccines at our hospital. We will obtain the required vaccines from MGM Medical College Hospital based on the number of registration, following which the vaccines will be administered to people belonging to any age group,” said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday. Presently, the Covid-19 vaccines are being given free of cost at the MGM Medical College Hospital, Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal, and at all the primary health centres from March 1. Those belonging to the age-group 45-59 years with comorbidity and people above 60 years are getting vaccinated at the above-mentioned government-run health hubs from March 1 here. District surveillance officer, Sahir Pal said so far over 5,000 beneficiaries have been inoculated at the government-run health hubs, including at the MGM Medical College Hospital since March 1. “We have adequate stock of both Covaxin and Covishield at our disposal. We are going to expedite the process of Covid-19 vaccination drive so that the people may get immune to the killer virus at the earliest,” said Pal while talking to The Telegraph Online. The district surveillance officer, when asked, confirmed about Ganga Memorial Hospital providing the vaccine free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Good news for Jharia as work on water plant begins||The perennial water woes of Jharia residents are likely to be resolved soon. Thanks to the comprehensive scheme worth Rs 316 crore for laying down 389 km pipeline and construction of water treatment plant (62.5 million litres), the locals will now face no problem in having water from river Damodar reach their household. At present, the residents face water crisis, because of repeated leakage in the old supply pipelines that had been laid more than 50 years back. But with the foundation stone for the above-mentioned project being laid today by Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh at Jamadoba in Jharia, the residents can heave a sigh of relief. The 18-month-long project of the Urban Development department also entails the construction of an intake well at Jamadoba on the bank of river Damodar besides constructing 14 pump houses and a compound wall of 1150 meters. A 5.5 km road will also be developed around Topchanchi Lake situated around 37 km of Dhanbad under the same project to ensure the smooth running of vehicles around the lake in a bid to attract a large number of tourists. Talking to media at the sidelines of the foundation laying function, Singh said, “Though some work concerning the project like laying of the compound wall had been initiated, the Covid constraints, however, stalled some main work like pipeline laying and construction of Water Treatment Plant. We are expecting the work to be completed within the allotted time.” “This project aims to solve the water woes of Jharia residents to a great extent caused due to leakages in water supply pipes or also due to the non-functional motors or pumps at the old water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority,” said Singh. Notably, JMADA supplies over 176 lakh litres of River Damodar water through its Jamadoba-based water treatment complex to Jharia and Katras out of which around 105 lakh litres of water is supplied to Jharia and adjoining areas through a 12 million gallon per day capacity Water Treatment plant while remaining around 71 lakh litres is supplied to Kendua, Putki, Moonidih and other areas of Katras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s lone amusement park lying in shambles||Birsa Munda Park – the sole amusement park of Dhanbad, set over 24 acres of land in Nawadih is in poor condition due to poor maintenance and lack of income from ticket sales. The park, established in2009, had been closed for 11 months due to the pandemic. As many as 27 employees of the park including 10 gardeners; two sweepers, ticket clerks, jhula operators, a manager, and 11 other park staff have not received their salary for the past three months. Similar is the condition of the 12 food outlets situated inside the park. Even after the park reopening, around ten of them are lying closed, as the owners have been unable to pay the pending rent of 11 months. The park management has asked them to clear their dues for the ‘closure period’ too. But, it’s the entertainment facilities of the park that has been hit the most. The toy train, which is the main attraction of the park has been lying non-operational due to lack of maintenance, same is the case of the six seesaws, one tree swing, triple slide, and the dhum jhula that have been lying non-functional. Only the dragon ride, two Mickey Mouse, and two jumping arenas are operational. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Paresh Mali, a gardener of the park, said, “We are facing a lot of difficulty due to non-payment of salary. We have received our pending salary for three months in December 2020. Following that, we are yet to receive our salary, which once has been pending since January 2022.” “We are facing extreme difficulty in managing our family expenses are our salary is pending. With a mere monthly income of Rs 10500, we hardly have any savings. We have exhausted all that we have saved during the last three months.” said Mali. Similar is the view of shop owners of the park. Bittu Sao, one of the food shop operator said, “The rent for each of 12 shops range between Rs 3000 to Rs 6000 per month depending on the size but the majority are lying closed as they are being asked to pay the pending rent of 11 months during which the shops were lying closed due to the closure.” “How can we pay such a huge amount? We have made zero income during that period. Also, the food items stocked in the shop have gone wasted due to the lockdown.” said Sao. When the manager of the park, Niwas Kumbhkar was contacted, he said, “We have sent a quotation to the park management committee with details of the repair requirement of different types of equipment, and repair work is likely to begin soon.” Regarding the pending salary of the employees, he said “We also met the Deputy Development Commissioner, Dasrath Chandra Das recently requesting him to release money from the previous fund of the park management committee to clear pending dues. He has assured to help us out.” “There will be no issue of the payment of salary of the current month as the park has reopened and is witnessing a footfall of around 500 persons. With the ticket income beginning to roll in, we will be able to make pay them the current month’s salary,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Behind the scenes with Mirzapur cast and crew at XLRI fest||Day two of XLRI’s annual fest Ensemble-Valhalla brought Mirzapur writer and creator Puneet Krishna and actors Ali Fazal, Anjum Sharma, and Harshita Gaur, who discussed the story behind the scenes of the blockbuster web series on Saturday. During the panel discussion attended by 227 participants, Krishna, who is an XLRI alumnus, talked about the idea behind Mirzapur. "I belong to Jaunpur where such incidents were common. Students waive weapons during college elections and violence is rampant. So this was nothing new to me. I wanted to make a film on the story but I guess thankfully it didn't happen otherwise the web series and its success wouldn't have happened," said Krishna, who is a 2000-2002 batch alumnus and was also the secretary of the Marketing Association of XLRI (Maxi). "Seeing all this doesn't mean that I had a dark childhood," he added. Krishna shared his story of taking a leap from the corporate sector to the creative world with prior permission from his family. Talking about the character of Guddu Pandit and how he adapted the local dialect, Ali Fazal owed the perfection to Krishna. "Dialect changes at every 100 km in India and it's important. For example, the word 'Bhaukaal' is different in Varanasi and in Mirzapur. It is just a sound but it means a lot. We took sessions from the writer himself and were found more with him than the director working on the dialogues," he said. Harshita and Anjum spoke about their acting journey and the challenges that lie behind the camera. The hour-long session engaged the participation in fun conversations subtly delving into the depths of acting, production and character development. The day also witnessed a session with journalist Rajat Sharma who spoke about his journey of being a known face and how he started the hit show 'Aap Ki Adalat'. It came to an end with the audience laughing their hearts out to the witty humour of Rahul Subramanian, the maker of comic solo 'Kal Mai Udega' and one of the top ten finalists of Comicstaan, Sejal Bhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Pawar slams PM, says he has time for Calcutta, but not farmers||Former Maharashtra chief minister Sharad Pawar slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday for choosing to address political rallies in West Bengal over meeting protesting farmers hardly 20km from his residence in Lutyens’ Delhi. Addressing Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) workers in Ranchi’s Harmu ground, Pawar said Modi’s decision to  avoid a dialogue with the protesting farmers clearly showed his priorities. “The Prime Minister has the time to go to Calcutta and address rallies, but he doesn’t have the time to meet the protesting farmers,” said the NCP leader on Sunday, a day after the farmers’ protest against the farm laws entered its 100th day. While Pawar was in Ranchi to strengthen the party’s base in Jharkhand, Modi was addressing a political rally in Calcutta to officially launch the BJP's campaign in Bengal, where he sought the support of pepole dethrone chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Addressing a party meeting in Ranchi, Pawar also said that communal tension and disharmony have been growing in India since the BJP came to power at the Centre. “It is the Centre’s responsibility to inculcate the feeling of brotherhood among its citizens, but the BJP is spewing communal venom in the country,” he said. The former chairperson of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) lauded former team India capital Mahendra Singh Dhoni for his contribution to the game of cricket and said that he felt proud to stand in Dhoni’s hometown and address his party workers. “When Rahul Dravid decided to step down from captaincy, I asked Sachin Tendulkar to take charge as the captain. But he suggested Dhoni’s name for captaincy. Today, I feel proud that I am standing on the land of one of the greatest cricketers the country has ever produced,” Pawar said. The NCP leader also took a dig at the Narendra Modi-led Centre over the alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis in India. “What did they do? They asked BJP workers to beat plates. But we don’t beat plates. We try and find ways to get food on our plates,” said Pawar. The NCP has only one MLA in the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly. However, the party has been working on strengthening its base in the tribal state to. Kamlesh Singh, NCP’s lone MLA in the state from Hussainabad, accompanied Pawar in Ranchi. Pawar, sources said, was likely to meet chief minister Hemant Soren later in the day and fly back to Mumbai on Sunday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI sets up Centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership at Delhi-NCR campus||Keeping in sync with this year’s Women’s Day theme – Women in Leadership : achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world, Xaviers Institute of Management, is setting up a centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership at its Delhi-NCR campus. The move comes as part of a concerted effort being made by the institute of making a meaningful impact on the inclusion of women in economically gainful activities. XLRI will be formally inaugurating the Centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership to promote women's participation in economic activities and help bring more balance in the society, tomorrow during its International Women’s Day celebration. Notably, XLRI as an institution has been a pioneer in taking up various issues like ethics, sustainability, and social entrepreneurship. “The centre will bring together a large group of professionally well-established alumni and industry practitioners who will collaborate with XLRI to design and deploy a wide range of interventions to transform the daily lives of Indian women,” said a statement issued by the B-school. The centre will be housed at the newly opened Delhi-NCR campus, which was born out of XLRI’s desire to strengthen the industry-academia interface further. The NCR region is a hub of manufacturing and a centre of the knowledge economy and will help facilitate the new centre’s functioning. The Delhi-NCR campus is nestled in a serene, 37-acre green campus close to Jhajjar, a 45-minute drive from Gurgaon, and has world-class infrastructure. The new centre will be led by Professor Shreyashi Chakraborty, an assistant professor in the area of organizational behaviour at XLRI. Her primary research interests are inequalities, diversity management practices in Indian workplaces, and career experiences of women employees. She had also won the Emerald Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award in the area of HRM in 2017. Prof. Shreyashi Chakraborty, a professor of organizational behaviour said, “In September 2020 the World Economic Forum published their 14th Gender Parity Report. The research report was alarming - India ranked very low at 112th position. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has further intensified the gender-related challenges. There is a severe need for promoting women to participate in economic activities for the betterment of women's economic empowerment.” Prof Chakraborty further stressed that the B-school was committed to the cause of the inclusion of women in all spheres of life. Director of XLRI, Fr. P Christie commented “Our ambitious goal is to significantly increase the participation of women in the workforce within the next 5-10 years through strategic and broad-based interventions. As a first step, we are setting up the Centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership.” He further added, “The alumni of our institute have done exemplary work in bringing this initiative to fruition and establishing the Centre. We need all the help and support to build the impetus on this issue which is important for our world to develop meaningfully.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
