08-03-2021||Calcutta||Inking the living bridge between Bengal and the UK ||A new partnership was forged on March 5, when the Indo-British Scholars’ Association (IBSA) and the Bengal Heritage Foundation (BHF) signed a memorandum of understanding to collaborate on education, sports, culture and arts. The MoU, which was signed at the British Club by Rajive Kaul, president of IBSA, and Sourav Niyogi, president of BHF, will look at expanding the collaboration between the two organisations, through programmes and webinars in the cultural engagement space, to other areas by engaging with UK alumni and the Bengali and Indian diaspora community in the UK. “Bengal Heritage Foundation is committed to be a ‘living bridge’ between the UK and Bengal. Our year-long activities reflect the human connections we build across the UK and Bengal. We are delighted to join hands together with an amazing group of alumni from UK universities. This will further strengthen the connection and build upon the many years of shared heritage,” said Niyogi. BHF, a non-profit organisation, started as a heritage project of London Sharad Utsav to showcase “Patachitra” in the UK. The success of the project led to the formation of the Foundation, which works to preserve and promote the heritage of Bengal in the UK through cultural, educational, industrial, sporting and tourism avenues -- from the restoration of the tomb of Dwarakanath Tagore at Kensal Green Cemetery, to the restoration and maintenance of terracotta temples in West Bengal, spearheading the Fagun Fest to the annual Probashi Pronaam programme and more. Niyogi thanked Reetasri Ghosh, head of programmes at IBSA, for envisioning the collaboration and driving the agreement. IBSA is the Kolkata Chapter of Association of British Scholars (ABS), a national forum and a division of the British Council in India. It is an association of corporates with connections to Britain, and individuals who have studied or worked in Britain. ‘This MoU reinforces our strong commitment towards deepening IBSA’s engagement with an outstanding organisation whose members have their roots from Bengal and India. Our joint vision of working together in areas of mutual interest such as education, culture, the arts and sport will greatly benefit both our membership.” said Kaul. Nick Low, the British Deputy High Commissioner in Calcutta, said that the two organisations were at the heart of the Living Bridge between the United Kingdom, India and West Bengal. “I’m delighted by the signing of this Memorandum of Understanding which brings together the energy, creativity and vitality of our Bengali diaspora in the UK and our large and growing network of alumni of British Universities in West Bengal and beyond. I know they will do great things together,” he elaborated. As part of the MoU the two parties will jointly organise a BHF–IBSA cricket match, a cultural evening for the elders and a get-together to celebrate Christmas and the festive season when the BFH members visit Kolkata in the months of December and January. Similarly, programmes would be organised in the UK during the summer months when many IBSA members visit the country. The two organisations will also continue to collaborate on Agomoni, a virtual celebration heralding Durga Puja that was started in October 2020. Debanjan Chakrabarti, Director, British Council, East and Northeast India, was delighted with the partnership of a prominent UK alumni body in Kolkata and one of the most significant Indian diaspora institutions in the UK. “This partnership will join the dots across education, culture and community cohesion in remarkable ways, strengthening the India-UK story in a substantial way,” said Chakrabarti, adding that the partnership happened at a significant moment, when the number of Indian students in the UK are at a record high, with a 42 per cent increase in student visas issued this year compared to the last. “As a UK university alumnus, I have lived this experience  of  how  the  Indian  diaspora  networks  help  newly  arrived  students  and  help them  settle  in,” said Chakrabarti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Recognition of entrepreneurial excellence at the Bengal chamber of commerce and industry||For close to two centuries, The Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCC&I) has been at the forefront of identifying and encouraging exemplary talents across businesses and industries. In continuation of its rich legacy, the Chamber hosted The Entrepreneurship Conclave and Awards 2020-21 on March 6, in association with the Techno India Group, Offbeat CCU, Wow! Momo, and Technopreneurs. The afternoon’s proceedings got underway with the welcome speech by Meghdut Roy Chowdhury, Chairperson, The Entrepreneurs’ Committee, BCC&I, along with an address by Deb A Mukherjee, President, BCC&I. “The narrative that entrepreneurship is not active in West Bengal needs to change. Today's ceremony, with so many incredible entrepreneurs, is proof of that," said Mukherjee as part of his presidential address. The Entrepreneurship Awards aims to reward entrepreneurs with outstanding vision and skills, who have been instrumental in socio-economic development irrespective of their size, capital, or geography. "Female entrepreneurs have definitely caught up with their male counterparts these days...For me, the secret to success is to take care of my people, especially at a challenging time like the pandemic," noted Vanita Bajoria, from Hard Rock Cafe and Lord of the Drinks, who was named as the Most Promising Woman Leader. Among the other awardees in the Power Women's category were the likes of Vayjayanti Pugalia, from skill institute Sonali's Cubo (winner of the Innovative Approach in Addressing Social Issues award); Jayshree Ghosh, from Nabakatha Initiatives (winner of the Woman Entrepreneur with Social Impact award); and Keya Seth, from Keya Seth Group of Companies (winner of the Woman Changemaker Award), a beauty, health and wellness brand. The winners in the men's category included the likes of Anil Joshi, from Unicorn India Ventures (Venture Capitalist of the Year); Apurva Salarpuria, from the Salarpuria Group of Companies (Investor of the Year); and Radio Mirchi's Somak Ghosh (Influencer of the Year). In the start-ups category, Rahul Basak, Co-founder and Chief Editor, My Canvas Talk, secured the first prize while for companies with three to 10 years of incorporation, it was Mukul Gupta, Founder, Capital Numbers Infotech Private Limited, who came out on top. Alongside the presentation of the awards, a series of "fireside chats" were also a part of the event’s line-up. Sanjay Kumar Das, WBCS, Joint Secretary, Department of IT and Electronics, spoke about the ways in which governments can collaborate with start-ups to empower entrepreneurship while Keya Seth recounted her journey to entrepreneurial success after navigating through systemic and circumstantial challenges. Harshavardhan Neotia, Chairman, Ambuja Neotia Group, was also involved in one of the "fireside chats" and had a message for all young entrepreneurs: "Don't force yourself to do something you don't enjoy...Alongside your skills, focus on your values. Ultimately, values are what define businesses."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Brigade rally: PM mentions many issues but not rising fuel prices||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday delivered an address that was long on duration but short on the face and formula that will drive his mission to conquer Bengal. Modi touched on a wide array of issues in his address that went on for 1 hour and 10 minutes, making it probably his longest speech in Bengal in recent memory. The setting was perfect for the Prime Minister to build a focused narrative that has become his hallmark — the crowd count under the roasting March sun was put at 20 lakh by the BJP and 4 lakh by police sources — but he chose to trapeze from one issue to another. Modi appeared to have been moved by the turnout on the Brigade Parade Grounds, a sprawling stretch that intimidates crowd gatherers. “In my long political life, I have addressed many rallies but I have never been blessed by such a huge turnout,” the Prime Minister said at the outset, much to the delight of the state BJP team that had left no stone unturned to ensure a high turnout. The takeaways from Modi’s 70-minute address: PM or local leader? Modi was oblivious to the gravitas of his chair or deliberately overlooked it because the event was political. The speech did give the impression that the Prime Minister of India had reduced himself to a state-level leader busy attacking the incumbent in his desperation to win an Assembly election. “In the past 10 years, has the TMC brought any change to the life of an ordinary family in Bengal? Has there been any change in the life of a farmer or a worker?” he asked. “Haven’t the poor become poorer in Bengal under the TMC?” The questions are pertinent but the same questions can be asked of most of the states and the central government as well. While Modi worried about “an ordinary family in Bengal”, he sidestepped the most immediate issue affecting every family in the country. He made no mention of the inexplicable rise in fuel prices although he went out of his way to mock Mamata Banerjee for riding a two-wheeler recently to highlight the plight of the common people. Modi’s expression of concern for the farmers and the workers too sounded a bit rich, considering thousands of farmers have been squatting on highways near the capital for over 100 days and several farmers have died. For the workers, the biggest nightmares of late have been the ill-managed lockdown that hit livelihoods and the use of the pandemic as an excuse to push through changes in labour rules. If the words “Bengal” and “TMC” are replaced with the names of any other state and ruling party — even BJP-ruled states — Modi’s questions cannot be wished away. Not just the Opposition parties, even eminent economists have been demanding answers to such questions from the BJP-led government at the Centre. Modi cannot be faulted for prodding Bengal towards “asol poriborton (real change)”. But for the sake of credibility, the Prime Minister is also expected to explain what real change his seven-year rule has brought about in the country, whose economy shrank the most among the developing countries during the pandemic. There was no sharing of details on another top-of-the-mind issue: the goal of vaccinating all Indians. Modi, however, didn’t forget to check the allegations boxes — like Mamata’s love for her nephew, appeasement politics and the syndicate raj in Bengal. But these issues have been mentioned by the state leaders of his party. As the state leaders — such as Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and Trinamul turncoats like Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari — got relegated to Modi’s cheerleaders, the Prime Minister took on their mantle by attacking Trinamul and making the polls appear a Modi-versus-Mamata duel. In doing so, the Prime Minister exposed one of the biggest deficiencies of the Bengal BJP — the absence of a credible face to take on Mamata. In search of a formula Modi repeatedly stressed that the BJP believed in delivering on its promises, and presented a development-oriented agenda. “The BJP not only makes promises, it also delivers…. Whatever we say, we implement it in a time-bound manner,” the Prime Minister said. The statement may not be appreciated by lakhs of Matuas — Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh who had voted wholeheartedly for the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls after Modi promised at a rally that his government would implement the CAA to offer citizenship to them. More than 16 months have passed since the new law came into effect but the CAA rules are yet to be implemented. On Sunday, Modi was silent on the new citizenship matrix, which was a key theme ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. In an attempt to shed the outsider tag, Modi spoke about the party’s “DNA link” with Bengal courtesy Syama Prasad Mookerjee, founder of the Jana Sangh. The formal welcoming of actor Mithun Chakraborty, 70, to the saffron camp too was aimed at establishing the party’s Bengal connect. Some unkind social media trolls did not miss the chance to wisecrack: “Wanted Dada, got dadu,” referring to speculation that the BJP was keen to induct Sourav Ganguly, who did not attend the Brigade event. Then came a flurry of development promises as he spoke about pucca homes for slum dwellers, new flyovers in Calcutta, engineering and medical education in the local language and an overhaul of the administrative delivery system in the state. He proposed Bengal’s industrial rejuvenation through ports and food processing industries. The attempt to cover so many issues gave the impression that the saffron camp had realised that finding one magic formula to woo the voter is difficult in a diverse and heterogeneous Bengal. Promise of real change Modi spun a loosely stitched “asol poriborton (real change)” canvas that will take shape once the BJP comes to power. “Those who have come here have come with the hope of asol poriborton. And I have come here to give you the confidence that real change will take place, Bengal will prosper and develop, and the situation will change as investments will come and industry will grow,” Modi said. “We will create a Bengal where youths will get education and employment, whose people won’t have to migrate in search of jobs, where industry will flourish and investments will flow in…. It will be a Bengal that will have the best of 21st-century infrastructure.” Sounds like the promises made during the “achchhe din” campaign of 2014? No one touches the phrase “achchhe din” now with a bargepole. Another elephant in the Brigade room that was not acknowledged: if the BJP wins, how will it bring about the promised changes with several Trinamul faces having crossed over to the saffron stable?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine case: one more accomplice of BJP leader Rakesh Singh arrested||A man, whom police identified as one of the accomplices of BJP leader Rakesh Singh, has been arrested in connection with the cocaine case on Saturday night. Aryan Dev, 42, a resident of Somnath Lahiri Lane in New Alipore, was allegedly part of the planning by Singh and was present when Singh had conducted a recce at New Alipore on February 17, two days before 90grams cocaine was found in BJP leader Pamela Goswami’s car on NR Avenue in New Alipore. Dev was also assigned  the task of alerting police about the presence of cocaine inside Goswami’s car, the police said. Based on his tip-off, officers of New Alipore police station had reached NR Avenue on February 19 afternoon when Goswami and her friend Prabir Dey were apparently waiting for another man named Rajesh Kumar Prasad to join them for a purported meeting with a central minister. On searching Goswami’s car, the police had seized 90grams of cocaine and arrested Goswami, Dey and Goswami’s security guard Somnath Chatterjee from the spot. “The accused was present during Rakesh Singh’s recce of the spot from where Pamela Goswami was arrested two days later. This means he was completely aware of Rakesh Singh’s conspiracy...,” said a senior police officer in Lalbazar. The police said Dev has at least one old cheating case with Calcutta police. The officer added that Singh had allocated different tasks to his associates in connection with the cocaine case. Amrit Singh, who is still at large, was allegedly assigned to convince Goswami with the alleged promise of getting her a ticket in the ensuing Assembly elections by fixing a purported meeting with a central minister, Suraj Shah was asked to go to the spot at New Alipore and help Amrit Singh flee while Dev was asked to alert the police, an officer said. Officers of the detective department said they were yet to find out who helped Singh to procure the cocaine. Dev was produced at the Alipore narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances court on Sunday and remanded to police custody. With Saturday’s arrest, six people have been caught in connection with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||No health centre run by BMC administered jabs till Sunday||Not a single health centre or health clinic run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation  administered Covid-19 vaccines to those above 60 years or older and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities till Sunday. The only vaccination centre run by the government for all the 41 wards under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation  is at the Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital near City Centre. On Sunday, a senior civic official said that they were planning to open vaccination centres at several places, including Matrisadan Hospital in Salt Lake’s EE Block, Deshbandhu Nagar Hospital in Rajarhat, Vidyasagar Matrisadan also in Rajarhat and at primary healthcare centres in Jhautala and in Ashwininagar near Baguiati. “We will start vaccination for the two categories of general population in these centres,” the official said. Till Sunday, the Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital was catering to the citizens of the  41 wards under the civic body spread across Salt Lake, areas under the erstwhile Rajarhat-Gopalpur municipality including Baguiati, Teghoria, Kalindi, several stretches of Rajarhat and even some areas under the erstwhile Mahisbathan-II gram panchayat. The sub-divisional hospital in Salt Lake is more than 8km away from Baguiati while from Teghoria it is at least 10km. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said they could not start the vaccination drive for people above 60 and those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities as many frontline worker were yet to be vaccinated. “Our centre at Duttabad is only catering to frontline workers. Many have not yet received their shots so we are concentrating on them,” said Chakraborty. Pranay Kumar Ray, another member of the board of administrators, who is in charge of health services, said they were planning to start administering vaccine to senior citizens and to those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities, soon. “We want to extend the services but right now there are too many frontline workers as well as polling personnel who need to get inoculated,” said Ray. Several residents who wanted to register for the vaccine at government-run health care centres said that it was hard for them to fathom that the civic body was not operating a single health clinic that could administer the doses. Shreyoshi Bhattacharya, resident of HB Block,  said she had gone to sub-divisional hospital in Salt Lake with her elderly parents after registering their names on the Co-Win2.0 app but had to return as the queue was too long. “While my father is above 60 my mother is 54 and has several health disorders, including high sugar. We saw a very long queue in front of the hospital and chose to return as it was too hot and my parents were feeling uncomfortable,” said Bhattacharya, a software engineer. Ranjan Paul, 65, a retired engineer who stays in a housing complex off the Rajarhat Main Road, said he had wanted to get himself inoculated at a government-run centre but chose not to as the drive from his home to the hospital in Salt Lake would have taken more than 40 minutes. “It is unbelievable that there is no government-run vaccination centre here,” said Paul. The superintendent of the Salt Lake sub-divisional hospital, Dr Partha Pratim Guha said that on an average they were administering more than 600 vaccines per day. “We are having long queues but we are not turning anyone away. We are helping senior citizens register for the vaccines and get them inoculated the same day,”said Guha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||MD Rupinder Singh Sodhi  shares Amul's success mantra||Value for many. Value for money. The man at the helm of one of the best Indian brands shared his organisation’s success mantra in front of a city audience on Friday. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, the managing director of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (Amul), was the speaker at the Bengal Chamber of Commerce Leadership Lecture Series, in association with The Telegraph. “What really worked for us? Consistency, if I have to describe in one word. Since Amul was founded in 1974, till today, we have adhered to the basic value system. We have not changed just to get more profit. With time, you have to change. But retaining core value is very important,” said Sodhi. “We have maintained consistency in four major parts — business structure and objective, quality recipes for products, communication and HR practise. What is our business objective? Value for many — providing very stable price to around 3.6 million farmers, whose source of livelihood is milk…. And also provide the best product by using natural ingredients using the latest technology for processing and packaging but at value for money. So that the average Indian consumer can also afford our products. So value for many and value for money, these are our business goals. It means give more to earn more. Give more to the producer, give more to the consumer. Once they are satisfied, your business will grow,” he added. Amul’s objective, he said, was “diametrically opposite” to any other corporate or business house. “What objectives are generally given to a CEO by a board? You have to buy your raw material at as low a price as possible. You have to sell your finished product at a price as high as possible, thereby keeping maximum gross profit,” he said. Amul is the biggest producer of packaged milk in the organised sector and the biggest exporter of dairy products in the country. The organisation registered a turnover of more than Rs 52,000 crore last year. Every day, it procures 29 million litres of milk from 3.6 million farmers. Sodhi has been at the helm of the dairy behemoth for over a decade. On Friday, he also spoke at length on the consistency in Amul’s iconic communication strategy, revolving around topical campaigns centred on the little girl in a polka-dotted dress. “Amul’s communication is unique in the sense that the brand recall is because of the campaign, not the product. You think Sony, a tv comes to your mind. You think of Maruti, the recall is that of a car. But you think of Amul, and the little girl comes to your mind,” said Sodhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||HS practical exams at Kasba school to be held on campus from Monday||The practical exams for the Higher Secondary at Chittaranjan School at Kasba, that was shut since February 24 after a teacher had tested Covid positive during a confirmatory test, will be held on campus from Monday, officials of the school education department said. Thirty-three students of Class XII have been split into small groups so that maximum physical distancing could be maintained during the practical exams, said an official of the department. Classes of students of IX and X are being held online since the closure so that assembly could be avoided as much as possible when the students of the higher secondary batch come for the practical exams from Monday. An official said the practical exams of students who are in Class XI will start after the Class XII practical exams end on March 13. “The schedule of the practical exams of Class XI students have been pushed back so that gathering could be avoided as much as possible,” he said. A teacher of the school, who had been visiting the campus since the resumption of in-person classes in schools across Bengal for students of Classes IX to XII on February 12, underwent Covid-19 test at a private facility on February 22 . He informed headmaster Anindya Chattopadhyay after he tested positive and the school authorities in consultation with the education department decided to shut down the campus till the situation improved. A section of Class XI and XII students who had attended the class of the teacher underwent Covid test at MR Bangur Hospital under the supervision of the headmaster, an official of the school said. “After none of the students were found infected we decided that the practical exams should be held from Monday following the safety protocols. The teacher continues to be in home isolation,” said an official the education department. During the closure since February 24, the campus has been sanitised at regular intervals. The teachers and students have been reminded about maintaining basic precautionary measures like wearing masks, carrying sanitiser, washing hands frequently, said sources in the department. Another official of the department said since the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education has given the schools liberty to advance the start of the practical exams in view of the ensuing elections and end the exams at the earliest, the school in Kasba has decided to start the exams from Monday. The council had earlier announced that the practical exams would have to be held between March 10 and 31, but later gave the schools relaxation because of the possibility that the central forces might take possession of school  buildings. The HS practical exams have started in some of the schools from March 1. “Although the school in Kasba has not yet received any requisition about the entry of the central forces, it was thought prudent that the practical exams are started at the earliest,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Two new Covid strain cases detected in fliers who arrived from Dubai||Two more fliers who arrived from Dubai between February 23 and March 4 were detected with UK strain of the mutated SARS-CoV-2 virus, that causes Covid-19, on Sunday. The number of people reaching Calcutta with mutant strains of the coronavirus now stands at six, health department officials said. Earlier four of them had tested positive for the mutant strains of the coronavirus, including one with the South African-strain, and the rest with the UK-strain. Among the three fliers tested positive for the UK strain one was admitted to Infectious Diseases (ID) Hospital in Beleghata on Saturday. The state government from Monday will start tracing other passengers and crew members of the flights on which these people had travelled. The family members of those who have tested positive have been asked to undergo RT-PCR test for Covid-19. On Sunday, the remaining fliers were admitted to the same hospital in a special ward, which has been set up for such patients. Till late evening the condition of all the six was stable, doctors said. Health department officials said these passengers had flown in from Dubai between February 23 and March 4 and had tested negative during the mandatory RT-PCR tests ahead of boarding their flights to Calcutta. All of them worked as labourers in Dubai except one, who works at a hotel. That man in his late 40s hails from South 24-Parganas. He had arrived on March 4. The remaining fliers, in their late 30s and early 40s, are from of Nadia and Malda. The passenger who has tested positive for the South African-strain — the first such case in Bengal — is from Ratua in Malda. After arriving in Calcutta these fliers had undergone RT-PCR tests along with other passengers and their samples were sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani. The confirmation about the presence of the mutant variety of the SARS-CoV-2 virus reached two days back spurring the health department to initiate a follow up action, including bringing these fliers to the city and admitting them at the Beleghata hospital. “No decision has yet been taken about restricting flights from Dubai. We have had a case of a passenger testing positive for the UK-strain earlier too. There is no need to panic,” Narayan Swaroop Nigam, health secretary, told Metro. “We will contact the airlines on Monday and collect a list of passengers and members of the crew for each of the flights that these fliers had boarded,” said Ajay Chakrobarty, state’s director of health services. “Our team members will call them to ask if they were facing any health complications since their arrival.” Fliers landing in Calcutta and have not tested positive during the mandatory RT-PCR test would have to stay in home isolation for 14 days according to a directive drawn up by the state government. During this period if any of them develops complications, including shortness of breath, they would have to inform the health department. A medical team from the civic body would keep in touch with the flier and monitor his health condition, the directive states. Senior health department officials admitted this process of monitoring is often fraught with slackness leaving it mostly on the fliers to inform about their health condition to the health department. Most don’t. The daily bulletin published by the state health department showed the state reported 259 new cases on Saturday and fresh 255 cases on Friday. A week ago the numbers were lesser. The state had reported 210 fresh cases on February 27 and 216 new cases on February 26. Calcutta reported 83 new cases on Saturday and 78 new cases on Friday. The city had reported 69 cases on February 27 and 72 cases on February 26. At the Beleghata hospital, the fliers have been admitted to the High Dependency Unit of a special ward that has been created and a team of doctors has been set up for round the clock monitoring. None of them showed signs of falling levels of oxygen in their blood, doctors said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Two Calcutta bridges to undergo health audit : CMDA ||Two bridges, one around 90 years old and another about 75 years old, will undergo a health audit after a preliminary inspection by engineers of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) found that the bridges have weakened over the years. The two bridges — Dhanodhanya running next to Uttirna auditorium in Alipore and the old Kidderpore bridge — handle fair to heavy traffic almost every day, said CMDA engineers. Both the bridges have canals flowing under them, said the engineer. “We conducted an inspection of the bridges in January. The condition of both looked very weak. We felt there is a need for a detailed health audit of the two structures,” said a CMDA engineer. “We noticed that the concrete cover has come off in several places and the steel reinforcements been exposed. The continuous exposure may have corroded the steel and reduced its strength. A detailed examination will reveal the extent of corrosion and weakening,” he added. What could not be measured through naked eyes, will be captured in advanced tools that will be used during the health audit. If required, a scan of the bridges using machines will be done. CMDA sources said that the Dhanodhanya Setu was built in the 1930s. It is about 75 metre long. The old Kidderpore bridge, which has one of its ends near the Kidderpore crossing, is about 75 years old. It is also about 75 metre long. The CMDA has advertised a tender inviting a consultant to assess the health condition of the bridge and prepare a detailed project report on what has to be done with the two bridges. “The consultant will also tell us how to strengthen the structure, what kind of retrofitting is required. If the consultant feels that retrofitting is not possible then the bridges will be pulled down,” said the engineer. The state urban development department, under which the CMDA functions, had started the health audit of several bridges and flyovers in the city from 2019. The decision to do the health audit came in the wake of the collapse of the Majerhat bridge in September 2018. Health audits of about 16 bridges in the city are in various stages. The work for the health audit of these bridges had begun in mid-2019 and around Durga Puja 2019. Retrofitting of at least one bridge — the Chitpore bridge near Bagbazar Women’s College has been completed. The retrofitting of Baghajatin and Kalighat flyovers are likely to start soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Learning to remember, learning to believe||Zahra Patel has walked down to the petrol pump near Jora Girja on Lower Circular Road to take me to her home. It is in a lane that branches off from the main road. She lives in a small two-roomed flat in a building that houses many families. Zahra, who is 20, is a quiet, soft-spoken person with her petite frame covered in a burqa. But there is about her, and her eyes, an intensity that is immediately arresting. She can recite the entire Quran from memory. She had completed memorising the holy text when she was 14. We settle down in her bedroom. On the bed is flung a copy of To Kill a Mockingbird, which she is reading. She belongs to a Dawoodi Bohra Muslim family from the city. From a very young age, Zahra felt drawn towards prayers. As a child, she had memorised the five daily prayers. “When I was about eight, I came across a panegyric by Syedna Taher Saifuddin on Imam Husayn A.S., Prophet Mohammad’s grandson, who was martyred at Karbala,” recalled Zahra.  “I memorised all the 51 verses,” she said. She also memorised a panegyric on the martyr by Syedna Mohammed  Burhanuddin, which consisted of 52 verses. The spiritual leader of the Bohra community holds the title ‘Syedna’. The current leader is Syedna Mufafddal Saifuddin, son of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. She did not know Arabic then. She was a student of Saifee Hall school (renamed Saifee Golden Jubilee English School), off Park Street, where her teachers recognised her gift. Now she is a resident student at Aljamea-tus-Saifiyah, the university set up by the Bohra community in Surat in Gujarat, a centre of religious education. Zahra is in Calcutta at the moment because of the lockdown. She is highly proficient in Arabic now. At eight, Zahra began to learn the Quran by heart, starting with the last three Siparahs (chapters), considered “the easiest”. Learning the Quran was an inner compulsion. “I did not understand the words well, but was fascinated by their idea,” she said. “There were distractions,” she said. She has three elder siblings. Her brother, the eldest, is an engineer settled in London. One of her sisters is married in Surat, the educational and cultural hub of the Bohra community in India, and another is about to receive her MBBS, degree from Murshidabad Medical College. A decade ago, however, they were all growing up together and one effect was a lot of noise. Computers would buzz and the TV would boom. The school syllabus was demanding. “It was difficult,” said Zahra, who was a shy child, prone to migraine attacks. But she had a vocation. She brought to her practice of memorising the Quran a discipline, even a severity, unusual for a child. No one had asked her to. Her parents, a friendly, hospitable couple — her father a businessman and her mother a homemaker — have been strongly supportive of their daughter, but without imposing any of their beliefs on her. “They are ‘neutral’. So every day, for one hour, I memorised the Quran, sometimes three to four pages a day.” By the time she was in Class VI, she had memorised the first 14 Siparahs. “It helped me,” she said. “I had a few problems.” When she was nine, she won a competition open to all ages in her community with her Quran recitation. The next year, 2010, she was chosen to welcome Syedna Burhanuddin with a bouquet of flowers on his visit to Calcutta. The Syedna placed his hand on her shoulder. “He blessed me,”  Zahra said. Her school teachers then urged Zahra to take the next big step: get admission at Aljamea-tus-Saifiyah in Surat. She was 13. The international university has four campuses — in Surat and Mumbai in India and in Karachi, Pakistan, and in Nairobi, Kenya. Male and female students from many parts of the world study here. Education starts again at Class I and continues for 11 years, on the successful completion of which a student is considered the equivalent of a graduate. At the sprawling campus, “where the facilities are excellent”, her religious curriculum includes jurisprudence, history, literature and Hikmat (wisdom), taught in Arabic. Parallel to this the students study general subjects that qualify them to take A level and O level examinations under the Cambridge International board. Zahra has appeared at her O levels. “The first two years were difficult,”said Zahra. She missed home. Yet when she fell ill and was diagnosed with tuberculosis in the second year, she stayed on at the hostel and was treated there. She recovered within six months. By the end of the second year, she had learnt the entire Quran, with my “dedication and will power”. In an international examination on the Quran she scored 90 per cent, the second highest. She grew in other ways too, she said. The migraine attacks became fewer. “I began to take part in in horse riding, swimming, cricket and table tennis.” “If you pray, things get better,” she said. “I am happy with myself now. I have inner peace. If you commit something to your memory, especially a matter of faith, it becomes a presence within.” She wears the burqa because it makes her feel safe, she said. She stressed that there is nothing in the Quran that gives women an inferior status. But different people interpret the text differently. She doesn’t listen much music other than of the religious kind. She watches Netflix, though: she is watching The Crown now. And she reads. “Our university has five libraries,” she said. She loves Dan Brown, Jane Austen and Agatha Christie. But in times of trouble she turns to the Quran, especially the 16th Siparah: “And Allâh brought you forth from the wombs of your mothers, while you were void of all knowledge, He gave you ears, eyes and hearts, so that you might render (Him) thanks.” Zahra, whose name means bright and shining, had known difficulty and has overcome it with faith, which also helps one, especially a young person, to negotiate that most challenging of crossroads, between tradition and modernity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty eke out gains to close marginally higher||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty eke out gains on Monday after two sessions of decline as investors snapped up energy, IT and pharma shares. After fighting multiple bouts of volatility during the session, the BSE gauge Sensex settled 35.75 points or 0.07 per cent higher at 50,441.07. Intraday, the index rose as much as 667 points, but pared most of its gains tracking weakness in global markets. The NSE Nifty ended with a gain of 18.10 points or 0.12 per cent at 14,956.20. On the Sensex chart, L&T, ONGC, HCL Tech, NTPC, Axis Bank and Infosys were major gainers. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Auto and HDFC twins emerged as top laggards. In other Asian markets, equities suffered losses amid sustained volatility in view of concerns over rising bond yields. Though, Asian shares had started the session on high, cheering the US Senate passing a USD 1.9 trillion stimulus bill for Covid-19 relief package. Investor nerves also calmed a bit after the US labour department reported stronger-than-expected jobs data for February. Meanwhile, global crude oil prices climbed after Saudi Arabia reported drone attack on its oil facilities. Foreign investors had offloaded equities worth Rs 2,014.16 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Friday, according to exchange data. On the forex market front, the rupee tumbled 23 paise to close at 73.25 against the US dollar on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
08-03-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds over 270 points in early trade||The BSE gauge Sensex rallied over 270 points and the NSE Nifty reclaimed the key 15,000-level in early trade on Monday, tracking a robust recovery in global shares. The 30-share Sensex was trading at 50,679.19, showing a rise of 273.87 points or 0.54 per cent. Likewise, the broader Nifty was quoted at 15,015.05, up 76.95 points or 0.52 per cent. On the Sensex chart, ONGC, NTPC, Axis Bank, M&M, HDFC Bank and SBI were major gainers climbing as much as 4.3 per cent. Of the Sensex shares, 21 traded in the green. In other Asian markets, equities staged a strong recovery after witnessing panic sell-offs for a couple of sessions as investors cheered the US Senate passing a USD 1.9 trillion stimulus bill for COVID-19 relief package. Investor worries also subsided after the rise in bond yields steadied and the US labour department reported stronger-than-expected jobs data for February. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent Futures rose 1.49 per cent to USD 70.73 per barrel. On Friday, the Sensex had dropped by 440.76 points or 0.87 per cent, and the Nifty had ended lower by 142.65 points or 0.95 per cent. On a weekly basis, however, the Sensex had gained 1,305.33 points or 2.65 per cent and the Nifty added 408.95 points or 2.81 per cent. Foreign investors offloaded equities worth Rs 2,014.16 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Friday, according to exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Government proposes to increase authorised capital of LIC to Rs 25,000 crore||The government has proposed to significantly increase the authorised capital of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) to Rs 25,000 crore to facilitate its listing slated for the next fiscal. At present, the paid-up capital of the life insurance company with over 29 crore policies is Rs 100 crore. Starting with an initial capital of Rs 5 crore in 1956, LIC has an asset base of Rs 32 lakh crore. The authorised share capital of LIC shall be Rs 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs 10 each, as per the amendments proposed in the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. The amendments proposed as part of Finance Bill 2021 will lead to the setting up of a board with independent directors in line with listing obligations. According to one of the 27 proposed amendments for the selloff, the central government will hold at least 75 per cent in LIC for the first five years post the IPO, and subsequently hold at least 51 per cent at all times after five years of the float. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur had said last month. The government will remain the majority shareholder and will continue to retain management control, safeguarding the interest of policyholders, he had said. In her budget speech for 2021, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the initial public offering (IPO) of LIC would be launched in the next financial year. At present, the government owns a 100 per cent stake in LIC. Once listed, it is likely to have an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. The department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), which manages the government’s equity holdings in state-owned companies, has already selected actuarial firm Milliman Advisors for ascertaining the embedded value of LIC to meet the government’s disinvestment target. Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed as pre-IPO transaction advisors. The budget for 2021-22 has set a disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore, higher than the Rs 32,000 crore estimated to be garnered in the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||JSW Steel set for top spot in capacity following acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd||Sajjan Jindal’s JSW is set to become the largest and most geographically diverse steel maker in India following the completion of the acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd (BPSL). The company will have an installed capacity of 27 million tonnes (mt) by the next fiscal when the 5mt expansion at Dolvi, Maharashtra, is complete and it takes over BPSL’s 2.8mt plant in Odisha. As of now, it is marginally behind Tata Steel and public sector Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) in the domestic market, which have 20.6mt and19.63mt capacities, respectively. “We will be the largest steelmaker in India by far, way ahead of competition,” a JSW official said over the weekend, two days after the lenders of BPSL agreed to the conditional closure of the ongoing bankruptcy process. While JSW will take a decisive lead, assuming there will be no adverse order from the top court overturning the acquisition — Tata Steel is not idling either. After the pause on the 5mt expansion at Kalinganagar following the outbreak of the pandemic, the company has restarted work at the plant. While it may play catch up in the domestic market in the short term, the Tatas would continue to remain the largest steelmaker out of India on a global scale, with a 10mt installed capacity in Europe. Diverse presence While the number game hots up at the top half of the table, JSW would surely be the most diversely located company in India, having integrated manufacturing bases in south, north and now in the east with BPSL. Steel mills have traditionally come up in the eastern part of India because of their proximity to key raw materials — iron ore and coal. Older players such Tatas and SAIL have their production bases consolidated in the east compared with relatively new entrants such as JSW, Ispat and Essar, who chose to set up plants nearer to the consumption centres. Five plants of SAIL are located in Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chattisgarh whereas Tata Steel’s three plants are spread across Odisha and Jharkhand. In contrast, JSW chose the iron ore belt of Karnataka to build the Vijaynagar plant, while Essar and Ispat set up units in Hazira, Gujarat and Maharashtra in western India. JSW entered the western market after the acquisition of Ispat in 2013 and in 2019. ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel acquired Essar Steel from a bankruptcy court in 2019. After the BPSL acquisition, JSW would be the only steelmaker which would be close to the markets as well as raw material source, offering it flexibility in procurement and sale. In 2020, the company had acquired five iron ore mines in Odisha and the BPSL plant is located in close proximity. “It (JSW) should be able to reduce costs by servicing markets from its local plants,” said Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president, corporate sector ratings of Icra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Junk your old car, get 5 per cent rebate from automakers: Nitin Gadkari||There is good news for consumers who are going to junk their old vehicles and buy a new one under the vehicle scrapping policy as automakers will give about 5 per cent rebate on the new purchase, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has said. The voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union budget for 2021-22 provides for fitness test after 20 years for personal vehicles while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years. “Automobile manufacturers will provide about 5 per cent rebate on new car purchases” to the consumers in lieu of scrapping of the old, Union road transport, highways and MSME minister Gakdari said. “There are four major components of the policy... Apart from rebate, there are provisions of green taxes and other levies on old polluting vehicles. These will be required to undergo mandatory fitness and pollution tests in automated facilities. For this automated fitness centres would be required throughout in the country and we are working in that direction,” Gadkari said. Automated fitness tests will be set up under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode while the government will assist private partners and state governments for scrapping centres, he said. Driving such vehicles that fail to pass automated tests will attract huge penalties and also be impounded, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank aims to turn into universal bank||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank is aiming for an equal mix between its microfinance and non-microfinance businesses over the next 3-4 years. The bank, which will complete five years in 2022, has its eye on the conversion to a universal bank. In the quarter ended December 30, 2020, micro banking constituted 73.2 per cent of the gross advances and includes group loans, individual micro loans and agri and allied loans. The remaining non-microbanking business included advances to micro and small enterprises, affordable housing and institutional lending. “The non-MFI side of business is expected to grow at a faster pace. Our road map is that we want to be 50 per cent MFI and 50 per cent non-MFI in the next 3-4 years,” said Nitin Chugh, MD & CEO, Ujjivan Small Finance Bank. “We want to grow the affordable housing business in proportion to the demand that we can cater to. Vehicle finance and personal loans are at an early stage and next year our endeavour would be to scale them up. We are piloting gold loans. Credit card is also something that we want to introduce next fiscal,” Chugh said. On the liability side, he said the thrust on retail deposits, the proportion of which is expected to grow to 75-80 per cent in 3-4 years. “We have replaced a lot of bulk deposits with retail deposits and in the process we brought about some efficiency in our cost of funds as well,” Chugh said. Bengal recovery The collection efficiency of Ujjivan Small Finance Bank in Bengal had declined to 74 per cent in September 2020 because of the factors associated with the lockdown such as the closure of suburban trains along with the impact of Cyclone Amphan. “Suburban trains only started working from the first week of November. So, there was fairly reduced mobility from suburban Calcutta and our MFI customers were impacted. ” The collection efficiency was lagging behind but it has improved quickly and by December has reached 92 per cent,” Chugh said. Reverse merger The bank would initiate a reverse merger process with its holding company once it completes five years. The holding company — Ujjivan Financial Services Limited — is a listed entity and currently holds 83.3 per cent stake in the bank. “It is our desire at some point to convert to a universal bank. But, the first thing that we are keen to go through is the reverse merger,” Chugh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Calcutta makes rapid strides in replacing diesel public buses with electric ones||The city has made rapid strides in its programme to replace its diesel driven public buses with electric ones. A global study says Calcutta has electrified 4.7 per cent of its buses and is ranked third after Shanghai which has electrified its entire fleet and Santiago which has electrified 8 per cent of its fleet. Calcutta is followed by London (2.2 per cent), Izmir in Turkey (1.3 per cent). In terms of the actual number of buses electrified, the city is fourth at 80 buses below Shenzen, Santiago at 776 buses and London 376. Electrification of buses, a mass rapid transport, is one of the key solutions to the common urban problems of pollution and congestion. Rapid advances in technology, with electric buses improving range, power and reliability are encouraging cities around the world to electrify their buses. In the next five years, almost a million electric buses are expected to be on the road, according to the 2021 edition of EV City Casebook, published by Urban Foresight, a smart city consultancy group, IEA, an energy research organisation, Electric Vehicles Initiative, and HEV TCP (Hybrid and Electric Vehicle Technology Collaboration Programme), a multi-government forum. While the number of registered e-buses globally stood at 136,000 in 2019, it was 425,000 in 2020 and is projected to be 835,200 by 2026. The market is still relatively immature and there are technical and operational challenges, such as the capital cost of the buses. “Many cities have invested in legacy diesel buses, and have a mix of public and private bus providers,” said Tata Energy Research Institute fellow Alekhya Datta who took part in the case study. Talking about the Calcutta experience, Datta said: “The city is now also taking a lead role to introduce electric buses for public transport. With a complex mix of existing transport systems, the city was keen to ensure that new forms of transport integrated with old." “So these routes were designed to connect with ferries, trams and passenger rail to create seamless multi-modal transportation in the city – ultimately leading to faster uptake by the public.” Calcutta will further augment its e-bus fleet by driving up its intake further with future contracts issued by the city’s transport authority requiring providers to use electric or CNG buses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Cairn threatens action to recover $1.4 billion from Indian govt||British oil firm Cairn Energy plc on Sunday said its shareholders, including top financial institutions of the world, expect the use of the company’s “strong powers of enforcement” to recover $1.4 billion from the Indian government should it not keep its word of honouring international arbitration tribunal awards on retrospective taxes. Cairn has already moved courts in the US, the UK, the Netherlands, Canada, France, Singapore, Japan, UAE and Cayman Islands to get the December 21 international arbitration tribunal award registered and recognised — the first step before it can seek seizure of the Indian government’s assets such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, aeroplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, in case New Delhi does not return the value of the shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund stopped to adjust a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand raised using retrospective legislation. Cairn CEO Simon Thomson, who last month met top finance ministry officials for three straight days over the issue, said the Indian government should keep its word on honouring arbitration awards and return the $1.4-billion that an international arbitration tribunal has ordered rescinding a retrospective tax demand. “Our shareholders are watching,” he said in a Twitter post. “They expect India to honour its obligations and to quickly bring this matter to a conclusion and if India do not do that, and if India delay, then our shareholders expect us to pursue our strong powers of enforcement which we have to do”. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on March 5 indicated the government’s intent to appeal against the award when she said it is her “duty” to appeal in cases where the nation’s sovereign authority to tax is questioned. Interestingly, the December 21 arbitration award specifically made clear that the basis of the judgment was not a challenge to the 2012 law, which gave the government powers to tax deals retrospectively, or India's sovereign right to tax. “The issue at stake is thus not a matter of domestic tax law; it is rather whether the fiscal measures taken by the State, valid or not under its own tax laws, violate international law,” the tribunal had said. After losing a Supreme Court case against levying tax on capital gains made in the 2007 sale by Hutchison of its India business to Vodafone for $11.2 billion, the government had in 2012 enacted legislation that gave it powers to tax such deals retrospectively. Thereafter the tax department said Vodafone should have withheld tax on the deal and issued a notice seeking Rs 11,218 crore, later augmented by Rs 7,900 crore in penalties. In January 2014, the department assessed that Cairn too made an alleged capital gain on reorganising its India business prior to an IPO in 2006-07 and sought Rs 10,247 crore in taxes. But unlike Vodafone where no enforcement action was taken, it seized and sold Cairn’s residual stake in the India unit, confiscated dividends due from such holding, and stopped tax refund due to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||States expected to rake up shortfall in payments at the  GST Council meet||The states are expected to rake up the issue of  a huge shortfall in GST payments till the first quarter of 2022-23 at the  GST Council meet scheduled this  month. The council may not take a call on the rationalisation of tax slabs or address the inverted duty structure on sectors such as textiles, footwear, and fertilisers. Rather, the issue of compensation is expected to be raised by the states as the 15th Finance Commission has estimated the shortfall in the payout to them will be in the order of Rs 7.1 lakh crore for the period April 2020 to June 2022. A senior finance ministry official said the council may not take a call on these issues as the model code of conduct was in force because of the assembly polls in five states. Also, the council would like the revenue to stabilise after the pandemic and take an informed decision. At the upcoming meeting — the dates are yet to be finalised — the GST Council is likely to stick to only administrative matters and discuss the recommendations of various committees, the official added. Sources said the GST compensation cess fund will not be sufficient to meet the obligation of the Centre to the states. The Council has to decide whether or not to extend the current arrangement to make up the shortfall with debt. “From our projections of collections from GST compensation cess, it turns out that the compensation cess fund will have an amount of only Rs. 2.25 lakh crore by that time, from the collections of 2020-21 to Q1 2022-23,” the Finance Commission report said. The Commission indicated “the shortfall in the requirements of compensation till Q1 2022-23 will be met by extending the levy of GST compensation cess till the year 2025-26. In the interim, the transitional requirements of liquidity of the states could be met from borrowings, either by the Union or by the States.” “We are not including or quantifying the debt implications of the borrowings under the proposals. The fiscal deficit and debt path worked out by us excludes the borrowing that the States may do under any arrangement worked out between them and the Union, consequent upon decisions in the GST Council,” it added. In October, the GST Council extended the compensation cess beyond June 2022, though it did not specify how long it will continue after the transition period of five years. The commission has recommended a three-slab structure for GST. The government wants to merge the 12-per-cent- and the 18-per-cent slabs to a middle point of around 15 per cent for long, but has been waiting for the revenue to stabilise. The Opposition has criticised the Modi government for a complicated GST structure as it has four slabs of 5 per cent, 12 per cent, 18 per cent and 28 per cent. Added to that, the government charges a cess on demerit and luxury products that come under the 28-per-cent-bracket. Recently, the Commission has recommended merging the 12-per-cent and 18-per-cent slabs. The Commission chaired by N.K. Singh has suggested the rationalisation of the GST into a three-rate structure, comprising a 5 per cent merit rate, the 28-30 per cent de-merit rate and the rate after the merger of the 12-per-cent and 18-per-cent slabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Nurture the investor in you||The world is full of exemplary performances and accolades for women in every field they have set foot in. However, when it comes to investing and managing finances, research has shown that women keep more than 70 per cent of their assets in cash. This is, however, fast changing and a taxpayer platform in the country revealed that women are investing 12.7 per cent more than their male counterparts. Research by Merrill Lynch shows that 41 per cent of women are more inclined to invest now compared to earlier. Why invest? Financial independence and security mean being able to pay for the way you want to live without having to work till the end of your life or rely on others for it. In other words, it means being free and self-reliant. Financial stability: As a woman, it is important to achieve a sense of financial independence. The gender pay gap, the pink tax and many other prejudices have historically created a discrepancy between the financial situation of women and men. Investing is, therefore, one of the best ways to ensure that one is as financially secure as their male counterparts. It is important to have the financial security to be able to walk away from situations that are toxic. Money goals: Whether it is a plan to go back to school or that emergency fund for your parents, sending your kids to college, or just be able to take that dream vacation or a sabbatical you want, investing is one of the best ways to accumulate and grow wealth to reach those short term and long-term goals. Famous talk host Joan Rivers  once said: “People say that money is not the key to happiness, but I always figured if you have enough money, you can have a key made.” So have you got your key made yet? Start early There is never a “right time” to start investing as it is almost impossible to time the market. Therefore, when thinking about investments from a long-term perspective, one must invest frequently and consistently. As Doris P. Meister once said: “Take a measured risk.” Save more, earn better Research shows that despite the common perception that men make better investors, the opposite might be true. Fidelity Investments analysed over 8 million client accounts and found that women tend to outperform men in terms of generating a return on their investments. And this might be driven by traits that some people view as being inherently female. Women plan their investments from a long-term perspective with financial goals in mind rather than focusing only on performance, which ensures that they hold stocks from a long-term perspective rather than trying to time the market and generate higher returns by buying and selling during market fluctuations. Women are more patient investors and don’t trade too frequently. On an average, they traded 35 per cent less compared with their male counterparts. Women take on less risk when it comes to investments, which ensures appropriate asset allocation and diversification, leading to more stability and better financial outcomes. Women are more likely to ask for help when it comes to investing and managing finances. Surveys revealed that 60 per cent of men think that their knowledge of investments and the stock market is foolproof. And women asked questions and sought professional advice 45 per cent more than men. Invest right When building a portfolio, a framework helps make the right decisions. Identify your goals: The starting point of every investment decision should be identifying the underlying goal behind investing. If you are focused on securing a steady stream of income for the future or saving for your children’s education, your investment decisions will differ. Allocate well: The second step in creating the right mix of investment categories such as stocks, bonds, and cash. This reduces the risk of loss and increases the chances of higher returns on investments. Diversify: Diversification across assets, sectors, and geographies helps in reducing the risk of losses. Investing in international markets helps diversify the portfolio. Rebalance your portfolio periodically: With changes in the way the market moves, holdings in the portfolio are likely to perform differently. It is, therefore, important to revisit the target allocation and rebalance the portfolio to re-align it with your investment goals. Evaluate new goals: It is important to periodically redefine your financial goals as your situation in life changes, and accordingly review your portfolio. John Bogle, an American investor and philanthropist once said: “Don’t look for the needle in the haystack. Just buy the haystack.” Global options If you are looking to build a diversified portfolio, you could consider the US markets. With a broad choice of ETFs and index funds available, you can easily take exposure to the broader equity markets that are historically less volatile. Here some tips for investing in US markets: Buy the world’s most innovative companies and participate in the growth of global leaders like Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, and Tesla. Buy companies you use and love like Starbucks, Nike, Estee Lauder and Disney. Invest in emerging themes like artificial intelligence, clean energy, and biotech which are not available in India. Protect your portfolio from a decrease in the value of the rupee vs the dollar. Save in US dollars for overseas expenses such as children’s education, travel, and medical expenses. Once you are ready to invest in the US market, open a US brokerage account. Doing so is a relatively straightforward online process. Transfer the funds from your bank account to your US brokerage account. Identify the investments you want to make. You can either do the research yourself or rely on guidance that is available in the form of recommended ETFs and curated portfolios. This women’s day foster the investor in you and take the first steps towards financial independence. The writer is chief executive and co-founder of Globalise, a platform for guided global investing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||India||Covid-19: unauthorised political statements invokes false sense of security, says IMA||Public representatives and politicians should not make unauthorised statements indicating that the Covid-19 pandemic is nearing an end as such remarks invoke a "false sense of security" among the people, the Indian Medical Association said on Monday. The association's reaction came after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said that the country is "in the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic" and Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the coronavirus is nearing an "endemic" phase in the national capital. An infection is said to be endemic in a population when it is constantly maintained at a baseline level in a geographic area without external inputs. It is incorrect to say at this stage that it is the end of the pandemic or it is endemic, the doctors' body said. "Unauthorised political statements shall invoke a false sense of security and hence, the Indian Medical Association, whose 740 frontline warriors lost their life in this war against the coronavirus, appeals to all our fellow citizens to be vigilant on wearing mask, physical distancing and hygiene and take vaccination to get yourself immunity and altruistic health contribution for herd immunity," it said. "The introduction of a much efficacious and safe coronavirus vaccine in our country, is a tool for us to face this challenging war with confidence," the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said. Mutated strains of the coronavirus detected in the UK, South Africa and Brazil "are still haunting us", the association said in a statement. The IMA claimed that it has been seen in the last one week that there has been a 35 to 40 per cent increase in the number of cases, and even in the national capital, the daily average has risen from 100 to 140 patients. "It is painful to note that the discussion on endemic versus pandemic status of the disease is echoing in the political corridors. However, it ought to be substantiated by scientific evidence by the World Health Organisation or the ICMR (Indian Council for Medical Research) only," it said. "Let us not boast or (blow the) trumpet ourselves, and indulge in prognosticating the course of this viral disease and off guard our preventive measures against this dreaded disease at this stage," the IMA warned. The IMA feels that as countries are still reeling "under the clutches of this disease, we need to deem it as pandemic only at this stage and work hard" on preventive, curative and rehabilitative works, according to the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
08-03-2021||India|| Budget session likely to conclude before 1st phase of polls||The Budget Session of Parliament is likely to be cut short and may conclude before the first phase of elections on March 27, while the two Houses will resume their normal timing of 11 am onwards from Tuesday, sources said. Several parties had requested that the session, which was originally scheduled to continue till April 8, be curtailed due to the assembly elections in four states and one union territory being held between March 27 and April 29. Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu announced the new timings for the Upper House this morning on the first day of the second part of the Budget Session. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla made a similar announcement later in the day. Birla said Lok Sabha members would also sit in galleries, apparently to maintain distancing norms. Birla made the announcement when the House met at 5 pm after an hour-long adjournment after paying tributes to two sitting and seven former members who died recently. A final decision on curtailment of the session would also be taken by Birla who met floor leaders of various parties on the matter earlier in the day. Keeping in mind the distancing norms due to the COVID-19 pandemic, both Houses were meeting in two shifts since the Monsoon Session, with Rajya Sabha meeting in the first half of the day and Lok Sabha in the second half. There was no Winter Session of Parliament due to the pandemic. Some Rajya Sabha members were sitting in Lok Sabha chambers to adhere to distancing norms. Similar was the case with Lok Sabha members. Some Lok Sabha members were also seated in the visitors' gallery above the House chamber. The move to return to normal timings was taken a day before COVID-19 vaccination drive for members of Parliament begins from Tuesday. Floor leaders of various political parties on Monday urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to curtail the Budget Session to allow them focus on the assembly polls in four states and one union territory. At a meeting of Lok Sabha's Business Advisory Committee (BAC), Birla spoke with various floor leaders on a one-on-one basis to take a sense on curtailing the session which began on Monday. Members of the Trinamool Congress and the DMK did not attend the meeting. Parliamentary sources said the Biju Janata Dal was of the view that assembly elections keep taking place every few months and the session should not be curtailed on this ground. YSR Congress Party member P V Midhun Reddy said if the current session is curtailed, the next session should be longer. Some members said nearly 145 members have written to the Speaker seeking curtailment of the session. In a letter to the Rajya Sabha chairperson, TMC national spokesperson and RS member Derek O'Brien said due to the polls, MPs of his party would not be able to attend the Parliament session. "I am writing to you as the parliamentary party leader (Rajya Sabha) for the All India Trinamool Congress. Sir, we urge you to consider the adjournment of the ensuing Parliament session, because of the declaration of elections in five states," he said. "The Election Commission of India, on 26th February 2021, has announced election for five states, including Bengal. Due to the ongoing intensive election preparations in the State, the members of Parliament from the All India Trinamool Congress would find it difficult to attend the second part of the Budget Session beginning from 8th March 2021," he wrote in the letter. TMC MP Sudeep Bandyopadhyay has also written to the Lok Sabha Speaker on the same issue, requesting that Parliament be adjourned due to the polls. While O'Brien's letter is dated March 8, Bandyopadhyay had written to the LS Speaker on February 6. O'Brien, in his letter, mentioned two precedents when Parliament sessions were adjourned due to polls in states. He cited the example of the 222nd session which commenced on February 21, 2011, and was scheduled to conclude on April 21, 2011. However, due to state assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, the House was adjourned sine die on March 25, 2011, he said. The second instance he provided was of the 214th session which commenced on October 17, 2008, and was adjourned early on October 24, 2008, to meet again on 10 December 2008. The session, as per the original schedule, was to continue up to November 21, 2008. However, due to state assembly elections in some states, the House was adjourned till December 10, 2008.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
08-03-2021||India||Modi keen on showcasing India's freedom movement in 75th independence day celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the celebrations for India's 75 years of independence should reflect the spirit of the country's freedom movement and showcase its achievements to the world since 1947. Speaking after the first meeting of the 259-member high-level national committee headed by the prime minister to commemorate 75 years of India's independence, Modi said public participation should be the basis of the celebrations. "It is an opportunity to showcase to the world our achievements since 1947. We need to tell people about the sacrifice of freedom movement heroes," he said after the virtual meeting. The members of the committee include former president Pratibha Patil, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, 28 chief ministers, artistes like Lata Mangeshkar, A R Rahman, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, senior BJP leader L K Advani, almost all Union ministers and several governors. Opposition leaders like Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and former Uttar Pradesh chief ministers Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati are also part of the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
08-03-2021||India||NIA takes over case of vehicle with explosives near Mukesh Ambani's home||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the case of a vehicle laden with explosives being found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai, an official spokesperson said on Monday. The NIA took over the case following orders from the Ministry of Home Affairs, he said. The agency is in the process of re-registering the case, the spokesperson added. The Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks inside, was found near Ambani's high-rise south Mumbai home on February 25. Police had said the vehicle was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. Hiren Mansukh, the owner of the vehicle, was found dead in a creek in Thane on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
08-03-2021||India||Rape hearing misreported, says SC bench headed by Chief Justice||A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde on Monday said its observations during the hearing of a rape case last week were completely misreported and added that it has the highest respect for women. The comments, on International Women's Day, come in the wake of recent criticism against the Supreme Court that it had purportedly asked a rape accused whether he would marry the victim, who was a minor when the crime was committed. “We (had) asked are you going to marry? We didn't order (him to) 'marry'," the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. It also said the reputation of the judiciary was in the hands of its lawyers. The observations by the bench were made while it was hearing another the case of a 14-year-old pregnant rape survivor seeking permission to abort the foetus of almost 26 weeks. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, it referred to a provision of the Evidence Act and said the query was posed in the context of the records, but the issue was completely misreported. It was earlier stated that the apex court's query asking a rape accused whether he would marry the victim was based on “judicial records” containing an undertaking from the man that he would marry the minor girl, a relative, after she turned 18 years of age. CPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat had written to the Chief Justice asking him to withdraw his remarks reportedly made during the March 1 hearing on the anticipatory bail plea of the accused. Several women's rights activists, eminent citizens, intellectuals, writers and artistes had also penned an open letter to the Chief Justice demanding an apology and retraction of the remarks. Referring to the earlier case, the bench said on Monday, "We do not remember any case of marital rape was before us ...We have the highest respect for women. Our reputation is always at the hands of bar.” The view was endorsed by lawyers. Lawyer V.K. Biju, appearing for the petitioner in the case listed on Monday, said a section of the people was tarnishing the institution and some kind of mechanism was needed to deal this. The Bar Council of India had backed the Supreme Court and asked activists who had written to the CJI to withdraw his remarks to not "scandalise" the highest judiciary and take "political mileage" of its proceedings. In the March 1 observations, the bench headed by Bobde was hearing a plea filed by the accused, serving as a technician in Maharashtra State Electricity Production Company Ltd, who had moved the apex court against the February 5 order of the Bombay High Court February cancelling his anticipatory bail. The man's lawyer said the accused was initially willing to marry the girl but she had refused and now he was married to someone else.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Naidu urges MPs to attend Parliament, observe debates||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said that members should make it a point to be present in the House to enhance understanding of parliamentary procedures and also use the library facility. On the first day of the second part of the Budget Session, Naidu said that he has been told that some members do not attend the proceedings even when they are in the national capital. "Going to library is going to enhance your knowledge. Attending the session, not missing it, also enhances understanding of Parliament procedures. So I call upon members to please visit (Parliament) library, make use of the library...and also please attend Parliament," he said. He further said, "I am told they are in Delhi but they are not present in the House". He, however, made it clear that he was not referring to any particular member or any party. "I appeal to all the members, please make it a point to be in the House and then observe debates, enrich your knowledge," he said. The Parliament Library is completing 100 years this year. It has a huge collection of about 14 lakh books including hundreds of journals in all languages. "I am told that the footfall of Members of Parliament in this source of information and knowledge is not very encouraging," Naidu said, stressing that sufficient homework is required on the part of members to make quality contribution to debates and interventions. Naidu also gave an account of the examination of the Demands for Grants for 2021-22 of various ministries undertaken by the eight Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees of Rajya Sabha during the 3 week-recess after the first part of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament. He referred to several positives that emerged during the Budget scrutiny by the Committees of Rajya Sabha and some concerns as well. Naidu, however, expressed concern over low attendance of members of non-BJP and non-Congress parties in the meetings held for scrutiny of Demands for Grants. Naidu said attendance of such other parties and groups has fallen to 27.60 per cent from 40 per cent last year. Consequently, the overall attendance this year in the 21 meetings has fallen to 42 per cent from 48 per cent last year. The chairman also noted that the new Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge is one of the long serving leaders of our country with vast legislative and administrative experience having been member of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly for a record 9 times without a break and twice member of the Lok Sabha. Kharge was also the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly twice besides being the leader of the largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha. Earlier, three newly elected BJP members Biswajit Daimary, Dineshchandra Jemalbhai and Rambhai Haribhai Mokariya took oath or affirmation of allegiance to the Constitution. The House also made obituary reference to Vidya Sagar Nishad, M. Rama Jois, and Satish Sharma, all former members of the House, who passed away recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||BJP strategy in place to take on Naveen govt in Odisha||The BJP has chalked out strategies to attack the Naveen Patnaik government in Odisha over issues ranging from inter-state border disputes with Andhra Pradesh and Bengal to crimes against women and political violence. Odisha's principal opposition party, during its state executive meeting on Sunday, called upon its members to put in additional efforts to reach out to the people, who have given eight Lok Sabha seats and 22 assembly constituencies to the BJP in the 2019 elections. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who along with another central minister Pratap Sarangi attended the meeting, called upon the cadre to highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. He exuded confidence of forming the next government in the state under the guidance of BJP chief J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. After a brainstorming session, the BJP chalked out strategies to attack the BJD government over issues ranging from border disputes with Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal to rising political violence in the state. The state executive meeting passed three political drafts and prepared a roadmap to win people's confidence. Alleging massive irregularities in PM Awas Yojna in the state, it claimed that not a single work-order was issued to any beneficiary in the last one-and-a-half-years. The saffron party claimed that Odisha has topped the lists of crimes against women and missing children, while there has been a steady rise in unemployment and beneficiaries of MGNREGA and other welfare schemes are being chosen according to their political affiliations. "The 550 police stations in the state are functioning as BJD party offices and political violence is continuing unabated like neighbouring West Bengal. The law enforcers are yet to disclose the progress in the investigations into the killings of 16 BJP workers in the state," BJP state vice- president Bhrugu Buxipatra said after the meeting. He claimed that the Centre has sanctioned huge financial assistance to the state administration for the inclusive development of Odisha but the BJD government has deliberately neglected the projects due to its vested political interests. He claimed that the BJD government is destroying heritage monuments in Bhubaneswar and Puri in the name of beautification. The BJP leader said the party is preparing a specific strategy to take on the BJD in the upcoming by-election to Pipili assembly constituency. Dismissing the BJP's allegations, BJD lawmaker and former minister Sashi Bhusan Behera said, "The BJP is struggling in Odisha for the last two decades as people have repeatedly rejected the party." "People, who are the masters, have blessed the BJD for five consecutive terms," party vice-president Debi Prasad Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day||The Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day without transacting any legislative business amid an uproar by Opposition members who were demanding a discussion on the rising fuel prices. The Rajya Sabha was first adjourned around 10.05 am till 11 am and again till 1 pm on day one of the second leg of the Budget Session. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge had given a notice for suspension of business on March 8 and a discussion on the "huge and frequent increase in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG even when global prices are ruling low". Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu mentioned Kharge's notice and disapproved the discussion. Naidu said the issue can be debated "during the course of discussion on the Appropriation bill". There will also be enough opportunities "during the Budget part of the session", he said. However the chairman asked Kharge to mention the subject of the notice in the House considering his seniority. Kharge said, "You are well aware, now petrol prices are nearly Rs 100 per litre and diesel prices are more than Rs 80 per litre. LPG rates have also increased and all petroleum products have gone up." He added that there has been nearly 820 per cent increase in the prices of petrol and around 258 per cent in excise duty after 2014. He described it as a burning subject and said people are agitating across the country. "That's why we are requesting you to suspend all the rules under Rule 267 and give us a chance to speak on this subject. Ultimately, what is the government going to tell about this," Kharge said. But the chairman did not agree to Kharge's demand. "You know the Rule 267, it is at the discretion of the Chair. I have gone through it. There are enough opportunities to debate including during discussion on the Appropriation Bill. "Still you are a senior and Leader of the Opposition, you have given a notice and I have allowed you to mention the subject. You have rightly mentioned the subject and we will leave it there." Kharge persisted with the demand and said the entire country is suffering. But the chair said, "It is important. We should run the House. It is the first day (of the second leg of the Budget session). Please don't waste time. Please bear with me, I have allowed you to express your views. and you have clearly expressed it. Then we must go on." "Every issue is important. Now it is Question Hour," he added. However, Opposition members began shouting slogans demanding a debate. Naidu kept asking members to return to their seats and not deprive members of Question Hour. The Opposition members were relentless in their demand and kept on shouting. "If you don't want the Question Hour to continue, if you want to deprive people of Question Hour, I can adjourn the House. .... Please go to your seat. 'Loktantra ka mazak nahi karna hai'...," the chairman said. As members continued to shout, he adjourned the House till 11 am. When the House re-assembled at 11 am, Congress members again demanded a discussion on rising fuel prices in the country. Kharge again sought a discussion on the matter. He said it was important to discuss it as people were suffering and legislative business could be taken up later. Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the Chair, however did not allow the discussion and noted that the decision of the Rajya Sabha chairman cannot be reopened. The bills listed for consideration and passing, according to the list of business, are The Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021; The National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2019; and The Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Earlier, three newly elected members to the House had taken oath. Besides, obituary references were made about Vidya Sagar Nishad, M Rama Jois, and Satish Sharma, all former members of the House who passed away recently. Naidu also gave a brief account of the examination of the Demands for Grants for 2021-22 of various ministries undertaken by the eight Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees of the Rajya Sabha during the three week recess after the first part of the ongoing Budget Session. Several members also spoke of International Women's Day. The second part of the Budget Session, which began on Monday, is scheduled to conclude on April 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||India logs over 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 97 casualties in a day||New cases of coronavirus infection in India were recorded above 18,000 for the third consecutive day taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,12,29,398, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The active cases also registered an increase for the sixth consecutive day and the COVID-19 active caseload increased to 1,88,747 which now comprises 1.68 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has dropped further to 96.91 per cent, the data stated. A total of 18,599 new infections were registered in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,57,853 with 97 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,82,798 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.91 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,19,68,271 samples have been tested up to March 7 with 5,37,764 samples being tested on Sunday. The 97 new fatalities include 38 from Maharashtra, 17 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. A total of 1,57,853 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,478 from Maharashtra followed by 12,518 from Tamil Nadu, 12,362 from Karnataka, 10,921 from Delhi, 10,278 from West Bengal, 8,737 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,174 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||TMC seeks adjournment of Parliament session||The Trinamool Congress on Monday sought an adjournment of the Parliament session citing assembly elections in five states of the country. In a letter to the Rajya Sabha Chairman, TMC national spokesperson and RS member Derek O'Brien said due to the polls, MPs of his party would not be able to attend the Parliament session. "I am writing to you as the Parliamentary Party leader (Rajya Sabha) for the All India Trinamool Congress. Sir, we urge you to consider the adjournment of the ensuing Parliament session, because of the declaration of elections in five states," he said. "The Election Commission of India, on 26th February 2021, has announced election for five states, including Bengal. Due to the ongoing intensive election preparations in the State, the Members of Parliament from the All India Trinamool Congress would find it difficult to attend the second part of the Budget Session beginning from 8th March 2021," he wrote in the letter. TMC MP Sudeep Bandyopadhyay has also written to the Lok Sabha Speaker on the same issue, requesting that Parliament be adjourned due to the polls. While O'Brien's letter is dated March 8, Bandyopadhyay had written to the LS Speaker on February 6. The second part of the Budget session of Parliament began on Monday but its duration is likely to be curtailed as most top politicians would be busy campaigning for assembly polls taking place in March-April. As of now, the session will conclude on April 8. O'Brien, in his letter, mentioned two precedents when Parliament sessions were adjourned due to polls in states. He cited the example of the 222nd session which commenced on February 21, 2011, and was scheduled to conclude on April 21, 2011. However, due to upcoming state assembly elections in five states -- Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, the House was adjourned sine die on March 25, 2011, he said. The second instance he provided was the 214th session which commenced on October 17, 2008, and was adjourned early on October 24, 2008, to meet again on 10 December 2008. The session, as per the original schedule, was to continue up to November 21, 2008. However, due to upcoming state assembly elections in some states, the House was adjourned till December 10, 2008. "I am optimistic you will consider this proposal of ours," the TMC leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Budget session: Opposition to discuss fuel and farmers in House||The Congress and other Opposition parties have decided to kick up a ruckus over the high fuel prices in both Houses of Parliament during the second half of the budget session, which starts on Monday. The Congress will move an adjournment motion on the subject on Monday, which is likely to be a non-starter as the Narendra Modi government never lets this emergency parliamentary device stop normal business to discuss an urgent issue. Opposition members also plan to disrupt proceedings to highlight how the people are being made to endure high prices for petrol, diesel and cooking gas at a time crude prices in the international market have been low. The Congress plans to demand a discussion on the farmers’ movement too. During the first half of the session, the government had refused a separate discussion on the farmers’ protest, arguing the matter could be raised during the debate on the motion of thanks to the President’s address. However, the Opposition parties believe that Parliament will lose its relevance if it fails to debate the biggest mass movement witnessed in independent India. A meeting of the Congress’s parliamentary strategy committee on Sunday decided that a fresh demand would be made for a full-fledged discussion on the movement, which has completed 100 days. Most party leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, expressed deep anguish at the government’s handling of the farmers’ movement. “What is the purpose of having a Parliament session if the most important issue is not allowed to be debated?” a senior Congress leader who attended Sunday’s meeting told The Telegraph. “Lakhs of farmers are sitting outside Delhi’s borders; over 200 have died. This is the biggest movement in independent India. Parliament should discuss this for a full two days and resolve the deadlock.” Other issues that the Opposition has identified include the atrocities on women in states like Uttar Pradesh, the rising unemployment, and the government’s plan to put curbs on social and mainstream media amid reports that a Group of Ministers had suggested a plan to “neutralise” critical journalists. Another subject the Congress is keen to raise is deep sea fishing in Kerala, which has become a big issue in the election-bound state, raising the party’s hopes in the coastal areas. Kerala’s Left government has signed a deal with an American firm for deep sea fishing and allied processing, angering the fishing community. The Congress has described the deal as a conspiracy to sell off the state’s marine wealth, arguing this will endanger the livelihoods of lakhs of fishermen. The session is bound to be stormy as it is being held under the shadow of Assembly elections in five states, where multiple Opposition parties are locked in fierce battle against the BJP and against one another. While the BJP has mounted an offensive on the Trinamul government in Bengal, the Congress is striving to wrest Assam from the BJP. The fault-lines in the Opposition camp too will become increasingly visible with the Congress and the Left fighting each other in Kerala while joining hands to take on Trinamul in Bengal. The AIADMK and the DMK are engaged in a keen tussle in Tamil Nadu. With electioneering set to peak in these states within the next few days, the session could well be curtailed. While the government would like to wrap the session up after passing the Finance Bill to avoid any uproar over the farmers’ movement and petroleum prices, the Opposition would not be averse to a truncated session, either, because of the elections. Many regional parties have already written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu to abridge the session, now scheduled to end on April 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Apple growers across states unite to fight for their rights||An invasion by “Iranian” apples has hit the apple growers of Kashmir and their long-time rivals from mainland India equally, prompting them to unite to fight for their rights. These farmers say the countrywide farmer protests inspired them to come together, and that they would eventually join the wider movement against the “corporate threat” to farmers. Several organisations representing apple farmers from Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Friday announced a joint platform, the Hill States’ Horticulture Forum. The farmers allege that some private players are importing Iranian apples and selling them illegally as “Afghan apples” to avoid paying duties, thus selling them cheap and hurting Indian apple growers. “Afghan apples are exempt from taxes under the Saarc free trade agreement, but Afghanistan has a very small volume of export-quality apples,” Mohammad Ashraf Wani, president of the Shopian Apple Growers’ Association, told The Telegraph. “We believe that what we are getting here are Iranian apples. They sell for Rs 60 a kilo against our price of, say, Rs 100 a kilo. We are losing a few hundred rupees for every box of apple we sell.” While this is the farmers’ immediate concern, they would eventually look beyond apples and fight for “small and marginal farmers” against the “imminent threat” of “corporate farming”, said Sanjay Chouhan, a farmer leader from Himachal who is here to help with the unity bid. “The ongoing farm crisis in the country has played a key role in convincing us to join hands with other states to fight for our rights,” he added. Wani said: “Kashmir’s apple growers invited them (their counterparts from Himachal and Uttarakhand) to fight for our rights and they readily accepted.” He said some 20 thousand tonnes of Iranian apples had already arrived in India. “Afghanistan’s total apple production is not more than one lakh tonnes, of which a very small percentage is export-quality. Afghanistan harvests apples in September and October and has no cold storages. How can its apples hit the markets here in February and March?” he said. A team of six farmer leaders – Sanjay Chouhan, Harish Chouhan, Sunil Chouhan and Sandeep Chouhan from Himachal and Swarika Prasad and Praveen Sharma from Uttarakhand – had come to the Valley to help float the joint forum. Some of them are visiting the Valley for the first time and appeared awed by Kashmiri hospitality. “It’s like what we experience at home, and is contrary to what we had heard about Kashmir,” Sanjay, general secretary of the Himachal Kissan Sabha, told this newspaper. He said the “Iranian apples” were a big concern for Himachal’s farmers too. “Our state earns Rs 5,000 crore annually from the apple crop – our biggest source of earning. Some 2.73 lakh families rely on the apple harvest,” he said. Harish Chouhan, president of the Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers Association of Himachal Pradesh, said the people of the three hill states “share their lifestyle and food habits and produce the same fruits”, and there was no reason they could not fight together for their livelihood. “People are taking losses and have therefore joined hands,” said Majid Wafai, president of the Cold Storage Owners Association in Kashmir. He said the Valley’s farmers had more than one lakh tonne apples in storage for the off season and had been expecting good prices after two bad years when the “Iranian apple” threat hit them. The scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019 had prompted some apple growers to suspend trading with their peers from outside the region in protest, hitting the apple business. The pandemic affected sales last year. Wani said Jammu and Kashmir grew around 22 lakh tonne apples a year compared with 5-10 lakh tonnes in Himachal and 0.5 to 1 lakh tonne in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Haryana government to seek views on job reservation in private sector||The Haryana government is ready to consider suggestions from industry bodies while framing rules for the law that provides for 75 per cent job reservation in the private sector for candidates from the state, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday. The first meeting for the framing of the rules will be held here on Monday, he said. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, reserves three-fourths of private-sector jobs for candidates with domicile certificates as long as the monthly salary is below Rs 50,000. “It will be our endeavour to frame the rules by the end of this month. Next month, we will run employment drives in all 22 districts and 67 employment exchanges in the state,” Chautala, who holds the industries portfolio, told a news conference. Responding to criticism from within and outside industry, he said many people had “misconceptions” about the law and underlined that Haryana was not the only state to have enacted such reservation. Chautala said the state government had held eight meetings with industry associations before the law’s passage, “and even now we will hold consultations with them”. “After consultations, if we have to incorporate some technical things in the rules, we will do that so that industry comes to our state in an even bigger way,” he said. “We will now seek suggestions from industry associations of our state and chambers of industry bodies. We will write to them with copies of the bill and seek suggestions for framing the rules.” Under the law, 75 per cent of jobs with a monthly salary of less than Rs 50,000 will be reserved for local candidates. Local candidates are defined as people who were either born in Haryana or have lived in the state for the past 15 years. Companies are allowed to apply for exemption if local candidates with the required skills are not available. The designated officer will conduct an inquiry and then decide whether to accept or reject an application or to direct the company to train the candidates available. Industry chambers voiced concern at the legislation and sought a relook. A large number of MNCs and Indian corporate houses are based in Gurgaon and other NCR cities that are part of Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||49-year-old farmer hangs self over ‘farm laws’||A 49-year-old farmer from Hisar, Haryana, on Sunday allegedly hanged himself from a tree about 7km from the Tikri protest site on Delhi’s border. Police said Rajbir has left a suicide note in which he has blamed the three new farm laws brought by the Centre for his death. He has appealed to the government to fulfil his last wish and repeal the laws. “Rajbir hailed from a village in Hisar district. He was found hanging from a tree,” Bahadurgarh city police station SHO Vijay Kumar said over phone. Last month, a farmer from Jind in Haryana who was also supporting the agitation against the new farm laws had allegedly hanged himself from a tree 2km from the Tikri border protest site. Earlier, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He had died during trea­tment at a Delhi hospital later. In December last, a lawyer from Punjab had allegedly killed himself by consuming poison a few kilometres away from the protest site at the Tikri border. Earlier, Sikh preacher Sant Ram Singh had also allegedly ended his life near the Singhu border protest site, claiming that he was “unable to bear the pain of the farmers”. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November last year at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Co­mmerce (Promotion and Facil­itation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases: Mutation question in surge||A team of health experts probing Maharashtra’s sharp rise in Covid-19 cases over the past month has hinted at the possibility that mutations could have made the novel coronavirus more infectious but less virulent. The three-member team said that while pandemic fatigue among the public and laxity in public health responses have likely contributed to the surge in multiple districts, the increase in cases, especially in Amravati, also point to possible mutation. The team, in a report submitted to the Union health ministry earlier this week, said there is a “possibility of a virus mutation making it more infectious and less virulent.” There is a “sense that the current wave is less virulent,” the report said. Senior scientists and health researchers, however, cautioned that there is no evidence yet from either genome sequencing efforts or from mortality data in the public domain that there has been any change in characteristics of the virus circulating in India. The suggestion being made of a more infectious and less virulent virus is likely based on epidemiological data and some speculation, a senior scientist at one of the 10 national labs involved in genome sequencing the virus told The Telegraph. “It would be best to wait for more sequencing,” the scientist said. Health officials familiar with the report did not respond to a query from this newspaper asking whether the team’s suggestion about a “less virulent” virus was speculation or backed by epidemiological or sequencing data. Experts guiding the government’s response to Covid-19 also said they have not yet seen any mortality data displaying a dip in mortality coinciding with the surge in cases that some states have experienced over the past four weeks. “India’s case fatality rate has consistently been lower than what has been documented in several developed countries,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a senior epidemiologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Muliyil, relying on a study from Europe on the age-distribution of Covid-19 deaths, had estimated last year that India would experience around 2.2 million deaths during the first year of the pandemic. “We’re today at around 157,000 – far from what we’d predicted,” Muliyil said. “India’s lower levels of obesity and higher levels of vitamin D may have contributed to keeping mortality low. There may be other factors too.” Coronavirus genome sequencing efforts in India have detected the presence of what scientists call “variants of interest” because they contain specific mutations that might allow them to evade antibodies or spread easier. “But as of now, they are not yet variants of public health concern,” a senior health official said. “There is no evidence yet to suggest that the current surge in some states are due to any specific variants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
08-03-2021||India||Activist withdraws sex-for-job complaint against BJP lawmaker||A social activist who recently released video clips of a sex-for-job scam that forced the resignation of Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has sought to withdraw his police complaint against the BJP lawmaker allegedly because he was accused of extortion. Dinesh Kallahalli told reporters on Sunday that he was hurt by allegations of extortion raised by former chief minister and Janata Dal Secular leader H.D. Kumaraswamy. Kumaraswamy had on Friday said that the release of the incriminating video clips was part of an extortion bid by Kallahalli. The video clips released last week showed a man resembling Jarkholi in a compromising position with a young woman in what appeared to be a hotel room. While Jarkiholi had later pleaded innocence and claimed he had no idea about the woman, the BJP leadership forced him to resign to avoid further embarrassment. A lawyer representing Kallahalli went to Cubbon Road police station on Sunday and handed over a hand-written application seeking the withdrawal of his (Kallahalli’s) complaint that had sought a detailed investigation into the video clips released on March 2. In the application, Kallahalli said another reason that drove him to withdraw his complaint was the interest of the victim and expressed disappointment over the video clips finding way to social media where it was being widely circulated. “In my complaint I had only sought an investigation to see if there was sexual harassment (of the victim). But the whole thing backfired on me and the victim with people casting aspersions on our intentions,” he said in the letter. “Instead of supporting me, many opted to shoot the messenger,” he lamented citing how he was only a messenger who released the video clips on behalf of the family members of the victim. The minister had allegedly taken advantage of the woman by promising her a government job but failed to keep his promise. A city court had on Friday restrained media from broadcasting or printing images from the video clips. The court passed the order after hearing an injunction suit Jarkiholi’s lawyers had filed on Wednesday. The court also gave temporary injunction to six Karnataka ministers who had sought a media gag against publishing any defamatory material against them. The ministers, Shivaram Hebbar, BC Patil, ST Somashekar, K Sudhakar, KC Narayana Gowda, and Byrathi Basavaraj were part of the 17 lawmakers, that included Jarkiholi, who quit the JDS-Congress coalition in 2019 and defected to BJP leading the collapse of the government. This follows speculations in political circles that several audio or video clips have surfaced in the state. But their exact nature is not known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
08-03-2021||India||Giriraj Singh’s sticks annoy Bihar chief minister ||Union minister Giriraj Singh’s declamation that officials who did not listen to the people be “beaten up with bamboo sticks” was on Sunday frowned upon by his former boss Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. Singh made the remark at an event in his Begusarai Lok Sabha constituency on Saturday. The firebrand BJP leader was visibly peeved over repeated complaints from residents that officials often paid no heed when they were approached with grievances. Kumar, in whose cabinet Singh had served till less than a decade ago, was asked by journalists what he thought about the utterances.“You should go and ask Giriraj whether the use of such language is nyaysangat (proper),” said Kumar, a stickler for propriety in public behaviour, with a broad smile barely concealing his detestation. The Union minister had made the remark at the event organised by an agricultural institute. Singh, who earlier represented Nawada but won Begusarai for his party by defeating CPI’s Kanhaiya Kumar by a margin of over four lakh votes, holds animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy portfolios. A video footage of the event has been widely circulated on social media. Singh can be heard lamenting: “People come to me with the complaint that officials do not listen (nai sunaichhe, an idiom in local Angika dialect).” “If that is the case, baans lekar maaro (beat them up with bamboo sticks),” said the MP, known for shooting from the hip, as some of the audience burst into laughter. “If you are approaching an official with a genuine grouse, you do not even need to come to me asking for help. Stand your ground. Giriraj is there with you, always. It is you (the people) in whom the real power is vested, not MPs, MLAs, DMs, BDOs or Mukhiyas,” he had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Five sitting MLAs of TMC, many others join BJP||The Trinamool Congress on Monday lost five more sitting MLAs and the control of the Malda Zilla Parishad to the BJP as defections continued to rock Bengal's ruling party ahead of the assembly polls. Four-time MLAs Sonali Guha, a close associate of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee for decades, and 80-year-old Rabindranath Bhattacharya, a prominent face of the Singur movement, joined the saffron party after they were denied poll tickets. Another four-time legislator, 85-year-old Jatu Lahiri, and former footballer Dipendu Biswas, a first-time MLA, also switched sides after their names did not feature in the TMC's candidate list released on March 5. They were handed over party flags by BJP state president Dilip Ghosh in the presence of other leaders such as Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy. One more TMC MLA, Sital Sardar. also joined the saffron party later. Hours after being replaced due to "ill health", Sarala Murmu, the TMC candidate of the Habibpur constituency in Malda district, also switched sides. There was speculation earlier that she might join the BJP as she did not get the seat she had desired. The party replaced her with Pradeep Baskey in the morning. A number of sitting TMC MLAs, including ministers, have joined the saffron camp in recent months. The BJP also took control of the 38-member Malda Zilla Parishad after its 22 members changed sides. Bengali actress Tanusree Chakraborty also joined the BJP. Assembly elections in the state will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dig at PM over using his picture in Covid vaccine certificates||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "spreading lies and canards" against the TMC government, and said voters, this time, would witness 'Didi versus BJP' fight in all 294 constituencies of the poll-bound state. Taking a dig at Modi over inclusion of his picture in Covid-19 vaccination certificates, she said the "day wasn't far when the country will be named after him". Asserting that she will return to power for the third consecutive time in Bengal, the feisty TMC boss said, "The fight is between me and the BJP in all 294 seats." "They (BJP leaders) will come to Bengal only during elections and spread canards and lies. He is lecturing us on women's safety. What is the situation of women in BJP-ruled states? What is the situation in Modi's favourite Gujarat? "The prime minister has named a stadium after him. He has put his photographs on COVID-19 vaccination certificates. A day will come when the country will be named after him," Banerjee, who led a rally here on the occasion of International Women's Day, stated. Rebutting the PM's claim that women do not feel safe in Bengal, she said, "Had that been the case, they wouldn't have been able to move around freely at night." Hitting out at the PM, Banerjee also said that Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah should shift focus on BJP- ruled states, including 'model state' Gujarat, "where, media reports suggest, four rapes and two killings have been recorded every day over the past two years." The TMC rally, which commenced in the College Square area in central Calcutta, concluded near Dorina crossing, five kilometres away. Senior party leaders Chandrima Bhattacharyaa and Mala Roy joined the march. Among others, actresses and now TMC candidates June Maliya, Saayoni Ghosh and Sayantika Banerjee were also seen taking part in the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee draws attention towards rising cost of cooking gas||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday focused on everyday issues, drawing attention to the rising cost of cooking gas and linking it to a leader obsessed with building a personality cult while the common people suffered. The chief minister, who held a protest march along Hill Cart Road in Siliguri with tens of thousands of women, addressed a public meeting at Hashmi Chowk at the end of the rally. Unlike Modi, who in his 70-minute speech in Calcutta appeared to take a scattershot approach without a definite narrative, Mamata was precise and concentrated her firepower on specific issues. “The price of LPG cylinders is about to touch Rs 1,000. Those running the country have not made any move so far to arrest the hike. We provide food grains free of cost and, in a similar manner, cylinders should be distributed free among the people,” Mamata said. The chief minister sought to contrast the price rise with the recent actions of the Prime Minister. “The Prime Minister keeps coming here for a political campaign… but it is unfortunate that he is only here for political propaganda and even speaks lies. He has renamed after himself a stadium named after Sardar Patel and now, it seems, he intends to rename the country after himself,” the Trinamul Congress chief said, making her first public speech after the announcement of candidates for the eight-phase Bengal Assembly polls. “He (Modi) has even emblazoned his photo in the Covid-19 injection…. he himself is Covid-19, the virus, and you should not get anywhere close to him. He was never seen here during the pandemic and was into the virtual mode of communication. I, on the other hand, had been on the streets, putting out markings (to ensure social distancing),” the chief minister said, attempting to drive home the point that when the Prime Minister and his party leaders were indoors, she had stepped out to stand with people during crises. Over the past few weeks, BJP leaders functioning in different tiers, including Modi, the party’s national chief J.P. Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah, have repeatedly tried to exert pressure on Mamata by raising issues such as the alleged highhandedness of illegal syndicates and extortion. “There is only one syndicate in this country… it is run by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. They are selling off all national assets to serve the interests of their friends. These people committed the real tolabaji (extortion)…. These days, these two people have turned even the BJP into a Union Territory, where everybody else has been silenced,” Mamata said. Responding to Modi’s questions on law and order in Bengal, Mamata asked him about the BJP-ruled states. “Women here can move around at any hour of day or night but in Uttar Pradesh, they can’t go out after 3pm. The situation is similar in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat. They should not comment on law and order in Bengal,” the chief minister said. She scoffed at the BJP’s campaign for “Sonar Bangla” and accused the party of failing to run the country properly. “They have sold off the Red Fort in Delhi and may have plans to sell even the Taj Mahal…. These people are speaking of ‘Sonar Bangla’. If voted to power, they will divide Bengal and sell it,” Mamata said. Since the beginning of the march, intermittent slogans of “Khela hobe (the game is afoot)” resonated on the streets of Siliguri. While addressing the gathering, Mamata too uttered the phrase, which is fast gaining popularity ahead of the polls. “I want to say ‘Khela hobe’ and challenge the Prime Minister to fix the date and venue. I am ready to contest, one on one, and will make them realise that Mamata Banerjee is made of sterner stuff than they give her credit for,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi happy with Brigade Parade Grounds turnout||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said on Brigade Parade Grounds here that he had seen such a big crowd for the first time in his long political career. “In my political career I had the opportunity to address hundreds of political rallies. But it is the first time in my long career that I have got blessings from such a huge crowd. I found from my chopper that there was no space on the grounds and all roads in the town were filled by people trying to come here,” Modi said at the start of his speech. Later, he said no one would doubt that the BJP will wrest the seat of power in Bengal after hearing the crowd’s roar. Sunday’s Brigade turnout was the biggest that the BJP has had in Bengal. Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta claimed over 20 lakh had come when the party had targeted around 10 lakh. Calcutta police claimed turnout was around 4 lakh, roughly what it was on February 28 when the Congress-Left-ISF held its rally. “The 10 lakh-20 lakh claim means nothing...The area of the Brigade is 4,66,000 sq ft... A significant part of it is left for the stage and security zone. Assuming each person has 1 sqft of space, the count at any point of time can’t be more than 3 lakh," said a police source. Some senior police officers said the ground became smaller as a large space was kept vacant as security zone for the Prime Minister. “If you look from the dais, you will see a very large area called D-zone in front of the main dais left vacant for security,” said a police source. Amal Haldar, the state secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said he personally attended the Brigade grounds on February 28 when the space was “actually filled up”. “Today (Sunday) I saw that the dais was in front to make the ground smaller. There were so many vacant places in the ground if you see the ground from different angles,” he said. Several old timers said it is considered that there were two largest rallies in Brigade Parade ground and no rallies crossed the record so far. One in 1955, when Nikolai Bulganin and Nikita Khrushchev arrived in India in November for the first official visit of Soviet leaders after 1947. The second was by Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman who attended the Brigade ground rally in 1972. Since the saffron party started preparation for Modi's Brigade rally, it became a challenge for them as they knew that the turnout would be compared with the February 28 show. As a result, the party gave an “unrealistic” target to each district in Bengal to bring 50,000 to 60,000 people with mandatory representation from all booths. “We were asked to take as many people as we can. It was a historic Brigade and it was enough to overwhelm our Prime Minister,” said a senior BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Thousands of women march at Mamata rally in Siliguri||Thousands of women came out on the streets of Siliguri on Sunday to march with Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee and other women leaders of her party in protest of the LPG price hike. In the run-up to the crucial Bengal polls, Mamata Banerjee and her party leaders have been focusing on women voters who form almost 50 per cent of Bengal’s voters. The party is flagging the hike in the price of LPG cylinders, an emotive issue Trinamul believes can help drum up support of “mothers and sisters”. That the strategy worked, at least for now, was evident from Sunday’s crowd of 50,000-odd among whom 75 per cent were women. At the march, Mamata, carrying a “BJP fail” placard, walked briskly with thousands of women, including INTTUC president Dola Sen, state president of Trinamul Mahila Congress Chandrima Bhattacharya, MPs Nusrat Jahan and Mimi Chakraborty and Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri. Some party supporters carried a giant model of a cylinder throughout the rally from near Mainak Tourist Lodge to Hashmi Chowk, covering 2.8km along Hill Cart Road. “In January 2020, the chief minister marched on the same route in protest of the  NRC and CAA with around 35,000 people. But today, the larger crowd proves this LPG issue has struck a chord among women,” an observer said. On the dais at Hashmi Chowk, where Mamata spoke in front of the backdrop of the slogan “Mahilara Didir Sathe” (women are with Didi), the audience heard out Mamata and other women leaders. The sole male speaker was minister Gautam Deb. Mamata also spoke on welfare schemes her government floated for women and drew parallels with BJP-ruled states on law and order and women’s safety. Nusrat, in her speech, spoke about the struggles of Mamata and how the chief minister has worked for empowerment of women. Mimi, on the other hand, was short and underlined the slogan “Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay” (Bengal only wants its daughter). Both drew huge applause from the audience. “The planning of the entire event was meticulously made to reach out to the women voters. Those in the saffron camp might have slammed the state government here over law and order issues but are yet to come up with such a specific strategy to draw support,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP with cobra quip||The saffron camp, apparently in a bid to establish a Bengal connect, produced on the Brigade dais Mithun Chakraborty, who joined the BJP on Sunday to complete a full circle in politics from the far Left in his youth to the far right at age 70. The BJP, having lost the opportunity of fielding the seemingly unassailable BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly, purportedly because of his health, tried pitching the veteran actor as its prize catch for the Narendra Modi event. Chakraborty ruled nothing out in his interaction with journalists after the event, including the possibility of being “the face” of the BJP’s campaign to wrest Bengal from Mamata Banerjee. The actor, who showed up in Bengali dhuti-kurta, underscored his “proud Bengali” credentials and played to the gallery. “Those who try to snatch people’s rights, some like us (pointing at BJP leaders) will stand firm as obstacles….Marbo ekhaney, lash porbey shawshaney (I will hit you here, and your corpse will land in a crematorium),” said Chakraborty to loud cheers. “...Everything that has been said here (by the BJP leaders on the dais), if all of that is put together, what it means is this: Heley noi, jawldhnorao noi, beleyborao noi. Ami…amra jaat gokhro. Ek chhoboley chhobi (I am not a non-venomous snake. I am…we are purebred cobras. One bite is enough to kill)…,” he added, apparently referring to his new party’s leadership striving to win Bengal. By joining the BJP on Sunday, Chakraborty went in over five decades from being a Naxalite activist in his youth, to a CPM-backer later, to becoming a Rajya Sabha member briefly as a Trinamul leader, to enlisting in the BJP. “Today is a dream come true for me. I came from a narrow cul-de-sac behind the Jorabagan police station (in north Calcutta)…back then, I had dreamt I would do something with my life. But never did I dream that I would be part of such a dais...where the Prime Minister of the world’s largest democracy is supposed to arrive...” said the three-time National Award-winning actor, who has been a singer, producer, writer, social worker, entrepreneur, television presenter and politician. “I also had another dream. That I would do something for the poor. Today, I feel, I can see that dream again...” he added, apparently explaining his decision to return to politics after a hiatus of over five years. In 2015, Mamata had said Chakraborty was keeping away from her because of a fear of political witch-hunt in the Saradha scam. This was a year after she had sent him to the Rajya Sabha, and a year before he stepped down. Chakraborty was not an accused in the Saradha case. He had been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate as he was one of the brand ambassadors of Saradha. When he quit Trinamul, sources close to him had said he was shattered when his name was dragged into the controversy. Chakraborty used to be known for his desire to help people in need. He also took pride in being among the highest income-tax payers in the country, a rarity in show business in the 1980s when his Bollywood movies were box-office hits and he was known as the “poor man’s Amitabh Bachchan”. Even in 2006-07, his role as a thug-turned-politician with a heart of gold in the Fatakeshto films had found wide acceptability among the audience in Bengal. After the event, speaking to journalists, Chakraborty said plans were being drawn up for him to be a key part of an extensive campaign schedule across the state for his new party. He said would not blame anybody or say anything foul against his former party or its leadership. “It was my own decision (to join Trinamul). A bad one, a wrong one,” he said, after a 15-minute one-on-one. Asked specifically if he is to be the BJP’s face — the de facto chief ministerial candidate for its Bengal campaign — Chakraborty neither confirmed nor denied it, saying: “I will not break protocol.” “In any case, I am a man of films. Why should I say everything at one go? It will all slowly be revealed,” he added. Trinamul veteran Subrata Mukherjee said Chakraborty’s move was “unfortunate”. “He is a very good man, a good human being…I don’t know what happened for him to take this unfortunate decision,” said the senior minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata turns up heat on Teesta water-sharing||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday referred to the contentious water-sharing issue of the Teesta river as she lambasted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government. “They didn’t bother to consult the state (Bengal) government before finalising the sharing of Teesta waters…we have cordial relations with Bangladesh and I respect (its) Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina….But we can afford to provide water only when we have enough for ourselves,” she said, coining a slogan, “Teesta, Uttarbanga ka hissa (Teesta, a part of north Bengal)”. Mamata’s stance is being seen as a two-fold strategy to fan the sentiments of north Bengal voters and exert pressure on Modi, who is supposed to visit Bangladesh — with which the water-sharing treaty is yet to be inked — this month. The Bangladesh government for years has been speaking on a treaty to ensure more water supply from the Teesta to its country. While the Centre wants the treaty, the Mamata government has not assented, as during the lean season, water levels are abysmal. A commitment to Bangladesh can pose a problem for certain areas of north Bengal, it avers. The Teesta flows down Sikkim and moves through  districts of Kalimpong, Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri in Bengal to enters Bangladesh near Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar. Last December, when Hasina and Modi attended a virtual bilateral summit, Hasina had raised the issue again. It, sources said, is likely to be raised again during Modi’s proposed visit to Bangladesh on March 26, when Bangladesh celebrates its 50th Independence Day. A political analyst pointed out that ahead of Assembly elections, Mamata is trying to put the pressure back on BJP on the Teesta water issue. On the other hand, there is consistent pressure from Bangladesh. “It is evident that she tried to stoke the sentiments of north Bengal residents, particularly those living in the districts through which the river passes,” pointed a political observer. “She also took up the onus to prove the point that the BJP is not sincere in considering the interests of the people here who use the Teesta water for several purposes.” “It would be interesting to see how the Prime Minister and his government handle the situation. It cannot afford to strain its ties with Bangladesh. On the other hand, any abrupt move or commitment on the sharing of Teesta’s water can antagonise voters in north Bengal where the BJP had performed well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi's scooter barb against CM sidesteps fuel price  hike||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday appeared to mock chief minister Mamata Banerjee by bringing up a near-accident that she had while riding an e-scooter in Calcutta to protest the fuel and LPG price hikes on February 25. Speaking at the Brigade Parade Grounds rally on Sunday afternoon, Modi conveniently kept the rhetoric on a personal level and brushed aside actual facts of the price hike that had fuelled Mamata’s protest. “Everyone started to pray for your wellness when you handled a scooty a few days ago and prayed you would not suffer injuries....It was good that you did not fall down. Otherwise, you would make an enemy of the state which produced the scooter. If the scooter-producing state was in south (India), you would make the south the enemy and if it was north, you would make the north the enemy,” said Modi. On February 25, the chief minister had staged a protest clubbed with a demand for price rollback of LPG cylinders to UPA-II era level by deciding to ride pillion on an e-scooter from Bhowanipore home to state secretariat Nabanna with urban development minister Firhad Hakim at the wheel. On her way back home, security personnel helped her ride the scooter, during which photographers captured a moment where she appeared to lose her balance. “It was good you did not fall. What can we do if your scooter takes a turn towards Nandigram instead of Bhowanipore? We always want wellness for everyone; we don’t want someone to be injured. But when the scooter decides to fall down in Nandigram, then what can we do?” added the Prime Minister to loud chants from his supporters. Mamata is contesting from Nandigram against her own former minister and aide Suvendu Adhikari who defected to the BJP last December. On Sunday, the price of petrol in Calcutta was Rs 91.35 a litre and diesel Rs 84.35 a litre while the cost of an LPG cylinder touched Rs 845. Amid the hike, Mamata Banerjee government reduced petrol and diesel prices by Re 1 per litre. Mamata and her party launched a statewide attack on the Modi government over LPG and fuel hike starting February. As a part of her protest on Sunday, she led a rally with thousands of women in Siliguri. Trinamul leaders on Sunday also criticised Modi for mocking Mamata’s protest without uttering a single word in his long speech about the issue. “It is the style of Modi to mock people but to not utter a single word on the burning issues of the day,” said Saugata Roy, a Trinamul vice-president and its Dum Dum MP. “He took credit for providing free gas cylinders under the Ujjwala Yojana, but did not mention how it is impossible for common people to buy a cylinder by spending Rs 845,” he said, and pointed out how Modi has been silent on the farmers’ movement against the farm laws too. “Who will mock Modi when he mispronounces Bengali names? He did not mention rejoinders against him that he is attempting to grow a beard like Rabindranath Tagore. There are many things to mock (him for) but he is mocking other people,” scoffed Roy. Sources said Mamata’s protest by riding an e-scooter, and later grabbing the handles of the vehicle in an attempt to pilot it struck a positive note amid her electorate. Despite Opposition leaders trying to criticise her way of protest, thousands of people in Calcutta stood by to see the chief minister riding a scooter. Visibly pleased over her maiden e-scooter run, Mamata had said: “Now it becomes very easy for me. I will go anywhere, alone…I made so much progress in just a day.” A Trinamul leader said “Didi’s scooter ride” and the core issue of price hike that she had wanted to raise through it had grabbed Bengal’s attention. “That’s why Modi desperately tried to attack her amid fear of losing votes in this regard.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mithun Chakraborty has no credibility, no respect, no influence among the people: Saugata Roy||Hours after Mithun Chakraborty joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), senior Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Roy on Sunday accused the actor of ‘originally being a Naxalite’ and said the ‘star of yesteryears’ has no influence over people now. The TMC leader also reflected on the National Award-winning actor’s political career, saying he has changed parties four times. As reported by Hindustan Times, Roy also pointed out why Chakraborty resigned from the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of Parliament, citing health reasons in 2016. He was then part of the incumbent TMC. “Mithun Chakraborty is not a star of today. He is a star of yesteryears. He has changed parties four times. He was originally a Naxalite, and then went to CPM, then he joined TMC and was made a Rajya Sabha MP. BJP threatened him (actor Mithun Chakraborty) with cases by ED and he left Rajya Sabha and now he has joined BJP. He has no credibility, no respect, and no influence among the people,” Roy stated. The veteran actor joined the BJP at Brigade Parade Ground in Calcutta ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mega rally on Sunday. Chakraborty was welcomed into the fold by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and state president Dilip Ghosh among others. Vijayvargiya, who visited Chakraborty at his residence here on Saturday evening, had announced that he would be participating in the rally. Last month, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat met the actor at his Mumbai bungalow over breakfast, setting off speculation that he might join the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Matuas unhappy with Trinamul list||The chief of a Matua outfit allegiant to the Trinamul Congress has said the party should have fielded two-three members of the community in the Assembly polls and claimed she had been offered candidature in the Bongaon South seat, but there was no further discussion on her contest. “It is unfortunate that Matuas are denied Trinamul tickets. But I have accepted it since the decision has been taken by top leadership,” said Sarbabharatiya Matua Mahasangha chief and former Trinamul MP Mamatabala Thakur. She said Trinamul poll consultant Prashant Kishor had called her up and asked her whether she was interested in contesting from the Bongaon South seat. “It is true that the party offered me a seat. I was interested in fighting the polls from the Swarupnagar seat as people there love me a lot. I told Prashant Kishor categorically that unless members of my community were also offered candidature, I would not fight…. I also told him that I did not mind if I was denied a ticket in order to accommodate them. There was no further discussion and eventually, I have decided not to fight,” she added. Thakur went on: “I am unhappy with the way the members of our community have been denied Trinamul tickets this time.” The Bongaon Lok Sabha constituency has seven Matua-dominated Assembly segments, of which only Gaighata was offered to a member of the community. However, Narottam Biswas’s nomination led to resentment within Trinamul. Two Trinamul leaders left the party on Sunday in protest against Biswas’s candidature. The Matua leader asked if Trinamul was so concerned about Matuas, why they were not fielded in the elections. “They are also party supporters and are not outsiders. The party can offer at least two or three seats to Matuas heeding my demand.” She did not rule out reconciliation with nephew Santanu Thakur, the BJP’s Bongaon MP, in the “greater interest” of the community. “Some Trinamul leaders met Santanu Thakur and me yesterday (Saturday) and offered to bring about a reconciliation between us in the larger interest of the Matua community. I have no objection to it. It will be nice if that really happens. We do not want any division at Thakurbari,” Thakur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Adivasi outfits root for Trinamul in Malda||Leaders of two prominent tribal outfits, the Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan and the Jharkhand Disham Party, jointly hosted a public meeting at the Gazole College ground in Malda district on Sunday and urged the community to vote against the BJP that according to them had neglected their longstanding demands. The meeting, which was held in support of Trinamul, was attended by north Bengal  development minister Rabindranath Ghosh and former state minister and party leader Madan Mitra. Altogether, 20,000 people were present at the event that was held at the same ground where Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had spoken at a public meeting of five days back. Salkhan Murmu, the national president of the ASA, told the gathering: “The BJP has neglected the interests of tribal people, Dalits, minorities and all marginal citizens of the country. We urge you to stand by Trinamul and Mamata Banerjee in the polls.” In north Bengal, electoral results in around 10 Assembly seats are decided by the tribal population. Mohan Hansda, the state president of JDP, harped on their demand for the “Sarna” religious code. “We are worshippers of nature. The central government has not approved it but the Trinamul government is sympathetic to us. So, we should stand by Tri¬namul,” he said. Some other senior tribal leaders, including the national president of JDP Sumitra Murmu and state leader Panmuni Besra were present at the meeting. Minister Ghosh said the Mamata government had always stood by adivasis. “A number of development schemes were introduced for them. We are confident that they will support us in the elections,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Two leaders leave Trinamul in north Bengal ||Former Trinamul Congress councillor at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation Nantu Paul said on Sunday that he would quit the party and contest as an Independent in the Siliguri Assembly seat. Trinamul fielded Omprakash Mishra in the seat and local party leaders were disappointed with the nomination of the “outsider”. Paul is the vicechairman of the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority and North Bengal Board for Development of Sports & Games, which function under the state urban development and state sports and youth affairs departments, respectively. Asked about Paul’s announcement, Ranjan Sarkar, the district Trinamul president, said: “It is his decision. I have nothing to comment on it. We will abide by whatever instructions given by the party leadership.” Rajen Mukhia, who was instrumental in establishing Trinamul’s base in the Darjeeling hills in the early years of the last decade, also walked out of the party on Sunday. “I have left Trinamul because it appears to us that top leaders of the party are ignoring local functionaries and workers, who have been trying to expand Trinamul’s support base,” said Mukhia. Also, in Malda, Amlan Bhaduri, the immediate past district president of youth Trinamul, quitted the party. Bhaduri, who is also a former councillor and a government lawyer, said he is disappointed with inner differences within Trinamul in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||North East||Assembly polls: Veterans missing from Congress first list in Assam||The Congress on Saturday night released the list of 40 candidates for the first phase of Assembly polls in Assam, fielding PCC chief and sitting Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora from Gohpur constituency but looking beyond several party veterans. Bora’s nomination was along expected lines because his tenure in the Rajya Sabha is ending next year, party insiders said. His wife had contested the seat twice in the past but lost in 2016. “This is going to be the most important election of his life personally. Winning the seat and a good showing by the party against a formidable BJP-led alliance could make him a strong contender for the CM’s post. A loss for him and the party could cost him the PCC chief,” one of the party insiders said. Bora was appointed the PCC chief in 2016, the year he was elected to the Rajya Sabha. Assam Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia has been renominated from Nazira and so were AICC secretaries from Assam — Bhupen Kumar Borah from Bihpuria and Rana Goswami from Jorhat. The list also figured Bitupan Saikia who had joined the Congress from the BJP hours before the nominees were announced in Delhi. The BJP had denied him the Golaghat seat, favouring former Congress minister Ajanta Neog. A former BJP MP — RP Sharma — and an MLA — Abhijit Hazarika — were also fielded from Borchalla and Rangapara respectively. They had joined the party earlier. However, missing from the list were several veterans such as Prithibi Majhi, Gautam Bora, Bhimananda Tanti, Nurzamal Sarkar and Sarat Barkataki, suggesting the party was trying to build a new team. “There are 14 new and young faces. If we consider Ankita Dutta and Sushanta Borgohain, who have been renominated, the number is 16,” Bobbeeta Sharma, PCC media department chief said. The Congress is expected to release seven more names for the first phase to be held on March 27 and for the second phase on April 1 anytime, she said. Outcome of seat-sharing talks will also be announced soon, she said. Party insiders said that seat-sharing talks have not been smooth going by the “delay” in announcing the seats. The Congress received s boost when state hill areas development minister Sum Ronghang  joined the party on Sunday. He was denied ticket from the BJP to contest from Diphu. The ruling BJP-Asom Gana Parishad-United People’s Party Liberal alliance on Sunday jointly appealed to their members and leaders to ensure that they form the next government. The AGP and BJP had fought the 2016 polls together and have continued their alliance despite strong undercurrents in the both parties over seat-sharing. The alliance is up against the Congress-led seven-party alliance, including the AIUDF, and the newly-floated Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad alliance. Assam has 126 Assembly seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
08-03-2021||Opinion||Great challenge: Holding Kumbh Mela||Sir — Holding the Kumbh Mela this year will be a great challenge for the authorities. Sadhus have already begun to take part in processions in numbers. Although protocols to prevent the spread of the coronavirus are supposed to be enforced, it is unlikely that the officials concerned will be able to control the large swathe of devotees. The visitors themselves should make sure that they follow all the rules and help the nation beat the pandemic. Debayan Bhowmick,Calcutta Bitter pill Sir — The government has rejected the latest annual rankings by the global democracy watchdog, Freedom House, which demoted India from “free” to “partly free” category (“Freedom report? Govt points to map”, March 6). But brushing it under the carpet will not work. The incumbent, thin-skinned dispensation at the Centre is under the illusion that every action, policy or programme rolled by it is the gospel truth, and cannot be questioned. Invoking the sedition law at the drop of a hat and unleashing investigating agencies against dissenters have become commonplace. Rather than taking criticism positively and engaging in course correction, the Centre chooses to crack down on its citizens, whose only fault is a difference of opinion. Even outsiders are not spared. The report for 2021 speaks volumes on the condition of democracy in the country at present, and should serve as an eye-opener for the government before India is pushed into the same category as its rogue northern neighbour in the eyes of the world. The fact that none of the three pillars of democracy — the legislature, the executive, the judiciary — has been able to keep a check on the other counterparts is also telling. The government has failed to provide citizens with an environment conducive to free speech. The demotion by the watchdog should be interpreted as an alert. India must do better. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — One cannot be surprised that the Centre has rejected the report by Freedom House on the status of democracy in India. The incumbent ruling dispensation at the Centre cannot even take criticism from its own citizens. Criticism works for those who want to better themselves. Those in government at present clearly want only a good ‘image’ of the nation so that they can cling on to the seat of power, not to genuinely improve the condition of the nation as a whole. Rabi Sengupta,South 24 Parganas Sir — It is indeed a matter of serious concern that Washington-based Freedom House dropped India from the list of ‘free’ nations on the charge of frequent violation of human rights. The country seems to be going towards authoritarianism under the influence of corporate houses. Now India, as per the declaration, enjoys the status of being ‘partly free’. The common citizens are confused about the impact of this situation on the future of the country. Arup Kr. Ghosh,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||Look back: new madrasa courses||There is never a dull moment with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre. The National Institute of Open Schooling, called an autonomous body but under the Union education ministry, is introducing 15 courses on Indian knowledge and heritage for levels equivalent to Classes III, V and VIII in 100 madrasas. This is to execute the aims of the National Education Policy, and the courses will be extended to 500 madrasas. The lessons will include studies of the Sanskrit language, the Bhagavad Gita, the Ramayana, the Maheshwara Sutras derived from Panini and so on. Yoga as well as science lessons from the Vedas in the conservation of land, air and water, the origin of creation and other topics would be taught together with vocational skills ranging from making beds to organic farming, including cow rearing and cleaning cowsheds, using ayurveda in daily life and methods of cooking and serving. Independent madrasas in Uttar Pradesh have expressed resistance, saying that even if institutions under the Madrasa Board accept the new curriculum, private madrasas run by the community have no obligation to do so. These institutions for Islamic studies already teach English and mathematics. No one could object to the opening up of education, but will schools run by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh be teaching the Quran or Urdu grammar? This question, far more than other issues — such as the confusions caused by studying the texts of two religions together and so on — hints at the lack of innocence in the government’s agenda. There is no one holy book for the majority religion, by the way. Although the Bharatiya Jnana Parampara courses, reportedly, are not compulsory, the Union education minister has said that they are part of the NEP’s aim of creating a pride in Indianness in the learner’s inner self. Indianness for the BJP lies solely in glorifying ancient or pre-Mughal India; making minority community students absorb this lesson is a planned step in defining the BJP’s idea of India. The deliberate destruction of balance among differences and the undermining of autonomy in the educational sphere can be useful in hardening definitions too. Anyone who refuses to learn how to clean a cowshed may well be seditious or ‘anti-national’. The pot must be stirred continuously; no dull moment allowed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||Thin stream: poor credit off-take||The Reserve Bank of India recently expressed concern with the poor credit off-take from banks by large industries. There has been a contraction in credit to the industrial sector as a whole, from a positive growth of 2.5 per cent in January 2020 to a negative contraction of 1.3 per cent in January 2021. For the large industrial sector alone, the contraction was more severe, falling by 2.5 per cent in January 2021 from a positive growth of 2.8 per cent in January 2020. Credit to the micro and small industries grew only marginally during the same period. However, credit to medium industries registered a robust growth of 19.1 per cent in January 2021 against a growth of 2.8 per cent in January 2020. The data have some important implications. Large industries absorb 82 per cent of all credit from the banks; the remaining 18 per cent is absorbed by small and medium industries. Similarly, in the portfolio of personal loans, home loans comprise 50 per cent. The deceleration of home loans growth has been sharp: it fell from 17.5 per cent in January 2020 to 7.7 per cent in January 2021. The banks are reluctant to lend to large entities because of the accumulation of stressed assets over the past five years independent of the pandemic. After the pandemic, risks generally increased in all types of loan portfolios. The RBI, as the regulator, tightened compliance norms for identifying potential non-performing assets. Home loans, on the other hand, are considered one of the safest types of loans. They are secured, and people typically default on their home loans only as a last resort. The deceleration in home loans is a reflection of the lack of demand, with household income having taken a beating during the pandemic. A slowdown in this segment affects the derived demand for steel, iron and such other construction material like cement and home fixtures. The banks find themselves between a rock and a hard place: those the banks wish to lend have no appetite for credit, and those who would like to borrow, the banks are wary of them. The regulator wants more credit pumped into the economy, but is tightening the belt on banks’ risk appetites. The moratorium and regulatory forbearance forced by the pandemic are possibly hiding a large accumulation of fresh non-performing assets induced by the economic disruption of last year. The economic recovery has to be fuelled by large-scale fiscal spending. Depending on the RBI will not suffice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||New role: shift to blended classes||The global pandemic has forced Indian education to go online, arguably for the better. It has compelled teachers to train themselves in technology and hone their skills to keep up with the pressing need, both out of concern for students’ education and their livelihood. Some teachers found this an easy transition; others had to endeavour to become proficient in online teaching. But most metamorphosed from being tech-novice to tech-savvy. As we hope to tiptoe back to normalcy, we have already started discussing hybrid/blended classes. But do we understand what blended learning is? Do we acknowledge the need for research to investigate which type of BL will work in the Indian context, given the lopsided teacher-student ratio, lack of infrastructure, paucity of skills in educators, inadequacies in syllabus and policy? BL’s failure to gain momentum in India is blamed on the limitations in the internet infrastructure in schools, especially those in rural areas. But statistics reveal that there has been a sharp increase in internet usage and smartphone penetration in rural India. What is the problem then? The problem lies with the ability of children and their families to use smartphones as well as the latter’s affordability. In rural areas, where midday meals, free education and other such incentives offered by the Right to Education Act did not inspire every child to attend school, how can we expect online education or blended classes to work? BL or online education is a luxury they can ill-afford. More queries Let’s focus on another question. Are educational institutions equipped to shift to blended classes? In the last few years, ‘smart classes’ have been introduced in several Indian schools. Usually, interactive boards are used that can ‘speak’ and show moving images. The main reason behind the failure to use these interactive boards to their full potential is that they are used only as teaching aids. Most teachers are not required to carry out research to investigate the best practices in teaching-learning that will work effectively for students. The diversity of students and their needs is such that the mode of teaching cannot become a standardized, static protocol. The use of internet, tablets, laptops and smartphones as online textbooks or information resources does not ensure successful online education. Gadgets are means of communication. The key to using such resources meaningfully lies in appropriate lesson-planning by teachers. It is important to plan a lesson that can nurture collaboration, critical thinking, communication, and creativity in learners. Teachers must adopt a pragmatic approach to teaching. Project-based learning, group discussions, integrating diverse subjects are the needs of the hour. The Central Board of Secondary Education recently introduced an Art-Integrated Learning project for students from Classes IX to XII, but only for internal assessment. It is a splendid alternative to the otherwise mundane methods of evaluation. More such projects need to be incorporated in order to ensure the development of learners’ skills. Such projects should not remain a part of internal assessments only. Are the teachers ready to evolve? If BL were to succeed in India, the role of teachers is bound to change. The environment of the classroom has to be redefined from passive learning to active discussions, problem-solving, and a hands-on experimental learning module. The role of the teacher will be transformed to that of a guide. Teachers will not be needed to deliver lectures. Learners can go through pre-recorded videos at their own pace and return to class in order to build on the information. But teachers may have to change a lot more than they are comfortable with. These transformations will not reduce the importance of teachers. They would elevate them to the stature of mentors in the truest sense.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||Politics remains gender blind||A heartening aspect of Indian democracy has been the rise in turnouts of women voters. The results of the assembly elections in Delhi and Bihar in 2020 reinforce this claim. In Bihar, the National Democratic Alliance scraped through, courtesy women voters who voted decisively for the Nitish Kumar-led alliance. Out of the 125 wins by the NDA, 99 came in assembly seats where women’s turnout exceeded the male turnout. The Aam Aadmi Party’s landslide victory was similarly powered by Delhi’s women voters. As the age-old theory of women surrendering to the wishes of family patriarchs while exercising their democratic franchise gets a silent burial, politicians are leaving no stone unturned to woo this ‘new vote-bank’. More women are queuing up outside polling booths, but are more women also entering the law-making bodies — state assemblies and the Lok Sabha? Unlike women voter turnouts, women’s representation in law-making bodies has grown at a snail’s pace. Between 1952-1977, women MPs accounted for 5 per cent of the total strength of the House. Despite women’s representation being at an all-time high of 78 MPs (14 per cent) in the current Lok Sabha, women’s representation is far from impressive. According to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, in 1998, India was ranked 95th globally in terms of women’s representation. India slipped to the 148th position in January 2021. The situation in state assemblies is not promising either. According to an ADR report based on data compiled by the Election Commission, 9 per cent of a total of 4,120 legislators are women. Why is women’s representation so dismal? Are women not nominated in large enough numbers or, having been nominated, do they struggle to win? Political parties are reluctant to field women candidates: 9 out of 10 candidates in parliamentary polls have been male. Even during the best period for women candidates in assembly elections, between 2002-2019, only 1 in 12 contestants was a woman. An oft-repeated explanation for the under-representation of women is that they are ‘weak’ candidates. Ironically, women have always had a higher winning strike rate than their male counterparts. Between 1952-1977, 25 per cent of male candidates emerged victorious in the Lok Sabha elections; the strike rate for women was 46 per cent. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the percentage of victorious male candidates was 6 per cent as against 11 per cent for women. The under-representation of women is a serious cause of concern for the world’s largest democracy. The women’s reservation bill, which proposed to reserve 33 per cent of all Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha seats for women, was passed in the Rajya Sabha in 2010 but met with fierce resistance in the Lok Sabha. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress have been vocal in their support for the bill. But seven years and two massive mandates later, the BJP has not shown any political will to pass the bill. The success of the 73rd and the 74th constitutional amendments in ensuring greater access for women to decision-making positions has been revolutionary. Various states have increased this quota to 50 per cent: Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tripura and Telangana have extended the quota to urban local bodies. The empowerment of women has curbed corruption and improved the quality of governance. According to a report card by the Praja Foundation, women councillors have consistently performed on a par with their male colleagues in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation — Asia’s richest civic body since 2012 — where the quota for women was hiked from 33 per cent to 50 per cent. A caveat must be issued here: passing the women’s reservation bill will not be enough. That many women are made dummy panchayat pradhans and councillors to fulfil a constitutional provision is an open secret. Canny male politicians have also devised ways to get around the women’s quota by fielding family members, a point well made by Kanchan Chandra in Democratic Dynasties. Nonetheless, passing the women’s reservation bill would be a good way to start.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Opinion||Shadow lives||The binary of men as combatants and women as passive grievers is perhaps the most common projection of gendered realities in a conflict zone. Men are often seen as principal negotiators who make the difference when it comes to critical decisions on everyone’s behalf. Women’s participation, roles, risks, and their circumstances, on the other hand, get eclipsed in this binary. Women in conflict zones are faced with intriguing circumstances with regard to their status, roles, expectations and vulnerabilities. In conflict zones like Kashmir, these realities compound other vulnerabilities for women. Although the lives of men and women are intricately linked, the pre-existing socio-cultural understanding and the masculinist nature of conflict increase women’s vulnerabilities. For instance, in Kashmir, frequent visits by security personnel to houses on tip-offs or even for routine enquiries stigmatize women. For women, these visits by security personnel represent a dangerous concoction of unbridled power and a hostile male gaze, complicating not just their present but also their future conditions. After their houses were raided, some families found it difficult to find marriage alliances for girls in their families as they were suspected to have been violated. Unrestrained power and the lack of accountability have led to the creation of the image of the armed forces as an adversary in the people’s consciousness. Interface between the people and the armed forces results in stigmatization. This is felt most strongly in the case of young women, widows and single mothers. A comparison between the situations of young male and female pellet victims in Kashmir shows a stark difference in their realities. For the male victims, the lack of access to healthcare and being visible on the radar of the security apparatus are the most immediate threats, setting off layers of further victimization. These layers get compounded in the case of female victims, whose families fear that their present and future social relations would be damaged, resulting in their social and economic exclusion. A girl child from Shopian — she was 18 months old in 2018 when she was hit by pellets in her right eye — is a classic case that reveals how the complications are far more layered for the girl child and her family members than those faced by male pellet victims. Her parents do not wish anybody to know her name. They fear that this could impair her social relations in the future. Her father — a police constable who hardly gets to be at home on account of being a target of the Hizbul Mujahideen — has enforced long-term negative familial consequences on the girl child. This girl’s life projects the potential risks irrespective of one’s affiliation in a restive zone. Sides don’t matter in conflict zones; vulnerabilities do. People’s lives should be judged not by their perceived affiliations but on the basis of vulnerabilities, risks and marginalization. As such, an ecosystem facilitated by a holistic health infrastructure needs to be nurtured for a life away from suspicion and stigma. Psychological and physical health deteriorate when people don’t have faith in or the confidence to approach the healthcare system and other institutions out of fear of victimization through identification. Health is no longer a private matter in conflict zones. The turmoil of conflict creates the need for greater assistance while, simultaneously, restricting accessibility to the same. Women’s choices and bargaining power become the worst casualties in conflict zones. The option of getting remarried after the loss or disappearance of their spouses or not remarrying is hardly a choice as it is governed by the potential vulnerabilities of a stigmatized life. This stigma gets magnified when women suffer at the hands of the armed forces. Today, even though several years have passed since the Kunan Poshpora outrage, the mother-daughter relationship in the region remains complicated. This is because the daughters are facing humiliation in college and in other public spheres for their mothers’ charges of being allegedly raped by the armed forces.The stigma has not been obliterated from social memory, straining intra as well as inter-generational relationships. The demand for accountability and responsive institutions needs to be kept alive. For this, women’s experiences should be looked at as separate from those of men. In the absence of such a framework, the complications of women’s lives are getting lost in the metanarrative of ‘the combatant versus the State’. A simplified understanding of these multi-layered experiences and their repercussions can cause deeper damages. Women and men experience conflict differently due to differences in their culturally determined roles. The rampant displacement of women goes unnoticed. Destruction of houses, the loss of a spouse, being single or being a single mother, loss of jobs or property can lead to such displacement. This adds to the gender-role complications. Women’s identities have been reduced to half-widows, widows or mothers of disappeared children. This imagery excludes them from their claim on the role of active agents. Protests are the only means through which women transcend into being active agents. Yet, in the public imagination, they simply come across as bearers of loss.There is thus a need to view women as complete entities whose experiences of conflict are distinct from those of men. Their experiences must be part of any dialogic process of conflict-resolution. Women’s realities should be seen as integral to the process of strengthening accountability and law-making. Women’s experiences are also a testament to complex vulnerabilities. Consider the women who came from Pakistan with their former militant husbands in 2010-2011 under the rehabilitation policy of the then Jammu and Kashmir government. Most of them live in Budgam, Baramulla and Srinagar. They are the ‘lost women’ with no citizenship rights or recognition. Even their disappearance goes unaddressed as they do not belong. Somiya Sadaf, hailing from Muzaffarabad and educated in India, who accompanied her husband to Batergam, found her citizenship challenged when she tried to contest the recent DDC elections from Drugmulla constituency. She is popular in the region because of her social and humanitarian work. The plight of women from Muzaffarabad should be seen as a humanitarian crisis; they can neither visit their native place, nor can they belong to their current place of residence due to the lack of documentation. Conflict contributes to the precariousness of women’s socio-economic and political opportunities. Guilt in seeking government jobs as well as loss in businesses and dwindling economic support on account of conflict-related disturbances may deeply damage their positions in the long run. Any attempt to enforce citizenship will only erode people’s trust and diminish their opportunities to prosper. Enforced citizenship compounded by the lack of accountability turns citizens into detainees, with women’s lives revealing the worst forms of active and passive exclusion resembling the risks and invisibility of a trafficked life. The author is Assistant Professor of Sociology, Advanced Centre for Women’s Studies, Aligarh Muslim University. This article emerges from the author’s ongoing research on lived experiences of exclusion in Kashmir and is funded by ICSSR under IMPRESS scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Demanding arrear payment resident doctors go on strike||The Outdoor Patient Department (OPD) of the six medical colleges across Jharkhand are likely to remain non-operational from Tuesday onwards as over 500 resident doctors have decided to go on an indefinite strike. The protesting doctors are demanding payment of arrears of the seventh pay commission that was implemented in 2016. All the resident doctors in – Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Hospital (MGM) in Jamshedpur, SNMMCH in Dhanbad, Palamu Medical College, Hazaribag Medical College, and Dumka Medical College – have been sporting a black band at work since last Monday as a mark of protest against the alleged apathy of the government towards their long-standing demands. On Monday, the representatives of the Jharkhand Resident Doctors Association (JRDA) held talks with RIMS Director Kameshwar Prasad and Health Secretary KK Soan, but despite holding discussions the disgruntled doctors decided to go ahead with a full-fledged strike. Prasad as well as Soan have assured the doctors that their file would be sent to the finance department soon and the necessary payments would be made, but the doctors seemed to be in no mood to accept any further delay in the process, said sources present during the meeting. “Resident doctors chose to boycott OPD in all medical colleges across the state today. The OPD at RIMS was operational till afternoon, but we decided to boycott RIMS OPD also, after talks with the authorities failed to yield a satisfactory result,” said Convener of JRDA, Dr. Ajit Kumar. Kumar maintained that around 500-odd junior and senior resident doctors of the state have been waiting for the payment of their arrears of the seventh pay commission since 2016. The government, he said, was taking services from the doctors but not doing the needful to ensure that they get their dues. The OPD in the six medical colleges is mostly run by resident doctors. With them, boycotting of the OPD is likely to affect patients who visit hospitals for minor ailments and injuries, sources said. However, the district hospitals will remain operational during the strike, the protesting doctors added. Dr. Vikash Kumar, a member of the RIMS Junior Doctors Association, said that the doctors have raised their concerns on different platforms, but the government turned a deaf ear to their pleas. “Do we need to go on a strike every time we want the government to do anything for us? We get the tag of frontline workers, but still don’t get our dues on time,” he said. The doctors have alleged that they have not been paid their salary as per the seventh pay commission from 2016 to March 2019. On average, each doctor is entitled to a payment of INR 700000 as arrears, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Work begins to build over 9,500 homes under PM yojna at Birsanagar||A ground breaking ceremony for the much-awaited Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojna (PMAY) was held at the project site in Birsanagar on Monday. Managerial staff of JRS Infratech, one of the eight construction firms engaged in getting the project executed, initiated digging work at the site after performing the ceremony. Located at the eastern fringe of the steel city, the PMAY project will be constructed on five-acre government land. It will be set up at a locality called Laltand under Hurlung panchayat in Birsanagar. The PMAY project is being carried out under the aegis of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the civic body which has a command in the entire steel city beside Birsanagar located about 12 km away from the heart of the city. Revealing about the project, JNAC's city manager, Ravi Bharti said that all 9,592 houses are being constructed under the PMAY. “There will be nine-storeyed buildings and each residential unit is proposed to have a bedroom, a dining hall, kitchen, bathroom and a balcony,” said Bharti while talking to The Telegraph Online. The city manager said that the high rise residential flats will be fitted with an elevator and there will be enough space for parking. Bharti, on being asked, said though over 9,500 residential units are being constructed the valid applicant's number is just 3,200. “A total of 3,200 applications have been processed. We are waiting for more applications from the aspiring people who have no house on their names anywhere,” said the senior civic officer. As the groundbreaking ceremony started at 10 am on Monday, a section of local goons created ruckus at the site. The JNAC officials, who were present there, informed the police. The police intervened and removed the hurdle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Women 'take over' Dhanbad station to mark their day ||Operations of Dhanbad Railway Station, including booking tickets and checking and running trains, were managed by women on Monday on the occasion of International Women’s Day. This apart, women also managed the reception and control rooms of the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway, besides working at the personnel department of the divisional railway manager. Dhanbad station master Ratnesh Kumar said, “We have handed overwork in almost all departments, including unreserved ticket counter operation and reservation counter operation, besides ticket checking and train operations, to women colleagues at the station from 10 am to 4 pm.” Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division, who carried out an inspection of the personnel department of his office while it was being managed by women, said, "Women have an important role to play in the successful running of family, organization, society and nation." He also exhorted women to work with renewed enthusiasm to help build a better organisation, society and nation. Talking to the media at Dhanbad railway station, ticket collector Nilima Kumari said, “Though we are in the job of ticket collection every day, today being International Women’s Day, it was a lovely experience to work with all women colleagues at the station.” Puja Kumar, a travelling ticket examiner (TTE), said,  “Ever since we were informed a few days ago that the operations of the station will be in our hands on the occasion of International Women’s Day we were quite excited. It was an altogether different feeling as we managed the entire operation from 8 am till 4 pm." Divya Kumari, a women assistant loco pilot, said, “Instead of assisting in train operations, we operated the train ourselves. Our senior male colleagues assisted us while we sat on the front seat to run the train.” A similar exercise was carried out at other important stations of the Dhanbad division, including Koderma, Daltonganj, Gomoh, Hazaribagh town, Chandrapura and Tori. A street corner play was also organised at Dhanbad station to focus on the significance of women in society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Meet Princy, Dhanbad's only woman auto driver  ||As the world celebrates International Women’s Day, a 29-year-old e-rickshaw driver stands out as a shining example of a working woman who braved all odds and battled against pre-conceived notions and societal pressure for the well being of her family. Meet Princy Chawla (29),  the lone e- rickshaw driver of Dhanbad, who took the responsibility to augment the family income way back in 2015 after leaving the job of a security guard of a private firm. Today, she is able to provide for the education of two of her daughters, one 14 years and the other barely  14 months. What's more, the family is able to save too. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Chawla said, “Married to auto driver Vickey Chawla in 2005 at the age 15, I spent several years at home. But as my elder daughter started going to school I got thinking about her education, and due to the limited income of my husband, decided to contribute to the family income." Princy's first job was in a private firm as a security guard. But soon, she realised this was not what she wanted to do. “ I went to Ranchi in 2015 for training and witnessed several women driving e-rickshaws. I left the training midway and decide to buy my own e-rickshaw” “Though it took around eight to nine days to convince my husband, I managed a bank loan to buy an e-rickshaw. Soon, I started adding to the family income,” said Princy. Both she and her husband faced resistance and sarcastic obsrvations of neighbours. "Many told my husband how he was living off a woman's income, but he never cared. The fact is that he never takes a single paise from my income. Instead, he helps me pay the EMI for the bank loan for the e- rickshaw,” she said. Princey said she felt good operating n e-rickshaw. "It is better than working as a housemaid. Since I have studied up to Class VIII, I could not find a suitable job. Hence, I took to operating an e-rickhaw. I believe working for oneself is better than working under somebody,” she said. Husband Vickey admitted he was initially hesitant about her plan. "But I soon realised that it is better to be self-employed," he said. “I don’t care about comments made by friends and relatives about my wife working in a male dominated area. For, I believe that what is right needs no justification,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bachendri to lead group of women above 50 in Himalayan expedition||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) is organising a unique expedition titled FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition ’21 in collaboration with the ministry of youth affairs and sports under the FIT India banner. The expedition is also being supported by Tata Motors and Tata Sports Club as drive and fitness partners respectively. The voyage will be led by Bachendri Pal, recipient of Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, legendary mountaineer and the first Indian woman to scale Mt. Everest, and will have participants aged 50 and above from across India. The team members have been drawn from across India comprising retired professionals and homemakers. The 10-member team also comprises three Women Everest summiteers. The 5-month long expedition involves traversing the Himalaya from Arunachal to Karakoram range (East to West) covering around 4,500 kms and cross about 40 mountain passes. It is expected to begin in the first week of May and will conclude in the second week of October this year. Pal, leader of the expedition and mentor, TSAF, said: “The expedition aims to address the mindset of our society and highlight the need to keep fit and demonstrate that age and gender is no barrier for a fit and a healthy lifestyle. It will also signify women empowerment, leadership, decision making, lifestyle and the importance of fitness for our entire community. What makes this expedition more tough is the long duration of 5 months combined with multiple challenges, including emotional, social, mental factors, physical fatigue and weather constraints, and all these put together make Fit@50+ women’s Trans Himalayan expedition a unique one." Pal also emphasised the importance of embracing risk and firmly believes that the biggest risk in life is not taking the risk. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (corporate services), Tata Steel, said: “For more than three and a half decades, Tata Steel Adventure Foundation has played a pioneering role in creating an environment of equal opportunity and empowerment of women. The FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition is yet another unique initiative that will push this agenda a step further by reaching out to women aged 50 years and above to become part of a movement that will also prepare them to challenge physical and social stereotypes. The entire family of Tata Steel stands behind this amazing journey they are about to embark on and wish the very best for a resounding success.” The 10-member team will commence the journey of an ultimate human endurance starting from the misty mountains of Arunachal Pradesh at Bomdila and then enter Bhutan. From there, the expedition will traverse through Bhutan cross over into Sikkim and cover Chitrey, Kala Pokhari and Sandakphu. The team will then move into Nepal, where the route enters Dhaulagiri range and cover Salpa Pass, Lamajura Pass and also cross Thorang la (17,769 ft) around Annapurna Massif. From Western Nepal, the trail goes from Jumla and enters Kumaon district in Uttarakhand at Dharchula. From here, the expedition will cross Lamkhaga Pass (17,320 ft) - one of the toughest passes, which connects Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh with Harshil of Uttarakhand. The team will then traverse to Himachal. From here, they will trek through Spiti to cross Kaza, Kibber and cross Parang La (18,307 ft). The expedition will conclude in the Leh-Ladakh region where the team will cross Khardungla (18,380 ft), Saser La (17,753 ft), Depsang La (17,869 ft) and finish at Karakoram Pass (18,175 ft). The 10-member team include Bachendri Pal, Leader (67- Jamshedpur-Jharkhand), Chetna Sahoo (54-Calcutta-Bengal), Savita Dhapwal (52-Bhilai-Chhattisgarh), Shamala Padmanabhan (64-Mysuru-Karnataka), Gangorti Soneji (62-Baroda-Gujarat), Chaula Jagirdar (63-Palanpur-Gujarat), Payo Murmu (53-Jamshedpur-Jharkhand), Dr. Sushma Bissa (55-Bikaner -Rajasthan), Maj. Krishna Dubey (59-Lucknow-UP), and Bimbla Deoskar (55- Nagpur-Maharashtra). The 3-member support team includes Mohan Rawat (41), Amla Rawat (47) and Randev Singh (30), all from Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Man-made forest fires destroying flora, fauna  ||Forest fires lit by villagers to collect mahua – a wild flower used for making country liquor – is posing to be a threat to the flora and fauna in Jharkhand jungles, claim forest officials who are conducting extensive campaigns to douse “man-made forest fires” in suburban Ranchi and other parts of the state. Mahua, which grows in abundance in the forest areas of Jharkhand, falls off the trees during spring. However, these flowers are often covered by a layer of dry leaves, which make it difficult for villagers to find and collect Mahua. Villagers set forest areas afire to clear the leaves and easily spot mahua flowers, which are unaffected by fire, forest officials said. “We hardly get to hear about incidents of natural forest fire in Jharkhand. In most cases, the forest fire is caused by villagers, who are either looking for mahua or are simply careless about throwing cigarette butts in the forest,” said Ranchi district forest officer Ashok Dubey. Dubey said the forest department responded promptly to satellite alerts about forest fires and try to douse them at the earliest. Forest officials and village committees work together for dousing forest fires in the interiors of the state, he added. Several incidents of forest fire were reported from Mahilong in Ranchi district this month, said Dubey, who has been running awareness campaigns in the villages to prevent forest fires for the collection of Mahua. While forest officials say that animals find their way to escape such forest fires, environmentalists believe that birds are worst-affected by the fire. Nitish Priyadarshi, a Ranchi environmentalist who recently visited areas around Sita Fall, said several birds' nests were affected by man-made forest fires and the carbon dioxide level was increasing significantly around forest areas, causing an abnormal rise in temperature. “It was so hot in the forest area that I could almost feel a burning sensation on my skin. You can well imagine how badly it is affecting the wide variety of birds living in the jungle,” said Priyadarshi. He said that the rise in the mercury level in Ranchi could also be partially attributed to forest fire in the surrounding jungles. “We are feeling the need to switch on our air conditioners in the first half of March itself. It might get worse from here,” the environmentalist warned. As per data with the Meteorological Centre in Ranchi, the highest temperature in Ranchi was 34.2 degree Celsius while that in Jamshedpur was 36.4 degree Celsius on Sunday. Priyadarshi also pointed out lapses in the functioning of the forest department, which could be leading to forest fires. The department, he said, did not demarcate areas where mahua trees grow, which left villagers clueless about where they would find Mahua in abundance. “When villagers don’t know where they might find Mahua, they might even set fire to forest areas where there are no Mahua trees,” Priyadarshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP leaves one seat for ally Ajsu Party to contest in Bengal ||The Sudesh Mahto-led All Jharkhand Students Union-party (AJSU-P), which is a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state, is gearing up to join the hustings in Bengal polls after the BJP allocated one seat to its junior ally. Of the 60 seats which will go to polls in Bengal in the first two phases beginning March 27, the saffron camp last Saturday announced candidates on 57 seats so far. Baghmundi in Purulia has been set aside for Sudesh’s outfit, AJSU-P officials in Ranchi said on Monday. Speaking to reporters, AJSU-P’s central spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said they were happy with the initial seat-sharing for Bengal polls that were  crucial for NDA. “Even though we had provided our party symbol to a few candidates to a few candidates in past elections of Bengal, this will be the first time our party is eyeing an entry. We are happy that the BJP’s central election committee has recognised our contributions and left one seat for us,” he said. On Baghmundi, he said that it was one of the priority seats identified by the party. “AJSU-P’s main focus is in the Junglemahal region which has about 40 seats, of which several are on bordering areas of Jharkhand. Baghmundi is close to Silli in Ranchi which our party president Sudesh Mahto represents. It is also in proximity to Jugsalai in Jamshedpur. We have considerable clout in Baghmundi and can retain the seat for NDA,” he said, adding that the decision on other seats will be taken in due course in time. The first phase for voting in Bengal will take place on March 27 for 30 Assembly segments. The AJSU-P’s leader said that the party was demanding an autonomous council in Junglemahal for the overall development of tribals and OBCs dominating the region. “Junglemahal development has been neglected for decades, even more during the TMC’s regime. Our fight is for our tribal and OBC brothers and sisters along the Jharkhand-Bengal border, majority of whom contributed to the statehood movement of Jharkhand during undivided Bihar,” said Bhagat. Notably, ASJU-P and BJP fought separately in the 2019 Assembly polls in Jharkhand after they could not agree on a seat-sharing plan. The decision proved costly for both, with the victory of the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance which went on to form the government in Jharkhand. Despite fighting in about 70 seats in Jharkhand, AJSU-P could win only two, three less than its last tally of five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Extremist duo surrenders before Chatra police||Two dreaded extremists of Tritiya State Prastuti Committee(TSPC) surrendered before Chatra deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha and superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha by handing over their arms and bullets on Monday. Raghuvansh Ganjhu a.k.a Chiteran Ganjhu carrying a reward of Rs.10 lakh on his head was among the ones to have surrendered. With this surrender, the Chatra police tasted their second big success in as many months with Mukesh Ganjhu, who was second in command of TSPC, surrendering a few months ago. Raghuvansh and Lakshman Ganjhu after the surrender regretted joining the outfit. The former appealed to other extremists to surrender keeping the future of their families in mind. "Surrender is the only way for atonement against the misdeeds done by us," added the duo. Lakshman, a native of Saktitand village under Lawalong police station, carried a reward of Rs.1 lakh on his head. The duo was also wanted by police of other districts including Latehar and Ranchi in cases of murder, extrotion and encounter with police. Raghuvansh, a resident of Aasediri village under Kunda police station, surrendered with a rifle, 1-magazine and 200 live bullets. Lakshman handed over a self loading rifle, 145 live bullets, 3 magazines and a uniform to police officials. After the surrender, deputy commissioner Jha said both surrendered due to the surrender and rehabilitation policy of the state government. He said they will get all the benefits under this policy. SP Rishav Kumar Jha asserted that taking up arms is not the solution of any problem. He said whether TSPC or Maoists or any other outfit, they lacked ideology and involved in exploitation and other criminal activities. Other officials present were commandant of CRPF 190 battalion, Vijay Kumar and ASP(operations) Nigam Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Only four per cent of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated in a day||Jharkhand on Sunday achieved only 4 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of Covishield vaccine to healthcare workers and frontline workers, while the number of senior citizens getting vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus also dropped on the day in comparison to Saturday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 2,628 senior citizens and 510 middle-aged persons with comorbid conditions were inoculated in Jharkhand on Sunday. As per government records, as many as 7668 senior citizens and over 1000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of the vaccine on Saturday. A report released by NHM stated that only 642 of the 16,142 healthcare workers and frontline workers registered for the vaccine were inoculated on Sunday. While a total of 3780 people were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand on the day, almost 70 per cent of them were senior citizens, government data highlighted. Of the over 2500 senior citizens vaccinated on the day, as many as 375 were from Ranchi, 363 from Bokaro and 198 from Dhanbad. As per NHM data, no person was vaccinated in East Singhbhum on Sunday. Among the 510 middle-agers vaccinated in the state, 128 were from Ranchi and 133 from Deoghar. While the state performed poorly in administering the first dose of the vaccine to the beneficiaries on the day, it achieved 51 per cent of its target for administering the second dose. At least 2767 of the 5378 healthcare workers registered for the second dose of the vaccine on Sunday were vaccinated. As per government data, the state has so far vaccinated 3,54,100 people against the Covid-19 virus. At least 35,776 senior citizens and 4555 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state so far, reveals data compiled by the NHM. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 virus claimed two more lives in Ranchi on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in the district to 249 and that in Jharkhand to 1093, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. As many as 42 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on the day while 38 Covid patients recovered, taking the count of active cases to 463. Ranchi reported 29 cases and 25 recoveries on the day. As per government data, over 1.20 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. At the current growth rate of infection, it would take more than 2134 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Physically challenged para-teacher seeks job regularisation||The world celebrates International Women’s Day on Monday with this year’s theme “Choose to challenge” but this lady chose to challenge long ago. Meet Basanti Kumari, a physically challenged contractual para-teacher at the Utkramit Madhya Vidyalay, an upgraded middle school at Rorhabandh, about 25km from Dhanbad, who has been teaching there for the past 15 years. She sincerely hopes to believe what the women’s day theme indicates — “Challenged world is an alert world and from challenge comes the change”. The change in her case would come when she is made a regular teacher, entitled to a salary as per the existing pay scale. “I have applied to the authorities for making me a regular teacher under special category meant for physically challenged candidates but nothing happened so far,” Kumari 40, lamented, adding that would help her earn an increased salary and run their family of three sisters smoothly. Her hands had not developed when she was born and everyone thought she could never attend school but she proved them all wrong. “I was always interested to go to school and my parents also encouraged me to do so,” Kumari, who graduated with sociology from Sindri College in 1999, spoke eloquently about her parents — Madhav Singh and Prabhavati — who were no more. Their financial condition had deteriorated after her father’s death who worked as a foreman at Fertiliser Corporation of India at Sindri and she started offering tuition to kids to earn for the family. “I had appeared at the state teacher’s eligibility test (TET) twice but missed it narrowly both the times,” she informed, adding no job came her way until she joined as a contractual para-teacher in 2005. “I’m comfortable with my left leg and write on blackboard with that leg,” Kumari informed when asked how she managed to teach in the school. “I’m the sole bread-earner of my family of three sisters and have also to marry off the youngest one,” she said, adding an added income as a regular teacher would help her a lot. The para-teachers of the state had been agitating for a long time for regularisation of their service and the state government is likely to make such para teachers who cleared TET regular soon. “I couldn’t clear TET, so I urged the authorities to make me a regular teacher under special category,” she said, adding she always liked to teach children. People recognised her grit and even felicitated her on women’s day in the past but her real recognition would come when she would be recognised as a regular teacher she felt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
