09-03-2021||Calcutta||Restoration of Sibtainabad Imambara on the cards||More than a century-and a-half ago, Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, built the Sibtainabad Imambara in Garden Reach after he was exiled to Calcutta from Awadh by the British. The imambara, which the Nawab used to frequent, is crying for repairs now as water seeps from its creaking roof, there are cracks on its walls and the foundation has weakened. Wajid Ali Shah is buried inside the imambara and his grave on the northern corner is a major draw for visitors to this Garden Reach heritage site. One of his sons, Birjis Qadr, is buried at the southern corner, the two separated by the large main hall of the imambara. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has now taken up the much-needed restoration of the structure. The CMC has floated a tender to engage a consultant for the “renovation and restoration work of Sibtainabad Imambara” with a 450-day deadline. “This is possibly the last of the long line of imambaras built by the rulers of Awadh, but far away from the boundaries of Awadh,” said Irfan Ali Mirza, one of the descendants of the Nawab and a current trustee of the Sibtainabad Imambara. The imambara was built in the 1860s. There are doubts about the exact year of construction. Inside, there are objects and articles from the time of the Nawab. A replica of the tomb of Imam Husayn, the third Imam of Islam, is placed above the grave of the king. “This tomb was built during the lifetime of the king and he wanted that it should be placed above his grave after he died,” said Humayun Ali Mirza, another trustee. There are balconies on the northern and southern ends of the main hall of the imambara. Humayun said women used to attend the congregations at the hall from the balconies above. The floor of the hall and even the passage outside has graves of descendants of Wajid Ali. Black lines on the floor mark the graves that are below but the floor has become undulated because of structural weaknesses over the years. Sibtainabad Imambara was named so during the king’s lifetime. “Wajid Ali Shah’s father is buried in an imambara in Awadh named Sibtainabad Imambara. After Wajid Ali Shah was exiled to Calcutta, he built this imambara and also named it Sibtainabad Imambara. He had wished that he should be buried here,” said Sudipta Mitra, who has written the book, Pearl by the River, an account of Wajid Ali Shah’s days in Garden Reach. “The kingdom of Awadh was set up in 1724 by Sadaat Khan at a time when the Mughal power was in decline. Wajid Ali was his successor,” said Subhas Chakraborty, a former professor of history at Presidency College. Wajid Ali Shah had arrived in Garden Reach in 1856. “In 1857, when he was already in Calcutta, Wajid Ali Shah was put under arrest by the British because they feared he would become a rallying point for people with anti-British sentiments,” Chakraborty added. The imambara has undergone minor repairs in the past but a repair to fix its structural weaknesses was never undertaken, the trustees said. As a measure to avert any accident, the trustees have fitted a net under the roof so that chunks from the roof do not fall and injure people underneath. Termites have eaten up the wooden beams and the terrace has become weak, they said. During monsoon, tarpaulin sheets are spread on the terrace to prevent water from leaking through the roof. Engineers of the CMC said they have also discovered cracks in the wall and the foundation too needs to be strengthened as it has weakened because of lack of maintenance over the years. “A heritage conservationist will be appointed as a consultant to do the work. It will be a retrofitting work without changing anything in the exteriors of the structure. We will only strengthen the condition of the building,” said a CMC official. The consultant, likely to be hired by the end of March, will create a plan for the restoration and it will be supervised by the CMC. “We received only one bidder in our first tender call. Rules say we cannot award the work if there is only one bidder. We have floated the second call and hopefully there will be more bidders for the work,” said the CMC official. Shaikh Sohail, a heritage enthusiast who has taken several Calcuttans on tours of the imambara, said he was excited to hear about the restoration. “The imambara is among the few structures built by the Nawab at Garden Reach that has survived. Shahi Masjid, where he used to pray still stands but the palace, called Sultan Khana or Shahi Mahal, was demolished. There is also the Bait-ul-Nijat Imambara, built by Wajid Ali, which is also in bad shape,” he said. The Sibtainabad Imambara is listed as a grade I heritage building according to CMC records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University practical exams to be held online||The postgraduate departments of Calcutta University will hold their practical exams online in view of the pandemic. The university that had allowed the departments to hold practical classes on the campus from January 18, left it to departments to decide on what could be the mode of examination under the circumstances. The departments have opted for the online mode, said an official of CU. The exams of the theory papers of the odd semester (semester I and III) are being held online from March 8. Since the practical classes were held in-person, it was expected that the department would want to hold the exams offline, said the official. “But they have decided to hold it online in the form of conducting a viva or asking students to solve a problem on digital platforms,” he said. Parthiba Basu, the head of the zoology department, said they opted the online mode following a compulsion to keep parity with the colleges, which run postgraduate courses and did not reopen even for practical classes. Tilottoma Mukherjee, the head of the psychology department, said they will hold practical exams online as it would be impossible to bring patients from hospitals to the campus to enable students undertake psychometric assessment. “The university has now left it to each department’s PG board of studies to set the questions and evaluate answers (theory and practical) on behalf of the colleges as well. If the department had to conduct its practical exam on the campus that would entail preparing separate sets of questions . We wanted parity,” said Basu, who is the president of Calcutta University Teachers’ Association. The same compulsion forced most departments, said an official. In a meeting held between education minister Partha Chatterjee and the representatives of the universities on February 3, it was decided that the campuses would remain shut due to the pandemic. The representative of CU was questioned why postgraduate departments were reopened for holding the practical classes without consulting the education department. CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said: “Our departments are autonomous to decide what mode would be suitable for them”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Air quality of city and its fringes continues to be 'unhealthy'||Winter is gone but the air quality of the city and its fringes continues to be “unhealthy”, according to data generated by West Bengal Pollution Control Board as well as by a consortium led by IIT Delhi. Data from nine automatic measuring stations run by state Pollution Control Board (PCB) and from 7 air pollution sensors set up by IIT Delhi and The Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) under NASA programme, being accessed by Metro, show that at 7.30pm on Monday, barring Rabindra Sarobar and Jadavpur, the air quality index value at all other places were hovering between 150 and 200, which is considered “unhealthy”. Barasat leads the pack with 188, followed by Rabindra Bharati with 177, rest of the places remain close by. PM 2.5, the most toxic air pollutant that can travel deep into lungs and trigger a range of diseases including cancer, is the prime factor behind the poor air quality in all these places. “The data shows that the pollution is not confined to the heart of the city but is actually spread across greater Calcutta. The air quality values reflect the impact of the locally generated pollution along with the pollutants that has travelled from other places,” Sagnik De, a scientist from IIT Delhi told Metro. “The pollution results now point out the impact of sources like vehicles and construction,” said a scientist from the environment department of Calcutta University. Earlier a study carried out by Delhi-based environmental think-tank Center for Science and Environment (CSE) had also pointed out that the sources of highly toxic PM 2.5 pollutants in Calcutta, whose rise in Calcutta was the highest among all other Indian cities during last winter, have been mostly local unlike Delhi. Overall Calcutta’s average PM 2.5 value in the 2020-21 winter, 94 microgram per cubic meter of air, stood second among metro cities.  Delhi topped the chart with an average PM 2.5 value of 186 micrograms. The period from October 1 to January 31 (2020-21) has been considered as winter. The maximum PM 2.5 value recorded in Calcutta during this winter was 199 micrograms, which was more than thrice the national limit of 60 micrograms. CSE report also points out that while Calcutta’s average PM 2.5 level and peak PM 2.5 value during 2020-21 winter showed a significant spike over the winter before, both parameters showed decline in overall eastern India. “The fact, Calcutta showing a trend reversal within eastern India, means significant number of local factors is involved in pushing up city’s PM 2.5 pollution values. This is unlike Delhi where external factors are significantly responsible,” said Anumita Roy Choudhury, air pollution head, CSE. “While surrounding regions contribute to Delhi’s air pollution, Calcutta’s air pollution sources are mostly local” said environment activist Subhas Datta. Unless there is administrative action and rise in awareness; lungs will continue to be choked with toxic pollutants in Calcutta, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Charnock Hospital asked to pay Rs 5 lakh||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday asked the Charnock Hospital in Teghoria to pay Rs 5 lakh to the family of a patient who was discharged from the hospital at a time when her condition was still “critical”. The 29-year-old woman died the next day at another hospital. The woman was admitted to the hospital with gynaecological problems on October 5. She underwent a surgery on October 6, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The woman started having complications within 24 hours of undergoing the surgery...,” Banerjee added. The woman was then discharged on October 18, but Banerjee said she was still not in a condition for discharge. During Monday’s hearing, officials of Charnock Hospital told the commission that the patient was discharged because her family wanted to take her away as they were unable to bear the cost of the treatment. “We told the hospital that the patient’s family was unable to bear the cost because a lot of complications developed after the surgery...” said Banerjee. The commission also asked AMRI Hospital  Dhakuria to refund Rs 60,000 to a patient’s family as the commission found that the hospital did not offer discounts on consumables and pharmacy products on the bill. The 73-year-old woman was admitted underwent treatment in the hospital in January. The hospital had billed Rs 2.40 lakh for nine days. RSV Hospital in Tollygunge was asked to return Rs 82,000 to a patient for the same reason. The man was admitted in the hospital with Covid-19 in November. RSV Hospital had charged more as doctors’ fee. The commission also asked Quadra Medical Services Private Limited to pay the amount of a CA Serum 125 test to a patient. Banerjee that the results showed that person had higher than normal values, after which the person underwent the same test at another place. When the second result came as normal, he lodged a complaint against Quadra. “We have said that results of such diagnostic tests must be matched with the diagnosis of the concerned doctor. If the doctor feels there is something abnormal, they always tell the patient to go for a repeat test. Our point is that if the second test shows that the first result was wrong and the second test’s result matches with the doctor’s diagnosis then the amount of the first test must be returned by the laboratory where the first test was done.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Two more fliers from Dubai test Covid positive||Two more fliers, who had reached Calcutta separately from Dubai in end-February and early-March, were admitted to the Infectious Diseases (ID) Hospital, Beleghata, on Monday after testing positive for Covid-19. After the two persons testing positive, the state government has decided to admit such people immediately after the test results and without waiting for a confirmatory report of whether the mutant strain of Covid-19 is present in the sample or not. The two passengers who were admitted to the ID Hospital on Monday were from South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. The sample of the first, who had arrived from Dubai to Calcutta in early-March, has been sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for strain-identification. The report of the second, who had landed in end-February, has remained inconclusive, said a health department official. So far, fliers tested positive at the airport on arrival would be sent home with an advice for self isolation for two weeks. If their samples were found to be positive for any of the mutant strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, they would be admitted to the Beleghata-facility. From Monday, the health department has decided that passengers from abroad testing positive on arrival would be directly admitted to the Beleghata hospital. The policy-shift came after eight fliers, all from Dubai, first testing positive on arrival and days later one of them was found to be carrying the South African-strain of the coronavirus — the first such occurrence in Bengal so far — and five others with the UK-strain. The health department admitted them to the ID Hospital only between Saturday and Sunday. “We will no longer wait for the results to find out if anyone of them is carrying the mutant strain of the coronavirus,” said a senior official of the Swasthya Bhavan. Health department has started collecting samples from those who have come in contact with these patients over the last few days. About 110 samples were collected from contacts of three persons. The health department has also started collecting data of passengers and cabin crew of the flights on which these persons have travelled. Those in the three rows ahead of the infected person and in the three behind would be contacted to find out if they have developed any symptoms, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Kids explore digital route||Sushila Birla Girls’ School Students of Sushila Birla Girls’ School recently celebrated the World Soil Day to emphasise the importance of healthy soil. This year’s theme was “keep soil alive, protect soil biodiversity”. The students of Class V worked towards spreading awareness about the importance of healthy soil and the need to minimise loss of soil biodiversity. The young minds focused on the workers below ground, that is, from tiny bacteria to agile millipedes and slimy earthworms — all of which contribute to processes that are indispensable to life on Earth. Special assembly, role-plays and poster-making activities were conducted to advocate sustainability of this resource. The programme was conducted under the guidance of the students’ class teachers. “Kids should be sensitised in terms of soil conservation. There were various activities related to soil conservation, which the kids enjoyed,” said headmistress Vidisha Panja. Birla High School junior section Birla High School junior section recently celebrated the International Dot Day. It is a celebration of creativity inspired by The Dot, a book written and illustrated by Peter H. Reynolds to encourage students to reach their potential. Keeping Nature as the theme, Nursery students enjoyed playing with paint and drew things of nature using various techniques such as ear bud painting and cotton dabbing. Kindergarten tots made new words with dots using play dough. As wonder chefs they discovered their cooking skills and made traffic signals using biscuits and dots out of candies. Students of Class I displayed many things connected to dots and enjoyed a fun-filled math activity using a dice. Class II kids decorated round biscuits and cookies with chocolate sauce, jam and colourful gems in keeping with the EVS lesson Think Food First. Students of Class III created mandalas in their English class and did a multiplication dot activity in their mathematics class related to the theme Every Dot Matters. Class IV students drew eyes depicting various emotions after success or failure. They wrote about their goals and aspirations and spread the message of hope and love while writing on the topic The Dots That Speak. The basic concept of decimals was introduced to the students of Class V through a video. They made colourful posters. “Celebrating the International Dot Day gave students the chance to build on their idea of the dot. The students showed interest and they projected ideas that showed awareness. We must make our children aware of the present situations, so that they can learn to explore what is going to help them in the long run,” said headmistress Farida Singh. Young Horizons School Students of Class V from Young Horizons School recently conducted a special assembly, welcoming the spring season. Dressed in yellow, around 17 students performed in the virtual event. The kids spoke at length about the beauty of nature and a new life that spring brings with it through songs, poem recitations and dance performances. The participants performed live. “When we had started off with our online classes last year, children were excited. But it died off soon. They were missing their school and that was when we started our morning assembly. Every class would be given time to think and come up with special assemblies that we have once a week. They focus on positive things and those they love to do for the assemblies,” said principal Sarmistha Sen. Calcutta Business School Calcutta Business School, a unit of the Shikshayatan Foundation, celebrated Saraswati Puja both on its premises and digital platform. The puja was organised in the school, while the cultural programme was showed online. Students presented songs, dance and recitation that won critical accolades. “I am happy with the manner in which students managed to put up Saraswati Puja. The puja was performed, keeping the festive spirit intact. This is what they are being taught — how to manage things even in adverse situations. Moreover, without creativity there is no art, science, literature, innovation and no solution to a problem. Creativity, thus, is very important in a business school,” said the foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Future Hope School gets CBSE affiliation||A school that has been supporting children from the streets right up to college for more than two decades, now has an affiliation of a central board. Future Hope School got the CBSE affiliation on March 1 and will be sending out the first batch of Class X students in 2023. So far the students would appear for boards from different schools but despite the affiliation those heading the charitable organisation promises that it will remain a free school and continue to serve those in the “bottom of the pile.” The process for the affiliation began about two years back. The first step was getting the no-objection certificate from the state government, following which there was  inspection from the Central Board of Secondary Education. “The charter of Future Hope makes it very clear and that is to always work for the poor children. We go to the bottom of the pile for someone who would find it difficult to go to a school,” said Sujata Sen, CEO of Future Hope. “It was never the ambition of Future Hope to become big in the education sector but we needed to do something for the children and it grew organically...as we took in more children we realised we need the affiliation,” said Sen. She said that the school has a very stringent verification process while taking in kids which includes surprise visits to the homes of the children in the slums. They also speak to the people in the locality to find more information about these kids But the challenge that the school continues to face is that the number of such needy kids is more than they can accommodate. The school in such conditions admit poor kids to other schools and keep supporting them. At present here are about 300 students in Future Hope and another 100 in other schools supported by Future Hope. Students in Future Hope are between 6 to 22 years and after an “intervention of 15 odd years the individuals come out independent,” said Sen. The children and individuals come from families in distress. Many of the children live in 6ft by 6ft houses where the same space is used as the kitchen, the living room and the bedroom. Bringing such children to school means providing them with uniform and stationary. Future Hope does push children to sports and that means the organisation has to provide for their sport equipment, including shoes. Future Hope stared in 1987 as a home for street and slum children that provided safety and security for them. The school like a tutorial came up in 1998 when those in the organisation came across “stumbling blocks” while trying to put children to schools. “Every school has a specific age criteria (like six years for Class I) and we stumbled a lot...some of these children were eight or nine years of age. So we created our own school,” said Sen. Future Hope plans to come up with a new campus in Rajarhat The architectural designs is ready and the new campus will have football and cricket fields and they will grow their own vegetables.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Domestic workers share lockdown plight||Job loss, pay cuts, lack of transport and social boycott, a handful of domestic workers came together on a virtual platform on Monday to share the challenges they had to endure during the early stages of the Covid pandemic last year. Sankari Mondal, who lives in Sonarpur in the southern fringe of the city, rode her cycle for over two hours every day to travel between her home and her employers’ homes in south Calcutta. She used to travel by train before the lockdown. While crossing barricades in containment zones and blocked rail gates, Mondal had to lift her cycle. “The lockdown was prolonged. I could not step out for work and stopped getting salaries. My savings was almost finished. I could not keep sitting at home,” said Mondal, whose husband, who paints houses, also went out of work during the lockdown. Some of her employers had bluntly told her she did not need to come. Those who still wished to employ her said they would not let her in if she took a train or any other public transport. If the challenges at the workplaces were not enough, some of neighbours also “targeted her for visiting the city and bringing the virus back into her locality”. Her octogenarian mother also faced taunts from neighbours, Mondal said. She was summoned by the leaders of the outgoing panchayat. “I told them clearly — either arrange for means to run my family or let me do my work,” Mondal said. Despite the odds, Mondal drew “satisfaction that she was able to provide two square meals to her family members in the lockdown”. Monday’s session was organised by Ebong Alap (Conversations and More), a voluntary organisation of “writers, teachers, journalists, researchers and performance artists to focus on critical and gender-sensitive citizenship”, to mark International Women’s Day. Ebong Alap has recently launched a gender archive in Bengali, billed as the first of its kind. The moderator, Satabdi Das, reminded viewers that the women working at factories were at the root of the women’s movement in the early 20th century. “It was earlier celebrated as International Working Women’s Day but the lure of discounts at shopping malls has now cloaked the ‘working’ part,” she said. Putul Das, another domestic worker who lives in Dum Dum, had a story similar to Mondal’s to share. Das and many other women like her were “forced to pluck wild greens from fields and wetlands and pond banks” because of a cash crunch. Aparna Halder, who lives in Bidyadharpur in South 24-Parganas, said the job loss in the wake of the lockdown was only made worse by the havoc wreaked by Cyclone Amphan. Halder spent many days at a camp, volunteering to cook for the homeless in May last year. Rights activist Paramita Chowdhuri said domestic workers faced “permanent income loss, hampering of children’s education and domestic violence” during the lockdown. “But these women showed tremendous resilience. Many of them switched professions and took to selling vegetables and fish,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||ICSE exams and ISC theory papers to begin on May 4||The ICSE (Class X) exams and ISC (Class XII) theory papers have been brought forward by a day and will now begin on May 4. Both timetables have been revised. Earlier, ICSE exams had been scheduled on May 13 and May 15, and ISC on May 13, May 15 and June 12, but now no exams have been slotted for these dates. “Due to unavoidable circumstances, CISCE (Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations) has decided to revise the ICSE and ISC Year 2021 Examination timetables,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of CISCE, said on Monday. The ICSE exam will begin with economics (group II elective) and ISC theory with English — paper 2 (literature) on May 4. The date of the last ICSE exam, June 7, remains the same. The ISC will now end on June 18 instead of June 16. There has been no change in the ISC practical exam dates. The ISC computer science (paper 2) practical-planning session is scheduled for April 8 and the ISC home science (paper 2) practical-planning session and Indian music Carnatic (paper 2) practical for April 9. “As per the ICSE (Class X) revised timetable, no examination has been scheduled on May 13, 2021 and May 15, 2021, subsequently some changes have been made in the timetable… As per the ISC (Class XII) revised timetable, no examination has been scheduled on May 13, 2021, May 15, 2021 and June 12, 2021, subsequently some changes have been made in the timetable,” Arathoon said in a release. One of the changes in the ICSE timetable is the economics (group II elective) exam now scheduled on May 4 instead of May 13. For ISC, business studies that had earlier been scheduled on May 5 will now be held on June 18. The revised timetables have been uploaded on CISCE’s website www.cisce.org. In a circular issues to principals of schools presenting candidates for the 2021 board exams, Arathoon asked them to ensure that the information is disseminated to all concerned. “The revised timetables along with the Instructions to Candidates should be printed and put up on the school notice board,” he has said. The council, that had been waiting for the announce-ment of poll dates, had published the earlier timetable on March 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||New Koilaghat building fire hits rail booking across east||Online ticket booking for railways travel had shut down across east and northeast India from Monday evening after the fire broke out in the New Koilaghat building where servers of the electronic booking system are installed. The online booking stopped as electric supply to the 14-storey building was cut off to prevent further spread of the flames. The fire broke out on the 13th floor of the building and spread to the floor immediately below. The servers are located on the second and third floors of the building. An official of the Eastern Railway said that they had cut off power supply in the building from around 6pm. But the silver lining was that till late on Monday there was no damage to the servers and the fire had not spread to the rooms where the servers are installed. The official, however, could not give a time by which the online booking could resume. Whenever the booking begins, the speed could be very slow, the official warned. According to officials of the Eastern Railways, the signal and telecom department construction office on the 13th floor had caught fire that later spread across the floor and to the floor below. “The power supply to the building had been stopped on advice from the fire brigade. There has been no damage to the servers but it is difficult to say when the online ticket booking will resume again. The fire fighting operations are still underway,” said Kamal Deo Das, the spokesperson for Eastern Railway. Another official said once they get access inside the building, they would try to work out ways so that online booking can be resumed. “We have servers of the railways in Secunderabad also. We will see if something can be done to resume booking using those servers,” said the official. Officials in the railways said that the servers in the New Koilaghat building, the headquarters of the Eastern Railway, did not only serve the Eastern Railway. The servers are used to book tickets in zones served by the Northeast Frontier Railway and the East Central Railway also. “Booking could not be done for trains originating from all the seven northeastern states, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha. The servers in the New Koilaghat building are used to book tickets for trains originating from these places,” said an official. The Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), through whose website online tickets are purchased, tweeted at 10.26pm on Monday: “Kolkata node of PRS is down due to technical reasons. Booking and cancellation for trains originating on Kolkata node is not available at present. Services will be restored soon.” A large number of Indians travelling with reserved tickets in trains book their tickets online. A railways official said that between 75 and 80 per cent of reserved tickets are purchased online everyday across the country. About 8 lakh online tickets are purchased though the website of IRCTC. “Though the exact figure is not available, east and northeast India account for one-fourth of total reserved tickets bought online every day,” added the official. Metro tokens Metro Railway tokens, suspended since the carried resumed services on September 14, 2020, will be issued again from March 15, the carrier said on Monday. The number of trains will also go up from Wednesday, said an official release. From Monday to Friday, the number of daily trains will go up to 252 from 244. The first train will leave Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas (New Garia) at 6.50am instead of 7am. The last train will leave Dakshineswar at 9.28pm and Dum Dum and New Garia at 9.40pm, instead of 9.30pm. On Saturday, the carrier will run 232 trains instead of 228. The timing of the first and last trains will be like weekdays. On Sunday, the carrier will run 104 trains instead of 102. The first trains will leave at 9am and the last trains at 9.40pm, the carrier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Elderly people are preferring Covishield to Covaxin||Many elderly people, who are receiving Covid-19 vaccines, are telling private hospitals that they prefer Covishield to Covaxin, officials of several healthcare institutes said. All hospitals in Calcutta are now administering Covishield vaccine, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. The homegrown Covaxin is not supplied by the government to hospitals at this moment, said health department officials. “Most elderly people and their relatives who are coming to our hospital are asking whether we are giving Covishield or Covaxin. These vaccine recipients are telling us that if it’s Covaxin, they would come at a later date,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital. Many private hospitals have not set up a separate site that is required if they want to administer Covaxin to healthcare and frontline workers. Some said they did not have enough space for it but others said there was apprehension among people about the homegrown vaccine. On Monday, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences administered the vaccine dose to 300 senior citizens. “Most who come to the hospital are expressing their desire for the Covishield vaccine and are extremely relieved on getting a confirmation on the same in the affirmative,” said R Venkatesh, regional director, eastern region of Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. A senior health department official said vaccines are supplied as per availability. Now, the department is supplying Covishield, and when the Centre provides Covaxin, it will be given to hospitals. Doctors and public health experts said there were confusions and misconceptions about efficacy of vaccines. “Many elderly patients are asking me whether Covaxin should be taken. Till last month, I was not sure about Covaxin’s efficacy. But now that there is published data, we should not worry about the choice. That’s what I am telling my patients,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a physician who was part of the medical team treating Covid patients at Peerless Hospital. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said a perception has been created about Covaxin, for which the Centre should also be blamed. “The Covid pandemic has shown us how belief without scientific basis is influencing people’s behaviour. This is just another example. I think the Centre’s decision to make people sign a consent form for Covaxin, which did not mention the efficacy, added to the confusion,” said Chowdhury. “After the proper efficacy data was published, the vaccine should have been introduced,” he said. The Telegraph had reported earlier this month that Covaxin, developed jointly by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, has shown close to 81 per cent efficacy in protecting people from the infection. The vaccine had run into controversy after India’s drug regulators approved it in January without efficacy studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Nine dead in Strand Road railway office fire ||At least nine people died in a fire that broke out on Monday evening on the 13th floor of the New Koilaghat Building that houses offices of the Indian Railway in Strand Road. Seven people who took an elevator to try and reach the burning floor were feared dead. Four of them are firemen, two are railway personnel and the seventh is an assistant sub-inspector attached to Hare Street police station. They were officially declared “missing”. Nine bodies had been found till midnight and none identified. It remained unclear whether anyone working in the building had been trapped and died in the blaze, which was reported at 6.10pm. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee arrived at the spot at night and announced Rs 10 lakh and a job for each bereaved family. The fire had broken out at the signal and telecom department office on the 13th floor of the building — the Eastern Railway office — and spread to the 12th. As many as 20 fire tenders were deployed. Pockets of fire  flared in the building around 1am. Well past midnight, the railways had issued no formal communication on the casualties or damage to property. “The seven missing people have been identified as Girish Dey, Gaurav Bej, Aniruddha Jana, Biman Purkait, Amit Bhawal, deputy CCM Mr Mandal and a constable of the RPF (Railway Protection Force) who was with Mandal,” state home secretary H.K. Dwivedi, who was at the site, said. Mamata said: “The incident happened because they had tried to use the lift. We should all be careful not to use lifts during fires. The people who were going were capable. Maybe they wanted to reach quickly. They were charred.” At one point, the chief minister questioned the railways’ sense of responsibility, asking why not a single railway official was at the site. Mamata said: “This is a railway building. They have some responsibility. I don't want to politicise an accident, but it is unfortunate that no one from the railway department has come.” “I have also been told by my minister that the fire officials had asked for a map of the building for easier access but received no cooperation.” She later said a single railway official had turned up. As the night wore on, teary-eyed relatives of some of the missing began arriving. State fire minister Sujit Bose, Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra, director-general of fire and emergency services Jawed Shamim, Calcutta mayor Firhad Hakim and other senior state government officials were at the spot. Bose said it seemed that the seven had taken the lift to try and reach the 13th floor quickly. He said a detailed inquiry would be ordered into the blaze, and it would be investigated why the fire-fighting team had used the lift despite the building being on fire. “It’s part of basic protocol that lifts are not to be used during a fire,” Bose said. He said it would also be probed whether the building had proper fire-fighting equipment. In Strand Road on Monday, Mamata was at the spot past midnight and then went to SSKM Hospital where the bodies had been sent to. The chief minister was seen consoling anxious people who had gathered outside the building, looking for missing relatives. President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a fire incident at a building in Calcutta and said he was pained beyond words at the tragedy. "Pained beyond words by the extremely tragic fire accident at a building in Kolkata. My deep sympathy and condolences for the bereaved families. I wish for speedy recovery of the injured," Kovind tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Business||Sensex rises 584 points to close above 51,000 mark ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied on Tuesday 584 points tracking gains in HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 584.41 points or 1.16 per cent higher at 51,025.48, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 142.20 points or 0.95 per cent to 15,098.40. Kotak Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and TCS. On the other hand, PowerGrid, ONGC, NTPC and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities extended gains for the second consecutive day mainly aided by favourable cues from global markets. Financials (ex-PSU banks) majorly supported the market's rally on Tuesday. Barring Financials and IT, most of the key sectoral indices traded lower. Notably, midcap and small cap indices were down as investors opted to take profit off the table after recent run-up in these spaces, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.72 per cent higher at USD 68.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 500 points in opening trade on Tuesday tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 509.07 points or 1.01 per cent higher at 50,950.14, and the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 149.35 points or 1 per cent up at 15,105.55. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, M&M, Tech Mahindra and Asian Paints. On the other hand, ONGC and PowerGrid were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 35.75 points or 0.07 per cent higher at 50,441.07, and Nifty ended higher by 18.10 points or 0.12 per cent at 14,956.20. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,494.49 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. "Rising crude prices, surge in bond yields in the US and weakening INR could be a near-term risk for domestic equities, which has already resulted in FPIs' outflow in recent days. "However, we continue to believe that the recent rise in bond yield is discounting a faster recovery in economic growth and this is unlikely to move northward beyond a point," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. In the US, equities ended on a mixed note in overnight trade on Monday. "Clearly, US markets are being driven by anticipations of faster economic recovery led by aggressive fiscal spending and faster reopening of the economy, which may also stoke inflation," Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.94 per cent higher at USD 68.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Tata Motors shareholders accept hiving off PV business into new entity ||Tata Motors on Monday said that its shareholders have approved the hiving off the passenger vehicle (PV) business into a separate entity. On March 5, the shareholders of the auto major had voted on a proposal to transfer the passenger vehicles unit to TML Business Analytics Services Ltd as a going concern. TML Business Analytics will pay a lump sum for the transfer which will take place on a slump sale basis. In a regulatory filing, Tata Motors said around 215.4 crore votes were polled of which around 215.3 crore were in favour of the resolution. This translates into 99.96 per cent of the votes, while 8.9 lakh votes (0.042 per cent) were against the proposal. In terms of public institutional shareholders, around 68.9 crore votes were polled with all of them in favour and none against the resolution. In the public non-institutional shareholder category, around 15.2 crore votes were polled with 15.1 crore (99.4 per cent) in favour and 8.9 lakh votes (0.6 per cent) against the move. The management expects the process of hiving off its domestic PV business to be completed around May-June this year, although it has not yet taken a call on a potential partner. Last year, Tata Motors had announced that it would turn its domestic PV business unit into a separate entity and seek a strategic partner to help the unit secure its long-term viability. In its letter to shareholders, Tata Motors had said that as part of an overall business reorganisation plan and in order to provide for the optimum running, growth and development of the PV undertaking and interests of the company, it is necessary to realign the business. According to Tata Motors, the spinoff will help in providing differentiated focus for the PV and commercial vehicle business and help each of them realise their potential apart from unlocking the business value and enhanced management focus and operational flexibility in each of these segments. It also pointed out that the passenger vehicle business (which also includes the passenger electric vehicle business) landscape is seeing rapid transformation in the form of tightening emission norms and safety norms, push towards electrification and enhanced disruptions from autonomous and connected technologies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Shares of Muthoot Finance fall after chairman's death||Shares of Indian non-banking financial firm Muthoot Finance Ltd fell the most in nearly two months on Monday, after group chairman M.G. George Muthoot died over the weekend, with media reports saying he fell from his fourth floor house in New Delhi. On the BSE, the stock opened sharply lower at Rs 1,205 and later recovered to touch an intra-day high of Rs 1,271 before closing at Rs 1,259.90, down Rs 29.85, or 2.31 per cent, against the previous close of Rs 1289.75. The financier, grandson of the gold financing company’s founding chairman, is credited with growing the company into a pan-India name and scaling its presence beyond the southern state of Kerala, where it is based. George Muthoot took charge as chairman in 1993, overseeing its expansion into more than 4,500 branches across the country and growing its market capital nearly eight folds in the past decade. “Under his stewardship, Muthoot Finance saw new heights of growth and became the market leader in (the) Gold Loan Industry,” the company said in a statement on Saturday. The company did not mention the cause of his death but media reports, citing police sources, said he fell from the fourth floor of his house in the national capital. The forensic department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has constituted a board to probe the cause of death, Business Today said in a report on Sunday. Muthoot, AIIMS and Delhi Police did not immediately respond to calls and emails asking for more details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Government collects Rs 53,346 crore from Vivad Se Vishwas scheme till Feb 22||The bulk of the arrears raised under tax amnesty scheme Vivad Se Vishwas has come from central PSUs, according to the figures presented by junior finance minister Anurag Thakur in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The government has collected Rs 53,346 crore under the scheme till February 22, of which Rs 27,720 crore have been collected from central public sector undertakings (PSUs), Rs 1,023 crore from state PSUs, and Rs 24,603 crore by others. Thakur said over 1.28 lakh declarations have been filed under the scheme involving a disputed tax of Rs 98,328 crore. The minister said direct tax collections for the fiscal were likely to to be less than even the revised budget estimates. The target under revised budget estimate is Rs 9.05 lakh crore but the collections have just touched Rs 7.32 lakh crore till February. Fiscal Council call 15th Finance Commission chairman N.K. Singh on Monday called for the setting up a Fiscal Council like institution to better manage the debt trajectory of the Centre and states. He also highlighted the “substantial” increase in the proportion of cess and surcharge in gross tax revenue (GTR) in the past 10 years, saying only if a Constitutional amendment is introduced to include a portion of it into the divisible pool, then states' could get a share of the revenue earned under that head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Promoters of Kesoram to dilute stake||The Birla family’s holding in Kesoram Industries may tumble to 32.39 per cent following the issue of equity and preference shares to Indian lenders according to the terms of the long-pending debt resolution. The promoters now hold 53.13 per cent of the equity. The company, the flagship of Basant Kumar Birla Group, issued around 2.22 crore shares at Rs 65 a share, to nine Indian banks and one financial institution, converting a Rs 144.43-crore loan into equity. It also issued 4.48 crore zero coupon optionally convertible redeemable preference shares to the same set priced at Rs 100 apiece, converting a loan of Rs 448.97 crore. There will be a lock-in of one year on the instruments. Assuming that the preference shares are converted into equity, the promoters’ holding will slip. Shares were issued to Axis and ICICI Bank among others. The Kesoram scrip closed at Rs 83.85 on the BSE on Monday. On top of that, Kesoram plans to raise around Rs 700 crore by issuing optionally convertible debentures (OCDs) to a clutch of investors belonging to Goldman Sachs, Edelweiss and Sarvara Investment among others. This amount will be used to pay off the existing Indian lenders. The OCDs will not be converted to equity shares unless there is a default on behalf of the company on a specified date. However, if such conversion does take place, the holding of the promoters would decline further to 24.87 per cent. In the past, the Birla family had poured in money in the company as a form of equity to support the cement manufacturer. If that happens, the promoter holding may go up again. Manjushree Khaitan, daughter of late B.K. Birla, is chairman. Pilani Investment and Industries Corp and Century Textiles, which are under the effective control of Kumar Mangalam Birla, grandson of BK, and chairman of Aditya Birla Group, held 22.76 per cent in Kesoram before conversion. The exercise undertaken is part of a one-time settlement agreed by the Indian lenders. Part of the existing Indian lenders’ debt is being converted to equity while the rest is being swapped with money flowing from OCDs. The company hopes the exercise will ease the liquidity crunch and enable it to operate the 7.25 million tonne unit more efficiently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Warburg Pincus to invest Rs 800 crore in Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone||Brokerages have given a thumbs-up to the deal between Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) and Warburg Pincus. This comes a day after the Gautam Adani-led firm had announced the sale of 0.49 per cent to Warburg Pincus for Rs 800 crore. Foreign brokerages feel the transaction will see Adani Ports having the flexibility to raise capital for future acquisitions, including that of Concor which has been put on the block by the government. On Sunday, Adani Ports had said that it will allot up to 1,00,00,000 equity shares to Windy Lakeside Investment Ltd on a preferential basis at a price of Rs 800 per share aggregating to Rs 800 crore. This represented a premium of almost 7 per cent to the closing price of Rs 748.55 of the APSEZ scrip on the BSE last Friday. The Adani Ports share on Monday hit a new high because of the Warburg Pincus transaction. On the BSE, the share opened higher at Rs 766.40 and hit a intra-day high of 768.40. It ended at 748.50 compared with the previous close of Rs 748.55. At present, APSEZ has a market cap of Rs 1.5 lakh crore. However, the Warburg Pincus deal values the company at around Rs 1.63 lakh crore. Brokerages were positive on the company after the announcement of the deal. Citi, which has a buy rating on the stock and a target price of Rs 935, said the preferential issue cements its valuation and because of this, Adani Ports will have the flexibility to raise capital to fund future acquisitions like that of Concor. Morgan Stanley, which has an over-weight rating on APSEZ, said the transaction is being done at a premium to the current market price and that it must be seen in the context of the Gangavaram Port (GPL) deal announced last week. According to the brokerage, the latest deal shows the confidence of the investor in the company. Last week, Adani Ports had said it will acquire 31.5 per cent held by Windy Lakeside Investment in GPL for Rs 1,954 crore subject to regulatory approvals. APSEZ added that it is also in discussions with its promoter— DVS Raju and family — for their 58.1 per cent stake (translating to around 30 crore shares) in GPL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Air India Employess’ consortium out of bid race||The proposal of the employees of Air India to take over the running of the ailing carrier has been rejected by the transaction adviser, leaving the Tatas as the favourite in the privatisation race along with Pawan Ruia and SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh . “The financial bids would be called soon as the first stage of the process is over,” sources said. The employees had partnered a Seychelles-based fund for the venture. Transaction adviser EY had questioned the operations of the fund which led to the rejection. EY has listed three main reasons for the rejection of the bid of the Air India Employess’ consortium. Firstly, the Seychelles fund has not submitted the audited financial statements for three years. Second, a substantial part of the net worth of the fund comprised investments in offshore companies which were not revealed in the bid papers. Besides, the Seychelles fund was not appropriately regulated as defined in the Preliminary Information Memorandum. In a three-page letter to employees, Meenakshi Mallik, commercial director, who has been co-ordinating with the employees, said “as of late last night, I have seen an email from the transaction adviser to the Government of India (Ernst & Young LLP), informing the Employees of Air India that we have been unsuccessful in qualifying to the next phase of the ‘Disinvestment Acquisition process’.” The Telegraph has a copy of this letter. “While it is flattering to note that many wanted to associate themselves with us, we were, in fact, partnered with a financial fund based out of the Republic of Seychelles and dealt exclusively with it through the disinvestment process,” the letter added. “While I write to you with a heavy heart on the outcome of our bid to acquire Air India, I cannot help but be filled with a great sense of pride and admiration for the sincerest efforts we have made over the last few months, together,” Malik said in the letter. She said many others are now following in their footsteps such as the employees of Shipping Corporation of India and Pawan Hans Limited . “Post completion of the evaluation of the Eols (expression of interest) received, the Transaction Advisor will directly intimate the Qualified Interested Bidders (QIB) in relation to their qualification and the next steps for the Proposed Transaction,” Dipam had said in December. The government is looking to complete the process of the airline’s privatisation by next fiscal. The Tata group, SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh in his personal capacity along with two investors, and Calcutta-based businessman Pawan Ruia in his personal capacity,are still said to be in the race for Air India. The Tatas may bid through its low-fare airline company AirAsia India. Air India is set to make a record loss of Rs 10,000 crore this financial year. The airline is burdened with debt of over Rs 23,000 crore after the government shifted its working capital debt to a state-owned special purpose vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Foreign courts confirm $1.4 billion arbitration award against India||Courts in five countries, including the US and the UK, have given recognition to an arbitration award that asked India to return $1.4 billion to Cairn Energy plc — a step that now opens the possibility of the British firm seizing Indian assets in those countries if New Delhi does not pay, sources said. Cairn Energy had moved courts in nine countries to enforce its $1.4-billion arbitral award against India, which the company won after a dispute with the country’s revenue authority over a retroactively applied capital gains tax. Of these, the December 21 award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Netherlands has been recognised and confirmed by courts in the US, the UK, Netherlands, Canada and France, three people with knowledge of the matter said. Cairn has started the process to register the award in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and Cayman Islands, they said. The registration of the award is the first step towards its enforcement in the event of the government not paying the firm. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can then petition it for seizing any Indian government asset such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, to recover the monies due to it, they said. So far, the government has not directly commented on honouring or challenging the Cairn arbitration award, but finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had last week indicated of going in for an appeal. Cairn’s shareholders, who include top financial institutions of the world, want the company to go for enforcement action should New Delhi fail to pay it. While the company spokesperson wasn’t reachable for comments, Cairn had on Sunday stated that it will “begin meetings this week with shareholders in the UK and the US, with the international arbitration award high on the agenda”. “The company met the Government of India last month and is taking all the necessary steps to protect their shareholders’ interests,” it had said. The tribunal had on December 21 ruled that the government breached an investment treaty with the UK and was, therefore, liable to return the value of shares it had seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund stopped to adjust a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand. Cairn in its filings to the courts in the nine countries is seeking “to confirm this final and binding award under the New York Convention and commence enforcement proceedings to recover the losses caused by (India’s) unfair and inequitable treatment of their investments”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Oil prices surge after strikes on storage site in Saudi Arabia||Oil prices pressed higher on Monday after strikes on major facilities in Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest exporter, shook energy markets already rattled by a decision by producers last week to not lift output. Brent crude, the international standard, surpassed $70 per barrel for the first time in over a year, gaining $1.14 to $70.47 a barrel. It had surged $2.62 on Friday. At 11.55 pm on Monday, Brent was trading at $68.06 a barrel. Benchmark US crude oil added $1.10 to $67.19 per barrel, up 1.7 per cent, falling back from bigger gains earlier in the day. It had jumped $2.26 to $66.09 per barrel on Friday. At 11.55 pm on Monday, WTI was trading at $64.87 a barrel. Prices have been recovering in the past few months after plunging last year with the onset of the pandemic. The devastating winter freeze that hit Texas and other parts of the southern United States last month knocked out production of roughly 4 million barrels per day of US oil, pushing prices above $60 a barrel. Last week, with oil prices rising, some observers were expecting the Opec cartel and its allies to lift more restrictions and let the oil flow more freely. But Opec agreed to leave most restrictions in place, despite growing demand. The strikes on Saudi sites have increased in frequency and precision in recent weeks, raising concerns about Saudi Arabia’s air defenses and the expanding capabilities of the Iran-backed rebels across the border in Yemen. A Saudi-led coalition launched an air campaign on war-torn Yemen’s capital and on other provinces on Sunday in retaliation for missile and drone attacks on Saudi Arabia that were claimed by the Iranian-backed rebels. The official Saudi Press Agency quoted an anonymous official in the ministry of energy as saying that a drone flew in from the sea and struck an oil storage site in Ras Tunura, the port run by Saudi Arabia’s state oil company, Aramco. It claimed the strike did not cause any damage. Saudi Aramco, the kingdom’s oil giant that now has a sliver of its worth traded publicly on the stock market, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The ministry of energy denounced the strike as “an act of sabotage” targeting not only Saudi Arabia “but also the security and stability of energy supplies to the world.” When key oil facilities in Saudi Arabia were attacked in 2019, global energy prices soared 14 per cent the next day. But that prior attack disrupted more than half of its daily exports, halting 5 per cent of world crude oil output. Costlier oil pushes energy costs higher. That would add to inflation at a time investors have been focusing on the potential for rising prices to cause central banks to raise interest rates that have been taken to record low levels to support economies battered by the pandemic. “The last thing anyone wants in a recovering global economy is higher oil prices,” Stephen Innes of Axi said in a report on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||India||Maharashtra records 9,927 new infections, 56 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 9,927 new COVID-19 cases which took the caseload to 22,38,398, while 56 fatalities pushed up the death count to 52,556, said a health official. On the other hand, 12,182 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 20,89,294, he added. There are 95,322 active cases in the state now. After several days, the number of active cases declined a little. On Monday, there were 97,637 active cases. Pune city reported the highest 1,110 new cases, taking its tally to 1,01,389. Mumbai city reported 1,012 new cases taking its tally to 3,35,595, while two deaths took the fatality count to 11,510. Mumbai division, which includes surrounding satellite towns, reported 1,940 new cases and 11 deaths. It increased the cumulative infection figure in the region to 7,44,060 and death toll to 19,901. Nashik division's COVID-19 tally stood at 3,04,620 with a death count of 5,318. The number of cases recorded in the Pune division so far stood at 5,43,514 and deaths at 11,810. Kolhapur division has reported 1,20,513 cases and 4,080 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 85,325 and death count at 2,068. Latur division has reported 89,124 cases until now and 2,554 fatalities. Akola division has recorded 1,09,689 cases while 1,863 people have succumbed to the disease until now. Nagpur division has reported 2,41,407 infections and 4,872 fatalities so far. With 84,088 tests on Tuesday, the state so far has carried out 1,70,22,315 coronavirus tests. As many as 4,57,962 people are in home quarantine while 3,827 are in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 22,38,398, New cases: 9,927, Death toll: 52,556, Discharged: 20,89,294, Active cases: 95,332, People tested so far: 1,70,22,315.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||India summons British envoy to convey opposition to discussion over farm laws||India summoned the British High Commissioner on Tuesday and conveyed its strong opposition to the "unwarranted and tendentious" discussion on India's agricultural reforms in the British Parliament. The Ministry of External Affairs said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told the envoy that discussions in the British Parliament on India's agri reforms represented a gross interference in politics of another democratic country. It said the foreign secretary also advised the envoy that British MPs should refrain from practising "vote bank politics by misrepresenting events", especially in relation to another fellow democracy. "Foreign Secretary summoned the British High Commissioner and conveyed strong opposition to the unwarranted and tendentious discussion on agricultural reforms in India in the British Parliament," the MEA said in a statement. "Foreign Secretary made clear that this represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country," it added. It further said: "He advised that British MPs should refrain from practising vote bank politics by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy." A group of around dozen cross-party British MPs had on Monday debated issues around the use of force against protesters opposed to agricultural reforms in India and journalists being targeted while covering the protests taking place at several border points of Delhi for over 100 days. The High Commission of India in London has condemned false assertions in a "distinctly one-sided discussion"  in a statement. The Indian mission pointed out that foreign media, including British media, had been present and witnessed the events surrounding the farmers' protests in India first-hand and therefore any "question of lack of freedom of the media in India does not arise . "We deeply regret that rather than a balanced debate, false assertions without substantiation or facts were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions, a statement issued by the high commission said, following the debate which stemmed from an e-petition that attracted over 100,000 signatures on the parliamentary website. The mission said it would normally refrain from commenting on an internal discussion involving a small group of honourable parliamentarians in a limited quorum. "However, when aspersions are cast on India by anyone, irrespective of their claims of friendship and love for India or domestic political compulsions, there is a need to set the record straight," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Govt report outlines strategy to ‘control’ media, ‘neutralise’ those spreading fake news||Even after two back-to-back sweeping election wins, the second bigger than the first, the government’s still looking for dramatic ways to boost its public image and combat what it believes is the “pseudo-secularist” hold on the media that colours reporting on its actions. Nine ministers, including media stars Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani and foreign minister S. Jaishankar, were involved in a massive exercise that culminated in a 97-page report written after consulting leading figures from the media and industry. The report, which caused a stir when it was first reported in Caravan Magazine, reveals how the government mistrusts the press and looks upon it as an adversary dominated by its enemies. Also, the report’s tone, has provoked a strong counter-blast from the Editors Guild of India, which expressed “shock and disbelief” at the report and its attempt, “to control the narrative”. The Group of Ministers’ report hints, “at increased surveillance and targeting of writers and journalists who depart from the government’s narrative,” the Editors Guild statement added. “We should have a strategy to neutralise the people who are writing against the Government without facts and set false narratives / spread fake news,” says Law & Justice Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. On a similar note, Smriti Irani suggests, “We should track 50 negative and 50 positive influencers.” Striking an almost menacing tone, Surya Prakash, who’s former chairman of Prasar Bharati, says: “Pseudo-secularists were marginalized earlier. The problem is starting from them. Indian Government has enormous power to utilise the position to control them.” The government’s efforts to influence the media dialogue appear to go further than just seeking to put a positive spin on emerging stories. “A list of media personnel and prominent persons, who are pro our line of thought – both nationally and globally, should be prepared,” adds Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Union Minister of Minority Affairs. On a similar note, the report says media entrepreneur and strategic affairs analyst Nitin Gokhale suggested that journalists could, “be colour-coded green: fence-sitters, black: against’ and White – who support and promote favourable journalists. Gokhale has strongly denied making such a suggestion. The fact that the Group of Ministers (GoM) held six meetings that included in-person interactions and video conferences with leading journalists and industrialists and had a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an indication of how worried the government is that its performance is being portrayed negatively. Other ministers in the GoM included Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri, Minister of State for finance and Corporate Affairs, Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sport Kiran Rijuju and Minister of State for Environment, Forests and Climate Change Babul Supriyo. Some of the discussions elicited many bizarre and worrying suggestions. “News to carry a mixture of truth and untruth,” was the Orwellian suggestion from S. Gurumurthy, co-convenor, Swadeshi Jagran Manch and editor, Tughlak magazine. Gurumurthy also suggested the government needed to “distinguish between mass communication and elite communication.” Gurumurthy didn’t clarify exactly what he meant. At another level, participants felt the government needed to occasionally create a “Pokhran Effect” -- a big bang whenever it had a huge success to report.  Gurumurthy built on this by suggesting that allies like Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar or Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik should be roped in to create a greater impact. “To create a Pokhran effect, let Shri Nitish Kumar or Shri Naveen Patnaik say something about it…We need a Pokhran to turn the narrative.” Journalists from a range of publications including The Hindustan Times and Organiser, came up with a variety of ideas, some which went far beyond just projecting the government’s image. Anand Ranganathan, editor Swarajya felt the party needed to delve into history to ensure that people had the right perspective on the BJP’s actions. Said Ranganathan: “We lack historical narrative like Tipu’s manifesto talked about annihilation of Hindus. The history books should be more objective.” Some journalists said they were called for the meeting but hadn’t been told what it was about. Another journalist, Abhijit Majumdar, argued that, “Wikipedia is trying to rewrite history. It has clear bias. Serious note and action on the same should be taken.” Majumdar also felt the BJP should reward journalists who were on its side. “Help Op-India and retweet Op-India’s tweets,” he said, referring to the strongly pro-ruling party portal. He threw in strong criticism of ALT News which is dedicated to checking and countering fake news. “ALT News propaganda is vicious,” he said. The government’s extremely keen the world should see it in the right light and is eager to send out the right message to the foreign press but the committee and the people it consulted appeared to have confused thoughts on how this might be achieved.  This issue has assumed particular relevance as US-government-funded think-tank Freedom House just cut India’s status from “free” in 2019 to “partly free” in 2020. India’s score fell to 67 from 71 with 100 being the top ranking for the most free country. Jaishankar suggested special care should be taken for the foreign media. “We should prepare separate, appropriate and different narrative for international media.” And Naqvi felt that, “embassies should play (a) more active role in reaching out to international media and people globally.” On a very different note, Thakur felt the BJP should be in touch with likeminded parties abroad and said: “The right-wing parties of other countries need to be roped in so that some common ground could be found.” More ominously, the committee said the government had already acted to control negative reports on it by foreigners and pointed out that, “Steps have been taken to ensure that the news reporting on digital media is not biased primarily due to its foreign investment component. It has been decided to cap the foreign investment to 26 per cent and the process to implement the same is underway.” Many participants felt that the Government should turn the spotlight on what it called, “10 big narratives of the Government.” Simultaneously, it suggested that each ministry should play a part in building the Government’s image and that, “Every ministry should identify two major public outreach programs in a year along with one day of pre-event publicity and one day of post-event coverage. This way for around 300 days in a year there will be coverage of one or the other government program.” The government also hopes to send out a positive message by giving a, “massive push to publication of articles by experts/ministers.” It added: “More than 60 articles have been published so far.” However, this suggestion was opposed by Ashok Malik, policy advisor in the ministry of external affairs, who forcefully argued against such pieces, saying: “Stop Op-ed by ministers, top bureaucrats because it has become an epidemic and it is counterproductive, because it sounds like propaganda and it is not being read.” Many journalists and ministers suggested that there should be more interactions with the press at different levels. However, nobody suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has never held a press conference in the last seven years, should change his attitude and make himself more accessible to the press.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Rawat resigns as chief minister of Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday handed over his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya, the move seen as the BJP's course-correction ahead of elections scheduled for next year. The former chief minister apparently met the BJP leadership in Delhi on Monday and had a series of discussions. Speculation had been rife about the 60-year-old politician being replaced by one of his ministers as chief minister. Significantly, the central BJP leadership recently sent two observers, party vice president Raman Singh and general secretary Dushayant Kumar Gautam, to Uttarakhand to get a feedback from the party’s core group in the state amid reports of discontent against the chief minister. The feedback made the party believe that TS Rawat’s below par performance would cost the party in 2022 election. According to an NDTV report, Dhan Singh Rawat, who was in Garhwal, took a private chopper to state capital Dehradun Tuesday afternoon. He even had a meeting with BJP chief JP Nadda, who had earlier held talks with Home Minister Amit Shah on the situation in the hill state, indicated the report. Apparently several Uttarakhand MLAs had reportedly told the leadership that the party did not stand a chance of being re-elected under Rawat’s leadership. Often the former CM’s critics accuse him of “failing to communicate with them” and lack of decision-making. Several MLAs even altered the party heads about him being ranked “below average” by some opinion polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Vijayakanth’s DMDK walks out of AIADMK-led front in TN||Actor Vijaykanth’s DMDK walked out of the alliance protesting non-allocation of specific constituencies and the number of seats it sought for the April 6 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. The development comes as a major setback to the AIADMK-BJP combine in the poll-bound state. The disassociation, came after three-rounds of protracted negotiations with the AIADMK failed to fructify, the DMDK led by actor-turned politician Vijayakanth said it was moving out of the alliance, that also has the PMK and BJP as partners. In a statement, Vijayakanth said the decision to snap ties with the AIADMK was taken following a unanimous view reached at a consultative meeting with party's district secretaries here. According to an NDTV report, the actor celebrated the decision to quit the alliance by bursting crackers. The same report stated that DMDK leader and former MLA Parthasarathi said the party wanted 23 seats and a Rajya Sabha seat. He claimed the ruling party gave only 15 seats to the actor’s party. DMDK in the recent past has witnessed an impressive growth since 2003, despite losing vote share in 2016 state elections. According to NDTV, the party in 2011, it won 29 assembly seats from 41 it contested in alliance with the AIADMK. Vijayakanth had then become the leader of opposition. The Tamil Nadu Assembly polls will be held in a single phase on April 6; the results will be out on May 2. Significantly this is the first time that the state will be polling after the demise of J Jayalalithaa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day as Opposition demands discussion on rising fuel prices ||The Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day on Tuesday amid a continued uproar by the opposition, led by the Congress, over a demand for a discussion on the rising fuel prices. The House could not transact any substantial business as it first witnessed an adjournment at around 11.20 am till noon and another one till 2 pm. When the Upper House of Parliament reassembled again at 2 pm, the opposition continued to demand a discussion on the rising fuel prices even as Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the chair, appealed to the protesting members, including those in the Well, to return to their seats. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge demanded a debate on the issue. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, after moving the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill 2021, insisted on taking it up. The bill seeks to replace an ordinance in this regard and has already been passed by the Lok Sabha. The deputy chairman called Congress member Vivek Tankha to speak on it but the latter urged him to listen to Kharge first, saying, "How can I speak when the Leader of Opposition is standing?" Kharge continued to press for a discussion on the fuel price hikes and demanded that the rates be brought back to the 2013-2014 levels. He said the entire country is suffering due to the price hike of fuel and essential commodities and urged the Chair to allow a discussion on it, referring to his social background. Harivansh, however, said since the chairman has already disallowed the notice, it cannot be reopened and called Manoj Jha of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) to speak on the bill, on which the latter said the House is not in order. Meanwhile, the uproar by the opposition continued amid sloganeering. As the Chair urged the members to allow the House to run, Senior Congress MP Anand Sharma said according to the tradition of the House, no government bill is taken up when the opposition is demanding a discussion over an important issue. "It is an unfortunate thing that repeatedly the norms are being violated. When the opposition is raising an issue, the government should not try to introduce a new business without first settling the question raised by the opposition," he said and added, "The opposition has a right to take up the issue." Amid the uproar, the deputy chairman adjourned the House for the day. Earlier, Congress members, joined by those of other opposition parties, trooped to the well and persisted with their demand for a discussion, despite Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu already disallowing the notice moved by Kharge. When the House met at noon, the deputy chairman urged the protesting members to take their seats and allow the Question Hour to go on. He said since the chairman has already disallowed the notice, it cannot be reopened. The opposition members, however, continued to protest and raise slogans against the government. The deputy chairman continued with the Question Hour, but adjourned the House till 2 pm after the protesting members raised their pitch. Only one question could be taken up amid the din as the proceedings were inaudible. "I urge all members, including the LOP, that after the chairman has given his decision on the notice, it cannot be reopened. I urge all members to allow the Question Hour to function as it is the members' time," the deputy chairman said. Soon after the listed official papers were laid on the table, members of the Congress, DMK, Left parties, BSP and Shiv Sena were on their feet seeking setting aside of the business to take up a discussion on the fuel price hikes. The deputy chairman said notices under rule 267 were received from Satish Chandra Mishra (BSP), Leader of Opposition and senior Congress leader Kharge, DMK's Tiruchi Siva and Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi. The chairman has already given his ruling, rejecting the notices under rule 267, and hence, the notices cannot be reopened, he added. The issue of fuel price, the deputy chairman said, can be deliberated upon during the discussion on the working of ministries and finance bills as well as in the short-duration discussion sought on the issue. Harivansh asked the members to return to their seats after they trooped to the well and requested them to allow the Zero Hour to be taken up so that MPs can raise issues of public importance. Amid the continued slogan-shouting by the opposition, Siva said the issue of a relentless rise in petrol and diesel prices has to be discussed. Bhupendra Yadav of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) countered him, saying the ruling of the chairman is final and the notices cannot be reopened. With the ruckus continuing, the deputy chairman adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. The price of petrol has, for the first time, crossed the Rs-100 mark in states such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and has registered record highs elsewhere. Diesel rates too are at a record high as international oil prices bounced back from last year's lows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Toolkit: Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk's protection from arrest extended till March 15||A court in Delhi on Tuesday extended protection from arrest till March 15 to Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, both accused along with young climate change activist Disha Ravi in a case of sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted the relief after the counsel appearing from both the accused persons said they needed time to go through the reply filed by the Delhi Police before advancing arguments in the matter. The judge heard the submission and directed the police not to take any coercive action against both the accused till March 15, when court will further hear the matter. Jacob, Muluk and Ravi were booked for sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates ‘Maitri Setu’ between India and Bangladesh||‘Mitri Setu’ - a bridge built over Feni river connecting Tripura with Bangladesh was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated. Bangladeshi premier Sheikh Hasina during the online inauguration asserted that political boundaries should not become physical barriers for trade. Modi also inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of multiple infrastructure projects in Tripura during the online event. Speaking on the occasion via video-conference, he said Tripura is experiencing the change that has come with the government of ‘double engine’ in the state from the time of the previous government of 30 years. “The country is also seeing that wherever a double-engine government is not there, you can look at your neighbourhood, policies empowering the poor, farmers and daughters were either not implemented or were moving forward at a very slow pace,” the prime minister said. The double-engine government in Tripura has empowered the people of the state, he added. Tripura, which was pushed back by a "strike culture" for many years, is now working for ease of doing business, Modi said. In a video message played at the event, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Hasina hailed the inauguration of the “Maitri Setu” as a “historic moment”. “We are creating a new era in South Asia through providing connectivity to India. We are in a region which has remained conservative in opening up and where regional trade is far below potential. I believe political boundaries should not become physical barriers for trade,” she said. The “Maitri Setu” has been built over the Feni river, which flows between the Indian boundary in Tripura and Bangladesh. The 1.9-km-long bridge connects Sabroom in India with Ramgarh in Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||BJP targets Congress, Mamata after Batla House conviction||A day after after Ariz Khan, an Indian Mujahideen terrorist, was convicted of killing Inspector Mahesh Chand Sharma in the gunfight in south Delhi’s Batla House locality in September 2008, BJP targeted Opposition parties, including the Congress and the Trinamool Congress, for raising doubts on the 2008 Batla House encounter. The party even asked the opposition leaders to apologise for it. Addressing a BJP press conference, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad quoted remarks made by Opposition leaders, including Congress’ Salman Khurshid and Digvijay Singh and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, to attack them. He also demanded an enquiry to find out the impact the campaign against Delhi Police had had on its morale. “There was a conscious, deliberate and consistent attempt to cast serious doubt on the authenticity of the Batla House encounter to weaken the morale of Delhi Police and give clear support to terrorist and their design. Why? For pure vote bank politics,” Prasad said. Inspector Sharma of the Special Cell of Delhi Police was killed during the encounter, which took place a week after five serial blasts had hit the national capital on September 13, 2008, killing at least 30 people and injuring over 100. Two terrorists were killed while two others fled. After the encounter on September 19, 2008, protest rallies were organised against it by teachers and students of Jamia Millia Islamia University. The National Human Rights Commission(NHRC), which had conducted an inquiry in the case on the direction of the Delhi High Court, gave Delhi Police a clean chit. However, several leaders of the Congress, which was in power at the Centre then, had voiced doubts on Delhi Police’s claims and sought an enquiry even though the party leadership later distanced itself from their campaign. The BJP, known for its tough line on the issue of national security, has often used Khurshid’s remarks that Congress president Sonia Gandhi was in tears looking at the pictures of the encounter. Prasad also noted that Banerjee had described the encounter as “fake” and had sought a judicial probe, claiming that she will quit politics if proven wrong. The Samajwadi Party, AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal and the Left had echoed similar views, he said. “Will these parties apologise? Will Sonia Gandhi and Mamata Benerjee apologise,” he asked. “Will the fight against terrorism be weakened because of vote bank politics,” Prasad added, asserting that the court verdict has put a closure to the case and is a triumph of the country's judiciary and the police. The Congress and other opposition parties had stood on the side of terrorists on the issue of national security, he alleged. He said there was a campaign to vilify Delhi Police at the time. Prasad said the convicted terrorist was responsible for the death of over 165 people in terror blasts across the country, adding that efforts to nab him received a fillip after the BJP came to power in 2014 and he was arrested from Nepal in 2018. While terror attacks, including in Mumbai and several other cities, occurred during the UPA rule, the BJP government has given a free hand to security forces to undertake preemptive measures and also launch surgical strikes like the one in Balakot when terrorists hit India's interests, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||SC dismisses plea challenging EC's decision of 8-phase Bengal polls||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the Election Commission's decision to conduct assembly elections over eight phases in Bengal and seeking to bar the BJP and its leaders from using Jai Shri Ram as a slogan during the campaign. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde initially told the petitioner to approach the Calcutta High Court. "I rely upon a judgement. This is not the matter of an election petition. One party is using the religious slogan. Why should I go to the high court?" advocate M L Sharma, the petitioner in the case, told the bench. "You are asking for prosecution. How can we pass such an order. The only power lied with the high court, that to the election petition," the bench, which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told Sharma. When the petitioner referred to a 1978 judgement of the apex court, the bench asked him to show the paragraphs in the verdict saying the top court can entertain a plea regarding malpractice in campaigning when the poll process starts. Sharma asked for the matter to be heard tomorrow, but the bench said they cannot read it all over again and asked the petitioner to read it right now. "Alright, we don't agree with you. Dismissed," the bench added. The plea had sought the apex court's direction to stop the poll panel from conducting eight-phase elections in West Bengal, alleging that it violates Article 14 (right to life) and Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. On February 26, the Election Commission had announced the schedule for assembly elections to be held in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. While the assembly polls in Bengal will be held over eight rounds from March 27-April 29, polling in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry will be held in one phase on April 6 and in Assam over three phases. In his plea, Sharma had also sought a direction to the CBI to register an FIR into the alleged chanting of religious slogans during electioneering in West Bengal. The chanting of "Jai Shri Ram, other religious slogans are creating disharmony" and is an offence under the Indian Penal Code and the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the plea had said. "Whether using a provocative religious slogan 'Jai Shri Ram' is for electoral benefits as well as others is not violated S.123(3) & 125 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951," reads the legal question raised in the plea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha proceedings halted again over rising fuel prices||Rajya Sabha proceedings were on Tuesday adjourned for about 40 minutes after opposition parties led by the Congress insisted on a discussion on record high petrol and diesel prices. Opposition MPs, who had stalled proceedings in the House on the opening day of the second part of the Budget session on Monday, trooped into the well of the House and raised slogans, forcing the chair to adjourn the proceedings till noon. Soon after the listed official papers were laid on the table, MPs from the opposition Congress, DMK, Left, BSP and Shiv Sena were on their feet seeking setting aside of the business to take up a discussion on the increase in petrol and diesel prices. Deputy Chairman Shri Harivansh, who was presiding, said notices under rule 267 have been received from Satish Chandra Mishra (BSP), Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, DMK's Trucchi Siva and Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi. But the Rajya Sabha chairman had already given his ruling, rejecting the notices under rule 267, and so his decision cannot be reopened, he said. The issue of fuel prices, he said, can be discussed during the discussion on the working of ministries and finance bill as well as in the short duration discussion sought on the issue. But Opposition members persisted with their demand and soon gathered in the the well of the House, raising slogans against the government. Harivansh asked the members to return to their seats and allow zero hour to be taken up where MPs raise issues of public importance. He then went on to call members who had given zero-hour notice. But the slogan shouting by opposition continued. Siva said the issue of relentless rise in petrol and diesel prices has to be discussed. Bhupendra Yadav of BJP countered him saying the ruling of the chairman is final and cannot be reopened. Harivansh urged members to return to their places, insisting that the ruling of the chairman who had rejected rule 267 notices seeking suspension of business to take up discussion on fuel prices cannot be reopened or discussed. With the ruckus continuing, he adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. The price of petrol has for the first time crossed the Rs 100 mark in a few places in states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and is at record highs elsewhere. Diesel rates, too, are at a record high as international oil prices bounced back from the lows of last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||India logs over 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 77 casualties in a day||With 15,388 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 1,12,44,786, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,08,99,394, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,57,930 in the country with 77 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. After registering an increase for six consecutive days, the number of active COVID-19 cases has gone down to 1,87,462, accounting for only 1.67 per cent of the country's total caseload, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.40 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 1,08,99,394, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.93 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,27,16,796 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 7,48,525 on Monday. The 77 new fatalities include 22 from Maharashtra, 14 from Punjab and 12 from Kerala. Of the total 1,57,930 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 52,500, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,521), Karnataka (12,367), Delhi (10,924), West Bengal (10,280), Uttar Pradesh (8,738) and Andhra Pradesh (7,176). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||Goyal orders probe into Calcutta Eastern Railway office building fire||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has set up a high-level committee to ascertain the cause of the fire at an Eastern Railway office building in Calcutta in which nine people were killed on Monday. The fire, which broke out on the 13th floor of the sprawling New Koilaghat building on Strand Road at around 6.10 pm on Monday, is now under control and the cooling process is on, officials said. "Sincere condolences to the families of the nine brave deceased including the four firefighters, two Railways personnel and a police ASI who have been fighting the fire at the Eastern Railways Strand road office in Calcutta. "Railway officials including the GM are at the site and are working in coordination with the state govt for rescue and relief efforts. We are committed to doing everything possible to ensure the safety of all concerned," Goyal said in a tweet late last night. He said all possible assistance has been provided by the Railways to the state government during this unfortunate fire accident. "A high-level inquiry consisting of four principal heads of Railway departments has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the fire," he said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who rushed to the spot in the city's central business district, announced that the state government will pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each and a government job to the kin of each victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||Over 11,000 vaccinated in the state in a day||As many as 8207 senior citizens and 1155 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were among the 11,848 people who were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per government data, as many as 43,985 senior citizens and 5,704 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand since the launch of the second phase of the immunisation programme on March 1. While the number of the general public getting vaccinated has increased gradually, the percentage of registered healthcare and frontline workers administered the first dose of the vaccine has dropped lately. After achieving only 4 per cent of the vaccination target for healthcare and frontline workers on Sunday, the state achieved only 8 per cent of its target on Monday by vaccinating only 2,486 of the over 31,000 registered beneficiaries. At least 1211 senior citizens were vaccinated in Ranchi on Monday, while 1437 senior citizens got the first jab of the vaccine in Pakur. As many as 696 people were administered the vaccine in Bokaro and 283 in East Singhbhum on the day. Jharkhand achieved 26 per cent of its target for administering the second dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers on the day. As many as 10320 healthcare workers and frontline workers were administered the second jab of Covishield vaccine on Monday in the state. As per government data, so far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 3,65,934 people, while the second jab has been administered to 76,627 beneficiaries. The state has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and 72 per cent of target for the second dose, reveals government data. Meanwhile, the count of Covid patients also increased in the state on Monday. At least 53 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while 44 patients recovered, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. Ranchi reported 31 cases against 22 recoveries and witnessed a spike in the count of active cases. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 281 people were battling the viral infection in the district. Ranchi accounts for almost 60 per cent of the 472 active cases in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 120312 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||BJP mulls leadership change in Uttarakhand||The BJP central leadership summoned Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to Delhi on Monday, mulling a change of leadership in the hill state ahead of polls early next year. Rawat was summoned to Delhi after party observers submitted a report on his performance, in the backdrop of talk of an internal rebellion by a strong group of ministers and MLAs. Rawat reached Delhi in the afternoon and was closeted with the top leadership at BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s residence. Sources said all Uttarakhand BJP MLAs had been asked to be present in Dehradun on Tuesday, indicating that formalities for election of a new leader could be taken up. Party insiders said the report by a two-member team led by party vice-president and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh has highlighted “acute resentment” against Rawat’s leadership reaching a point of open rebellion if corrective steps were not taken. “There is possibility of a change of leadership. We could lose if we contest the polls under Trivendra Singh Rawat’s leadership,” one BJP MP from Uttarakhand said. The current BJP leadership is not known to change chief ministers under pressure, but party insiders hinted at a change in thinking after the experience in Jharkhand in 2019. Party leaders said similar complaints were made against then Jharkhand chief minister Raghubar Das, but the high command decided to go ahead and contest the polls under his leadership. The BJP lost the polls to the JMM-Congress combine and Das lost his seat to party rebel Saryu Roy. Rawat was asked to cancel a scheduled programme and rush to Delhi. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari was said to be in Delhi to informally advise the central leadership on a replacement.  Koshiyari hails from Uttarakhand and was active in state politics for decades before becoming governor. This development came even as another BJP chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, in Haryana geared up to face a no-confidence motion moved by the Opposition Congress over the farmers’ protest. Party leaders, however, were confident there was no threat to the Khattar government. The BJP has 40 MLAs and combined with 10 of ally Jannayak Janata Party, the government is poised to sail through in the Assembly which has an effective strength of 88. The Congress in Haryana, led by former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, had hoped for defections from the ruling side but BJP sources ruled out any such possibility. The threat to Rawat in Uttarakhand, however, appeared to be real with a section of ministers and MLAs warning of open rebellion if the leadership change was not implemented, according to sources. Four ministers and over a dozen MLAs were in Delhi on Monday to put pressure on the central leadership. Owing to repeated complaints against Rawat, vice-president Raman Singh and general secretary in-charge of the state Dushyant Gautam were despatched on Saturday to hold talks with MLAs and other key party leaders. “Not only MLAs, even the voters are unhappy with the government’s performance. We have urged the party high command to conduct a survey and find out for themselves,” one disgruntled MLA said. “Trivendra Rawat has been a total failure,” the MLA added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||Editors Guild of India protest 'routine detention' of editors of Kashmir-based publications||The Editors Guild of India on Monday expressed shock at the “casual manner” in which editors of Kashmir-based publications are “routinely detained” by security forces for their news reports or editorials and demanded an atmosphere where the media can operate without “fear or favour”. It cited the “recent detention and the subsequent release — after many hours — of Fahad Shah, editor-in-chief of The Kashmir Walla,” a Srinagar-based publication. This was the third time that Shah was detained for his writings, it noted. “There are scores of journalists who are experiencing this new normal where they can be hauled up by security forces for writing anything that goes contrary to the government narrative that peace has returned to the Valley,” the Guild said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||S.A. Bobde: Only asked a question ||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on Monday said he had never asked an alleged rapist to marry his victim, and had only asked: “Are you going to marry?” this was neither an order, nor even a suggestion, the judge said. “We have the highest respect to womanhood. That day we only asked ‘are you going to marry’? We didn’t order. It was not a suggestion also. It was a totally misreported,” Justice Bobde, heading a bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said. The media had widely quoted last week the CJI heading as having asked the accused, while hearing his application for anticipatory bail: “Are you willing to marry her?” The remark was widely criticised. “This court has always have given the largest respect to women,” Chief Justice Bobde  said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||UK, South Africa and Brazil strains converging towards a 'supervariant'||Three worrisome coronavirus variants first discovered in the UK, South Africa and Brazil appear to be converging through genetic mutations towards a “supervariant” that researchers say could complicate the world’s fight against the pandemic. International research teams have detected signals that the three variants are continuing to acquire mutations and drifting towards newer versions of the virus that might be even more difficult to control than the currently circulating variants. The scientists said their findings underline the urgency to accelerate global efforts to stop the spread of the virus and expedite vaccine rollouts before the possible emergence of supervariants capable of escaping current treatment and existing vaccine strategies. But they have asserted that the implications of the emerging mutations on the disease for now remain unclear. “There is very little evidence that they make clinical disease worse,” said Sergei Pond, professor of biology at Temple University in the US, a team member. “Our hypothesis is that the driving force is for the virus to become less susceptible to existing immune responses. But this is an evolutionary cat-and-mouse game. The immune responses will not remain static and will catch up with viral mutations,” Pond told The Telegraph. The scientists have found that all the three variants are making similar evolutionary moves. “They’re likely headed towards changing into a version that shares the best features of each of the three variants,” Darren Martin, associate professor at the University of Cape Town, South Africa, and first author of the study told The Telegraph. The three variants of concern emerged in the last three months of 2020 — B.1.1.7 in the UK, B.1.351 in South Africa and P1 in Brazil — and have since spread to multiple countries, including India. They possess mutations that allow them to spread faster than earlier variants and to evade antibodies. The scientists analysed mutations through 2020 and detected a “sudden shift” in the types of mutations after October. While earlier, mutations looked like random noise with unclear biological importance, mutations after October display discernible patterns pointing towards convergence. “The UK variant is becoming more like the South African variant, the South African variant is becoming more like the UK variant,” said Martin, the lead author of a paper that is yet to be peer-reviewed, but has been posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server. The researchers have used computer-based forecasts to speculate that the current convergence patterns might culminate into a so-called supervariant and new variants that emerge over the coming year might possess subsets of mutations this supervariant is forecasted to possess. “We’re not predicting that a supervariant will emerge —there is no way of telling for sure, but descendants of current variants of concern that are more transmissible and evade immunity are probable,” Martin said. The impacts of such variants on the pandemic remain unknown, but each variant has shown troubling features. Both the UK and South African variants spread faster than earlier versions of the virus and both have been shown to evade some immune responses. The Brazilian variant has been linked to a second wave in a region of Brazil where a second wave was considered unlikely because the first wave had already infected 76 per cent of the region’s population, a fraction considered large enough to usher in herd immunity. An independent study led by virologist David Ho at Columbia University in the US has generated evidence to suggest that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is mutating in a direction that could help it evade current vaccines. “The recent emergence of B.1.1.7, B.1.351 and P.1 marks the beginning of SARS-CoV-2 antigenic drift,” Ho and his colleagues wrote in a paper published in the journal Nature on Monday. Antigenic drift refers to minor changes in viral genes that occur continuously as the virus replicates and is a key reason why people get influenza more than once. Ho and his team have cautioned that if the rampant spread of the coronavirus continues and more critical mutations accumulate, “we may be condemned to chasing the evolving SARS-CoV-2 continually, as we have long done for influenza virus.” “Such considerations require that we stop virus transmission as quickly as is feasible, by redoubling our mitigation measures and by expediting vaccine rollout,” the researchers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||A garden on barren land of govt denial||Kashmir Singh tirelessly tills a patch in the middle of National Highway 44, just behind the main stage at the farmers’ protest site on the Singhu border. “Before the summer comes, we will turn this patch into a garden. This will bring relief from the heat. I have transplanted small trees that will give some shade and will erect a thatched hut here too,” he tells The Telegraph, adding that he does not know his exact age but remembers that his parents had told him long ago that he was born around the time of Independence. A peasant from Punjab’s Ludhiana district, Singh says he “only knows farming, not politics”. The garden patch is being created on what had become a cesspool of a langar’s makeshift drain that had no outlet. Protesters have channelised the drain underground and connected it to an existing sewer, but pools of refuse where flies and mosquitoes breed are ubiquitous in this tractor-trolley city. “We braved the winter, now we will brave the summer. We have already bought mosquito nets and installed fans. Life is not easy living in a trolley, but it will be much harder once corporate houses begin to exploit the new farm laws and our future generations face uncertainty and debt and practically become bonded labour to big companies,” Ranjit Singh Akkar, a farmer from Patiala, tells this newspaper. Akkar and other seniors supervise sanitation around the langars. Youths with insecticide smoke dispensers carry out mosquito fogging of the protest area — a task normally performed by civic bodies. “If (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi wants, we will all leave in a day once he repeals the laws. He has already seen that police and thugs can’t chase us away. Locals have been hugely supportive, offering bathing and toilet facilities in their homes and shops, especially to women. We have learnt not to depend on public authorities and manage civic work like sanitation and drainage on our own. We are not experts but we are learning,” Akkar says. He and others from various farmers’ groups are building public opinion for a countrywide general strike on March 23 — the 90th anniversary of the execution of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh by the British colonial government. Bhagat Singh’s images and writings, as well as those of other freedom fighters such as Ajit Singh and Kartar Singh Sarabha, are commonplace here and are popularised by communist groups. Urmila Rawat, a central committee member of the CPIML-Red Star from Madhya Pradesh’s Sidhi, is part of a team that talks to protesters at the Singhu border about how the new farm regime and other economic policies of the Centre like privatisation, rising fuel prices and new labour laws are linked. “Groups of us from different parts of India come and stay here for 15 days at a time. Women play a greater role in agriculture and managing households than men do and we continue to do so even through this struggle. It helps that this is a movement of agricultural producers, so food is never in shortage,” she says. Like Rawat, Kashmir Singh and Akkar also take turns to stay here. The wheat harvest is near and most peasants here have made arrangements with kin, friends and neighbours to harvest their crops. Kuldeep Singh, a young entrepreneur from Ludhiana, stays with Kashmir Singh in a tin shed beside the upcoming garden. “We erected this makeshift shed with the idea that this would be a short agitation. But now we are preparing for the long haul. We will soon replace our tin roof with a wooden one that is better suited for the summer heat. The crowd is now smaller and manageable, and our friends reach within a few hours from Punjab whenever needed,” Kuldeep says. “We have suffered some loss as we are not giving full attention to our crops or our businesses for the last three months. But relationships and bonding have greatly improved within my family and also with friends. Working for this cause has brought us closer. I have seen so many seasons in my life and I am willing to see many more on this highway if that is Wahe Guru’s will,” Kashmir Singh weighs in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||Budget session: fuel fury rips Centre’s Women’s Day cover||The second leg of the budget session had a stormy beginning in Parliament on Monday, with the Opposition demanding a discussion on rising fuel prices and the government trying to take cover behind International Women’s Day to avoid one. Opposition members chanted slogans and forced repeated adjournments after the presiding officers in both Houses refused their notices for adjourning business to discuss fuel prices. “A discussion on women’s empowerment is slated today. They (the Opposition) should allow it and show respect to the women members of the House,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said amid the din in the Lok Sabha. Congress members retorted that the sharp rise in cooking gas prices had hit women hard and the government should discuss it if it was concerned about women. Cooking gas costs around Rs 845 a cylinder, a 45 per cent hike since last May. Petrol has crossed Rs 100 a litre in parts of the country, and diesel Rs 80. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, dared the government to bring in the women’s reservation bill and pass aresolution on it on Monday itself if it was so serious about women’s empowerment. The protests forced Speaker Om Birla to adjourn the House till 7pm. When the House resumed at 7pm, a discussion on women’s empowerment was taken up despite protests from the Congress and some other Opposition parties. Trinamul member Satabdi Roy participated in the discussion as Congress MPs chanted anti-government slogans over the fuel prices, baring possible divisions within the Opposition ranks. Roy did not raise the subject of fuel prices while speaking on women’s empowerment. In the Rajya Sabha, the newly appointed leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, remained firm and refused to allow any business, demanding a discussion on fuel prices first. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu disallowed Kharge’s notice for adjournment of business, saying the fuel prices could be raised during the discussion on the Appropriation Bill. The Rajya Sabha session began at 9am and the Lok Sabha session at 4pm – a pandemic-induced practice started during the first leg of the budget session to ensure proceedings ended in one House before beginning in the other. The idea was to ensure physical distancing by getting the MPs to spread across both Houses during each session and communicate via videoconferencing. From Tuesday, however, both Houses will start their sessions from 11am as usual. Most of the MPs are above 60 and have been vaccinated against Covid-19. The second leg of the budget session, scheduled to run till April 8, may be curtailed keeping in mind the Assembly elections in five states. Sources said around 145 Lok Sabha members across parties from the poll-bound states had written to the Speaker requesting a shorter session to enable them to campaign. Among them was Trinamul Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, seeking an abridgement on behalf of his party. Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien too has written to the Rajya Sabha Chairman requesting a truncated session and citing precedents from past elections. Speaker Birla is expected to consult MPs from different parties before taking a decision. Government sources suggested that most Opposition members wanted a curtailed session, and both Houses might therefore be adjourned sine die by the end of March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||ABVP disrupts Nodeep's Women’s Day event||ABVP activists disrupted a Women’s Day event outside Delhi University’s arts faculty on Monday evening and allegedlyroughed up some of those present. One of the scheduled speakers at the street-corner event was the recently released labour activist Nodeep Kaur, who had drawn international attention after US Vice-President Kamala Harris’s niece Meenakshi “Meena” Harris tweeted against her arrest and alleged custody torture. Nodeep, a Dalit woman who was also part of the farmers’ agitation, was freed on bail on Sunday after 44 days in Haryana’s Karnal jail. She is charged with attempt to murder at a protest against erratic wages in January. Monday’s event was held by the Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch, a far-Left student group headed by Nodeep’s sister Rajveer Kaur, a PhD scholar of Punjabi at Delhi University. “Rajveer was speaking about the Butana gang rape (allegedly by police in Haryana last June) and the Gurhmandi case (the mysterious suicide by a domestic worker in Delhi last October) when ABVP (activists) came and tore our posters, shouting slogans,” Nodeep told The Telegraph. “Police were with them. On Women’s Day we (have to) speak out about how culprits who have raped or killed Dalits roam free. Anyone who speaks out is attacked, but if we stop speaking then we will be silenced forever.” The ABVP-led Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) said in a statement that men present at the event had “attacked” its joint secretary (Shivangi Kharwal). “DUSU was conducting an event of self-defence training programme for girls where Delhi police personnel and other defence trainers were present to train girls. Right outside the venue of the programme, outsiders and ex-students of the university had organised an event wherein posters with objectionable slogans such as ‘Indian Army Rape Us’ were displayed,” the statement said. “Objectionable slogans were raised just as a few girls led by Shivangi Kharwal (of the ABVP) were passing by. Seeing the anti-army posters, they questioned the organisers about the motive of the event. In a reaction to the questions posed by Shivangi and her friends, the men present on the spot attacked the Delhi University Students Union joint secretary (Kharwal).” The poster mentioned by the students’ union depicted a protest by women in Imphal against the 2004 murder and rape of Thangjam Manorama, allegedly by Assam Rifles personnel. Members of the Manch and CPM student arm SFI were briefly detained at the Maurice Nagar police station. Deputy commissioner of police (North) A. Anto Alphonse had not responded to a call and a message from this newspaper till late Monday night. Vasu Kukreja, a Bhim Army lawyer who said he was at the spot to meet Nodeep, alleged that Kharwal had roughed him up. “The disruption by the ABVP started while Rajveer was speaking. As I tried to record it with my mobile phone, some ABVP person tried to snatch it,” he said. “When I resisted, a woman whom people there identified as Shivangi caught me by the collar and slapped me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
09-03-2021||India||Women seek Siddique Kappan’s release||Hundreds of women demonstrated in arrested journalist Siddique Kappan’s hometown of Vengara in Kerala, demanding his release, at a Women’s Day event on Monday. More than five months after the 41-year-old’s arrest, women including local leaders of non-BJP parties expressed support for his wife Raihanath, who has been waging a non-stop battle to get her husband freed. Members of three panchayats in Vengara, Malappuram district, joined the protest meeting along with hundreds of women from the neighbourhood as well as Kappan’s family and friends. “It was a women’s protest to mark Women’s Day, where everyone voiced concern that a journalist who had gone to do his duty was arrested and jailed,” Raihanath told The Telegraph. “It’s such solidarity from known and unknown people that provides me the courage to carry on with this battle for justice.” The Delhi-based Kappan was arrested on terror charges in Uttar Pradesh on October 5 while travelling to Hathras, where a Dalit teen had been fatally gang-raped. Uttar Pradesh police have charged Kappan and three companions with planning to foment trouble and accused them of being members of the Popular Front of India, an extremist organisation. Kappan has denied the charges and said his objective was to cover the gang rape and murder for his employer, a Malayalam news portal. With Kappan’s regular bail plea expected to come up before the Supreme Court on Tuesday, Raihanath expressed hope that he would be freed sooner than later. “We are all hopeful that the court will grant bail and eventually acquit him of all the charges. We all know he is innocent,” she said. Kappan had visited his home in Kerala for five days in February after the apex court granted him interim bail to see his critically ill, 90-year-old mother. In previous protests in Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram, hundreds of people had joined Raihanath in demanding Kappan’s release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
09-03-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray sniffs something ‘fishy’ in Antilia case||The Union home ministry has handed over to the National Investigation Agency the case of the explosives-laden car parked near Mukesh Ambani’s Mumbai home, setting the stage for another showdown with the Maharashtra government. Shortly after the case was transferred, Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said there was “something fishy” about the Centre’s move. Despite questions to the NIA spokesperson, it remained unclear whether the agency would also probe the related case of the mysterious death of the car’s purported owner, Mansukh Hiren. Uddhav insisted that the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) of Maharashtra police, which was investigating both the car and the suspected murder, would continue to probe Hiren’s death. He said the Centre ought to have trusted the ATS. “(Government) agencies are not someone’s property. Governments change but the system doesn’t; one needs to believe in the system,” Uddhav told reporters in Mumbai. “If the Centre is planning to take the case over, there is something fishy about it.” He took a jab at the BJP, saying his police were probing the “suicide of Mohan Delkar”, a seven-term MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, but Maharashtra’s BJP lawmakers were silent because the Union Territory was governed by the Centre. Delkar, 58, an Independent member of the Lok Sabha, was found dead at a Mumbai hotel on February 22. His family has alleged that harassment by the Union Territory administration drove him to suicide, and a purported suicide note apparently backs this up. “The (Maharashtra) Opposition has not the guts to speak about it as they know who calls the shots in Union Territories. A Union Territory is governed by the Centre,” Uddhav said. “We’ll take the case to its logical conclusion.” Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh told the Assembly the state police were perfectly capable of solving the car-explosives case. Hiren, an auto parts dealer, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday, just about a week after a vehicle containing gelatin sticks was found parked near Ambani’s south Mumbai home on February 25. Hiren’s wife Vimla has alleged her husband was murdered. On Sunday, the ATS had taken over from the Mumbai police the car case as well as Hiren’s death and registered an FIR. The NIA spokesperson said the agency “has received orders from the home ministry” to probe the car case and was re-registering it. Maharashtra, ruled by a Sena-Congress-NCP coalition, had earlier objected when the Centre accorded Y-plus security to actress Kangana Ranaut after she compared Mumbai to “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” and the state government to the Taliban. Uddhav’s government had also been unhappy when BJP members sought a CBI probe into actor Sushant Rajput’s apparent suicide last year — a demand the Supreme Court eventually granted at a request from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
09-03-2021||India||Mothers  are born leaders, says Naveen||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday described mothers as born leaders and said they should be provided opportunities to showcase their leadership qualities “The mothers, who take the entire responsibility of their families, have no problem in taking the responsibility of the society as well as the country.  There is a spark of leadership in each mother,” Naveen said at an event organised to celebrate the International Women’s Day. “It’s our responsibility to give them the opportunity to showcase their leadership qualities. We need to utilise their leadership qualities in the inclusive development of the nation,” he said. Assuring that the BJD would continue to fight for the rights of women, Naveen raised the issue of providing 50 per cent reservation to women in Assemblies and Parliament. “Our party has given 33 per cent of seats for women candidates in the last election,” the chief minister said. Naveen enhanced the women’s quota to 50 per cent in the panchayat and urban local bodies polls in 2012.  Naveen is now campaigning for implementation of 33 per cent reservation for women in state assemblies and Lok Sabha polls. His MPs have already raised the issue in Parliament umpteen times. Naveen also pointed out how Mission Shakti was created in 2001, has been able to connect to one crore women and work for their socio-economic upliftment. He  also mentioned about the state’s commitment to provide work to the women self-help group of nearly Rs 5,000 crore work order. The Odisha government has announced to create an exclusive department for mission shakti. The mission shakti department will start functioning from April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
09-03-2021||India||We will see where it goes, what opportunities come, will take it from there: Sourav Ganguly||BCCI President Sourav Ganguly kept his cards close to his chest amid mounting speculation that he might take the political plunge ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, saying he will see "where it goes" amid the "opportunities" coming his way. Ganguly, who is still resting at his Kolkata residence post his angioplasty after minor heart attacks, knows how there has been speculation of him joining politics, more specifically the BJP, ahead of the eight-phase elections from March 27 to April 29. "We will see where it goes, what opportunities come in the way, we will take it from there," Ganguly told 'India Today' when asked what's next after cricket administration. Ganguly said his life has been full of surprising twists and turns and he has never really had a clue about what's coming next for him. "When I first became India captain, I didn't expect it as Sachin (Tendulkar) was captaining. I probably wouldn't have got it had Sachin not resigned. "Similarly, when I became BCCI president, I didn’t know the minute before I would be the BCCI president. That's the way my life has been...So we will see where it goes," he said. According to him, opportunities need to be considered factoring in various aspects of someone's life. "Opportunities come and you get influenced by a lot of things, your family, lifestyle, work, health, we will see where it goes," he didn't give away anything despite saying a lot of things. He laughed off the attention that he gets in his home city Kolkata, crediting it to his friendly demeanour. "I am fortunate to get so much attention. I don't seek it and I go about doing my job. I lead a normal life in this city. I speak to people, talk to them and that's my nature. "I am a very friendly sort of a person with no hang ups. I don't take to heart what people say. Because I am a popular person, I don't believe that I have to be unreachable. "I lead my life because at the end of the day it's life and that's why people are fond of me over here." Risk element factored in while not allowing crowds in IPL Ganguly said allowing crowd in the IPL would have been a bigger logistical issue compared to letting in limited fans during the recently-concluded Test series versus England. The BCCI has announced that no crowds will be allowed at the venues -- Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad -- where the matches will be played with no home games for any franchise. "We have planned it well and we are doing it in clusters. There will be three chartered flights (at the max) for every team. Hopefully, we will be able to manage. "During England tour, teams have only two domestic chartered flights (Chennai to Ahmedabad and next will be Ahmedabad to Pune)," Ganguly told the channel. "The numbers are much less but fingers crossed as it's a huge tournament, the BCCI did it successfully in Dubai and hopefully, we can do it this time as well," he added. He didn't say when the BCCI would consider having crowds back for IPL. "Don’t know yet, depends on situation. Dubai also was the same," he said referring to the 2020 IPL in the UAE. "It's slightly different from bilateral. If you open up for crowd (in IPL) with teams practising outside the stadiums, you expect crowds to get closer to practising teams during IPL, so that could be a risk," he said with a note of caution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
09-03-2021||India||100 file papers in Sikkim civic polls||Over 100 candidates have filed their nomination for the urban local body polls that will be held on a non-partisan basis in Sikkim on March 31. Elections will be held to seven civic bodies — the 19-ward Gangtok Municipal Corporation, Namchi Municipal Council (seven seats) and the nagar panchayats of Nayabazar-Jorethang, Gyalshing, Singtam, Rangpo and Mangan which have five wards each. Monday was the last day of filing of nominations. The papers would be scrutinised on Tuesday and the last day of the withdrawal of the nominations is Thursday. Prominent persons in the fray include Kala Rai, president of the ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM)’s women’s wing, former councillor and SKM leader Nilu Chettri, businessman Prem Goyal and Sikkim Democratic Front activist Sandip Malu, in Gangtok. Senior SKM leader Suresh Tamang, and Ranju Lamichaney and Rajni Pradhan of the SDF are in fray at Singtam. All candidates, however, will be contesting in their individual capacities as the Sikkim Municipality Act 2007 was amended in September and polls made party-less. In the last polls held on party basis in October 2015, the SDF had made a clean sweep, winning all 53 wards at the seven civic bodies. The SKM, which was then in the opposition, had drawn a blank. The civic body elections were due to be held in October last year, but had to be postponed because of the pandemic. The seven civic bodies together have close to 82,000 voters. Observers said even though the elections were being held on non-partisan basis, political parties would influence their supporters to vote for the candidates of their choice. “Most of the candidates are affiliated to parties. The voters will be made aware of the fact,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
09-03-2021||West Bengal||EC orders removal of Bengal DGP with immediate effect||The Election Commission on Tuesday ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. In a directive to the state chief secretary, the EC said Virendra "should not be given any post which directly or indirectly relates to conduct of election." The move came in the wake of several political parties complaining to the Election Commission, alleging that Virendra was inclined towards the ruling Trinamool Congress, sources said. "Kindly inform the commission about the compliance latest by 10 am tomorrow (Wednesday)," the order said. The commission had recently removed Jawed Shamim from the post of ADG (Law and Order) of Bengal and replaced him with Jagmohan. Shamim, a 1995 batch IPS officer, was posted as the DG of fire and emergency services. He had taken over as ADG (law and order) only on February 8, replacing Gyanwant Singh and  keeping the forthcoming elections in mind.. The eight-phase assembly elections in the state will begin on March 27 and conclude on April 29. The results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dismisses 'outsider' claim in Nandigram||Coming down hard on those calling her an outsider in Nandigram, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said for them people "coming from Gujarat" are insiders. Addressing booth-level TMC workers a day ahead of filing her nomination for the seat, Banerjee said people who had "sold their souls to outsiders from Gujarat" are insulting the Nandigram movement by playing the communal card. Banerjee is pitted against her former confidante Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP some time ago, in the high-profile seat. Without naming Adhikari even once, Banerjee said she had made up her mind to contest either from the Singur or Nandigram--the two cradles of anti-land acquisition movement-- that catapulted her to power in 2011. She said she decided to contest from Nandigram because of overwhelming response of the people. "I have heard some people are calling me an outsider in Nandigram. I am amazed. I was born and brought up in the neighbouring Birbhum district, and the person who is calling me an outsider was also not born here. Today I have become an outsider, and those coming from Gujarat have become insiders in Bengal," she said. Adhikari has often called himself "bhoomiputra" (son of the soil) while seeking to get back at the TMC supremo who has been targeting the BJP with the "party of outsiders" barb. Accusing Adhikari of trying to incite communal passions, Banerjee said,"Those who have sold their souls to the outsiders are insulting the Nandigram land acquisition movement by playing the communal card." "Some people are talking about 70:30 ratio (of Hindu- Muslim population). Those doing that are insulting the sacred Nandigram movement which people of both communities fought together. People of Nandigram will make BJP 'April fool' on April 1 when polling is held," she asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Political storm brews over Strand Road fire accident||A day after a devastating blaze claimed nine lives at the New Koilaghat building of Eastern Railway here, a political storm has broken out ahead of West Bengal assembly polls, with the BJP blaming the TMC government for poor disaster management and the ruling dispensation rubbishing the allegation. BJP Bengal co-incharge Amit Malviya in a tweet said, the state should equip local bodies with fire fighting equipment and put in place appropriate protocols. Quipping "Pishi has failed Bengal," Malviya tweeted, "WB needs a proactive disaster management policy, equip local bodies with fire fighting equipment and put in appropriate protocols. "It also needs a transparent and efficient fire fighting policy, with mechanism to certify buildings for fire preparedness." "Pishi" is the Bengali word used for paternal aunt and the BJP refers to Mamata Banerjee as "Pishi' as she is the aunt of TMC MP and party heavyweight Abhishek Banerjee. Countering the allegation, state Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sujit Bose said, "From installing hydraulic ladder to largely containing the blaze, our men did everything possible. It is the Railways which could not provide us with a map of the interiors of the 12th floor." Bose regretted that the saffron party is politicising the tragedy for "cheap electoral gains". Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had visited the site on Monday night and alleged that senior railway officials were not present. "The building belongs to the Railways. But I have come to know that no one from the Railways reached the spot till now. Our fire department asked for the building map from them in order to enter the premises but there was no cooperation from them," she had said. The chief minister, however, said that she did not want to indulge in politics with a mishap. Nine persons, including four firefighters, three railway personnel and an assistant sub-inspector of Kolkata Police, died in the blaze, police said. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has set up a high-level committee to ascertain the cause of the fire at the sprawling building situated on Strand Road in the central business district of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||SC suspends warrant against BJP nominee till Bengal polls ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed that the non-bailable arrest warrant issued against BJP candidate and former IPS officer Bharati Ghosh in connection with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls violence case be kept in abeyance till the conclusion of the assembly polls in Bengal. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S Abdul Nazeer and Hemant Gupta said no further coercive action be taken against Ghosh in the case. The top court listed the matter for further hearing after two months. Former IPS officer Ghosh, who has been fielded by the BJP for the assembly polls in West Bengal from the Debra constituency of West Midnapore district, had moved the top court on Monday seeking a stay of the arrest warrant and quashing of the FIR lodged against her in connection with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls violence case. Ghosh is contesting the election from Derba against Humayun Kabir, a Trinamool Congress candidate and also a former IPS officer. Ghosh, in her intervention application filed through advocate Sameer Kumar, said despite the top court granting her relief of no coercive action in series of false cases lodged against her on February 19, 2019, which was extended from time to time, she has been implicated in new cases out of political vendetta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Didi lines up women for fuel price fight||The backlash against the “hensheley aagun (fire in the kitchen)” spread to Calcutta on Monday with Mamata Banerjee hitting the streets to raise the pitch of her protest against the fuel price hike by getting women on her side on International Women’s Day. The Trinamul Congress chief led a 2.5km march from College Square to the Dorina Crossing in central Calcutta along with 35,000 participants, “around 90 per cent” of whom were women, and then launched an attack on the Narendra Modi government, a day after the Prime Minister had come to the city to launch the BJP’s campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls. Mamata scoffed at the rally Modi held at the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday. “Your Brigade event yesterday was a B-grade event…. Money cannot buy everything,” she said to loud cheers from tens of thousands of women. In her 14-minute address at the end of the event, she unleashed a volley of attacks on Modi, his government and his party over the relentless rise in fuel prices. “When crude oil prices declined globally, you raised it (fuel prices). Raised it to such an extreme that LPG cylinders in Calcutta cost nearly Rs 900. Every day almost, a Rs 25 hike… a state of anarchy,” she said. “I tell you, no need for anything else, just the one thing, make LPG free for the masses. We are not interested in your bhashon (speech) of borbad (destruction).” A cabinet colleague who was present on the dais with her said Mamata felt the price-rise pitch could undermine Modi’s “development agenda” for Bengal, alongside the saffron camp’s attempts to polarise the polls. An important feature of Monday’s show was Mamata’s attempt to give prominence to not only some of the newest women inductees from civil society but also other women who have been fielded as candidates this time. “I tell you yet again on this auspicious occasion that our foremost responsibility is protecting the rights of women. Disrespect of women and their power, we will never tolerate,” Mamata said at the brief public meeting in Esplanade at the end of the march. There, the Bengal chief minister encouraged others such as filmmaker-actor Sudeshna Roy and actors Subhadra Mukherjee, Ronita Das and Manali Dey to speak. Mamata also gave the mic to several women candidates such as actors Sayantika Banerjee (Bankura), Koushani Mukherjee (Krishanagar North), June Malia (Midnapore), Lovely Moitra (Sonarpur South), Saayoni Ghosh (Asansol South) and singer Aditi Munshi (Rajarhat-Gopalpur). As the new inductees spoke one after another on the theme that Bengal wanted its daughter Mamata and the BJP had no place in the state, the audience kept applauding the speakers. “The Tollywood personalities lifted the spirit of the rally.… Actors like June and Koushani injected energy into the audience,” said a Trinamul veteran. He underlined that the protest gelled with Mamata’s carefully cultivated image of being the voice of women, and that she had also introduced a victim card to this pitch by highlighting how the entire saffron ecosystem – alleged to be misogynistic -- and all agencies at its disposal was up in arms trying to oust the last remaining woman chief minister in the nation. “It is already well established that she is the loudest voice for the rights of minorities, Dalits and others who are deprived and downtrodden under saffron rule. Now, she is also underscoring her women-friendly side,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Police recover bullet-ridden bodies of two CRPF personnel in West Midnapore||Police recovered bullet-ridden bodies of two security personnel — a woman jawan and her male colleague — from the CRPF office in West Midnapore’s Salboni late on Sunday night. The police are probing if the deceased — Rajiv Kumar, 36, and Rabari Sejalban Kanjibhai, 26, — died by suicide by firing from their own service revolvers or the bullets were fired from one single weapon. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Sources in the CRPF said Rajiv lived in Jhakahichak village in Sant Kabir Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh, while Rabari was from Karoli village in Gujarat’s Gandhinagar. The two had recently returned from vacation and resumed duty at the CRPF’s Salboni office, the headquarters of the 232 battalion. The bodies were recovered from near the armoury depot of the CRPF, where Rajiv was posted. Rajiv was in the CRPF for the last 18 years, while Rabari had joined the force a little over six months ago. Superintendent of police, West Midnapore, Dinesh Kumar said: “The Salboni incident prima facie looks like a case of suicide. It will be clear once the post-mortem report comes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Three killed as bus from Brigade hits e-rickshaw in Domkal||A five-year-old girl, her mother and another woman were killed in Bhatshala village of Murshidabad’s Domkal on Monday when the e-rickshaw they were on collided with a bus carrying some 40 BJP workers returning to their village from Sunday’s Brigade rally. Police said that the deceased were identified as Kalpana Biwi, 35, her daughter Armina Khatun, 5, and neighbour Sharifa Biwi, 40. Kalpana is a resident of Garaimari village and Sharifa is from adjoining Sahdiar village. Four other occupants of the e-rickshaw, including the driver, were also injured in the mishap. Two among them, whose condition was deemed to be more critical than the others, were rushed to the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital. The two others were admitted to a hospital in Domkal. An eyewitness said that on Sunday a bus from Domkal had gone to Calcutta carrying around 40 BJP workers to attend the rally addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Brigade Parade Grounds. On Monday, the same bus was returning to Garaimari village with the BJP workers when the accident took place around 10am. “Seven persons, including  the driver, were in the e-rickshaw that was heading towards the Domkal market. When the bus hit the e-rickshaw, it overturned and the three passengers died on the spot,” a local trader said. “We have seized the bus but its driver managed to flee,” a police officer said. After the accident, the BJP workers had to deboard from the bus and walk around 5km to reach their village Garaimari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress fuels ire at LPG price hike ||A day after Mamata Banerjee hit the road with thousands of women in Siliguri to protest the steep rise in prices of LPG cylinders and fuel, Trinamul candidates and leaders took out colourful protests on Monday across the state on this issue. Sources said, the top Trinamul leaderships in Calcutta had instructed the party leaders in districts and the contesting nominees in 291 constituencies to flag the rise in the prices of fuel and LPG cylinders as both are connected to the daily life of common people. The price of an LPG cylinder has touched Rs 845 now, making it outside the realm of the budgets of many households. “The chief minister’s march in Siliguri touched the right chord on Sunday as thousands of women came out on the road to march with Mamata Banerjee. As rise in the price of LPG cylinders directly hits the kitchen budget, it easily angers people. After getting reports from the ground, we asked our leaders and the candidates to use the issue prominently in their poll campaign,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Calcutta. In her speech in Siliguri on Sunday, Mamata had reminded her audience that the price of LPG cylinders was “about to touch Rs 1,000”. “Those running the country have not made any move so far to arrest the hike. We provide food grains free of cost and, in a similar manner, cylinders should be distributed free among the people,” she said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not comment on the relentless hike in the price of fuel and cooking gas at the Brigade Parade Grounds rally on Sunday but did not forget to mock Mamata for riding an e-scooter in protest. On Monday, state fisheries minister Chandranath Sinha, who is the Trinamul candidate from Bolpur, rode a bullock cart as part of a protest march in the town. The bullock cart was decorated with balloons. The minister wore a poster of a cylinder on his chest asking people to protest against the BJP’s policy to raise the price of an LPG cylinder to Rs 845. “Modi is trying to take credit for his move to provide free gas cylinders (under Ujjwala Yojana) but he is silent on the price of LPG cylinders. The poor and the common man cannot afford to buy a cylinder. People in the districts depend on two-wheelers for their livelihood but it has become difficult to buy fuel with petrol selling for over Rs 95 per litre,” said Sinha while sitting on a bullock cart. In Howrah’s Uluberia, around 50 women led by Trinamul district president and party’s Uluberia South MLA Pulak Roy protested against the LPG cylinder price rise by cooking on wood-fired ovens. “Monday was International Women’s Day and the Narendra Modi government has made it difficult for women to buy LPG cylinders. So, women members of our party protested by cook on wood fires near the LPG cylinder filling station in Uluberia,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Women poll duty officials face childcare hurdle||The Election Commission of India’s directive to have women run one-fourth of Bengal’s total polling booths has become a challenge for the administration in districts with many recruited women requesting they be spared from poll duty as they need to take care of their children. EC sources said that around 28,000 new polling booths have been selected this year over and above the existing 78,000-plus across Bengal. With more booths, demand for polling personnel has gone up accordingly and as a result the need to deploy women polling personnel is required. “This time there will be 101,916 polling booths across Bengal instead of 77,000-plus in 2016. So, it was an urgency to involve women government employees in poll duty. According to the EC directive, 25 per cent of booths in each district need to be run by women polling personnel,” said an official. The pandemic necessitated hiring more polling personnel to adhere to Covid-19 protocol. For the same reason, the EC directed 20 per cent polling personnel as reserve instead of 10 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Sources said hundreds of applications from women, mainly mothers of small children, were coming to district election offices with requests to relieve them from poll duty. Officials in districts said most had informed the EC that they were unable to meet the target because many women had child care responsibilities. Moreover, women couldn’t be deployed to remote areas because of security issues. In Birbhum, Bankura and East Burdwan, officials said they could ensure 10 per cent of their existing booths would be run by women. “In Birbhum, we have over 3,900 booths this election but can deploy women personnel only in 500,” said an official. An official in East Burdwan added that husbands of these women are also government employees, and with both parents working, there was no one to take care of children. Kalyani Pathak, an assistant teacher of Nivedita Kanya Vidyalaya in Burdwan town, is a case in point. Pathak, who recruited as a presiding officer for a booth in East Burdwan, explained her quandary. “My husband is a state government employee posted in a block office in Birbhum and also involved in election duty. I live in Burdwan town with my year-old son. If I report for poll duty there will be no one to take care of my son. Hundreds of women like me are facing similar problems and have requested authorities to relieve them from poll duty,” she said. Birbhum district magistrate Devi Prasad Karanam said: “We are getting requests from women polling personnel with genuine problems. We will assess how many women-run polling booths we can have.” Bankura district magistrate K Radhika Aiyar echoed Karanam and said: “We need to assess the number of women who could be deployed on poll duty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC olive branch to disgruntled leader Nantu Paul||Senior Trinamul leaders here have taken up the onus to placate Nantu Paul, a key political face of the city, in the wake of his decision to walk out of Mamata Banerjee’s party and contest as an Independent from the Siliguri Assembly seat. On Sunday, when party supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee was in town, Paul announced his decision in protest of Trinamul’s decision to field Omprakash Mishra. Tourism minister Gautam Deb, instrumental in inducting Paul into Trinamul, said he hoped the dissident would change his mind. “I brought him into Trinamul in 2004. He was one of our senior councillors of the civic body, chairman of our party’s election committee of Siliguri Assembly seat and vice-chairman of SJDA. Anybody can have political aspirations but one has to obey the party’s decision. I hope his good sense prevails,” said Deb. According to party insiders, Paul’s decision marred Trinamul’s major LPG price hike protest rally on Sunday. “We suspect his decision may encourage others disgruntled with Mishra’s nomination (to revolt),” said a party leader, adding that Paul enjoys clout in many wards of the city. “If he contests as an Independent, he will cut our votes.” Paul said many party leaders had contacted him but he stood firm in his decision. “There is no question of withdrawing my stand. I have clarified to senior Trinamul leaders including state tourism minister and state sports minister on Sunday that I am sticking to my decision and will contest as an Independent,” he said, adding that on Tuesday, he would resign as vice-chairman of the SJDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders and workers question absence of North Dinajpur district president||Trinamul leaders and workers in Raiganj town have started questioning the absence of Kanaialal Agarwal, the party’s North Dinajpur district president who has been fielded from Raiganj Assembly seat. “Three days have passed (since party supremo Mamata Banerjee named candidates) and yet he has not come to Raiganj to start his campaign. This is surprising as even popular leaders of north Bengal like Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh are constantly meeting people in their constituencies,” said a senior Trinamul leader of the town. Last Friday, as Mamata announced the names of candidates, open protests were witnessed in Raiganj and suburbs over Agarwal’s candidature. “He is from Islampur and we want somebody from Raiganj. Arindam Sarkar (district INTTUC president) is  a suitable candidate. We fail to understand what made the party leadership bring him (Agarwal) here from Islampur,” a protester said. These sentiments may be a reason keeping Agarwal away, said political observers. Sources said that on Saturday, Agarwal was in Bindol, a suburb of Raiganj, but still did not visit Raiganj. “The party has started putting out graffiti, festoons and banners in his name but he’s staying away. It seems he fears protests from some party workers,” said an observer. Agarwal said as he was also the district president, he needed to discharge certain responsibilities in other Assembly seats of North Dinajpur. “Once I reach Raiganj, I have to spend some days there, which is not possible for me right now. It will take another four-five days before I visit Raiganj,” he said. The saffron camp scoffed at Agarwal and Trinamul. “There was infighting within Trinamul and it has become more acute after the candidates have been announced. That is why, this candidate (Agarwal) is staying away from Raiganj,” said North Dinajpur BJP president Biswajit Lahiri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls: Survey projects narrow edge for TMC||The second voter survey conducted by pollster CNX for ABP Ananda has indicated that the Trinamul Congress will retain power in Bengal with a narrow margin in the coming Assembly polls. The survey was conducted between February 15 and 23. A total of 9,360 people in 117 Assembly segments took part in the survey. The bright side of the second survey (see chart) for the ruling party is it has retained its 42 per cent votes, while the BJP’s share slid to 34 per cent from 37 per cent in the first pre-poll survey held between January 23 and February 7. In the first survey, Trinamul was predicted to bag 146-156 Assembly segments, while the projection for the BJP was 113-121 seats. The second survey predicted that the Left-Congress alliance would increase the vote share to 20 per cent from 17 per cent of the first one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Trinamul lawmakers join BJP at Hastings||Trinamul nominee Sarala Murmu and five sitting Trinamul lawmakers who did not get tickets this time — former deputy speaker Sonali Guha, Sital Sardar, Jatu Lahiri, Rabindranath Bhattacharya and former footballer Dipendu Biswas — joined the BJP at the saffron party’s election office at Hastings, Calcutta, on Monday. Murmu’s defection became a talking point in political circles as she joined the saffron camp despite Trinamul having nominated her from Habibpur of Malda district for the 2021 Assembly polls. Murmu, who is not an MLA, when quizzed about her decision to leave a party that gave her the poll ticket, said: “It is not possible to work for Trinamul in Malda, where development has taken a back seat. What exists is acute infighting among lobbies. That is why I made the decision (to switch parties).” Senior political analysts said  Murmu’s was a rare move as MLAs usually tend to switch sides when they are denied tickets. “It is common to see MLAs defecting to other parties after winning in elections. But it is rare to see a candidate fielded by the party joining another party ahead of polls,” said an observer. Trinamul in Malda hurriedly announced the name of Pradip Baskey, a new candidate, in Sarala’s seat. Party workers were also seen wiping out her name from a wall graffiti that had come up in Habibpur area. The fact that people like Guha, known to be a close aide of Mamata Banerjee since her days as a firebrand Opposition leader, and Bhattacharya, who was by Mamata’s side in her anti-land acquisition movement in Singur, have defected to the BJP have given many an impression that discontent over ticket distribution was brewing in Trinamul. The impact of Trinamul defections to the saffron camp was felt the loudest in Malda district as along with Murmu, 14 members of the Trinamul-run zilla parishad of Malda, led by Sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mondal, also joined the BJP. They were accompanied by a number of office-bearers of Trinamul and its frontal organisations of Malda. “BJP now has majority in Malda Zilla Parishad,” claimed BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who coordinated the joining event at the BJP office. Back in Malda, Trinamul leaders claimed they still had majority in the Zilla Parishad and admitted they were aware of the possibilities of such a defection as Trinamul turncoat Adhikari looked after the party’s affairs in the district for months. “Most who joined BJP lack mass support. The BJP is desperately trying to purchase elected representatives. But let us make it clear that we have a majority in the Zilla Parishad,” said Mausam Noor, the district Trinamul chief of Malda. Political veterans in Malda, when asked about the defections, said it will not cause any major impact in poll results of the district. This is because in Malda has a minority population of around 55 per cent and the saffron camp has been playing the polarisation card to consolidate its votes. “Out of 12 Assembly seats, election results in seven seats of the district are being decided by the minority population. The saffron camp has started playing the polarisation card by bringing in hardliners like Yogi Adityanath and trying to consolidate votes in the remaining five seats. In such a situation, it is unlikely that these defectors will be able to draw fresh support from the minority-dominated seats,” said an observer. Along with political entities, Tollywood actress Tanushree Chakraborty also joined the saffron party on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: CPI(M–L) leaders call for non-BJP forces to unite||Senior leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation on Monday called for all non-BJP forces to unite for the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls. At a news meet in Siliguri, leaders of the CPI-ML (Liberation) announced they would field candidates in 12 Assembly seats in Bengal, support some Left candidates in some other seats and iterated afresh the party’s stand of supporting the strongest non-BJP candidate in each seat elsewhere. “We will field candidates in 12 seats and in some other seats we will support the Left candidates. As far as the remaining 250-odd Assembly seats are concerned, we would like to appeal to all the anti-BJP political parties to stand together and encourage people to vote for the strongest non-BJP candidate for the seat concerned,” said Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the party. “The idea is to ensure that the BJP is defeated in each and every seat as they are our principal political opposition,” Bhattacharya added. Of the 12 Assembly seats where CPI-ML (Liberation) will field its candidates, three are in north Bengal. These are Phansidewa in Darjeeling district, Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri district and Mothabari of Malda district. The other nine seats are Khargram of Murshidabad, Nakashipara and Krishnanagar Dakshin of Nadia, Uttarpara and Dhanekhali of Hooghly, Ranibandh and Onda of Bankura district, and Jamalpur and Manteswar of East Burdwan. “The BJP is trying to come to power in Bengal by some means or other. Their only objective is to establish a single party system that will rule in every tier, right from the Centre to the panchayats. This has grossly affected the federal structure of our country. We would like to extend our support to political parties which are opposing these aggressive policies of the BJP,” said Bhattacharya. Such an assertion comes after his party managed to win 12 of 19 seats at the Assembly elections held in Bihar a ths ago, opined political observers. An observer pointed out that though the CPI-ML sought to apply Bihar’s lessons in Bengal, the latter’s political situation was different. “In the Bihar polls, the party had sent forth the missive that every effort should be put in to defeat the BJP. It helped the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar win a number of seats. Now that Bengal polls are drawing near, they are iterating the same narrative. But Bengal’s political equations are different from Bihar’s,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: BJP rebels to contest in 4 West Midnapore seats||A group of BJP old-timers in West Midnapore district has decided to field Independents in four Assembly constituencies, claiming that the party’s nominees are “unpopular”. Both the dissidents and the official candidates will file their nominations on Tuesday. “We have decided to field Independents in Garbeta, Salboni, Midnapore and Kharagpur Assembly constituencies. The candidates fielded by the party in these seats are new in politics and do not enjoy the confidence of the people,” said Pradip Lodha, former vice-president of the BJP’s West Midnapore organisational district. Lodha will contest from Garbeta as an Independent. “Our decision will only strengthen Narendra Modi and Dilip Ghosh’s vision of a new Bengal,” Lodha said, hinting that if the candidates fielded by the dissidents won, they would back the BJP. The development has gained significance in the backdrop of the scepticism expressed by a group of state BJP leaders that there would be multiple instances of factional feud in the party after candidate lists are announced. “This is just the beginning and only 57 out of 294 names have been announced. The cracks within the party will widen once all candidates are declared,” a state BJP office-bearer said. The likes of Lodha, Dhiman Koley, BJP’s former president for West Midnapore and the dissident candidate from Salboni, members of the Hindu Mahasabha, Bajrang Dal, Hindu Jagaran Manch and representatives of the Kurmi community held a meeting on March 7 and floated the Samanway Manch or Coordination Forum. It was decided at the meeting that the dissidents would contest the polls under this forum’s banner. “The party announced the list of candidates in the evening of March 6. The dissatisfaction has been brewing since then and hardly any BJP worker from our district took party in (Narendra) Modi’s rally in Calcutta yesterday (Sunday). That made us field our own candidates in the four seats. Otherwise, the party would suffer,” Lodha said. The BJP has fielded Madan Ruidas at Garbeta, Rajib Kundu at Salboni, Tapan Bhuiya at Kharagpur and Shamit Dash at Midnapore. Dash is the present West Midnapore district chief of the BJP. Dissidents alleged that Dash was to blame for the feud. Dash has allegedly helped his close associates, including Ruidas, an employee at his shop, get the tickets. Although the district BJP leadership claimed that the problem had been resolved, the dissidents denied any such development. “A problem had emerged. However, the dissidents met our district president and everything has been sorted now,” said Shankar Guchhait, the BJP district general secretary. According to Lodha, if the dissidents don’t field candidates, a large section of BJP votes will shift to the CPM and ultimately, Trinamul will be benefited. “The support that the party enjoys in Midnapore is primarily because of the traditional Left votes that had shifted to us,” Lodha said. “The CPM has fielded two heavyweights, Susanta Ghosh and Tapan Ghosh, in the district and the BJP’s candidates are weak,” Lodha said. Apart from Lodha and Dhiman Koley, the other two dissident BJP candidates are Jayanta Chatterjee and Pashupati Deb Singha. Deb Singha is a Kurmi and hence will be well accepted by the community which has a major poll share in the Midnapore Assembly seat, the dissidents feel. “We are fielding two candidates in the Midnapore Assembly seat and hope the people will choose the best option,” a source in the dissident group said. The candidate for Kharagpur is yet to be decided. In Bankura, BJP leaders face a similar predicament with party workers putting up posters to show their dissent with the official choice of candidates in at least two of the district’s 12 constituencies — Bankura and Taldangra. In Bankura, the BJP has fielded Niladri Shekhar Dana, a councillor in Bankura municipality, and Trinamul turncoat Shyamal Sarkar for the Taldangra Assembly. Sources said there were two more aspirants for the Bankura seat but Dana was given the ticket. BJP insiders said the candidate choice was wrong as Trinamul has fielded popular actress Sayantika Banerjee in Bankura. “Change Niladri Dana as a candidate... We are not ready to accept Niladri Dana,” read one of dozens of posters apparently put up by disgruntled BJP supporters in Bankura town. In Taldangra, the names of two senior party leaders, including BJP’s district president Vivekananda Patra, were doing the rounds but the ticket was given to “outsider” Shyamal Sarkar, who is from Khatra. “The BJP candidate of Taldangra is an outsider and the people of Taldangra is not ready to accept him,” the poster said claiming that Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar was trying to keep his control on Taldangra and Simlapal by making Trinamul turncoats victorious,” a poster says. BJP president in Bankura Vivekananda Patra said: “There is no connection of the BJP with these posters. At both the places, Trinamul has done it as the party smells defeat in all the 12 seats.” However, Trinamul’s spokesperson Dilip Agrawal said: “The infighting in the BJP has come out in the open. Trinamul has nothing to do with the posters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 215 new infections||Bengal on Monday logged 221 Covid-19 recoveries, 215 new infections and two deaths, but none from the city. The state now has 3,155 active cases, down from 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), owing to an unbroken slide over 133 days. Bengal now has 1.7 per cent of India’s active cases, with the share having reduced steadily from nearly 7 per cent a couple of months ago. It is now eighth among states with the most active cases, notches better than third spot at the start of 2020. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.67 per cent now, ahead of the national average of 96.91. Its mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national average is 1.4 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.62 per cent, having fallen steadily for 109 days. On Monday, the state reported 14,412 tests, taking the total past 87.13 lakh, at 96,814 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,280, 8,633 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Helipad at Nandigram for Suvendu Adhikari’s state ride||Suvendu Adhikari will be one of the main campaigners of the BJP in the Bengal Assembly elections and to ensure his smooth journey across the state, a helipad is being constructed for the former transport minister in East Midnapore’s Nandigram. The BJP has fielded Adhikari in Nandigram where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is the Trinamul Congress’s candidate. Under the watchful eyes of local BJP leaders, a group of labourers is working 24X7 on a four-acre land in Nandigram’s Haripur village to build the helipad from where Adhikari will take off frequently to campaign against Trinamul across Bengal. “We are constructing a temporary helipad. Ten farmers have allowed us to use their land for free even though we wanted to pay them,” said a BJP leader. The BJP said Adhikari would have to attend multiple meetings and the helipad was being set up mainly for “ease of movement” and to avoid traffic snarls. To ensure a smooth ride for Adhikari to the helipad, contractors have been busy laying bricks over the last few days on a 200m road that veers off the Chandipur highway to reach Haripur. Another set of workers are preparing concrete mix that would form the periphery of the circle on which the helicopter will land. Asked what necessitated the construction of the helipad, a local BJP leader said: “This poll is of immense importance to the party as well as Adhikari. We don’t want to depend on the administration to get a helipad for his chopper to land. The chief minister will use the Nandigram College Grounds for her chopper to land and take off. As we want to avoid any administrative interference, we are constructing our own helipad.” One of the landowners who parted with plots for the helipad said his cooperation stemmed from his “unconditional” allegiance to Adhikari. “I was with him during his association with Trinamul and am with him now even though he has switched sides. All I wanted was that the land be returned to me, which BJP leaders have agreed to. I do not want compensation for helping Suvenduda,” said Nantu Pal, 52. A BJP leader overseeing the work said: “The helipad will have a 100ft radius where bricks would be laid out. On the periphery, concrete mix and bricks are being used. In the middle of the helipad, a piling of broken bricks and mortar is being used. After the end of the polls, the entire structure of the helipad will be demolished and the four-acre farmland returned to the farmers in its original shape. The entire project will cost Rs 40-50 lakh.” The BJP leader added that after the Election Commission had declared that Nandigram would vote on April 1, the party decided to drop the plan to use concrete in the middle of the helipad. “Therefore, we opted for bricks on the advice of engineers.” Vice-president of the BJP’s Tamluk organisation committee, Pralay Pal, said the poll campaign in Nandigram would pick-up next week and the helipad would be ready by then. Asked whether permission to operate the helipad had been taken from relevant authorities, Pal said: “We will start applying with the authorities concerned very soon. The nod from the director general of civil aviation is taken care of by the company from which the party is hiring the helicopter for Adhikari’s travel.” Haldia subdivisional officer Avneet Punia, under whose jurisdiction the helipad falls, has said: “The permission for helicopter landing will have to be sought from the district election officer.” An official of East Midnapore district administration said the permission would be granted only after verifying whether the helipad had adequate infrastructure for choppers to operate. Apart from the helipad, BJP leaders are scouting for a house in Nandigram where Adhikari will stay during the election campaign. “We have short-listed a few accommodations for Adhikari to choose from for his stay in Nandigram. He would be staying in Nandigram for at least a month during the polls,” said BJP leader and former Trinamul block president Meghnad Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi to contest from two seats||Jailed peasant leader Akhil Gogoi on Monday filed his nomination papers for two Assembly constituencies in Upper Assam. The 1976-born Gogoi will contest from Mariani and Sivasagar Assembly seats, which will go to the polls in the first phase on March 27, as a candidate of the Raijor Dal of which he is the president. Gogoi, who first hit the headlines with his peasant group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) in 2005, has since been one of the prominent public voices espousing the cause of Assam. Debanga Gogoi, Raijor Dal’s publicity secretary, told The Telegraph: “Our president Akhil Gogoi submitted his nomination papers through his proposers at Sivasagar and Titabor (Mariani) and himself took the mandatory oath of allegiance to the Constitution before Guwahati Medical College and Hospital superintendent A. Sharma in Guwahati.” Debanga said a huge rally was taken out in Sivasagar and Titabor by Gogoi’s supporters around the time he submitted his nomination papers. Gogoi soon released a six-page letter urging the masses to perform the ruling BJP’s “visarjan” and come out and “defeat” the saffron party at “any cost” in the upcoming elections. Arrested on December 12, 2019 from Jorhat at the peak of the anti-CAA movement in Assam, Gogoi has been in judicial custody since then. He is currently admitted to GMCH because of his health condition. As the KMSS chief adviser, Gogoi backed the formation of Raijor Dal late last year from judicial custody, the trigger being the “imposition” of the contentious CAA on the people of Assam. Both Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad owe their formation to the anti-CAA sentiments. A few days ago, he had in a letter urged the Opposition parties to field a joint candidate to defeat the ruling BJP. He had in that letter also dubbed the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) as a “communal” party just like the BJP. Raijor Dal has fielded 20 candidates so far while its ally Assam Jatiya Parishad 68 with its president Lurinjyoti Gogoi contesting from two seats — Duliajan and Naharkatia. He too filed his nomination on Monday. The Congress on Monday installed LED panels across all 33 districts in the state with the message that the party is coming to power and a “firm assurance” for the implementation of the party’s “five guarantees” made to the people of the state. Placed below this message will be a countdown meter, displaying days, hours and seconds left till the poll date. The five guarantees are a law curbing the operation of the CAA, generating five lakh government jobs; raising tea workers’ daily wage to Rs 365; providing free electricity up to 200 units per household; and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives.Assam will have a three-phase election on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
09-03-2021||Opinion||Dual edge: Chinese cyber attack||As the world evolves, so does the way in which nations choose to arm themselves — for deterrence and aggression. The possession of nuclear weapons has for long been viewed as the apex of military deterrence; India’s identity as a nuclear-armed State was considered a landmark in its military history. Increasingly, however, it is becoming clear that the future of global conflict will be dominated by the use of digital technology. Exponential progress in the digital domain, mainly in the commercial and service sectors — finance, banking, communications, travel and power — has led to the flourishing of myriad technological services. Yet, such progress has also been paralleled by a worrying tendency to weaponize such technology to target the sectors that rely on it. This was evident from a recent report by a cybersecurity firm in the United States of America that indicated that a malware originating in China had infiltrated systems managing India’s electricity supply, causing the power outage that incapacitated Mumbai last October. Indeed, cyberware attacks have been a global phenomenon; in 2017, a Russian ransomware spread like wildfire across the world, eating into electronic equipment, extracting data and temporarily paralyzing large corporations. Some reports estimate that the global financial burden of cybercrime is expected to rise to six trillion dollars by this year. Significantly, India is the second most targeted country for ransomware after the US. The government is reportedly working closely with multinational cybersecurity firms to issue timely alerts on ransomware and zero-day attack campaigns, and provide updates on trojans and malware targeting Indian users and organizations. Yet, the Indian State remains ever willing to use cyber technology in a manner that violates citizens’ privacy rights. Digital rights advocates have decried the installation of facial recognition systems in several government schools in Delhi; digital identification was also used by the Delhi police to mark out 1,100 people allegedly involved in the Delhi riots. There are, at present, around 16 facial recognition tracking systems being actively used by the Centre and state governments. But legal checks and balances are yet to catch up, thereby rendering the technology vulnerable to misuse. India still does not have a comprehensive personal data protection law. The protection of privacy must be factored into the draft of this legislation at the earliest. This, along with inducements for the private sector to help prevent the weaponization of cyber technologies, can enhance rights and safety for the nation and its citizens in this digital era.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
09-03-2021||Opinion|| A darker shade: Meghan and Harry's tell-all interview||Sir — A year after the Sussexes decided to step back as working members of the British royal family, Meghan Markle revealed in an interview some of the pressures that came with royal life — she even contemplated suicide. It is shocking that concerns were allegedly raised about the skin tone of the couple’s biracial child. The royal family would have been expected to mitigate racism, not abet it. Rashika Verma,New Delhi Waste not Sir — According to a recent report published by the United Nations Environment Programme and its partner organization, Waste and Resources Action Programme, an estimated 931 million tonnes of food was wasted globally in 2019. The Food Waste Index Report 2021 found that 61 per cent of the wastage came from households, while the food service and the retail sectors accounted for 26 and 13 per cent, respectively. In India, the household food waste was calculated at a staggering 50 kilogrammes per capita per year, or 68,760,163 tonnes a year, almost at par with countries such as the United States of America and China. While no country can afford such humongous waste of food, when it comes to India, where millions live below the poverty line and many children die annually as a result of malnourishment, such findings point to an inherent disparity not only in accessibility but also in the attitude towards food among classes. As such, food wastage is an unforgivable crime. It is of utmost importance that we educate people, especially the youth, about the reality of unequal accessibility to food. It is only then that we would be able to ensure a dignified living for all. N.R. Ramachandran,Chennai Sir — It was shocking to learn that a study by the UNEP found that Indian households waste an estimated 50 kg of food per capita per year. Many of us, who have grown up with limited resources, are perplexed by the figures. We must take note and do all we can to drastically reduce food wastage. Mindful eating and the practice of taking only what we can consume can go a long way in rectifying the situation. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Experts have long insisted that reducing food waste could not only solve chronic hunger but also lead to a reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases and significantly slow down global warming. It is time that we heeded the warnings and took necessary steps to better manage our food. It is certainly possible to do so. It was found that spending more time in planning meals and cooking at home during the Covid-19-induced lockdowns resulted in a 20 per cent reduction in wastage in the United Kingdom. Citizens around the world must do all they can and strive towards minimal wastage. M. Pradyu,Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
09-03-2021||Opinion||Unproductive: Haryana state reservation||The deputy chief minister of Haryana, Dushyant Chautala, has stated that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government is open to suggestions from industry bodies on a law that offers 75 per cent reservation to sons of the soil in private sector employment within a specific salary ceiling. The apparent willingness on the part of Mr Chautala’s government to engage in deliberations on the matter is welcome because industry has raised some serious concerns with the legislation. One of these is related to the principle of merit. A skilled workforce is a prerequisite for industrial productivity and the pool for talent should, ideally, be as wide as possible. A rule to limit the scope of recruitment would undoubtedly have an adverse impact on merit and skill, which, in turn, would have a bearing on the ease of doing business, productivity and, ultimately, competitiveness. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 could well inhibit investors, lowering investments in a state that remains agrarian in character. The legislation also straddles grey areas in terms of constitutionality and legality. The Constitution does not have an explicit provision that empowers states to extend reservation to private employment since it could have troubling implications on the fundamental rights to equality and against discrimination. These constitutional concerns have often found expression in judicial notings. After Andhra Pradesh had given its nod to a similar provision the Andhra Pradesh High Court had observed that such an intervention appeared to be unconstitutional prima facie. Curiously, constitutional and legal proprieties have not stopped elected governments from pursuing such a narrow agenda. Haryana and Andhra Pradesh are not the only states to have crossed into uncharted territory. Madhya Pradesh has announced a law reserving all government jobs for ‘children of the state’; there are whispers that Jharkhand, too, is contemplating reservation in private jobs. The principal reason behind such measures is competitive populism, which has intensified with a corresponding spike in inequality, unemployment and the erosion in the stature of the State as a custodian of welfarism. If provincial instincts were to reflect in policy, it would have a debilitating effect on India’s inclusive, pluralist ethos that guides social and economic activities. The irony of claims of affirmative action — the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 is being touted as one example — deepening division must not be ignored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
09-03-2021||Opinion||War on cancer||“If I could be anything, I would have wanted to have been the president [who] ended cancer... ,” said a tearful Joe Biden at a gathering in the Rose Garden of the White House when he withdrew from the presidential race in 2016, months after cancer claimed the life of his eldest son, Beau. His words sprung from realization and resolve that had crystallized as a result of his brush with a particularly fatal type of cancer and his countless interactions with leading cancer experts across the world during a two-year-long personal odyssey. “But I know we can do this,” he said, “we need a moon shot”. The Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot programme, with the audacious aim to compress 10 years of cancer research in five years’ time, was born that evening. The bipartisan support it received in the US Congress, which thrice rebuffed Donald Trump’s efforts to cut funding to the National Cancer Institute, the principal organization for the programme, is a testament to the impact of cancer on everyone’s life. The current pandemic, which has disrupted cancer treatment, has, paradoxically, also become a boon for cancer research as envisaged in the Cancer Moonshot programme whose three main guiding principles are erasing the boundaries among different research agencies, interest groups and even nationalities; sharing of big data and experiment results in real time to build on each other’s success so that time and money are not wasted in reduplicating work; and simplifying financial regulations for allocation of funds and resources to enlarge the scope and reach of clinical trials. The swiftness with which medical communities and science researchers have responded to develop treatment protocols with new vaccines in the case of Covid-19 by sharing clinical data and experiences often forgoing research credits shows that the lofty objectives of the Cancer Moonshot programme through the formation of multi-national and multi-institutional global alliances remain realistic. This is also the call of World Cancer Day, following the adoption of the Paris Charter at the World Summit Against Cancer for the New Millennium in February 2000. The idea is to form a global alliance against cancer, one that will not only stretch up to the last citizen but also encourage active participation. The success of any public health programme depends on active participation by citizens motivated through tireless awareness campaigns and the sharing of relevant information. Yet, this is far from an easy task. Science was abused during the pandemic through misinformation that, at times, served political interests. The anti-vaccine movement and the reluctance to undergo a biopsy are two facets of the same problem. Public education and spreading awareness regarding methods of prevention are perhaps the more important components of all anti-cancer programmes. There are more than 200 different types of cancer with diverse biologies that evolve through multi-factorial processes. It will thus be difficult to find a common trajectory to reach them all. Modern cancer research has grown with sophisticated but costly procedures. Genetic engineering and immune modulation will take time to reach clinical application and make a difference. Preventive oncology, however, can address the challenge. Programmes to raise awareness about cancer-causing substances, HPV and Hepatitis B vaccination, establishing telemedicine networks for remote screening of and early detection in rural populations and periodical checkups can substantially reduce suffering in this country where 40 per cent of cancer deaths are caused by preventable cancers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
09-03-2021||Opinion||Covid vaccine: advantage, New Delhi||When Cambodia, China’s closest ally in Southeast Asia, asked for Indian anti-Covid vaccines having received a free starter supply of one million Sinopharm doses, alarm bells rang in Beijing. In what has been seen as a battle for goodwill and influence, growing requests for Indian vaccines from nations as far off as Brazil and Cambodia did indicate India is ahead of China on this score. Beijing’s discomfort was writ large when its media trouble-shooter, Global Times, went on to accuse India of meddling in Bangladesh to stop trials of the Sinopharm vaccine. With two million free doses of the India-made AstraZeneca vaccine helping Bangladesh begin its ambitious vaccination programme and another thirty million doses purchased by its Beximco conglomerate to reach Dhaka in phases, China is clearly receding from Bangladesh’s public imagination. Even virulently anti-India BNP politicians, who had railed against India-made vaccines by doubting both supply commitments and efficacy, are lining up to take the jab. The Bangladesh Nationalist Party leader, Amir Khasru Mahmud Chowdhury, scotched the party’s pitch against Indian vaccines when he told a television channel, “there can be no politics over the vaccine”. With Air India charter flights landing in neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka and Seychelles, Maldives and Myanmar, with free gift packs of India-made vaccines, diplomats are ecstatic over what one described as ‘our finest hour’. The unmistakable thrill in New Delhi over India’s lead role in fighting Covid-19 globally was evident in a tweet by the prime minister, Narendra Modi: “Fast development of vaccine and its launch [in India] is an important landmark in our joint endeavour for a healthy and disease free world.” Modi had earlier said that India will soon be the ‘pharmacy of the world’; this promises business and credibility that can boost the country’s economy and diplomacy. Unlike the Chinese vaccines which have faced uncomfortable questions over efficacy in trials in Brazil and Indonesia, the world is not questioning the effectiveness of the Indian vaccines but asking whether it can actually produce enough — and quickly enough — to meet the global demand. China is seen as a rising superpower, capable of taking on the United States of America militarily and economically; India has been seen, at best, as a “swing state” (How to Run the World, Parag Khanna), capable of influencing the power balance in Asia. Most military analysts did not give India much of a chance against a modernizing Chinese military. But the Indian army has stood its ground against the Chinese in the icy Himalayan heights twice in less than four years, first at Doklam in 2017 and now in Ladakh. That the People’s Liberation Army finally agreed to pull back to April 2020 positions in eastern Ladakh sends out unmistakable signals to the rest of the world (especially in India’s neighbourhood) that the Indian army has come a long way from 1962 and is capable of giving the PLA a bloody nose like the one it suffered in Vietnam in 1979. That the PLA has not come out well in military confrontations since 1962 will not be missed in Asia where many countries look to India as a future net security provider against an assertive China. The northern army commander, Lieutenant-General Y.K. Joshi, had a point when he said that China has gained nothing and lost its face in the Ladakh stand-off. India is closing the gap in terms of equipment, infrastructure and training with the PLA at some speed. Its presence in Quad, along with its ever-expanding strategic alliance with the US, France and other democracies, is surely a stronger deterrent against China. Stealing the thunder both in vaccine diplomacy and the Himalayan stand-off has left India in a far better position in the neighbourhood. In Myanmar, demonstrators marched with placards saying ‘Myanmar Coup, Made in China’, forcing the Chinese embassy to express apprehension over the military takeover. India’s pitch for ‘orderly democratic transition’ in Myanmar, without undermining the improved military relations that are so important in New Delhi’s fight against northeastern insurgencies, was about striking the right balance. Even Pakistan, China’s ‘taller than mountain’ friend, had joined seminars on Covid-19 strategy hosted by New Delhi, and some in that country are asking Imran Khan to seek Indian, and not Chinese, vaccines. None will doubt China’s deeper pockets and technological prowess, but Covid-19 has been a leveller of sorts, leaving Beijing in a quandary and New Delhi with an edge at least in South and Southeast Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
09-03-2021||Opinion||Painful jabs||It’s coming, it’s coming, it’s coming! It is actually a ‘they’ and they should be ready soon, they should be here soon, they should be with us imminently (or as Americans would say, ‘momentarily’, meaning not fleetingly but within moments), they are almost there, they are competing to see which one can be ready first, which one packs the most punch, the least side-swipe, the cheapest price-tag, the lowest high-maintenance in terms of transport, temperature and other assorted to-do. They are competing; like runners in a heat; except the sprinter in lane one wins in one country, while the medium distance runner in lane three continues onward and wins in another continent! Oh, look, we have one of our own that’s entered the fray — the testing is incomplete, the sampling is on a wing and a prayer, but the authorities say it works variously between 110 and 200 per cent, and we always, always trust the authorities, so it becomes part of the ‘they’ and surges forward in an atma-udhar kind of way! Aayo rey, aayo rey, aayo reyyy, vaccine aayo rey, aayo rey, aayo rey! Aayo, yes, but not so fast. Wait. First, the frontline folks in February. The masses maybe in March. In the meantime, as we wait, each phone call we make gives us the new recorded mantra: don’t listen to rumours, don’t listen to doubters! The home-made vaccine is fully tested, effective and safe! Take it at once when available! Dawai bhi, kadai bhi! Wait, what? Medicine also, cooking vessel also? No, no, no! Then... medicine also, embroidery also? Uff, no! Kadai = kadak = strict caution, as in kadi nazar, that is, baleful eagle eye! Oh, right, okay, at least that part of the message is correct — taking the vaccine will not mean the end of protection protocols and vigilance. While waiting we see we are hardly one-some in the vaudeville of vaccine vacillations: the United Kingdom is finally doing well with giving the shots — but it’s not! The vaccines may not cover the new strains; Europe displays all sorts of lottery games and Russian roulette-type clownery; in the post-Trump United States of America, the Liar-in-Chief’s complete lack of planning, in fact anti-planning, has not only resulted in over five lakh deaths but is leading to further chaos: each state has its own rules as to who can get the shot and where, and many states are chopping and changing those rules to add to the chaos — yes, this could only happen in America. Finally, March 1 dawns over Calcutta and the two heroes arrive in town, like Thomson and Thompson, or Goopy and Bagha, or Jagai and Madhai. The government hospitals are giving shots, the private hospitals are giving shots, there is a website on which there is a long list; you can get it free, you can pay for it, you can get the Covaxin aka Ram Bharosey or rather Harsh Bharosey or you can get Covishield, which is more Vigyan Bharosey. How to get it? Well, you have to be over 60, or over 45 with a certified comorbidity. Wealthy people start to do things they have never done before, such as enter government hospitals; Calcuttans do what Indians have always done, such as get their doc to do fake comorbidity certificates and bingo, shot lag gaya! Some of us stay on the straight and narrow and go to the website. It is impressive. There are buttons; there are instructions as to what to do with the buttons; there is the beaming visage of the First Servant of the country — why? Don’t ask, don’t say dawai bhi meri aur badhai bhi meri — just click on the buttons as instructed. Okay, so click on the ‘Register’ button. Impressive, three blank slots asking for state, borough, pin code. You fill the slots from the drop-down choices. Nothing happens. An hour later, same thing. Another 40 minutes later, the clicked choices fill the slots and a list of dispensing hospitals and clinics unfurls down. Wow, they even have two separate hyperlinks for some hospitals, one specifically labelled Covaxin, the other one presumably for the pesky Doubting Thomases who want Covishield. Okay, click on the latter. Blank weekly time slots open up, with tiny fine print above which says ‘no appointments are available for this period’, okay click on the next week, again the same, nothing till the end of March. A friend in Delhi, using the same website, has already made bookings for eight seniors in their family, but that’s Delhi, typical NCR privilege. In Calcutta, the website is as unforgiving as the Indian Railways one when it’s captured by web-touts. After two days of web-wrestling, a friend says, “Just come to X-Vue Hospital by 8.30, they are taking walk-ins!” So, on a hot morning we find ourselves in a queue outside X-Vue, one of the city’s poshest hospitals, two of us 60-plus and one who will turn 60 in a month and therefore, according to the regulations of the government of India, eligible for the shot. The whole thing is a mess, people are jostling, many are not masked, some take them off and put them on like they are goggles or necklaces, the line moves slowly, leading into a dark hallway that is even more crowded. One of us decides to check out an alternative clinic and taxis off. He is back in 30 minutes to find the friends more or less where he left them. What happened? Oh, that place is even worse! After a while, the friend who’s not yet 60 is told she cannot be registered. She argues but, being civilized, gives up despite being in the right and goes off, cursing the wasted time. Other upper-middle-class denizens of this patch of South Kol are not quite so bhadra and a huge fight breaks out around the registration desk. People are shouting in each other’s faces, masks are being waved like lethal weapons, spittle is flying everywhere, screams of “Shut up! No you shut up!” reverberate off the ceiling. Finally, registration is achieved and a time slot received. At the appointed hour, we crowd into an elevator, half the people unmasked or with masks at half-mast, noses poking out innocently as if to say, “Who me, sir? I am just nose, sir! I have nothing to do with all this!” In less fancy hospitals the waiting rooms have open windows and fans spinning on full. Here, in the lap of luxury, these eighth-floor windows are sealed with locks and the AC is on full blast, in desi defiance of the fact that the virus loves crowds in closed air-conditioned rooms. Perfect. Names are called, payments received and due diligence questions asked before you are sent to the poke-station. I ask the nurse if I can see the actual vaccine bottle and she snaps at me, “It’s Covishield! Do you think we are lying?” “No, ma’am, no! I just wanted to do darshan of this deity one has been praying to for so long!” The jab hurts badly. When I check with my friends, they all say it hurt, so I know it wasn’t personal. Now I’m looking forward to the second date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 80 Bokaro students crack JEE Mains||Over 80 Bokaro students, the majority of them from the Delhi Public School, have cracked the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains, 2021, battling against the restrictions due to Covid-19. A total of 41 students of DPS Bokaro scored more than 90 percentile, while six students scored above 99 percentile. Aditya and Varun, both students of the Delhi Public School, scored 99.67 and 99.58 percentiles respectively, the authorities said in a press release. Taking note of the results, principal A.S. Gangwar said, “Despite the crisis faced by the students during the pandemic, the results are satisfactory. We do hope for better results in the upcoming exams.” Students of Chinmaya Vidyalaya did well, too, with the school’s public relation officer Sajiv Kumar saying, “Bharat Kabra has scored 99.85 percentile marks. Apart from Kabra, about a dozen students of Chinmaya have scored 95 and above percentile marks in the national level examination.” Bokaro native secures perfect score Saket Jha, an alumnus of DPS Bokaro studying in Kota, has cracked the JEE Mains with a perfect score of 100 percentile points. His father Sanjay Kumar Jha, principal of the state-run high school Tand Ballydih, was happy with his son’s performance. Saket has always been a bright student interested in engineering, for which he had even bagged a scholarship from the Allen Institute, who had sponsored his education, accommodation, food, and coaching from class 9 to 12. The Institute also enrolled him in Delhi Public School, Kota, from where he cracked the national-level exam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Daily donates over 200 books to Dhanbad’s oldest library||The management of vernacular daily Prabhat Khabar on Tuesday donated 222 books to the Gandhi Seva Sadan Library, one of the oldest book repositories of Dhanbad, to take their count of written treasures to around 4,783. Ranging from literature to history, biographies to science, mythology to fiction, the books were donated in the presence of Additional District Magistrate (law and order) Chandan Kumar, who is also the ex- officio Vice President of Gandhi Seva Sadan Managing Committee. “We will be running a week-long campaign to enrich the stock of our library, under which we will approach various corporate houses operating in the district asking them to contribute through their Corporate Social Responsibility fund. These include BCCL, Tata Steel, SAIL and other such companies, general secretary of the Gandhi Seva Sadan Mr Gopal said. He also said that the authority will meet the sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad, seeking his permission to reinitiate a book-reading facility and the provision for holding debates and other events that were suspended due to the pandemic. “Renovation of the library is also likely to begin soon for its modernisation, as per the detailed project report prepared by us,” the general secretary added. Noted social worker and former Chairman of Bokaro Industrial Area Development Authority (BIADA), Bijay Jha said, “At a time when the habit of reading books is gradually decreasing among the younger generations, such an initiative will help in a great way to bring the tradition back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Patients suffer as OPDs stay shut on Day One of doctors' strike ||OPD services remained suspended at six medical colleges across Jharkhand on Tuesday, causing inconvenience to hundreds of patients who visited government hospitals to get treated for minor ailments and regular check-ups, becuse of an indefinite doctors' strike to protest the delay in payment of arrears as per the seventh pay commission. However, resident doctors offered their service at the emergency of the six hospitals, where most of the patients in need of immediate medical assistance were treated. The over 500 doctors of medical colleges in Jharkhand called for an indefinite strike and boycott of OPD services on Monday after talks between health authorities and the doctors failed to reach a consensus. The doctors wore a black badge on their arm at work since the beginning of March as a mark of protest against the government. “Our fight is against the government’s lackadaisical approach towards resident doctors, and we have no intention to cause any inconvenience to patients,” said Convener of Jharkhand Resident Doctors Association (JRDA) Dr Ajit Kumar. “Even today, we treated patients in need of immediate attention at the emergency ward even though the OPDs were closed,” he added. On Tuesday, the protesting doctors locked the main entry door of all OPDs, where patients usually get the first diagnosis done in case of any health issue.  Patients formed a beeline outside the OPD at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Tuesday, clueless about whom to contact for assistance. Several patients had to wait for hours at the hospital before they could finally get to see a doctor, eyewitnesses said. However, patients with severe illness were treated on a priority basis, doctors said. “If someone comes to us with a life-threatening ailment, then we will obviously treat the patient. But patients who visit medical colleges for eye tests or regular check-ups can wait for a week,” said Dr Kumar. RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad and other senior authorities of the state-run hospital tried to get the OPD functioning several times during the day, but the protesting doctors ensured that OPD services remained suspended. The RIMS Director had on Monday said that senior and non-resident doctors will provide services at the OPD during the strike, but senior doctors did not turn up at the OPD in the first half of the day. All the resident doctors in the six medical colleges – Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Hospital (MGM) in Jamshedpur, SNMMCH in Dhanbad, Palamu Medical College, Hazaribag Medical College and Dumka Medical College – have joined the protest in Jharkhand. The doctors have alleged that they were not paid salary as per the seventh pay commission since 2016 to March 2019. On an average, each doctor is entitled to payment of arrears worth several lakh, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Shivaratri: strict vigil planned at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary ||Authorities of Dalma wildlife sanctuary will be making elaborate arrangements to ensure Shivaratri celebrations take place without any untoward incidents. Sanctuary officials will pay extra attention to elements who climb the hills with tyres, match boxes and other inflammable items which could set fire to the 194 sq km jumbo abode. Over 50,000 devotees are expected to visit the temple at the top on the eve of Shivratri, which is on March 10. Some distance of the 8km route that snakes from Fadlugora to the hilltop temple will be illuminated with tube lights. Apart from this, all visitors will be frisked and metal detectors will be installed at the two entry points of Fadlugora and Makulakocha. Security arrangements will be focussed on the Fadlugora route because devotees from Jamshedpur, Chandil, Ghatshila and villages dotting NH 33 prefer it over the longer Makulakocha route, where one has to cover 3km to reach the entry point from the highway and then trek over 16km to reach the temple. “Like every year, the temple will witness heavy footfall of devotees. We are not taking chances when it comes to the safety of the faithful. Besides installing tube lights on some parts of the route from Fadlugora, we are deputing personnel at the two entry points,” said assistant conservator of forest (ACF) R.P. Singh. Some parts of the sanctuary have lit up before and officials are in no mood to leave anything to chance during Shivaratri. "Miscreants enter the sanctuary on the eve of Shivaratri armed with tyres, match boxes and inflammable items. They burn and throw the tyres inside the sanctuary as a result of which fire spreads. Some parts of the sanctuary have already caught fire and we are in no mood to compound matters. Strict frisking would be done at the Fadlugora entry point," a forester said on condition of anonymity. He added two generator sets had been requisitioned for lighting up the way. On other security measures, the forester said foresters and trackers with torches in hands will keep vigil at the entry points and at the temple. "Fifty trackers each will be deputed at the two entry points,” he said Asked about elephant trouble, he said the herds were still stationed on the fringes of the sanctuary while some are positioned downhill. Lighting up the way to the temple started in 2018 after devotees complained of inconvenience while trekking in the dark. Earlier, villagers used to burn tyres to light up the path and keep elephants at bay. The practice was dangerous as an ember could set the sanctuary, filled with dry leaves, on fire. Shivaratri fetches huge revenue for the Ranchi wildlife division, which looks after the Dalma reserve. Devotees are charged Rs 2 each for visiting the temple. There are separate charges for vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police evict encroachers from 10 acres of government land in Khaasmahal||In a massive anti-encroachment drive, steel city police and the district administration were able to clear over 10 acres of government land from encroachment at Khaasmahal in Parsudih area on Tuesday. Over 200 slum dwellers, mostly tribals, had encroached into the vacant government land. Many of them had even thatched houses since Sunday. The drive, which lasted for over four hours, was initiated at 11.30 am, after a meeting took place between senior police and administrative officials at the Parsudih thana, given the sensitivity of the issue. After the meeting was over, about 100 police men, including the lady cops equipped with two poclains, began with the eviction drive at about 150 metres away from the Parsudih thana. OC, Parsudih thana, Rajendra Prashad Das confirmed about the drive at Khaasmahal. “A large section of bustee-dwellers had started constructing houses in an unauthorised way. We cleared the whole encroachment without any resistance,” said Das while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC maintained that the tribals could have been incited by some political person to grab land. The police will detect the culprit for registering a case. During the drive, all the males had gone underground. Over 200 women, apparently encroachers, had turned up at the site and watched how the poclains were razing down the houses. The police were seen removing the household materials from the thatched houses before allowing the poclains to raze down the houses. Dotted with slums surrounding Khaasmahal, the area is considered a JMM-stronghold area. A local resident, Kartik Gope while talking to this website said, “These slum-dwellers had made an abortive bid to encroach land in the year 2014 leading the administration to remove the encroachment. A similar attempt has been made after six years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Belgarhia residents hold stir for pending allowances||Over 50 residents of Belgarhia colony of Jharia held a demonstration at the office of the Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority at Hirapur demanding immediate payment of dues, including their subsistence allowance. The protestors also raised the issue of irregular water supply in their colony and other difficulties like lack of transport facilities which were affecting their livelihood. Baidyanath Kumbhkar (55), one of the protestors, said, “We shifted to the colony in 2017 from the underground fire-hit Lodna area and have been provided shifting allowance of Rs 10,000 in 2018.” As per rehabilitation provisions of the Jharia master plan,  each family was to be provided 500 days' minimum wage as subsistence allowance, he said. "We were entitled to a  subsistence allowance of Rs 1.8 lakh to be provided in three installments,” he said, adding that they received Rs 45,000 as the first installment  four years after the shifting in 2020. "We are yet to get the 2nd and 3rd installments," he said. Echoing his sentiments, Shiv Shankar Mahto, who also participated in the demonstration, said, “I have also shifted from underground fire affected Lodna area along with Baidyanath Kumbhkar and 50 other families. We are still awaiting for the subsistence allowance.” “I own a small grocery shop on the outskirts of Belgharia but majority of foodgrains are out of stock in my shop due to lack of capital. If we got the subsistence allowance on time, we could have earned better from the shop,” Mahto said. JRDA rehabilitation and resettlement Incharge Amar Prasa did not deny there were dues, but added that they would pay up soon. “Altthough both shifting allowance as well as subsistence allowance was provided to a large number of families, one or two installments of subsistence allowance  of some families are still pending for payment. We we will intiate the process immediately.” Out of a total 1.04 lakh families living in 595 underground fire-affected areas, around 5,000 families have so far been rehabilitated to Belgarhia ever since rehabilitation began on March 25, 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Mega Army recruitment drive in Ranchi from Wednesday||A 20-day mega army recruitment camp will commence at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground Wednesday during which over a lakh aspirants are expected to take part, district administration officials said on Tuesday after taking stock of preparations. As per a notification from the Army, candidates from all 24 districts of Jharkhand can take part in the job rally that will conclude on March 30.  “Those who pass in the physical test will then proceed for medical and written exams,” it read, adding that candidates are required to bring with them the admit card issued to them while applying, along with other documents specified in the application form. “Any candidate caught carrying fake certificates will be handed over to police immediately. Candidates are only advised to come on the day and time specified in their admit cards to avoid unwanted crowding,” it read. On Covid safety norms, the notification added that every candidate must carry masks, gloves and sanitizers. “They will maintain social distancing and adequate gaps during the rally. Most importantly, all are required to produce a Covid-19 free/asymptomatic certificate and no risk certificate when they report to the rally,” it read. The asymptomatic certificate should have been issued 48 hours prior to reporting for the rally. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said they were taking all precautions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus during the mega selection drive. He said the entire ground had been secured with asbestos sheets as barricades. Basic facilities like toilets, drinking water, places for visiting aspirants from all the districts to stay (camp) has been ready keeping covid-19 safety norms in mind. Basic facilities like tiolets and driking water had been organised. ADM law and order Lokesh Mishra, who is keeping tabs on the arrangements at the venue, said Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has been directed to ensure round-the-clock cleaning of the installed facilities at the premises. “Since, it is the first mega rally and a huge turnout is expected, we are on alert to ensure high cleanliness and hygiene. RMC has been asked to deploy special teams to clean the venue regularly,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||One wedding and two funerals in Chatra||An SUV which was part of the wedding procession overturned near Masuria river in Chatra’s industrial town Tandwa, thereby killing the groom's friend and his maternal uncle on the spot. The tragic incident took place in the wee hours of Tuesday. With the news of the accident triggered grief in the family of the bridegroom and the area from where he hailed. Talking about the mishap, Tandwa police official said, “Baraatis (members of the wedding procession) were going to Keredari of Hazaribagh from Kamta village of Tandwa in Chatra. However, the driver lost control of the SUV on Keredari-Tandwa road near Masuria river, which made the car overturn, thereby killing groom Mohammad Altaf’s friend Kutubuddin Ansari alias Tinku(20) and his maternal uncle Mohammad Jainul Ansari (59).” Tinku sustained severe injuries and was rushed to hospital but he succumbed to his injuries on the way. Five other members who were present in the SUV also sustained injuries but are out of danger. On getting the information, Tandwa police reached the accident spot and sent dead bodies for postmortem to Sadar hospital. Later the bodies were handed over to the relatives. According to sources, following the tragic accident that claimed two lives, the marriage took place in a simple ceremony after the intervention of villagers, elders and relatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Three state archers secure Tokyo Olympic berth||Three archers from Jharkhand have made it to the Indian women's recurve team for the upcoming Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan in July. Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat got the nod after the third and final selection trials which concluded at Army Sports Institute in Pune on Monday evening. While the seasoned Deepika, a Padma Shri, has represented the country in Olympics staged in London (2012) and Rio de Janeiro (2016), Komalika and Ankita will be performing on the big stage for the first time. Deepika, who hails from Ratu Chatti near Ranchi and is a former cadet of Tata Archery Academy, has shifted base to Pune after her marriage to archer Atanu Das. Komalika is a cadet of the elite Tata cradle whereas Ankita has joined Tata Steel on contract. Deepika, who has already won an individual Olympic quota at the 2019 Asian Archery Championships, topped the final trial. Ankita Bhakat came second while Komolika Bari came overall third in the trials. India, however, is yet to secure a quota place for the recurve team event. The recurve team of Deepika Kumari, Ankita Bhakat and Komolika Bari will get an opportunity to earn that place at the Final Team Qualification event scheduled to take place in Paris from June 18-21. All three travelling to Tokyo will be subject to the trio bringing home the quota from Paris. Otherwise, Deepika will be the sole representative in the individual event. Tata Archery Academy chief coach Dharmendra Tiwary said both Ankita and Komalika stand a fair chance of qualifying for the Olympics. "Both archers are presently in good form and are expected to continue the same till the Paris event. It is important for them to continue with their form. It is the form on a given day which holds the key," the Dronacharya awardee said. Pravin Jadhav, Atanu Das and Tarundeep Rai will represent the India men's recurve side in the Tokyo Games.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Zaheer Khan visits Chhinamastika temple along with wife Sagarika||Former Indian cricketer Zaheer Khan on Tuesday visited Ma Chinnamastika temple in Rajrappa of Ramgarh along with his wife Sagarika Ghatge. As the star couple reached the temple, fans started pouring in from the neighbouring areas to get a glimpse of the star couple. Priests Pappu Baba, Chotu Panda, Subhashis Panda, Lokesh Panda and Asim Panda performed the rituals for them, which lasted for around fifteen minutes. The couple came to Ranchi to attend a program and took time out from their schedule to visit this ancient Seedhpeeth to seek the blessings, Zaheer was quoted by the priests as saying Zaheer Khan, who made his debut for the national team in 2000, had spearheaded India's pace bowling department for more than a decade. He was the joint leading wicket-taker in the 2011 World Cup with 21 wickets, providing crucial breakthroughs for India with the new ball which helped the country lift the World Cup. He is the most successful pace bowler in Test cricket behind Kapil Dev. His wife Sagarika is an Indian model, former national level athlete and actress known for her role of Preeti Sabharwal in the film Chak De India. The main attraction of Chinnamastika temple is the headless deity of Goddess Chinnamasta which stands on the body of Kamdev and Rati in the lotus bed. The Chhinnamasta temple is popular for its tantrik style of architectural design. Apart from the main temple, there are ten temples of various gods and goddesses. It is situated 28kms away from Ramgarh district headquarter in Gola block on the confluence of Damodar and Bhairavi. It is 80kms away from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||JMM likely to back TMC, not contest elections in Bengal  ||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the lead coalition partner in the alliance government in the state, will in all likelihood, do a U-turn from its earlier stated posiiton of contesting the Assembly elections in Bengal and now support the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, sources in the party  have hinted. Even though the time of filing nominations for the first phase of elections in Bengal will end on Tuesday, March 9, JMM is yet to announce any candidates indicating a change of stance in the wake of many non-BJP parties rallying behind TMC to counter the BJP in Bengal. The high-octane poll battle, which will take place in eight phases, will kick off from March 27 when voting for the first batch of 30 Assembly seats will take place. Jungle Mahal seats will go for polls in the first and second phases on March 27 and April 1, and as such, the party has to finalise a list of its candidates for these seats to file nominations latest by March 12. Of the 30 seats in the first phase, seven are reserved for scheduled tribe (ST), which JMM was eyeing. Notably, JMM’s working president and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had kicked off JMM’s pre-poll campaign from Jhargram on January 29, upsetting Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee. Two months down the line, JMM seems to have done a U-turn. “In all likelihood, JMM will support TMC and not contest the polls to consolidate anti-BJP votes. More than individual choices, it is time for all non-BJP parties to align together to counter the BJP in the interest of the nation,” said a senior JMM functionary in Ranchi on Monday. It was only a matter of time before JMM made a formal announcement, he said. Chief minister Hemant has evaded a clear answer when asked about it outside the Assembly on Monday evening. “JMM’s stance for Bengal polls is in the party forum. It will make a formal announcement,” he said. Significantly, speaking with reporters informally at a hotel on Sunday in Delhi before returning to Ranchi after his two-day visit to woo investors, Hemant had said that he was approached by Bengal CM seeking his support and was also requested to campaign for her. “I have apprised our party chief Shibu Soren on the matter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||MLA Amba Prasad rides horse to Jharkhand Assembly||Congress MLA Amba Prasad, 28, rode a horse to Jharkhand Assembly. The MLA said a retired army officer gifted the horse to her. “The Indian breed horse was gifted to me on Monday morning by Col. Ravi Rathore on the occasion of International Women’s Day,” Amba, the youngest MLA in the Assembly, said. “I was a keen horse rider while I was in Delhi preparing for UPSC and knew colonel sahab. “He expressed his desire to gift me the horse after he came to know that I have become a youth icon and elected as a MLA,” said the Barkagaon MLA, who had to discontinue her preparation for UPSC exams in Delhi mid-way and learn law to defend her parents in the Hazaribagh Court. Amba is the daughter of former MLA from Barkagaon Nirmala Devi and Yogendra Sao and was only 28 years when she was elected in the 2019 Assembly elections. Both her parents have been charged by the erstwhile BJP-led Jharkhand government for raising the issue of displacement due to forceful land acquisition for a NTPC project in Barkagaon. Sao is a former minister and had been part of the Jharkhand cabinet. During the protest over land acquisition, police firing had claimed the lives of four people. Amba who has completed MBA and completed LLB has already set up goals to promote horse riding, polo and equestrian in Jharkhand. “It was a surprise that a person of repute like Col. Rathore would bring the horse all the way from Delhi (it was brought in an animal ambulance) and gift it to me. “I will try to do my best to fulfil the faith shown by the Indian Polo Association and gradually promote horse riding, polo and equestrian in the state of Jharkhand,” she said. Arjuna award recipient Col. Rathore was a commandant of the 61st Cavalry Regiment of the Indian Army and has recently retired and is the secretary of the Indian Polo Association. He has been an integral part of the Indian polo team for five consecutive World Cup championships and won two gold medals in 2011 and 2017. Amba, agreed that she would have to take extra care of the horse. “It is of the royal breed and was used by Maharaja Pratap Singh. “I will not be riding it to the Assembly, but will surely riding it early in the morning as I have a passion for horse riding and would like to encourage young people to take up this hobby and also improve infrastructure for it in the state,” the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
