10-03-2021||Calcutta||New Koilaghat building fire hits 700 railway ticket reservation counters||Railway ticket reservation counters from Calcutta to Hyderabad, Mughalsarai in Uttar Pradesh and Assam’s Tinsukia had stopped working for several hours since Monday night after the fire at Eastern Railway’s New Koilaghat Building forced officials to cut power supply to the servers inside the building. Railways officials said around 700 passenger reservation counters or points used by passengers to reserve seats were stalled because of the fire in the 14-storied building. Unreserved ticketing systems, including local trains, were also affected, alleged many passengers. Railway officials said most passenger reservation counters started functioning by Tuesday noon but those in the Sealdah division were stalled till the evening. The servers in the New Koilaghat building are used by six zonal railways for their online as well as offline ticket reservations. They are Eastern Railway, South Eastern Railway, Northeast Frontier Railway, South Central Railway, East Central Railway and East Coast Railway. Eastern Railway officials said the fire broke out in the telecom department construction office on the 13th floor and later spread across the floor and to the floor below. Though the servers are located on the second floor, the power supply to the building was cut on the advice of the fire brigade. Initially both online booking — done through the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) — and offline booking done at the reservation counters in stations and other places were affected. While the railways managed to restart the online booking through the IRCTC website early on Tuesday, the reservation counters in some stations did not work for long. “We have our data recovery server or back-up server in Secunderabad. We managed to begin the online booking through that server. Many reservation counters had also opened by Tuesday morning,” said a senior railways official. But in Calcutta, the passenger reservation counters in Sealdah started working only from 6.40 pm on Tuesday. The reservation counters in Howrah station did not work in the morning and came to life only around noon. “We managed to start the reservation counters at Howrah station around noon. and the counters in Sealdah in the evening. We have also written to the fire brigade to allow us restore power supply to the reservation servers,” said Kamal Deo Das, the spokesperson of Eastern Railway. The New Koilaghat building belongs to the Eastern Railway. Long queues outside ticket counters of railway stations on the suburban railway network in Sealdah and Howrah divisions were seen on Tuesday. “I had to wait for over 45 minutes at the ticket counter at Sodepur station in the morning,” said Satyajit Roy, a resident of HB Town in Sodepur. “I realised it won’t be possible to make it on time for an appointment that was fixed with one of my clients. I decided to postpone it for another day and returned home.” At several stations including Khardah, Agarpara and Belgharia, passengers either missed their schedules for the day or boarded trains later than usual. Eastern Railway officials, however, said unreserved ticketing system was not affected. The shutdown of the counters left many passengers of long-distance trains in trouble. Kishan Goyal, a resident of Siliguri who had come to Calcutta for work, needed two tickets to return to north Bengal. Goyal looked worried as he stood outside the reservation counter in Sealdah on Tuesday afternoon. “I need two tickets on Tuesday. I tried to book the Tatkal tickets online but failed. At the Sealdah station, no one could tell me when the reservation tickets will be sold again,” he said. Later Goyal called up his brother in Kalimpong who managed to buy him two tickets online for a night train to New Jalpaiguri. Das said that the counters in Howrah and Sealdah could not work from morning since the cables connecting stations ran though the New Koilaghat building and it took time to route them through a remote location. The inconvenience would have been more if all trains were running. What helped was that the number of long-distance trains running is still about 75 or 80 per cent of all trains. The reduced service is because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
10-03-2021||Calcutta||Flash of flames greeted victims, says forensic scientist||A sudden flash of fire leaping out in search of oxygen when the lift door carrying the men from the ground floor opened at the fire-hit floor and abundance of carbon monoxide in the air is likely to have resulted in the death of the nine persons at New Koilaghat Building, a forensic scientist said on Tuesday. The scientist The Telegraph spoke to spent several hours at the railways’ Strand Road office on Tuesday. He said the fire on the 13th floor on Monday night, which later spread to the floor below, was in want of oxygen as it was consuming all that was available in the ambient air. When a lift moves up it drags along with it a column of air, he said. “When the lift opened it provided a fresh oxygen. As the door opened, flames gushed towards the oxygen source,” he said. The victims were not charred to death. They were scorched, he pointed out. “When a body is charred, there are cracks on the skin and yellowish fat below it is visible from outside. In case of scorching, patches of hair, eye brows get burnt and the face gets distorted following exposure to severe flow of heat and flames,” the scientist said. “In case of scorching, parts of skin that are touched while removing the body may come off making it difficult to identify the victims at times.” What possibly hastened the death for some was the presence of carbon monoxide on the air, the forensic scientist, who was a part of a team that visited the fire-hit building and spent over four hours collecting samples, including electrical wires, said. The team also spoke to police officers at the spot. When fire strikes on top floors of a high-rise it rapidly starts consuming the oxygen available. As a result, a portion of an elevator’s shaft gradually starts getting filled with carbon monoxide. While examining the floors, the forensic team found several items that were not completely burnt, including computers and plastic items. This suggests oxygen shortage and presence of carbon monoxide. Preliminary post mortem reports suggest the victims had suffered cardiac arrest following severe dehydration due to burns.  At least two victims had died of asphyxia, the report suggests. “Carbon monoxide can result in asphyxial death, something that we had observed in case of the victims of the fire that broke out at AMRI Hospital in 2011,” the scientist said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
10-03-2021||Calcutta||New Koilaghat building fire: FIR against ‘responsible authority’||The New Koilaghat building that housed several railway offices and servers for ticketing across several parts of India lacked a fire certificate even after the state fire and emergency services department had notified some shortcomings following an inspection in 2015, fire department officials said. Police on Tuesday filed an FIR against the “responsible authority” for causing death due to negligence and for contravention of provisions of fire prevention and safety norms at the Eastern Railways office in the New Koilaghat building. A fire that started there on Monday evening killed nine and injured one. Senior railway official Utpal Acharya, 58, is in the ICU of a railway hospital. His office is on the 13th floor and he scampered down to the 10th floor when the fire was reported. But he went back upstairs to put away some documents under lock and key that he had left unlocked, a relative told Metro. Acharya, a resident of Bhadreswar in Hooghly who has a history of COPD, was found in a semi-conscious state on the 13th floor and rescued with minor burns on his face. Officials in the fire and emergency services department said the building did not have basic firefighting equipment like sprinklers, hydrants, a water pump, an alternative source of power and a fire-lift, that are mandatory for highrise buildings. A senior fire department official said the building did not have a “fire certificate”, which is an NOC issued by the fire department after verifying that the building (or any establishment) has fire safety equipment as per its requirements. Reacting to the allegations, a senior official of Eastern Railway said: “All the offices have fire extinguishers. But those are meant for low intensity fires. For high intensity fire, we have to call the fire brigade.” The FIR was registered with Hare Street police station and the case has since been shifted to the detective department at Lalbazar for investigation. The charges indicate that prima facie, the police and the fire department have found violations of maintenance of fire safety norms and regulations in the building that not just has offices on 14 floors but also houses the server room for online reservation for six railway divisions across a vast swathe of India. A senior officer in Lalbazar said according to the preliminary opinion of the forensic team, the wiring of the floor was old and had decayed. “It appears that the wire covering melted because of overload and over-heating causing multiple short-circuits, including some in the server room,” the officer said. The ambit of the probe will include the cause of the fire as well as the death of the nine people. The charges slapped on the authorities of the building include non-bailable sections with a maximum punishment of five years in jail and a maximum fine amount of Rs 5 lakh. The dead include four fire department personnel, four railway personnel and one Calcutta police assistant sub-inspector. Their bodies underwent post-mortem and were handed over to their relatives. A senior official of the fire department said the authorities of the New Koilaghat building had applied for a fire NOC in 2013 following which the department had carried out an inspection and communicated a detailed list of recommendations of fire-safety measures to be implemented in the building in 2015. “There was no response from them after that,” said the senior official. Questions have also surfaced about why the main power supply of the building was not turned off as soon as the fire was reported on the 13th floor. “It was the responsibility of the competent authorities in the building to turn off the main power supply. Why should they wait for the fire brigade to come and do that?” said a senior official of the fire department who had been part of one of the firefighting teams on Monday. Nine people had died in two elevators which were still operational when the building was on fire. Seven of them were in one elevator while two were found in another. The post-mortems of all nine were conducted at SSKM hospital on Tuesday. The preliminary opinion suggested that the seven found inside and in front of one elevator had died of burns and the other two, found in another lift, had died after inhaling carbon monoxide and not from burn injuries. A senior fire department officer said they had responded within three minutes of the call and had they taken longer, the outcome “could have been worse”. The CPRO of the Eastern Railways said a “high-level enquiry” has been ordered to probe the cause of the incident and for making recommendations for necessary steps that need to be taken. Calcutta police ASI Amit Kumar Bhawal, who was on motorcycle patrol duty from Hare Street police station and one of the first to respond to the situation, was honoured with a gun salute at the Lalbazar city police headquarters. Compensation cheques of Rs 10 lakh each were handed to the relatives of the nine deceased persons by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
10-03-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education eases practical deadline||The higher secondary council has relaxed the March 31 deadline for schools to finish practical exams in view of the possibility of central forces occupying school buildings during the polls, coming in the way of wrapping up exams by the date set earlier. The earlier order of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education had asked the schools to start in-person practical exams in early March and end within March 31. Officials of the school education department said that the council had received appeals from the schools in the districts to defer the deadline. This happened after the institutions received requisition regarding forces taking possession of the school building in the run-up to the polls scheduled between March 27 and April 29 — a situation following which schools could not even start the practical exams. The CRPF are expected to enter the school buildings of a specified zone at least a week before the polls. The central force uses the buildings to set up their base before starting their patrol, conducting route marches in the run-up to the polls in a designated segment as part of precautionary measures. “Once the force takes control of the premises, the entry of teachers, school officials and students will be disallowed, ruling out the possibility of holding practical exams,” said the official. Sridam Jana, the president of the West Bengal Headmasters’ Association, said although the council gave the schools flexibility to start the exams from March 1, modifying its previous order that had fixed March 10 as the start date, several schools did not want to start the exams early without conducting the bare minimum practical classes. “Around the time they would be through with classes, the forces would knock on the door to enter. So, they are appealing for pushing back the deadline,” he said. Schools, that had closed in March last year as a precaution against Covid, reopened on February 12. One of the instrumental factors behind lifting the closure was to allow students of science streams to get some bare minimum hands-on training before writing the practical exams. “It is not only about being able to write the practical exams, the classes are a must to impart some fundamental knowledge minus which a student will flounder as he/she proceeds to the next level of study,” said a headmaster. Saugata Basu, the secretary of the government school teachers’ association, said that some schools found it difficult to start practical exams earlier because teachers were engaged in training programs for the ensuing election. “If the exams are not started on time, then they will face difficulty in ending the exams within March 31. This, too, has triggered the appeal,” said Basu. Council president Mahua Das said: “We are not issuing any order as the appeal could be specific to an institution based in a zone. Let the schools appeal on the basis of which we will consider the issue going through the merit of the case. The council had set the dates well before the election commission came up with the dates of the eight-phased election on February 25,” she said. The council had announced the dates in late December. This year, the council has left it to the schools entirely to make arrangements for conducting the practical exams. The theory exams would be conducted by the council in June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
10-03-2021||Calcutta||Fire kills fighter who joined AMRI rescue as a teen ||Nine people died in the fire that broke out at the New Koilaghat building on Monday night. Four of them were fire-fighters, four railway employees and one was an assistant sub-inspector of Calcutta Police. Another railway official who was injured, is admitted at the intensive care unit of a hospital. The Telegraph finds about the dead and the injured. Biman Purkait, 24 Worked for: West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services as an auxiliary fire operator Purkait was one of those who had jumped into the rescue of patients at the AMRI Hospital in Dhakuria after a fire broke out at the hospital in December 2011, leaving 92 dead. He was only 14 then but did not think twice before joining few others in bringing out the trapped patients. On Monday night too, Purkait didn’t think twice and was one of the first to enter the building when fire was engulfing the 13th floor, said his colleagues.  Purkait was in one of the elevators and his body was recovered along with several others. According to fire services officials, auxiliary fire operators are one of the first responders of the department, when a fire breaks out. They are contractual employees without benefits of provident fund and other perquisites. He was among those who were trying to go to the upper floors, where the fire was raging, using an elevator. Purkait lived with parents, brother and sister-in-law in their one room hutment in a slum in Dhakuria’s Panchanantala. “He is from a poor family. The family has been devastated,” said Baiswanor Chattopadhyay, the coordinator for Ward 90 of Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The young man’s Facebook profile had imprints of his kind heart. He shared pictures of children who had been lost requesting others to help their parents find the kind by giving an address. He also shared posts looking for blood donors for patients. An official of the fire brigade said he had been working with the department for three years. Amit Kumar Bhawal, 45 Worked for: Calcutta Police as assistant sub-inspector Bhawal, an assistant sub-inspector with the Hare Street police station, was on patrol on a motorbike when he heard about the fire. He went inside the building to assess the gravity of the fire and report it to his seniors. The feedback would have been important to assess the response required. But when Bhawal did not come down, his colleagues became worried. “He died while trying to ensure that others were safe or that the fire did not go out of control,” a police officer said. A colleague had tried to dissuade Bhawal from going inside, but he said he would go inside and assess the scale of the fire. “He went inside around 6.10pm. When I called him around 6.50pm, I could not connect,” said the colleague. Long after, his body was found in one of the elevators inside the building. Bhawal’s body was taken to Lalbazar, the headquarters of the Calcutta Police, on Tuesday afternoon. Police commissioner Soumen Mitra and several other officers paid tribute to him. The police also gave him a gun salute. Girish Dey, 40 Worked for: West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services as a sub-officer Dey, a sub-officer of fire brigade, was placed with the Lalbazar fire station. It was among those fire stations whose personnel were among the first to reach the New Koilaghat building on Monday. “He was a very bright officer, never afraid of anything,” said a retired fire brigade officer who had worked with Dey. Dey had completed his graduate fire engineering training from Delhi, said the retired officer. Dey’s father is a retired police officer, he said. Fire brigade officers said Dey would have risen up the ranks and reached among the senior officers of the department. He was also learning the nitty-gritty about issuing fire safety certificates and would have received the authority to inspect structures and issue fire safety certificates in another couple of years. The fire brigade officer was supposed to go on a family vacation with his wife and son on Tuesday. Partha Sarathi Mondal, 59 Worked for: Eastern Railway as deputy-chief commercial manager A resident of Sremani Para in Baranagar, Mondal used to live with his ailing wife since the time their only daughter was married off. His office was on the fourth floor. On Monday he spotted the flames after he came out of the building after work. He decided to return to retrieve some documents, said one of his colleagues. Family members have learnt from his colleagues that on his way to the ground floor, after the retrieving the documents, Mondal had taken a lift which instead of going to the ground floor, first went up to the 13th floor. Partha died of asphyxia, railway officials said. Late on Monday, Mondal’s son-in-law rushed to Strand Road and had even inquired about him with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The CM was seen consoling him. Neither the police nor the fire department officials could then provide him any information about his father-in-law. The news of his death reached the family much later after his body was identified at SSKM morgue. Sanjay Sahani, 36 Worked for: Railway Protection Force (RPF) as a constable A resident of Manishpur in Vaishali district of Bihar, Sahani was a RPF personnel and his colleagues recalled him as a young and jovial person who stayed in his railway quarters with his nephew. Sahani was accompanying Partha Sarathi Mondal as his security and had joined his boss on scurrying upstairs from the ground floor when they saw the fire on Monday evening. The two had secured some files and were on their way to the ground floor. The lift that Sahani and Mondal used moved to the fire-hit 13th floor, instead of going to the ground floor. Sahani died with Partha in the lift. “I got the information this morning from one of his colleagues,” said one of Sahani’s  brothers who reached the fire-site on Tuesday afternoon. Aniruddha Jana, 29 Worked for: West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services as an auxiliary fire officer Jana had joined the department three years back. He was part of a team of firefighters from the headquarters to have rushed to the Strand Road building. He is survived by father Mohan Lala Jana and his sister who got married a month back, said his colleagues. Jana himself was supposed to tie the knot in the next couple of months. He had received the best firefighter reward from the department last year for exemplary courage during the Bagri Market fire as well as the one that broke out at the Jaanbazar Market, a senior fire officer said. An avid follower of sports, he would always request his seniors or co-firefighters to switch to the sports channels on the television in the fire station whenever a cricket or football match was on. One of his family members said that he was fond of travelling and was planning a trip to Darjeeling in April. Sudip Das, 57 Worked for: Eastern Railway as senior technician in the signal and telecommunication department The Howrah resident had returned home on his motorbike after signing out of his office around 5.10pm on Tuesday. After a brief stay at his Benaras Road home in Kona, Das had gone to meet his mother at her Dasnagar house in Howrah, who had recently undergone an eye surgery. He then received a call from one of his colleagues informing him about the fire and requested him to return, said one of his colleagues. Das had keys to some of the office doors. Over the next four hours, his family members and friends kept calling him on his mobile phone but the calls remained unanswered. Some of his colleagues feared his death since they had spotted his motorbike lying at the parking lot of the Strand Road building, but he wasn’t taking any calls. Late in the night, the family was informed that Das had passed away. “We had requested the police to check his mobile location because it was difficult to identify him. His face was badly burnt,” said one of Das’s friends. Shrawan Pandey, 56 Worked for: Eastern Railway as a senior commercial clerk Pandey was about to leave for his home in Sealdah when the news of fire reached him. He scurried down to the ground floor and noticed some firefighters and police trying to find a way to reach the seat of fire. According to Pandey’s colleagues, he told the fire-fighters that they must reach the spot as early as possible since several servers were located at the top of the building where the fire was raging. Pandey’s colleagues said he then joined a team of fire-fighters and police who were trying to reach the seat of fire and received severe burns that caused his death. Gourab Bej, 35 Worked for: West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services as an auxiliary fire officer Bej had finished his fire training course in 2013 and joined the West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services as an auxiliary fire officer. He was attached with the Lalbazar fire station. He was a resident of Garfa. He was one of the first responders of the New Koilaghat Building fire. He was in the second fire engine, one of his colleagues said. According to Bej’s colleagues, he was part of many fire-fighting efforts, including the one that broke out at the Bagri market a few years back. Bej was also part of a team that had cleared roads and streets of areas including Esplanade, Park Street of trees that had been uprooted during Cyclone Amphan. He was also part of a team that carried out a fire inspection at The 42, a colleague said. According to another colleague, Bej had a weakness for betel leaves and would always carry around ten betel leaves in his pocket and pop one before heading out to a fire call. His fondness for fish curry is also well-known among his co-workers and he would often cook for them too. Utpal Acharya, 56 Works for: Eastern Railway as a senior section engineer in the telecommunications department Acharya is admitted at BR Singh Hospital with burns. Police said Acharya had gone inside the building to retrieve some documents. He was rescued by the Railway Protection Force personnel from the 13th floor. “He is admitted in the burns unit of the hospital. His condition is stable,” said Kamal Das Deo, the spokesperson for Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
10-03-2021||Calcutta||One more arrested in cocaine case||A woman named Amrita Singh has been arrested for allegedly procuring and supplying the cocaine to BJP leader Rakesh Singh that was apparently found in BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami’s car on February 19. Police sources said Amrita’s estranged husband S. Agarwal had sent an email to Lalbazar two days before Goswami’s arrest informing them that Rakesh Singh was trying to frame a woman in a narcotics case. The police said such emails naming people were common and often turn out to be fake and the outcome of personal vendetta. Police officers starting taking the email seriously only after Rakesh’s name emerged in the cocaine case soon after Goswami’s arrest on February 19. The police had contacted Agarwal and got his statement recorded before the magistrate. Amrita’s alleged role in the cocaine case became evident when the police purportedly spotted her presence near Rakesh’s house through CCTV footage a few days before Goswami’s arrest. The police said Amrita had allegedly procured cocaine for Rs 9,500 per gram with funds provided by Rakesh. She has been booked under sections of the narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances act, in connection with the same case for which Goswami and Rakesh were earlier arrested. “After buying the cocaine, she had handed it to Rakesh. There is CCTV footage to corroborate her visit to Rakesh’s home before the Goswami incident,” said an officer. Amrita, alias Sweety, was arrested in a rented flat in a New Town housing complex on Monday and produced at Alipore NDPS court on Tuesday. The police has found that Amrita had met Rakesh a few years ago for a work-related matter. Amrita’s lawyers submitted in the court that she had no connection with the cocaine case. “My client had gone to a shopping mall with her son when she was picked up,” her defence lawyer said. The police submitted a prayer before the court to allow them to examine Rakesh in jail where he is lodged at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
10-03-2021||Calcutta||Nothing left of 40 years of hard work, recalls an official of Strand Road railway office||A senior railway official who has his office on the 13th floor of New Koilaghat building on Strand Road recalled the moment he saw fire in one of the rooms on the same floor. The flames gradually engulfed everything, including files he had been maintaining for the last four decades. The official, who was reluctant to be named, has been working in the same building for the last 40 years. He narrated to The Telegraph the last minutes he spent at the signal and telecom department office of the Eastern Railways before he was forced to leave and run on Monday night. Someone raised the alarm that there was a fire on our floor. There was something frantic about the cries of “fire, fire”. I saw some of my colleagues and RPF men rushing towards the room where the fire was reported. It was the laboratory where our communication devices and electronic equipment are repaired. There was panic everywhere. People were running, mostly rushing out of the office. My instinct was also to run. But what will happen to all these files that I have created with so much of hard work and dedication? I decided against my instincts and started to wrap the files which were kept open on my table. In the meantime, the commotion increased. I saw RPF men use extinguishers. But the fire was still raging. I made haste. By the time I packed everything into the cupboard and locked it to my satisfaction, the smoke had reached me. Some of my colleagues and I started out on the staircase. The flight of stairs was directly below the room that had caught fire. The staircase was also getting filled with smoke by then. I had walked down the flight of stairs so many times in the past. But yesterday was so different. As smoke was fast filling this staircase and there were so many people trying to get down, on reaching the 10th floor, I availed of another staircase that took me to the rear part of the building. Some of my colleagues and I were out in the open, thanking our lucky stars that we managed to come out unhurt. Just then, I glanced up and saw that flames were raging out of the windows on the floor that had been my office for so many years now. It was a shocking sight. The flames had grown so suddenly. I also realised how close I had been to getting trapped had I not moved on time. I searched for my friends and colleagues. One of them who had started with us, had apparently gone up again, I learned. He was rescued sometime later with facial burns. As I started for home, shocked with the sudden development in the last one hour, the only consolation I had was that I had kept all my files safely in the cupboard. As I reached home, I saw on television the fire had spread across the floor. My heart sank. Today I have realised that nothing is left. All the hours I had put in to create the files are gone forever. I have nothing much to look forward to. For me, it is a personal loss. Maybe it was the evening Ganges breeze that we had been enjoying on the 13th floor that engulfed our office last night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
10-03-2021||Calcutta||IIM calls for applications for new director||Indian Institute of Management Calcutta has called for applications for a new director who, an advertisement says, “is expected to provide strong academic leadership”. The present director, Anju Seth, will complete 65 years in January 2022 and the IIM Act, 2017, sets the age of director’s superannuation at 65. Seth had relocated from the US and joined the institute in August 2018. An official of the institute said the search has begun early so that “adequate time could be given to screen candidates”. Those interested to apply have been asked to send their CV to the chairperson, search- cum-selection committee. The advertisement says: “IIMC seeks to appoint a director to lead the institute in maintaining and extending its edge among peers and building higher visibility globally through greater collaboration with academia and industry.” Last year, several teachers of the B-school had written to the Centre and the institute’s board of governors twice, accusing the present director of lacking leadership quality, eroding the autonomy of the institute’s academic council and conceding space to peers like IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Bangalore. “Especially in light of the autonomy resulting from the IIM Act, the individual will also be responsible for fund raising and creating endowment,” the advertisement says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
10-03-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 254 points to close at 51,279||Extending its gains for the third straight session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 254 points on Wednesday tracking gains in pharma, IT and auto shares amid largely positive cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 254.03 points or 0.50 per cent higher at 51,279.51, and the broader NSE Nifty rose 76.40 points or 0.51 per cent to 15,174.80. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto and Infosys. On the other hand, ONGC, Kotak Bank, ITC, HDFC Bank and PowerGrid were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities extended gains for the third consecutive day mainly aided by favourable global cues. IT, metals and pharma recorded sharp rebound over 1 per cent, while a strong buying was seen in automobile stocks also. Barring, PSU banks, most of the key sectoral indices ended in green. Unlike Tuesday, midcap and small cap stocks attracted investor interest on Wednesday again. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with losses, while Hong Kong and Tokyo settled on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.59 per cent lower at USD 67.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
10-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 300 points in opening trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC and Reliance Industries amid positive cues from global markets and fresh foreign fund inflow. The 30-share BSE index was trading 329.15 points or 0.65 per cent higher at 51,354.63, and the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 95.75 points or 0.63 per cent up at 15,194.15. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, M&M, HDFC, Infosys, HCL Tech, Titan, Bajaj Finserv and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, ITC and Nestle India were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 584.41 points or 1.16 per cent higher at 51,025.48, and Nifty surged 142.20 points or 0.95 per cent to 15,098.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,801.87 crore on Tuesday and domestic institutional investors (DIIs) bought a net of Rs 1,250.22 crore, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, in this see-saw game in the market, bulls and bears are giving up and regaining their dominance in tune with macro trends. "A rise in bond yields temporarily strengthens the bears and when yields fall, bulls come back strongly. Now it appears that the US 10-year bond yield is likely to consolidate in the 1.5-1.6 per cent range for the short-term. FIIs are back to buying mode, he said, adding that this along with DII buying is likely to impart strength to the market. Brent cooling off a bit also is good macro news, he noted. The global oil benchmark was trading 0.80 per cent lower at USD 66.98 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. US equities too ended on a positive note in overnight trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
10-03-2021||Business||Vehicle sales declined by 13 per cent in February||Vehicle sales have declined 13 per cent in February with the entry level two-wheeler segment sales falling 16 per cent as global crude prices have shot up. However, the passenger vehicle segment saw growth of over 10 per cent because of a low base last year, automobile dealers’ body FADA said on Tuesday. The two-wheeler segment continued to see sluggish demand as the new wave of Covid in certain states kept customers away. Enquiry levels also narrowed as many educational institutions were still reluctant to open. “Fuel prices are at their historic high this has affected sales in the entry-level price-sensitive category,” FADA president Vinkesh Gulati said. The total vehicle retail sales in February dipped 13.43 per cent year-on-year, according to the vehicle registration data released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations of India (FADA). Passenger vehicles showed double-digit growth at 10.59 per cent. This growth was majorly due to the low base of last year as India had started transitioning from BS-4 to BS-6 emission norms, FADA said in the release. On a YoY basis, two-wheeler, three-wheeler and commercial vehicle registrations continued their fall by 16.08 per cent, 49.65 per cent and 29.53 per cent, respectively. Tractors continued their positive momentum by growing 18.89 per cent, the data showed. Passenger vehicle waiting period continued to remain as high as 8 months as the scarcity of semiconductors continued to linger around.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Volvo e-car, The XC40 Recharge, to commence delivery in October 2021||Swedish luxury car maker Volvo Car India on Tuesday announced that it will commence deliveries of its first full electric car — The XC40 Recharge — in October 2021. “We are committed to becoming a leader in the fast-growing premium electric car market and plan to double our volumes in the next two years. We will commence bookings of our first pure electric SUV, XC40 Recharge, in June this year and start deliveries three months hence. By 2025, electric cars should constitute 80 per cent of our annual sales,” said Jyoti Malhotra, managing director, Volvo Car India. As part of its sustainability initiatives, the company announced that it aims to become carbon neutral by 2040. The company is also planning to make all its dealerships in India Green Dealerships. It is undertaking skill upgradation of its dealer workforce to familiarise them with the new technology of electric cars as well as to respond to the exact requirements of its customers. The company intends to sell only fully electric cars and phase out any car with an internal combustion engine, including hybrids by 2030. Malhotra said, “Our first electric car XC40 Recharge has been received very well globally and we expect the same in India as well. Starting this year, we will launch one electric car every year in the Indian market and by 2030 we aspire to become a fully electric car company.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Transport key to trade with Dhaka:  World Bank report||Seamless transport connectivity between India and Bangladesh has the potential to increase national income by as much as 17 per cent in Bangladesh and 8 per cent in India, a new World Bank report published on Tuesday claimed. The launch of the report coincided with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina inaugurating Maitree Setu in Tripura to bolster trade between the two countries, especially NorthEast and Chittagong. The bank said it would support infrastructure creation along the borders to allow the region reach the potential of an economic hub in South East Asia. It is investing close to $1 billion around the Bangladesh border on the Indian side. The two countries have signed a raft of agreements but their implementation has been slow. Despite a Motor Vehicle Agreement signed in 2015, trucks from either country cannot enter, posing significant delays. Crossing the India–Bangladesh border at Petrapole–Benapole, near 85 kilometre east of Calcutta, the most important border post between the two countries, takes about 100 hours. This is because cargo is moved from one truck to another when the border is crossed. In contrast, the time to cross borders  in other regions of the world, including East Africa, is less than six hours, the report “Connecting to Thrive — Challenges and Opportunities of Transport Integration” highlights. Bilateral trade accounts for only about 10 per cent of Bangladesh’s trade and a mere 1 per cent of India’s trade. Whereas, in East Asian and Sub-Saharan African economies, intra-regional trade accounts for 50 per cent and 22 per cent of total trade, respectively. In fact, it is about 15–20 percent less expensive for a company in India to trade with a company in Brazil or Germany than with a company in Bangladesh, the report points out. High tariffs, para-tariffs, and non-tariff barriers also serve as major trade barriers. Simple average tariffs in Bangladesh and India are more than twice the world average. This analysis, led by WB’s Matias Herrera Dappe and Charles Kunaka, found that improving transport connectivity could yield a 297 per cent increase in Bangladesh’s exports to India and a 172 per cent increase for India. Many believe that strong political will is required to weed out the bottlenecks . Misgivings on either side of the border about benefit and threat to each country are found to be well entrenched. Hasina alluded to it while virtually inaugurating the 1.9 kilometre long bridge on river Feni river in south Tripura when she said political boundaries should not become physical barriers to trade. At the launch of the report, India country director of WB Junaid Ahmed, reminded the historical significance of Bengal presidency during pre-Independence era and how the regional connectivity was exploited by the colonial masters. Ahmed expressed hope that the potential can be harnessed again by easing restrictions. Ahmed also noted that a lot of progress has taken place in the last one decade, such as exchange of electricity, starting of inland water trade, starting rail service and even pilot movement in road transport. “World Bank is a big believer in multilateralism and an ecosystem of free trade would like to invest in the ecosystem to accelerate this.” Mercy Tembon, the WB’s country director for Bangladesh and Bhutan said : “While trade between India and Bangladesh has increased substantially over the last decade, it is estimated to be $10 billion below its current potential. The WB is supporting  Bangladesh to strengthen regional and trade transit through various investments in regional road and waterways corridors, priority land ports, and digital and automated systems for trade.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Cairn threatens to seize Indian sovereign assets overseas ||British oil firm Cairn Energy Plc on Tuesday said it has identified Indian sovereign assets overseas which it can seize if the Centre fails to return over $1.7 billion that an international arbitration tribunal has ordered after rescinding a retrospective tax demand. “Cairn is extremely confident that the satisfaction of the award will be achieved either by negotiated settlement or by enforcement against Indian assets,” the company said in its 2020 annual earnings statement. “Cairn has already taken steps to have the Award recognised in certain major jurisdictions in which Indian sovereign assets have been identified”. “Cairn’s engagement with the Government of India on its arbitration award will continue in parallel with pursuing options of enforcement and monetisation of the Award in order to safeguard shareholders’ rights,” it said. Cairn, however, did not reveal the assets it  would seize. The company has moved courts in nine countries to get the arbitral award registered and recognised. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can petition it to seize any assets of the Indian government such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, aeroplanes and ships in those jurisdictions. The arbitration award is enforceable against Indian-owned assets in more than 160 countries that have signed and ratified the 1958 New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards. The December 21 award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Netherlands has been recognised and confirmed by courts in the US, the UK, Netherlands, Canada and France.  Further, the firm has started the process to register the award in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and the Cayman Islands. So far the government has not directly commented on honouring or challenging the Cairn arbitration award, but finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had last week indicated going in for an appeal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Mutual funds outflow jumps at Rs 4,534 crore in February||The net outflow from equity mutual funds stood at Rs 4,534 crore in February, the eighth consecutive month of outflow. February was marked by a rally in equities with the Sensex rising 6 per cent, meaning the mutual fund investors preferred to book profits. Barring multi-cap, large-cap, mid-cap and focussed funds, all the other schemes saw outflows last month. The newly created flexi cap category saw the maximum outflow of Rs 4497.23  crore. The large-cap category also saw withdrawals of Rs 1,280 crore. However, investors ploughed Rs 1,735 crore into debt mutual funds last month because of the good showing in liquid, low-duration and money market funds even as several other categories saw outflows. Net inflows into liquid funds stood at Rs 17,301.57 crore, low duration funds Rs 2,844.39 crore and money market schemes Rs 9,579.93 crore. On the other hand, short-duration funds saw an outflow of Rs 10,286 crore . “Profit booking in debt schemes with bond yields moving up, and in equity schemes with market indices at all time high is reflective of investors moving in tandem with market scenario,” N.S. Venkatesh, chief executive, Amfi said . Increasing preference of hybrid schemes is reflective of retail investors becoming increasingly conservative, leaning towards capital preservation and moderate returns, amid acute market volatility, he said. Despite the outflow from equities, asset under management (AUM) of the mutual fund industry rose to Rs 31.64 lakh crore in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Liquidity signals worry investors as bond yields rise and global economy recovers||Investors are concerned over the availability of liquidity in the system as bond yields rise and the global economy recovers. The moves of the central banks across the world are being keenly watched, especially whether they will withdraw their accommodative policies earlier than expected. Some indication may be available next week when the US Federal Open Markets Committee meets on March 16 and March 17 . The general view is that the Fed will raise rates only in 2023. But investors are more concerned over whether the Fed will gradually wind down its monthly purchases of $120 billion of bonds. Last week, US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell said the central bank will keep interest rates — which are near zero — till the US economy reaches maximum employment and inflation has risen to two per cent and is on track to moderately exceed two per cent for some time. “The markets will be mainly focusing on the expectations on whether the Fed, in its upcoming meeting, will maintain its accommodative stance in a rising bond yield market,” says Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Impact of the rising bond yields has been felt in the domestic markets as well with the benchmark indices coming under pressure over the last two weeks. Analysts said rising commodity prices and resulting higher inflation could also affect stock prices. They also warn that the rising cases of Covid-19 in some parts of the country could also spoil any rally in the markets. Rating agency Crisil has already cautioned that a second wave of the pandemic, especially with mutations that undermine the effectiveness of current vaccines, could lead to containment measures that will derail the recovery. In the trading  on Tuesday, the benchmark Sensex gained 584 points to close above the 51000-level because  of positive global cues. But a a fall in the US bond yields and gains in the US futures, saw the benchmark 10 year government security closing higher at 6.20 per cent. “While the long term structure of the market continues to remain positive, we believe that markets may face some hurdles in the near term due to concerns over the rising bond yields, commodity prices and risk of increase in inflation,” according to Siddhartha Khemka of Motilal Oswal Financial Services. In India, the yields on government bonds have risen to over 6.20 per cent since the presentation of the budget. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget had winched up borrowing plans for this fiscal by Rs 80,000 crore and set a gross borrowing target of Rs 12.05 lakh crore for the next year. Fears of the RBI gradually withdrawing its accommodative policy also raised yields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||State refiners asked to diversify oil imports||India has asked state refiners to speed up the diversification of oil imports to gradually cut their dependence on West Asia after Opec+ decided last week to largely continue production cuts in April, two sources said. India, the world’s third biggest oil importer and consumer, imports about 84 per cent of its overall crude needs with over 60 per cent of that coming from West Asian  countries, which are typically cheaper than those from the West. Most of the Opec+ producers, led by the world’s top exporter Saudi Arabia, last week decided to extend most output curbs into April. India, hit hard by the soaring oil prices, has urged producers to ease output cuts and help the global economic recovery. In response, the Saudi energy minister told India to dip into strategic reserves filled with cheaper oil bought last year. “We have asked companies to aggressively look for diversification. We cannot be held hostage to the arbitrary decision of West Asian producers. When they wanted to stabilise the market we stood by them,” said a government source. India had not cancelled any shipment of crude oil from West Asia in 2020 when oil demand collapsed due to Covid-19, the source said. Already Opec’s share in India’s oil imports declined to a historic low during April 2020-January 2021, the first 10 months of this fiscal year. While initial costs could be high, the strategy will pay off in the long term, the source said. Two oil refiners confirmed that the government had asked them to expedite efforts to diversify crude import sources. One plan is to import oil from new producer Guyana, the sources said. The country’s top refiner Indian Oil Corp has also renewed its oil import contract with Russia, they added. India hopes to resume Iranian oil imports this year. India’s oil ministry and IOC did not respond to requests from Reuters for comment. Iraq and Saudi Arabia are the two biggest oil suppliers to India. This year, Iraq has cut annual supply volumes while Kuwait has shortened the duration of contracts with Indian buyers to 9 months. After Opec’s last week’s decision, crude oil prices rose to over $71 per barrel although the prices eased to $69.08 a barrel by 1027 GMT. Saudi has also raised April official selling price of its oil for Asia. “A beginning has to be made. No one had imagined that US oil will account for a significant share in our crude basket. We are trying for shorter-term contracts with new countries and sellers,” the first source said. Reuters “The world was together during the pandemic but now it seems some producers are working for their own economies,” said the first source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Stress in microcredit increases||The stress in the microcredit sector has increased as loans over 30 days due breached the double digit mark during the third quarter of 2020-21. The portfolio at risk (PAR>30) has increased to 14.33 per cent for banks during the October-December quarter from 5.97 per cent during the July-September quarter of the fiscal. For non-bank microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs), the increase was from 4.17 per cent during the second quarter to 13.36 per cent during the third quarter. Banks and NBFC-MFIs together constitute 73 per cent of the micro credit loan outstanding as of December 31, 2020. Small finance banks, which constitute around 17 per cent of the credit outstanding, have seen a jump in portfolio at risk from 2.75 per cent to 10.13 per cent, according to data from Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN). A combination of factors ranging from a lack of uniform recovery in livelihood and economic activities following the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, call for loan waiver of micro credit borrowers in certain states, liquidity issues with small and mid sized MFIs, delayed repayments and cash constraints at the borrowers end have contributed to the heightened risk. While Assam and Bengal have seen stress in certain districts, other states such as Tamil Nadu and Bihar are relatively better off in terms of stress. “After December, what we are hearing from the field level is the recovery rate has been reasonable in January and February. So, our assessment is that by March end the PAR>30 could come down to a single digit,” said P Satish, executive director, Sa-Dhan. “The disbursements during Q3 2020-21 are around 96 per cent of Q3 2019-20, indicating that it should reach normal levels by end of Q4 2020-21," said Alok Mishra, CEO and director, MFIN. In terms of regional distribution of microcredit, Bengal has overtook Tamil Nadu as the largest state in terms of portfolio outstanding of Rs 34,853 crore against Rs 31,520 crore of the latter for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. Tamil Nadu was ahead of Bengal during the quarter ended September 30, 2020. Among the top 10 states, Bengal now has the highest average loan outstanding per unique borrower of Rs 55,585 followed by Assam at Rs 48,578.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Subramanian urges institutions to avoid crony lending||Chief economic Adviser K.V. Subramanian on Tuesday urged financial institutions to avoid crony lending and focus on high quality loans . “I think it is extremely critical now that the financial sector owns up this responsibility of doing high quality lending, especially on the infrastructure side, and really avoid crony lending... I think that is basically the mantra for the financial sector,” he said at an event organised by Ficci. He also suggested strengthening corporate governance in the financial sector and linking incentives of the senior management to quality lending. “Incentive mechanisms need to be put in place to prevent crony lending as infrastructure projects involve high gestation periods.” The CEA said bank auditors cannot shy away from flagging instances of the ever-greening of bad loans and zombie lending. “Banks need to ensure that capital allocation to the infrastructure sector is to creditworthy borrowers. Crony lending has been a problem in the banking system. The Economic Survey also highlighted that the banking sector’s problems originated from large loans that were not necessarily lent to the most creditworthy borrowers." He said the problem gets far more accentuated in the context of infrastructure. "Financial institutions especially need to be working on this,” he added. Subramanian emphasised that “crony lending is the elephant in the room that we have to acknowledge. Financial sector in India has to take responsibility that it is the ultimate arbiter of capital and ensure optimal capital allocation”. He suggested that compensation of senior management in banks must be curtailed on instances of ever-greening and zombie lending. The board of directors cannot be asleep at the wheel, he said, adding that auditors are the first line of defence. “Auditors cannot say this is something they cannot do. Data analytics can do. Zombie lending and ever-greening should be avoided as they lead to suboptimal capital allocation,” said Subramanian. Subramanian said the banking and financial sector was very small compared with  the size of the overall economy. “That is mainly because of the financial sector as a whole is still to figure out a model to make large corporate loans and large infrastructure loans in a way that does not lead to non-performing assets," said Subramanian. Pointing to the poor quality of loans particularly the big ones since the early 1990s, Subramanian said  loans were not given to most creditworthy borrowers but to crony capitalists, leading to high distress. “When the financial sector decides to actually lend to a particular borrower who is more connected even though that borrower may not be the most creditworthy, it means that capital is not being provided. There is an opportunity cost as the capital does not go to a more creditworthy borrower,” he said. Speaking at the event, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India chairman M.S. Sahoo said out of the 4,000 companies that have been admitted for insolvency, 2,000 companies have completed the process. Resolution of distressed assets is bringing in more value than liquidation, he said, adding that in some companies it has been as high 300 per cent over the liquidation value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Polls 2021: AIADMK releases list of 171 candidates, BJP gets 20 seats||Eyeing a record straight third term, the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday announced its second list of 171 candidates for the April 6 Assembly polls, renominating most of its heavyweights. Together with its first list of six candidates, the AIADMK would be in fray in 177 constituencies and its partners the PMK (23) and BJP (20) in 43 while 14 more seats are yet to be allocated out of the total 234 segments. Of the 30-member Cabinet of Chief Minister K Palaniswami, 27 have been renominated, apparently rewarding them for supporting him during the past four years when he weathered many a political storm. The 2021 Assembly polls will be a watershed election for the AIADMK since this is the first state polls after the demise of its supremo J Jayalalithaa, who had led the party to two back to back wins in 2011 and 2016. Following the legacy of Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK has now announced seats for most constituencies stealing a march over arch-rival DMK which is yet to release its list of nominees. Filing of nominations would start on March 12 and end on March 19. The names of Ministers, G Baskaran, Nilofer Kafeel and S Valarmathi do not find a mention in the list. Fourteen more constituencies are yet to be finalised with seat-sharing talks pending with Tamil Maanila Congress and smaller allies. Hence, there is a possibility of some more ruling party nominees including whose name do not feature in the first and second lists getting tickets. At least 72 MLAs have been renominated and more than 44 dropped which includes former Minister and presently a legislator, Thoppu N D Venkatachalam, and Kallakurichi MLA, A Prabhu. Former Ministers and Rajya Sabha MPs, K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam have been nominated. The AIADMK has also dropped several of its MLAs as their constituencies like Sholingur, Gummidipoondi, Modakurichi, Madurai North and Coimbatore South have gone to allies, the PMK and BJP. Tamil Nadu Assembly has 234 seats and the state would have a single-phase poll on April 6. Most heavyweights including Assembly Speaker P Dhanapal, Deputy Speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman, Ministers S P Velumani, P Thangamani, C Vijayabaskar, C Ve Shanmugam, D Jayakumar and K A Sengottaiyan have been renominated. Former ministers such as B V Ramana and TKM Chinnayya find a place in the list of candidates. The PMK is set to contest from Gingee, Mailam, Vandavasi (Reserved), Arcot, Gummidipoondi, Kancheepuram in north Tamil Nadu besides 17 other constituencies. The BJP would try its luck from 20 segments including Nagercoil, Kolachel and Vilavancode in Kanyakumari district besides the spiritual hub of Tiruvannamalai and Coimbatore South.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||We will talk to farmers in Calcutta and urge them to defeat BJP in polls, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday said he will go to Kolkata this week to urge farmers to defeat the BJP in the West Bengal Assembly elections, but claimed he is not supporting any political party. Farmers are distressed, and election will be discussed with them, Tikait said, adding that he is not going to West Bengal to seek votes. "I will go to Kolkata on March 13. The clarion call for a decisive struggle will come from Kolkata. We will talk to farmers there and urge them to defeat the BJP," the BKU leader said. He was in Ballia to address a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat'. Replying to a query if he would meet West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Tikait said there was no such programme. The farmer leader said a call has already been made to defeat the BJP in the five Assembly elections scheduled to begin from March 27, but asserted that he would not support any political party. Besides West Bengal, Assembly elections are going to be held in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Counting of votes will take place on May 2. Tikait said the farmers' movement would continue and that he is ready to negotiate with the central government. "If the Indian government talks, we will talk," he added. Replying to a question, the farmer leader said he had no intention to contest elections. Addressing another farmers' gathering in Rasda, Tikait said a long fight will be fought and success will be achieved. Earlier, at a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Sikandarpur, about 32 km from the district headquarters earlier, the farmer leader launched a scathing attack on the Narendra Modi government. Without taking any names, he said "robbers" have to be driven out of Delhi. In an apparent reference to the prime minister, he said, "He will prove to be the last emperor." Taking potshots at the ruling BJP, Tikait said he too belonged to Ayodhya and he is also a descendant of Lord Rama. He stressed that there is no need to divide the farmers' movement on regional lines. Stating that political parties too have now started organising Kisan Panchayats, Tikait said 2021 would be the year of the movement. The echo of the farmers' movement in India is being heard across the world, he added. Giving a call to intensify the farmers' struggle, which he said is a symbol of their self-respect, Tikait warned that if the farmers are defeated, labourers and youth will also be defeated. Stressing that the fight has to be organised with full force, he asked the farmers to mend their tractor and trolleys and be prepared. He said the call to leave for Delhi could be given any day. He also called for giving a boost to the movement in neighbouring Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Zomato staff assaults woman in Bengaluru for complaining against late delivery||A Zomato delivery personnel was arrested here on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting a city-based model and makeup artist for complaining against him over late delivery of food, police said. The man was arrested shortly after Hitesha Chandranee took to Twitter to air her woes and tagged the city police, who asked her to provide the area details to assist her further. The model said she lodged a complaint with the Zomato customer care asking them to either deliver food free of cost or cancel the order after it was delayed on Tuesday. "So guys, my Zomato order was late and I was talking to the customer care executive and meanwhile the delivery person just did this," said Chandranee, crying and showing her bleeding nose in a selfie video, which was aired by some TV channels. Zomato reacted to her Twitter post, saying, "We can assure you this is not the experience our delivery universe stands for. Our local representative shall be in touch with you shortly to help you with the police investigation along with assistance on the medical care required." Stating that they were sorry for the incident, the food delivery company tweeted: "Rest assured we'll take necessary actions to prevent such incidents from happening in the future."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Tirath Singh Rawat was denied BJP ticket in 2017||Tirath Singh Rawat was denied the BJP ticket to contest the Uttarakhand assembly polls in 2017. Four years later, the party has picked him for the top job in the state. Replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat ahead of next year's assembly polls, the new CM, sworn in Wednesday, has the reputation of being a simple and down-to-earth leader. Though a first-time MP, Rawat has held key organisational positions with the party, both in the state and at the Centre. He was the state's first education minister, a part of the interim government when Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh. He went on to become the state BJP president from 2013 to 2015 and is now a national secretary. In the 2017 assembly polls, the BJP nomination for Chaubattakhal went to heavyweight Satpal Maharaj, overlooking Rawat's claim to the seat he had won in 2012. But the party made up to him. Rawat was soon made a national secretary and given the ticket to contest from Pauri Garhwal Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 general elections. In that poll battle, he was pitted against BJP veteran and former chief minister Bhuvan Chandra Khanduri's son Manish Khanduri, who was the Congress nominee. The senior Khanduri appeared to maintain distance as both his son and Rawat who was considered his own prot g tried to dig into his support base. Rawat, who had described himself as the true heir to Khanduri's political legacy, won by 3,02,669 votes, one of the biggest margins in the state. Tirath Singh Rawat's wife Rashmi, a professor of psychology, vouches for his simplicity . "He is simple and unassuming despite having occupied several organisational positions, and a long political experience. These are his virtues," she told reporters after Rawat was elected leader of the state legislature party. "He is a serious man and does not speak much," she said. Rawat's principal challenge now is the assembly election next year, when his organisational experience will be put to test as the party hopes to retain power in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Farmers call nationwide strike on March 26||Farmer unions on Wednesday called for a Bharat bandh on March 26, when their protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's three new farm laws completes four months. Farmer leader Buta Singh Burjgill said farmers along with trade unions will protest the hike in fuel prices and privatisation of railways on March 15. "We will observe a complete Bharat bandh on March 26, when our protest against the three farm laws completes four months. The peaceful bandh will remain effective from morning till evening," he told reporters at the Singhu border. On March 19, the farmers will observe "Mandi Bachao-Kheti Bachao" day, he said. The farmer unions have also decided to celebrate Shaheedi Diwas of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, Burjgill added. Farmers leaders also said that copies of the new farm laws will be burnt during Holika Dahan' on March 28. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over four months, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||No confidence motion against Khattar govt defeated in Haryana Assembly ||The Congress' motion of no confidence against the BJP-JJP government in Haryana was defeated on Wednesday with 55 members of the assembly voting against the motion while 32 members from the opposition camp backed it. The motion was defeated following a division of votes. At the end of a marathon six-hour discussion on the motion, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta announced the 55-32 break up in the House. The 55 members who voted against the motion included 39 from the BJP, 10 of ally Jannayak Janta Party, five Independents and one from the Haryana Lokhit Party. Thirty members of Congress and two Independents, who had earlier withdrawn support, backed the motion. In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government. Earlier, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said there is no threat to the government. "You will get to know the moment you step into the assembly. We have full confidence that the opposition motion will be defeated," Mr Khattar said this morning, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala at his side.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
10-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat takes oath as new Uttarakhand chief minister||Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand on Wednesday, replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat. The oath of office was administered on Rawat by Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya at a simple ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan here in the presence of a host of dignitaries. Rawat alone was sworn-in on Wednesday, which means the members of his Cabinet will be sworn-in later. Rawat is currently the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal Lok Sabha constituency as well as a national secretary of the party. He headed the Uttarakhand BJP unit from 2013-15. Known as a simple and down-to-earth leader, Tirath Singh Rawat takes over the reign of power in Uttarakhand at a time when the BJP is preparing for the state Assembly polls due early next year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Rawat saying  he brings with him vast administrative and organisational experience. Modi expressed confidence that under Rawat's leadership, the state will continue to scale new heights of progress. Congratulating the new chief minister, Modi tweeted, "Congratulations to Shri @TIRATHSRAWAT on taking oath as the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand. He brings with him vast administrative and organisational experience. I am confident under his leadership the state will continue to scale new heights of progress."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Kerala CPI(M) releases candidate list for Assembly polls||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and six of his cabinet colleagues have been fielded by the ruling CPI(M) for the April 6 state assembly elections, while Finance minister Thomas Issac has been denied a ticket this time. The party on Wednesday released the list of 83 of its 85 candidates including nine CPI(M) supported independents. Health Minister K K Shailaja, Labour minister T P Ramakrishnan, Power minister M M Mani,Devaswom minister Kadakkampally Surendran, Fisheries minister Mercykutty Amma and Local Self Government minister A C Moideen are trying their luck once again. Vijayan will contest from Dharmadam constituency in Kannur district. However, five ministers have been denied seats-- T M Thomas Isaac, E P Jayarajan, R Ravindranath, G Sudhakaran and A K Balan as the party decided not to provide seats to those who had been elected twice. M V Govindan Master, K Radhakrishan, P Rajeev and K N Balagopal are the state secretariat members who are contesting. There are 12 women candidates in the list. Candidates for Manjeshwaram and Devikulam constituencies would be announced later, Acting state secretary, A Vijayaraghavan, told reporters here. The party's aim was not to deny tickets to anyone, but to give an opportunity to new candidates, he said. The CPI(M) led LDF is eyeing a second consecutive term this time. In the 2016 polls, the LDF had won 91 seats in the 140- member assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Kerala Congress leader PC Chacko quits party alleging ‘groupism’||In a blow to the Congress in poll bound Kerala, Senior leader P C Chacko on Wednesday announced his resignation from the party, alleging group interest in deciding party candidates for the assembly elections. Addressing a press conference, Chacko said he will send his resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. He alleged that the party's candidates for April 6 Assembly polls in Kerala were being determined in an undemocratic way by two groups --"A" group headed by Oommen Chandy and "I" group headed by Ramesh Chennithala. "There is no democracy left in Congress. The list of candidates has not been discussed with the state Congress committee. There are no panels for any discussions on polls, winnability of candidates. There have always been factions in parities, even in the Congress, but there is no point anymore. I have submitted my resignation to Sonia Gandhi," Chacko said during the press conference, as quoted by NDTV. The two groups have been active in the state unit of Congress since the period of veteran leader and late K Karunkaran and senior leader AK Antony. While the A group was then headed by Antony, the I group was led by Karunakaran. Chacko was one of the members known to be loyal to the Gandhi family. He had called out the “G-23” leaders or the dissenters in the party who had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Delhi HC stays ED summons to Mehbooba Mufti||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday gave an interim stay on summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate to former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, her daughter said. The matter came up for hearing before a division bench of Justices Siddarth Mridul and Hairam Bhambhani. The matter was posted for March 18 with a direction to the ED not to press for her personal appearance on March 15. The PDP leader had challenged the validity of the summons issued by the ED for appearing before it on March 15 without specifying the case for which she was being investigated. She asked the court to quash the summons, her daughter Iltija Mufti said. The summons were issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act but the case under which she was asked to appear was missing from the notice. Mehbooba, 60, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was served notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. Though the ED did not specify the case in which she was summoned, officials indicated it could be linked to alleged financial irregularities in loans taken in the past from Jammu and Kashmir Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||No confidence motion against Khattar govt taken up in Haryana Assembly||The motion of no confidence against the BJP-JJP government, brought by the main opposition Congress, was on Wednesday taken up in the Haryana Assembly, with Speaker Gian Chand Gupta reserving two-hour discussion on it. After the end of the Question hour, the Speaker admitted the notice of no-confidence motion against the Council of Ministers. "I have received no-confidence motion from the Leader of Opposition (Bhupinder Singh Hooda) and 27 other Congress MLAs," the Speaker said. The notice was admitted by the Speaker and two hours were kept for discussion. Hooda expressed want of confidence in the Haryana Ministry headed by Chief Minister M L Khattar. In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government. Talking to reporters after the day's proceedings in the state assembly ended on Friday, Hooda had said, "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers." He had said the party needed to move a no-confidence motion because the BJP-JJP government has "lost public confidence" and the coalition government, "betraying public opinion, is taking anti-people decisions one after the other".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat to be new Uttarakhand chief minister||Pauri Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat was chosen the leader of the Uttarakhand BJP legislature party on Wednesday, paving the way for his appointment as the new chief minister of the state. His name was announced by outgoing chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat after the legislature party meeting, which lasted for around 30 minutes. Tirath Singh Rawat will be sworn-in as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand in the evening, official sources said. They said preparations have begun at the Raj Bhawan here for the swearing-in ceremony. Earlier, accompanied by party MLAs and MPs, Tirath Singh Rawat met Governor Baby Rani Maurya at the Raj Bhawan to stake his claim for forming the government. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 56 MLAs in the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly. Tirath Singh Rawat was the state BJP president from 2013-15 and is currently the party's national secretary. He was also an MLA from the Chaubattakhal constituency from 2012-17. His choice as the new chief minister by the BJP comes as a surprise as he was not among the favourites. After being congratulated by the outgoing chief minister and BJP's central observer and national vice-president Raman Singh, Tirath Singh Rawat thanked the top leadership of the saffron party for giving him the new responsibility. "I have been a humble party worker. I had never imagined that I will be a given an opportunity like this by the party. I hope that with everyone's cooperation and blessings, I will do justice to my new role," he said. Though he has held important organisational positions both in the state and at the Centre, Tirath Singh Rawat is a first-time MP. He defeated his political mentor and BJP veteran Bhuvan Chandra Khanduri's son Manish Khanduri of the Congress by over three lakh votes to win from the Pauri Garhwal seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, whose report to the central leadership of the party set in motion the process of leadership change in the hill state, said, "With the kind of challenges facing Uttarakhand, it has got a good leader." Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank", who was also being considered a contender for the post, said Tirath Singh Rawat was a good choice. "Tirath Singh Rawat is indeed a good choice. Now the BJP is sure to win the 2022 Assembly polls in Uttarakhand," he told reporters after coming out of the state party office here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||India logs almost 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 133 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,12,62,707 with 17,921 fresh cases being reported in a day, while the recoveries surpassed 1.09 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,58,063 with 133 new fatalities, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases reduced to 1,84,598 which now comprises 1.64 per cent of the infection count. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,20,046, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.96 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,34,79,877 samples have been tested up to March 9 for the viral disease, including 7,63,081 on Tuesday. The 133 new fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 20 from Punjab and 16 from Kerala. A total of 1,58,063 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,556 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,525 from Tamil Nadu, 12,373 from Karnataka, 10,928 from Delhi, 10,281 from Bengal, 8,740 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,176 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||India hopes to double Covid vaccination centres||India hopes to double its Covid-19 vaccination centres to over 50,000 within weeks and complete inoculation of the estimated 300 million people from priority population groups by September, but this plan will hinge on synchronised public acceptance and vaccine supply, experts said. A senior adviser to the government’s vaccination drive said India has the capacity and the experience largely through childhood immunisation programmes to dramatically scale up the campaign to more than 50,000 vaccination centres from an estimated 20,000 active at present. Experts believe India would need to quickly scale up the campaign to overcome its sluggish start that they say is due to both, the vaccine hesitancy among sections of recipients and a cautionary “start-slow” approach by the government. The Union health ministry said more than 24 million vaccine doses had been given till 7pm on Tuesday since the campaign’s start on January 16. The 24 million doses, however, make up a little more than half the 41 million doses the Centre had procured from vaccine makers by early February — the health ministry had told the Parliament on February 12 that it had procured 41 million doses. “There is no shortage of vaccines, but we have to synchronise the process of adding immunisation centres with public acceptance of the vaccines,” said Narendra Arora, a member a Covid-19 expert group set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research who is advising the government on the vaccination campaign. “Otherwise, there may be vaccine wastage,” he said. Arora said the campaign could be expanded to over 50,000 centres by April. Under the health ministry’s operational guidelines, each immunisation centre is expected to typically offer 100 vaccinations per day. “We have the capacity to increase to five million per day — but we’re doing an adult mass immunisation programme for the first time. We want to go slow and learn as we move along,” Arora said, adding that India has significant experience in conducting large-scale childhood immunisation programmes. Till Monday evening, over 7 million of an estimated 10 million healthcare workers and 6.7 million of an estimated 20 million frontline workers had received their first doses of the vaccine, while 3.7 million healthcare workers and 3.1 million frontline workers have received both vaccine doses. Two doses are required for protection. “There will be a need for close monitoring for compliance with the second dose,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi.  “The trend so far suggests compliance to the second dose has been somewhat suboptimal. The health system is dependent on self-initiated demand for vaccines. People need to come forward,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat resigns||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned on Tuesday, a day after he was summoned by the party high command over resentment in the ranks against his leadership. The swift move pushed by the central leadership was seen as a corrective measure ahead of polls early next year. First-time MLA Dhan Singh Rawat, a minister in the state government, is most likely to replace Trivendra, sources said. The formality of electing a leader of the central leadership’s choice will be completed on Wednesday at a legislature party meeting in Dehradun. A deputy chief minister is also likely to be named, sources said. The name of Pushkar Singh Dhami, a second time MLA from the Kumaon region, is said to be the frontrunner. After tendering his resignation to the governor, the outgoing chief minister said it was a “unanimous decision” of the party’s central leadership that he should step down. Asked the reason, he said: “Aapko Dilli jana padega (You have to go to Delhi)”, refusing to talk about the opposition to his leadership by a section of party MLAs. The change has come a year before the state is scheduled to go to polls. Party insiders said the decision to bring a new chief minister was taken based on a report by party observers, who were sent after reports of resentment among a large section of MLAs, accusing Trivendra of “incompetence” and terming him an “uninspiring” face. Party sources said an internal survey had also shown that it would be very difficult for the BJP to return to power under Trivendra’s leadership. In the 70-member Assembly, the BJP has a majority with 56 MLAs and there was no threat to the government. Some party leaders, however, indicated something more serious, hinting at corruption charges against the chief minister. The current leadership of the BJP is not known to change chief ministers under pressure from MLAs and so the move raised eyebrows in sections of the party. Barring Congress stalwart  N.D. Tiwari, no chief minister has completed the full five-year term in the hill state that came into existence in 2000, bifurcated from Uttar Pradesh. The BJP and the Congress are the principal parties in the state. “I am thankful to the party for having given me this opportunity to serve the people,” Trivendra said, adding that he would have completed four years as chief minister in just nine days. He said he hailed from a small village and a humble family and never thought he would become a chief minister. Like Trivendra, his likely successor Dhan Singh Rawat also has deep RSS roots and belong to the same Thakur caste. Dhan Singh, however, is much younger. He is 45 whereas Trivendra is 60. Party leaders said it was also a move to build a young leadership in the state. Likely deputy chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami too is below 50 years. Party insiders said it was Trivendra who had suggested the name of Dhan Singh to the central leadership as his successor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Vote will help identify who is with us: Farmers  ||Farmers have urged Haryana MLAs to support their cause by voting against the Manohar Lal Khattar government during Wednesday’s no-confidence motion in the Assembly. Given the way the numbers are stacked, the farmers are not particularly optimistic but went through with the appeal, issued by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, to force the MLAs to stand up and be counted. “This vote will help us identify who is truly standing with the farmers. We will give a boycott call for all those legislators who do not vote for the motion moved by the Opposition,” said a farmer leader. Since all parties have issued whips for the vote and defiance can lead to disqualification, farmers are promising legislators that MLAs who bite the bullet would get their full support, which would be enough to be elected back as Independents. Issuing an appeal to all MLAs through a video message, Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) urged them not to side with the BJP-JJP government during the vote. Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the BKU (Chaduni) said in his appeal that this was the only time farmers and workers were seeking the vote of MLAs. “If they do not vote for the motion, then they are effectively voting for corporates. Such MLAs should not come to us seeking votes the next time. Go to your corporate friends. We will boycott them and chase them away from our areas,” Chaduni said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
10-03-2021||India||Farm law no-trust heat on Haryana MLAs||A no-trust motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana on Wednesday provides the Congress an opportunity to confront Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim of good governance ahead of Assembly elections in five states at a time the BJP has been forced to remove its Uttarakhand chief minister over corruption charges. Although the Congress, which has moved the no-confidence motion in Haryana, doesn’t expect the government to fall as Dushyant Chautala’s Jannnayak Janata Party has decided to continue to support the BJP, the Opposition hopes that the social pressure on the ruling combine’s MLAs will multiply after they defied the farmers’ pressure on them to pull down the Khattar government. The Congress has used the no-confidence motion more as an instrument to align with the sentiments of the farmers, who want the Centre’s new farm laws repealed, than to overthrow the Haryana government. Farmers gheraoed the houses of all MLAs from the JJP and the BJP on Tuesday, petitioning them to vote in favour of the no-trust motion. The farmers joining the protest at Delhi’s borders are angry with Haryana chief minister Khattar who had used brute force to stop them — dug up roads and used water cannons — and tried to malign them by linking them to Khalistanis and anti-India forces. Farmers are going to election-bound states to let people know how the BJP has behaved with them. Bharatiya Kisan Union faction chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni has described the no-confidence motion against the Khattar government as crucial and issued a video appeal saying: “Residents of the state should protest in front of the residences of legislators, who have been supporting the state government. They should warn the leaders that they would face social and political boycott if they continued to support the laws.” In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, the BJP has 40 MLAs, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents and there are two vacancies. While some MLAs had publicly expressed unease over the handling of the farmers’ agitation, the powerful Jats turned against the BJP, putting leaders from the community in a fix. But the no-confidence motion will determine the stance of every MLA, no matter what rhetoric they have been using to defend themselves. If some MLAs defy the party line during the no-confidence vote, the BJP will suffer embarrassment before the critical elections in five states. The removal of Trivendra Singh Rawat as the chief minister of Uttarakhand is no less a humiliation as the decision had to be taken under compulsion a day ahead of the hearing in the Supreme Court in a case of bribery that had forced Nainital High Court to order a CBI enquiry. The Congress grabbed the opportunity to highlight the corruption angle, with state in-charge Devendra Yadav saying: “The BJP’s Operation Cover-up cannot divert the people’s attention from four years of corruption and failures.” Apart from dwelling on gross mismanagement during the Covid-induced lockdown and the alarming unemployment figures leading to an exodus from every village across the hill state, the Congress said: “There are so many scams, including instances of personal corruption by the chief minister. His removal is an admission of guilt by the central leadership of the BJP. But change of chief minister is not the answer, the entire government should resign and fresh elections should be ordered.” Prime Minister Modi has been attacking chief ministers of Opposition parties on corruption and perceived poor performance and has promised to create a “Sonar Bangla”, ignoring the questionable law-and-order situation in BJP-ruled states. The Uttarakhand case has come like a bolt from the blue at a time when the Prime Minister is flaunting his good governance plank. Rawat had been made chief minister despite indictment by a judicial commission in another corruption case. That case, known as the Dhencha seeds scam, was about the purchase of seeds from Jharkhand and Bihar from non-existent firms when Rawat was agriculture minister in the previous BJP government. Fake truck numbers and names of firms for transportation and purchase had been furnished. The case was similar to the fodder scam in which former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad is in jail, a matter the BJP never fails to highlight. The Justice Tripathi Commission had indicted Rawat and recommended the filing of an FIR. While the Congress government, then led by Harish Rawat, did not progress on the recommendations, the BJP leadership picked Trivendra Singh Rawat as chief minister despite the indictment. Later, Trivendra Singh Rawat presided over a cabinet meeting that formally rejected the recommendations of the Justice Tripathi Commission and legitimised his continuance as chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||India displeased with UK debate on new farm laws||India on Tuesday summoned the British high commissioner to convey its displeasure about the debate on agricultural reforms by MPs in Westminster on Monday, billing the discussion as an interference in the politics of another country. What got the goat of the Narendra Modi government whose leader had no qualms about addressing campaign-style rallies in Texas and at the Wembley in the UK? From the complex where the Mother of Parliaments is located, a lesson was delivered in healthy bilateral relations in a democracy, dissent and debate — the practice of which can draw sedition charges in contemporary India. The context was the farmers’ movement in India, which is refusing to go away in spite of a collective exercise in amnesia by the Modi government and large sections of the media. Nigel Adams, minister of state for Asia, sought to assure the MPs that the importance of the bilateral relationship will not stop the British government from “raising difficult issues”. “Candid discussions are an important part of our mature and wide-ranging relationship with the Indian government,” he said, responding to Labour MP John McDonnell’s argument that trade deals or crucial business with India or any nation should not come before standing up for human rights globally. “Now is not the time for the British government to look the other way,” the MP had said. Adams, the Conservative MP for Selby and Ainsty, revealed British diplomats in India are reporting back to the foreign office in London. Adams said: “I will begin by saying that the officials in our network of high commissions in India have monitored and reported back on the protests in response to the agricultural reform laws ever since they first flared up in September,” he said. He acknowledged that “agricultural policy is a domestic matter for the Indian government” but added: “The UK government firmly believes, however, that freedom of speech, Internet freedom… and the right to peaceful protest, are vital to any democracy. “Let me be clear that this government believes that an independent media is essential to any robust democracy.” Referring to Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s forthcoming visit to India, he said: “This will be an opportunity to discuss a range of bilateral issues with India. Where we have serious and specific concerns, we will raise them directly with the Indian government, as would be expected of a friend and neighbour.” Adams added: “The Opposition spokesman also raised the issue of Amnesty International in India…. We have requested that Amnesty’s accounts be unfrozen while the investigation is ongoing, and in our contacts with the government of India we have noted the important role in a democracy of organisations such as Amnesty.” The UK debate took place because a petition organised by a local councillor, Gurch Singh, drew 115,000 signatures. It was held not in the Commons but in Portcullis House, a building on the other side of Westminster Bridge from the Palace of Westminster. British parliamentarians, cutting across party lines, expressed concern about the democratic backsliding in India, which was time and again acknowledged as the world’s largest democracy. Although the Labour party had the maximum number of MPs participating in the discussion — 10 out of 18 — representatives of the Scottish National Party, the ruling Conservative, Liberal-Democrat and Labour-Cooperative were one in expressing concern about the shrinking space for democracy in India. Only one MP — a Conservative — spoke up for the Modi government. The parliamentarians did not dispute the Indian government’s right to enact the farm laws. The concern was essentially about the manner in which India has handled the farmers’ protests. Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, the Labour MP for Slough and a Sikh, said: “Some supporters of the governing party in India have said that this is an internal matter — ‘Foreigners, keep your nose out of it’. I can tell them why everyone is so concerned. It is because human rights are universal, and a world in which they are upheld in all of our interests. “The millions of protesters are from across India and different faiths, yet because a significant number of them are Sikhs, they have been singled out and branded separatists and terrorists by unscrupulous elements of the mainstream Indian media. “It is part of a pattern where Muslim Indians are labelled as Pakistanis, Christians as being under foreign influence, and Sikhs as Khalistani separatists — but we see you, and so does the world. “Let me let members into a little secret about the Sikhs: they are taught to feed millions of those in need for free, year in and year out, regardless of background, colour or creed. They are brought up to stand up for the rights of others, so we can bet our bottom dollar that they will go to the nth degree to stand up for their own rights. “While I am at it, let me debunk another myth used to silence anyone in Britain who offers anything but praise: that they must apparently have a colonial hang-up. To those people, I say that while we spend most of our time discussing national issues, the beauty of being a British parliamentarian in the Mother of Parliaments is that almost every day we conduct debates about what is happening around the world.” Only one MP — Theresa Villiers, Tory member for Chipping Barnet — spoke up for Modi: “Reform of farm subsidy and support has been under active and intensive discussion in India for 20 years, and international bodies such as the International Monetary Fund have welcomed Prime Minister Modi’s attempt to take action on this challenge, which many of his predecessors have backed away from. “India is a country where respect for the rule of law and human rights is constitutionally protected and embedded in society. “The authorities’ approach to the protests should not shake our faith in that central truth. Rather than denigrating India with unjustified criticism, we should celebrate it as the democratic success story that it is.” Villiers’s party colleague Paul Bristow, however, said the Indian government had crossed a line in its response to the farmers’ protests; they “break accepted norms”. “India should conduct itself like a democracy and uphold its own Constitution,” he said, adding: “Upholding the law should never be allowed to slide into authoritarian oppression.” Bristow added: “The Indian government blocked the use of the Internet on mobile phones and arrested journalists, and now we read the reports of new legislation to force social media platforms to censor posts and break into encrypted messages. These are illiberal measures. The strength of feeling of protesters does not make them (the harsh measures) acceptable, and the excuse of national security does not make them any less authoritarian. My constituents with family connections to India are right to be worried.” Among those who intervened in the discussion was former Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn who said the nature in which the protesters have been dealt with in Delhi was “unprecedented”. Corbyn, who now sits as an Independent, said: “For all those hundreds of thousands of protesters in Delhi, many more have joined in, and when a national call was made for a strike, 250 million people took part in it — the biggest ever industrial dispute in the history of this planet — so we should think about why those people are protesting.” One Pakistani-origin MP, Tahir Ali, the Labour member for Birmingham Hall Green, went so far to say: “I am calling on the UK government to consider the imposition of sanctions — diplomatic and otherwise — on Prime Minister Modi and his government.” This demand was rejected by minister Adams who replied: “This sanctions regime, which we launched in July, enables the UK to impose sanctions on those who commit serious human rights violations or abuses. It is not appropriate to speculate on who may be designated under the regime in future, as to do so could very well reduce their impact.” Another MP with roots in Pakistan, Khalid Mahmood, member for Birmingham, Perry Barr, said that when the farmers “have sought a peaceful change to the legislation, the Indian government has abused them and delivered lathi charges — charges by the police with batons of wood. They hit elderly people and women.” A third Pakistani-origin MP, Naz Shah of Labour, said: “The truth is that we should not need someone such as Rihanna to speak up on such issues as the farmers’ protests in India is for the world to take notice, but that in some ways explains how the world now works. The powerful are heard with a single tweet, while the average person’s voice is often ignored. That is one of the central arguments that the Indian farmers are making.” According to the external affairs ministry, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla summoned UK high commissioner Alexander Ellis and conveyed India’s “strong opposition to the unwarranted and tendentious discussion on agricultural reforms in India in the British Parliament”. India said it “represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country”; adding that “British MPs should refrain from practising vote-bank politics by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy”. The Indian high commission in London has described the debate as “distinctly one-sided”. In a statement released after the 90-minute discussion that was wrapped up close to midnight in India, the high commission said it had been “taking care to inform all concerned about the issues raised in the petition”. “We deeply regret that rather than a balanced debate, false assertions — without substantiation or facts — were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy and its institutions,” the high commission said about the discussion, which it described as “involving a small group of H’ble parliamentarians in a limited quorum”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Information “not available” on Shah’s claim of bomb factories in Bengal:  Union home ministry||If Amit Shah has inside information on bomb-making factories in Bengal, his home ministry does not appear to have been brought up to speed. The Union home minister had said in an interview to a news channel last October that “bomb-making factories are present in every district of West Bengal”. But the Union home ministry has replied to an RTI query that information on Shah’s claim “is not available” with it, according to transparency activist Saket Gokhale. In fact, the Union home ministry has advised Gokhale to approach Bengal police to obtain the “factual information”. “The information asked by you vide point number 1 to 3 is not available with the offices of which the undersigned is the CPIO (central public information officer)…,” says the March 3 reply attributed to the home ministry, which has been uploaded by Gokhale on Twitter. Email and text messages sent by this newspaper to the home ministry for corroboration and comment did not elicit any response till late on Tuesday night. Shah had in the TV interview claimed that law and order had “gone for a toss in” in Bengal. “There are bomb-making factories in every district of Bengal,” he had said while speaking on the poll-bound state. Gokhale had filed a four-point RTI application on October 18, asking for “(1) A list of bomb-making factories district-wise in Bengal as referred to by Amit Shah (2) Whether MHA had briefed Shah about this (3) Whether Shah’s remarks were based on official inputs/records by agencies and the ministry.” According to the reply attributed to the Union home ministry and bearing the sign of Praveen Kumar Rai, director (CT)&CPIO, “it is further informed that ‘police’ and ‘public order’ are State subjects as Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India and State Police is the first responder in case of any criminal/terrorist activity. Therefore, you may obtain the factual information from CPIOs of State Police….” Gokhale said the ministry was silent on his fourth query — whether a list of the purported bomb factories in every district of Bengal, as mentioned by the Union home minister, had been shared with the Bengal government or Bengal police. “They haven’t done that. Why? Because no such factories exist,” he tweeted. “It is SHOCKING that the Union Home Minister of India would openly perpetrate fake news about internal security matters just to malign & insult the state of West Bengal for electoral gains. How can the Home Minister be trusted when he lies openly on record about things?” Gokhale tweeted. “This blatant lying also happens because mainstream interviewers & reporters NEVER ask the ruling party to provide sources or facts to back their claims. They never challenge their falsehood. And this is why they manage to push such lies with impunity,” he said. Gokhale said it was not easy obtaining information on Shah’s claim. “Getting this info wasn’t easy. MHA stalled giving a response since October. Even 1st appeal wasn’t responded to. An MHA official called me & said ‘we’ve been told not to reply on this’. Finally got the response after issuing a legal notice last week,” the activist claimed on Twitter. Last year Shah’s home ministry had in reply to an RTI query filed by Gokhale admitted that the “Ministry of Home Affairs has no information concerning tukde-tukde gang”. The derogatory term is used liberally by BJP politicians and sections of the media to refer to the critics of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Delhi High Court to fliers: Wear masks right ||Delhi High Court has taken note of air passengers not wearing masks properly and issued guidelines to all domestic airlines and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for strict compliance. Justice C. Hari Shankar saw passengers not wearing masks properly on a flight and took suo motu cognisance. The guidelines say masks should be worn covering the nose and mouth. If any passenger refuses to comply before take-off, they should be offloaded. Passengers refusing to comply in air should have action taken against them, which could include placing them on a “no-fly” regimen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Antilia case: Wife suspects police inspector's role ||Vimla Hiren, wife of Mansukh Hiren who was found dead days after a vehicle that had been in his possession was seized from near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence with explosives inside, has told the anti-terrorism squad that she suspects assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze’s role in the death. Mansukh, who had a vehicle spare parts business, had said the Scorpio had been stolen a week before it was found near the Ambani residence on February 25. He was found dead in a creek on March 5. Vimla in her statement on March 7 said the Scorpio, owned by Peter Newton, was in the possession of the Hiren family for the past three years with Newton’s consent. Her husband knew Vaze who was a regular client, she said. In November 2020, he had given the Scorpio to Vaze to use, Vimla said, adding that the police officer returned it on February 5, 2021. Vimla said on March 3, Mansukh told her Vaze had asked him to get arrested in the case and assured help to get him out on bail within 2-3 days. She advised him against this and he seemed tense. On March 4, her husband said he was going to consult the police who were their well-wishers. After 11pm his phone became unreachable. His brother Vinod called Vaze who advised him to wait till morning, she said. The next day Mansukh’s body was found in the creek.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Delhi High Court takes up digital news media rules||Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought the Centre’s response on a plea challenging the new rules regulating digital news media, responding to an appeal that dubbed them palpably illegal in seeking to control online platforms. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notices to the ministry of electronics and information technology and the ministry of information and technology, and granted them time to file their response. The high court was hearing a petition filed by the Foundation for Independent Journalism that said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, issued by the government on February 25 were palpably illegal in seeking to control and regulate digital news media when the parent IT Act nowhere provides for such a remit.  The plea said the new IT rules had profound and serious harms for digital news media outlets like the petitioner and destructive of their rights. It sought to declare the “IT rules as void and inoperative insofar as these define and apply to publishers of news and current affairs content”. Besides the Foundation for Independent Journalism, the other two petitioners are its director and founding editor of The Wire news portal, Mangalam Kesavan Venu, and founder and editor-in-chief of The News Minute, Dhanya Rajendran. The petitioners urged the high court to grant them interim protection so that no coercive steps are taken against digital news media outlets by the authorities till the next date of hearing on April 16. The bench said the petitioners may move the court with an application if any coercive action is taken. Advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing the petitioners, contended that regulation of news content is not within the Information Technology (IT) Act’s purpose and added that she was not at all saying that news media was beyond regulation. “The new rules go far beyond anything that is permissible in a democracy,” she argued. The petition has challenged the new rules as being ultra vires the IT Act, as they set up a classification of “publishers of news and current affairs content” as part of “digital media”, and seek to regulate news portals by imposing government oversight and a “code of ethics” that stipulates such vague conditions as “good taste” and “decency”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Satellite image aid to douse Similipal fire||The Odisha government has sought the help of National Remote Sensing Centre, Hyderabad, for providing it satellite images of the fire raging in the forests of Similipal, the second largest biosphere of Asia and other major forests of the state. The core area of Similipal biosphere includes a tiger reserve in Mayurbhanj district and its periphery areas touch two other districts — Balasore and Keonjhar. Newly appointed head of the task force for controlling forest fires, Dr Sandeep Tripathi, former Principal chief conservator of forests and head of forest force, told The Telegraph on Tuesday, “We are getting NRSC help and they are sharing images of the fire inside the forest area. Through satellite images, we will be able to know the extent of the damage and the new fires starting at new places. Accordingly, we will chalk out plans to control the fire. Two days ago, they shared the images of 400 hectares of forest burning inside Similipal.” The state government has included head of forest and ecology, NRSC, Hyderabad, as members of the task force constituted on Monday to offer suggestions for improvement of standard operating procedure (SoP) for fire prevention and management to curb such occurrences. “We are also taking the help of Forest Survey of India (FSI), Dehradun and Indian Council of Forest Research and Education, Dehradun to tackle the growing forest fire incident. “The DG FSI and representative of Director General, ICFRE have been included in the task force. They will process the data from the satellite and inform about the extent of loss compared to last year. Then we will sit and formulate strategies to contain the spread of fire,” Tripathi said. “Basing on the satellite images, we are everyday re-deploying and mobilising the personnel in the Similipal forest area to douse the fire. But the intense heat wave has piled upon the misery of people as it helps spread of fire,” said a senior official. The fire in Similipal forest is yet to be doused despite 1,000 forest and fire brigade personnel being put on the task. Meanwhile, the state government has also cancelled leaves of all forest personnel under Baripada Forest Division (Baripada is the headquarters of Mayurbhanj district) for indefinite period. Assistant fire officer Prakash Kumar Jena, Baripada told this newspaper: “The number of fire calls from the periphery of Similipal has come down to 100. Besides, forest officials and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), fire brigade officials are also on the job to douse the fire.” Forest fires have also been reported from areas in Sambalpur, Sundergarh, Kendrapara and Koraput districts. Official sources said the forest fires have been reported at 918 places across the state. Though animals, particularly deer have started moving towards villages, Tripathi maintained that not a single animal casualty has been reported so far. Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF incharge) Jitendra Kumar told the reporters, “Forest fire is nothing new. But as the temperature in February was relatively high compare to other years, there were fire incidents reported from different parts of the state. “There has been no rain so far. Once it takes place, it will make a big change.” The state level task force headed by Tripathi has been asked to make a review of ongoing forest fire incidents, causes and immediate containment, suggest measure for augmentation of existing fire management protocols, including Geomatics based fire alert system, recommend suggestions for improved community participation in fire management and prevention, to conduct post assessment of forest fire affected area, loss to wildlife, biodiversity and suggest measures for augmentation. In another development, Sambalpur forest division announced a cash reward of Rs 5000 for sharing information about people burning dry leaves leading to loss of wild life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Fuel price hike row halts House again||The Opposition on Tuesday stalled Parliament proceedings for the second day in a row to protest against rising fuel prices, demanding an immediate discussion. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha witnessed loud protests, forcing repeated adjournments as the presiding officers refused the Opposition’s demand to suspend the scheduled House businesses of the day and discuss fuel prices first. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla conducted Question Hour for sometime in the din but gave up and adjourned the House as the Opposition, mostly Congress members, raised anti-government slogans and demanded reduction in fuel prices. As the Lok Sabha assembled for the day at 11am, Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury complained to the Speaker about “digital discrimination”, claiming Lok Sabha TV cameras don’t show what the Opposition says. Birla objected, saying: “Do you want to show to the people of this country the uproar and placards?” Adhir replied: “We don’t wave placards.… Parliament is not only for the government.” Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi intervened and asked whether the Opposition wanted the ruckus it created to be shown on TV. After taking up a couple of questions related to the agriculture and fisheries sector, Birla adjourned the House till noon. Post-noon the Lok Sabha was adjourned till 2pm and then for the day as the Opposition refused to call off their protest. Similar scenes were witnessed in the upper House too. Four notices were given on Tuesday for suspension of business to discuss the fuel price hike. Deputy chairman Harivansh said the chairman had already ruled on the issue a day earlier and the decision could not be revisited. The House was adjourned within 20 minutes of the first hour. Efforts to take up Question Hour also proved futile as the Opposition continued to demand a separate discussion on fuel prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Urgent plea in Supreme Court on poll bonds ||The Association for Democratic Rights (ADR) on Tuesday urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the Reserve Bank “not to open any further window for the sale of electoral bonds” ahead of elections in Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. According to the NGO, the BJP has received more than 60 per cent of the total electoral bonds issued till date. Bonds worth more than Rs 6,500 crore have been sold so far. Almost 99 per cent of the bonds purchased are of denominations between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore, which shows that large corporations, not individual citizens, are purchasing them, the ADR said. The ADR has moved a fresh “urgent application” before the top court, pleading that its earlier “urgent application on October 10, 2020, has not yet been listed”. “The petitioner has now filed an application for directions to the respondents not to open any further sale window for… electoral bonds and not to allow any further sale in light of the fact that the RBI and the Election Commission had both objected to the EB scheme. Furthermore, data obtained through RTI has shown that illegal sale windows have been opened in the past to benefit certain political parties,” the application jointly filed through advocates Prashant Bhushan and Nehta Rathi stated. “…There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks that no further opening of window for the sale of EBs be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition,” the application added. The ADR recalled that it had as early as on September 4, 2017, filed a PIL citing alleged corruption and subversion of democracy through illicit and foreign funding of political parties. In that PIL the ADR had urged the apex court to strike down certain amendments made through the Finance Act, 2017, and the Finance Act, 2016, both passed as money bills. According to the ADR, the electoral bonds scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies, which can have serious repercussions for Indian democracy. The Finance Act of 2017 had introduced the use of electoral bonds that are exempt from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951. The amendment removed the cap of 7.5 per cent of net profit in the last three years on campaign donations by companies and legalised anonymous donations. The ADR pointed out that in 2017 it had placed on record the following details for the consideration of the court: ⦾ The Election Commission had through a letter dated May 26, 2017, and the RBI vide letters dated January 31, September 14 and 27, 2017, had objected to electoral bonds and advised against the issuance of such documents as a mode for donation to political parties. ⦾ The Prime Minister’s Office had ordered special and illegal sale of bonds just before Assembly polls in Karnataka in May 2018 in violation of the electoral bonds scheme. ⦾ Another special sale window for electoral bonds was opened between November 1 and 10 before the Assembly elections in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Mizoram, Rajasthan and Telangana. ⦾ As per data on electoral bonds declared by political parties in their audit reports for the financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19, the BJP had received more than 60 per cent of the total electoral bonds issued. Corporations were being allowed to make unlimited anonymous donations to the ruling party because of amendments in the Finance Acts of 2016 and 2017. Pointing out that the issue relating to electoral bonds was heard more than a year ago, the ADR cited the upcoming elections and pleaded on Tuesday: “…the instant matter requires urgent adjudication by this Hon’ble Court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||India||Assembly ticket discontent in Kerala CPM||The CPM is facing resentment against the choice of candidates in Kerala Assembly seats where the Left Democratic Front is seeking a second consecutive term in office. While dissent has been brewing in many districts, matters came to a head with hundreds of CPM workers taking to the streets at Kuttiyadi in Kozhikode district and in Ponnani in neighbouring Malappuram district on Monday against the party’s decisions. New faces who are not the choice of the majority of cadres have been proposed to be fielded in many seats as several sitting MLAs are making way for others after having completed two terms and some seats have been assigned to a new entrant into the LDF — the Kerala Congress (Mani). A few local committee members even resigned in Ponnani on Tuesday, protesting the party’s decision to field P. Nandakumar instead of popular leader T.M. Siddique. While the official candidates’ list has yet to be finalised, the CPM has zeroed in on names in most of the 140 constituencies going to polls on April 6. The protest in Kuttiyadi was against the Left Democratic Front’s decision to give the seat to the Kerala Congress (Mani). CPM cadres want their party to field local leader K.P. Kunjammad Kutty. Simmering discontentment over the denial of a ticket to CPM powerhouse P. Jayarajan, whom many see as the next Pinarayi Vijayan, has led to dissent in Kannur. Sports minister E.P. Jayarajan and Kannur district secretary M.V. Jayarajan are also unlikely to be fielded this time. The omission of P. Jayarajan has caused much heartburn among his followers, one of whom quit from the Kannur sports council in protest. P. Jayarajan has, however, distanced himself from the developments. Similarly, strong resentment has come to haunt the party and the LDF in several other constituencies, either over giving the seats to KC (M) or picking candidates against the wishes of the majority view. Manjeshwar in Kasaragod bordering Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka is one of the seats the BJP is betting on apart from Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram that it won in 2016. The BJP is considering to field its state president K. Surendran to try his luck in Manjeshwar for a second time after losing by 89 votes to the Congress-led United Democratic Front. Local CPM cadres have launched a protest against the CPM’s decision to pick K.R. Jayananda to take on the might of the BJP and the UDF in Manjeshwar. Posters have appeared in various parts of the constituency against the choice. Similar posters have been seen at Kalamassery in Ernakulam district and Alappuzha where the CPM has decided to field P. Rajeev and P.P. Chittaranjan, respectively. While the dissenters are against nominating Rajiv from anywhere, the objection in Alappuzha is about leaving out well-liked party veteran and public works minister G. Sudhakaran due to the CPM’s two-term norm. The general feeling among party cadres is that the CPM would suffer if leaders like Sudhakaran and finance minister Thomas Isaac are left out due to the two-term policy. CPM leaders have been varying in their response to what is essentially anti-party activities in the state ahead of the crucial elections. Acting state secretary and LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said he had only “seen the protests on TV” and added: “I cannot say anything more than that.” But CPM central committee member M.V. Govindan admitted to the dissent. “There have been issues when seats have been given to LDF partners (even in the past). That is usually sorted out at the organisational level,” he told reporters in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata injured during campaigning in Nandigram, alleges ‘conspiracy’||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday that she was attacked by "four-five men" who manhandled her during the election campaign in Nandigram, because of which she was injured in the left leg. The incident happened around 6.15 pm when Banerjee was about to leave Birulia area near Reyapara after praying at a local temple. "I was standing outside my car with the door open. I was praying from there on seeing a temple. Few people came around my car and pushed the door. The door hit my leg," she said. Banerjee alleged that she was pushed by four-five men while she was trying to get into the car, following which fell flat on her face. The chief minister said that her leg got swollen because of the injury and she was feeling feverish, besides having chest pain. Pointing to her leg, she told reporters, "See how it has swollen." "Some people deliberately did it. Of course, it is a conspiracy. There were no local policemen around me, neither the district police superintendent was present at the spot," she alleged. The chief minister also has severe pain in the waist, TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, who is at present in Nandigram, said. Banerjee was seen being carried by her security personnel to the backseat of her SUV from the front seat, which she usually occupies during travel, as she was in pain. A white cloth was also wrapped around her injured leg. The incident triggered a security scare as the chief minister gets Z-plus protection. The Election Commission of India sought a report from the state police on the alleged attack, an official said. Banerjee, who was supposed to stay the night in Nandigram in the Purba Medinipur district, was rushed back to Calcutta, around 130 km away, through a green corridor. She was taken to the state-run SSKM Hospital for treatment. The state government constituted a team of five senior doctors to treat Banerjee, Health Department sources said. In the team were a cardiologist, an endocrinologist, a general surgery doctor, an orthopedist and a medicine doctor, they said. Banerjee was taken to the 12.5 special cabin in the Woodburn Block of the hospital on a stretcher as her convoy reached the hospital, amid a huge presence of her supporters who raised slogans against the BJP. "We will stabilise her first. An X-ray will be conducted on her leg. We need to find out the degree of her injury and then the course of our treatment will be decided," a doctor at the hospital told PTI. The chief minister's nephew Abhishek Banerjee, a TMC MP, and state ministers Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee were present at the hospital. State Health Secretary NS Nigam was also present. Banerjee was in Nandigram over the last two days to campaign for the upcoming elections. Earlier in the day, she filed her nominations in Haldia. Banerjee is pitted from the seat against her former aide Suvendu Adhikari, who switched over to the BJP a few months back. The TMC leadership claimed that the attack was a well-planned conspiracy to "remove her" from the poll campaign. "Many people don't want her to campaign for the elections. They want her to be removed from their path. That is why she has been attacked by goons. People will give a befitting reply," state minister and senior TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee said. The BJP alleged that Banerjee was trying to turn a "simple accident" into a "pre-planned conspiracy", and demanded a CBI investigation. "It can happen that she met with an accident but to claim that she was deliberately pushed is not acceptable. She has a lot of security personnel guarding her round the clock," BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said. "Such tactics to gain sympathy are unacceptable. I think the matter should be handed over to the CBI for an investigation," he added. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said such "tactics to gain sympathy" would not work this time. "Mamata Banerjee is the police minister of the state and if she is not safe then she should immediately resign from the post," he said. CPI(M) candidate from Nandigram Minakshi Mukherjee wished her a speedy recovery, but asserted that "people would not be fooled this time".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP fields actor Hiran Chatterjee from Kharagpur Sadar||The BJP on Wednesday named Bengali actor Hiran Chatterjee, who recently joined the party, as its candidate from Kharagpur Sadar assembly seat, ending speculations whether party's state party chief and MP Dilip Ghosh would be fielded from there. The party also fielded Supriti Chatterjee from Barjora seat, raising the number of women contestants to seven, for the 60 seats in the first two phases of the polls. Hiran Chatterjee is the first Tollywood actor to be fielded by the BJP for the upcoming assembly polls, beginning on March 27. The actor named as Hiranmoy Chatterjee in the official BJP list told PTI, "I will follow the party's decision. If the BJP asks me to campaign from today, I am ready. Our common objective is to build a Sonar Bangla." He is among several Bengali actors like Rudranil Ghosh, Srabanti Chatterjee and Payel Sarkar who had joined the BJP in past one month. The BJP had earlier announced names of candidates for the remaining 58 seats where polling would be held in the first two phases. On Saturday, the saffron party had released its first list of 57 candidates for the first two phases and announced the name of another candidate on Monday. Medinipur MP Dilip Ghosh's name was doing the rounds for the Kharagpur Sadar seat, which he had won in 2016. Ghosh had vacated the seat after being elected as an MP in 2019. The BJP had lost the Kharagpur Sadar seat during assembly by-poll in December, 2019. The party gave emphasis to new faces and candidates belonging to backward communities as most of the seats where polling will be held in the first phase are either reserved seats or have a high density of SC and ST population. The eight-phase polling for 294 assembly seats is poised to be a stiff contest between the TMC and the BJP. PTI SUS MM||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: I can never forget Nandigram, says Mamata after filing nomination ||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday filed her nomination for Nandigram assembly seat, where she will take on her former protege and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari and exuded confidence of winning it saying she has never returned empty-handed from the land of anti-farm land acquisition movement. Accompanied by TMC president Subrata Bakshi, Banerjee filed her papers at the Haldia sub-divisional office here after taking part in a 2-km roadshow. She offered prayers at a temple before filing her nomination, and at another after doing so. "I am confident about my victory from the Nandigram assembly seat. I could have easily contested from Bhawanipur seat (which she represents). "When I had visited Nandigram in January, there was no MLA from here as the sitting MLA had resigned. I looked at the faces of the common people and decided to contest from here," she said after filing her paper. Deputy chairman of East Midnapore zilla parishad Sheikh Sufiyan has been appointed as Banerjee's election agent. "I have never returned empty-handed from here. Nandigram is not just a name, it is the name of a movement. Bhulte pari sobar naam, bhulbo nako Nandigram (I can forget everyone's name, but can never forget Nandigram). That's the significance of this place for me," the TMC supremo said. Banerjee said that she had made up her mind this time to contest either from the Singur or Nandigram - the cradles of the anti-farm land acquisition movement which had catapulted her to power in 2011. "My feeling is very clear - no one can divide this place along religious lines. During the Nandigram movement all the communities had participated in it. Those who are lecturing now about its legacy were nowhere when violence was unleashed here. I was fighting alone," she said. The fiesty TMC chief will contest from Nandigram for the first time after relinquishing her Bhowanipore constituency in Calcutta. She has rented a house in Nandigram and will campaign from there. Nandigram assembly constituency is set for a high octane battle with Banerjee deciding to contest from the seat against Adhikari, who recently switched over to the saffron camp. Adhikari, who too filed his nomination paper for the seat on Wednesday, called her an "outsider" to Nandigram and himself a "bhoomiputra" (son of the soil). He had won the Nandigram seat in the 2016 assembly poll, while another TMC candidate emerged victorious from the constituency in 2011. Adhikari had quit TMC and resigned from the assembly late last year to join BJP following differences with the state's ruling party. Both the leaders were prominent figures in the the anti-farm land acquisition movement in Nandigram in 2007 that had catapulted Banerjee to power in West Bengal in 2011 ending the 34-year-long rule of the Left Front. The little known rural area, which had witnessed one of the bloodiest movements against the government's acquisition of cultivable land for industrialisation, had then changed the political landscape of the Bengal. Now after more than a decade of peace, Nandigram, home to 70 per cent Hindus and 30 per cent Muslims, is witnessing political and communal polarisation. The Muslims are firmly behind TMC that has controlled the area for the last 15 years. The constituency mainly comprises two blocks -- Nandigram I and Nandigram II -- with the first having 30 per minority population and the second almost 15 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP old-timer ire at Trinamul Congress turncoat||Murmurs of discontent over new BJP inductees among old-timers in Malda punctured the celebratory mood in the saffron camp a day after the party brought in a number of Trinamul leaders, including Gour Chandra Mondal, the sabhadhipati of Malda zilla parishad, on board. Even as BJP state leaders were busy chest thumping, some local leaders and workers of the BJP were heard questioning why these Trinamul leaders, who had been at odds with the party and had even resorted to malpractices to defeat BJP candidates in earlier elections, were brought into the party. Among those vocal on the issue include Anil Mondal, a BJP leader of Manikchak of the district. According to party insiders, back in 2018, Anil, who had contested from a Zilla Parishad seat against Gour, had accused the Trinamul leader of unethical activities during the rural polls. “He had manipulated the counting. I had moved to the Calcutta High Court, challenging his unlawful victory. Our party leader Mukul Roy had assured me to provide all sorts of support to continue fighting against Gour. Now, he has been brought to the party. Since 2018, Gour filed at least five false complaints with the police against me and tormented around 1,000-odd BJP workers of Manikchak in some way or the other,” a disgruntled Anil said on Tuesday. Such blatant remarks by him has left the district BJP leader flummoxed. While some of them admitted Anil’s grudge is genuine, others said that they would resolve the issue soon. “Anil Mandal is a BJP veteran and had moved court after the 2018 panchayat polls to file a case against Gour Chandra. But the situation has changed now. We would request him to reconcile for the interest of the party,” said Gobinda Chandra Mondal, the district BJP president of Malda. Anil, however, is not ready to budge and has said that if Gour is fielded as the BJP candidate from Manikchak Assembly seat, he will stand as an Independent. It is believed that as Trinamul did not choose sabhadhipati Gour as its candidate, he joined the BJP. Gour, when told about Anil’s remarks, was diplomatic. “Anil Mondal is a good human being. I will speak to him once I reach Malda on Wednesday,” said Gour. While the BJP is busy addressing grievances fomenting within the rank and file of the party, Trinamul has taken the task to control the damage. On Monday, Sarala Murmu who had received a ticket from Trinamul, and 14 members of the Trinamul-run Zilla Parishad of Malda, led by Sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mondal, joined BJP. They were accompanied by many office bearers of Trinamul and its frontal organisations of Malda. “The sudden defection of so many members has naturally disappointed many of us. But it is now clear that BJP resorted to money politics to break Trinamul. However, many of those zilla parishad members, who were misled into joining the BJP, are likely to return to Trinamul,” said Mausam Noor, district Trinamul chief of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Ex-councillor Nantu Paul sticks to word, quits Trinamul Congress||Nantu Paul, the dissident Trinamul leader who had threatened to quit the party on not getting the party ticket from the Siliguri Assembly seat, stuck to his stand despite efforts from his colleagues to make him stay. Paul, a popular political face in the city, on Tuesday resigned from Trinamul and stepped down from his official posts. For the past few days, Paul had been vocal about his disappointment over Trinamul’s decision to field Omprakash Mishra from Siliguri. He repeatedly said that the party should have selected a local leader as the candidate and that he would stand as an Independent from Siliguri. “I will contest the elections as an Independent,” he said on Sunday, when Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee was in the town for a mega rally against LPG price hike. On Tuesday afternoon, Paul reached the office of Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) here and resigned as SJDA vice-chairman. Earlier, he went to the Kanchenjunga Stadium and resigned as vice-chairman of North Bengal Board for Development of Sports and Games. “I have resigned from all official posts. Also, I have sent a letter to the district president of Trinamul and have resigned from the primary membership of the party,” he said. A number of posters were put in across the city in his support later in the day. The posters, under the banner of Siliguri Unnayan Samiti with his photograph, said the samiti stood by him. Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president, said he hadn’t received Paul’s letter of resignation. “He is a senior leader and I have asked him to reconsider his decision,” said Sarkar. In another development, Lalit Pramanik, a former deputy chief of Cooch Behar Zilla Parishad, left Trinamul for the BJP. Pramanik, based in Mathabhanga of the district, said old-timers like him were being ignored in Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Farm leaders set for Nandigram rally on March 13||Leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the farmers’ body spearheading the national protests against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, will address a rally on March 13 in East Midnapore’s Nandigram, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is taking on Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. “We have been invited by a group of Sikh sympathisers from Bengal to campaign in favour of our movement at four places in the state, including Nandigram and Singur. Some of us will be participating in these programmes,” said Hannan Mollah, CPM leader and general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. “From March 11 to 14, we will be in Bengal. There will be multiple programmes across the state and we will participate in them,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. Nandigram has regained political significance in Bengal politics prior to the Assembly polls after chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that she would contest from the seat. Following the announcement, the BJP decided to field former Trinamul minister Suvendu Adhikari against Banerjee. The Left Front-Congress-ISF alliance is yet to declare the candidate in Nandigram. Both Nandigram and Singur had been the sites of historic peasant movements and played pivotal roles in Mamata’s accession to power in 2011. After Adhikari switched to the BJP in December 2020, Mamata decided to contest from Nandigram. The meetings at Nandigram and Singur have been organised by the West Bengal Kisan Coordination Committee, an association of the representatives from Bengal’s Sikh community who sympathise with the farmers’ protests. The body will hold two other rallies, one at Calcutta and another at Asansol. Although the meetings are being pitched as apolitical, both Mollah and Rajewal said they would be campaigning against the BJP in Bengal, as they had been doing in rest of the country. “We will be requesting the people to punish the BJP and its allies because they have not been accepting the genuine demands of the farmers for the past three months,” Rajewal said. “We will not be campaigning for any party in particular,” he added. Sources in Trinamul feel the farmers’ campaign at places like Nandigram and Singur would only help Mamata in her battle against the BJP. Although the Left-Congress-ISF alliance has come up as a strong third contender, the primary tussle is still between Trinamul and the saffron camp. “If farmer leaders can successfully convince the peasants to work against the BJP, the consolidation of votes in favour of Trinamul will increase,” a Trinamul leader said. This probability has, however, sparked a controversy amongst the agitators themselves. Leaders like Yogendra Yadav and CPM’s Mollah are unwilling to let Trinamul reap benefits from their agitation, sources said. Hence, some of them like Yadav might decide against participating in the Nandigram rally. Rakesh Tikait, another face of the farmers’ agitation and spokesperson for the Bharatiya Kisan Union, might be present at Nandigram. One of the organisers said while initially it was decided that the meeting at Nandigram would be held on March 13 morning followed by the programme in Calcutta, the events were later swapped since Tikait would be reaching Calcutta on March 13 morning. “We wanted Tikait to be at Nandigram. Hence, we pushed it to later in the day,” the source said. On March 12, leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will address a news conference in Calcutta and participate in a tractor rally from Esplanade to Ramlila Maidan. At Ramlila Maidan, they will address a Kisan Maha Panchayat on lines of those being held by the Morcha in several north Indian states. On March 13, they will address one meeting at Calcutta in the morning and another in Nandigram in the evening. On March 14, similar meetings will be held in Singur and Asansol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: BJP faces dissidents in seven seats||BJP dissidents on Tuesday filed nominations to contest as Independents in at least seven Assembly constituencies which would go to the polls in the first phase on March 27. Elections will be held to 30 Assembly seats in the first phase and Tuesday was the last date of nomination filing. The BJP old timers filed the nominations as Independents in West Midnapore, Bankura and Purulia as they were “unhappy” with “unpopular” candidates declared by the BJP and allocation of a seat for the partner, All Jharkhand Students’ Union (AJSU). Dhiman Koley and Pradip Lodha filed the papers in West Midnapore’s Salboni and Garbeta, respectively. In Purulia, Gopinath Goswami filed nomination in Balarampur, Nepal Chandra Mahato in Joypur and Swapan Bauri in Para. Defying the party’s decision to leave the Baghmundi seat in Purulia to the AJSU, BJP old timer Shankar Kumar has filed nomination as an Independent. Similarly, two local BJP leaders — Dinanath Chatterjee and Tapan Mahanto — have filed papers to contest from the Chhatna constituency of Bankura against the party’s nominee Satyanarayan Mukherjee. The rebel leaders said Mukherjee, who is a native of Bankura’s Gangajalghati, was “an outsider and hence, did not represent the constituency”. Among the rebels, Koley was former president of the West Midnapore district committee, while Lodha was the vice-president. The Independent in Balarampur, Gopinath Goswami, is a sitting zilla parishad member, while Mahato is the BJP’s mandal committee president. BJP Bankura district president Vivekananda Patra said: “BJP workers who have filed nomination papers against the party’s official nominee will have no truck with the party.” The rebels, however, suffered a setback in West Midnapore when two old timers, who had agreed to contest as Independents from Midnapore and Kharagpur, respectively, did not turn up. Asked about the dilemma among the rebels, Lodha said: “The district leadership had managed to convince them to join the campaign for the official candidates. But Dhiman Koley and I remain firm to fight the polls as Independents in protest against the party’s decision.” The rebellion in Purulia’s Balarampur and Joypur is worrying the BJP leadership as the two places had played a significant role in the growth of the saffron party in the district after three party workers had allegedly been killed by Trinamul supporters. “Our three martyrs — Trilochan Mahato, Dulal Kumar and Jagannath Tudu — had to sacrifice their lives in 2018 to establish the BJP in Purulia. A large number of BJP workers and leaders started protesting against the party’s decision to field Baneshwar Mahato from Balarampur. I filed nomination today (Tuesday) on the advice of a majority of district leaders to save the party,” said Goswami. However, BJP’s Purulia district president Vidyasagar Chakraborty said: “We will not tolerate such anti-party activities and stern action will be taken against them.” The show of rebellion has come as a headache for BJP leaders, who expect more such cases of factional feud once the names of all candidates are announced. “This is just the beginning. The cracks within the party will widen once the total list of candidates is out. However, we will try to manage dissent,” said a senior state BJP leader and added that many of those who had filed papers would withdraw from the race by March 12, which is the last date for withdrawal of nomination for the first phase. Apart from the ire over choice of candidates, BJP’s attempt at inorganic growth through inductions has angered party workers at the grassroots level. The induction of Basirhat’s Trinamul MLA Dipendu Biswas was met with protests at several places in the North 24-Parganas district. BJP supporters held protest rallies in the town and set fire to the cut-outs and banners of the former India footballer who switched sides after he was denied a ticket by Trinamul. BJP leader in Basirhat, Kaushik Dutta, said: “Dipendu is an opportunist who exploited many youths only to win their support by making false promises for jobs. It is unfortunate that the party did not bother to understand the anger of the people against Dipendu before inducting him into the party. It would be unfair if he is given a ticket to fight the polls. Party workers will oppose his candidature.” If the BJP is not a happy house over distribution of tickets, Trinamul is also facing a similar trouble in Murshidabad. A bunch of disgruntled Trinamul leaders left the party on Tuesday and said they would join the Congress soon. Led by senior Trinamul leader and Murshidabad zilla parishad member Maidul Islam, around 1,000 people quit the ruling party to protest against the nomination of Imami Biswas from Suti constituency. Former Suti block president Obaidur Rahaman and former panchayat samity chief Anikul Islam also left Trinamul, along with Maidul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP tops list of winners with cases: Election Watch||The BJP may have been a marginal force in Bengal before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but a recent study conducted by the Bengal chapter of the Election Watch revealed that the saffron party had the highest percentage of MPs and MLAs with criminal cases between 2004 and 2019. According to the study published virtually on Tuesday, 59 per cent or 17 of the 29 BJP MPs and MLAs elected since 2004 declared criminal cases against them. The report further reveals that 48 per cent or 14 of those lawmakers face serious criminal charges. In comparison, in the Trinamul Congress, 32 per cent or 171 of the 520 MPs and MLAs, elected since 2004, have criminal cases. Out of the total number of lawmakers with cases, 151 or 25 per cent have serious charges against them. “We have studied the affidavits submitted by the candidates in all general and assembly elections, and bypolls since 2004. Of all the elected candidates, the percentage of lawmakers with criminal cases is highest in the BJP,” said Ujjaini Halim, the state coordinator for Election Watch. A civil society body, West Bengal Election Watch is associated with the Association for Democratic Reforms and works independently towards electoral reforms and good governance. The WBEW has been publishing such studies prior to every Lok Sabha and Assembly poll for over a decade. In the ensuing Bengal Assembly polls, the affidavits of the candidates who file their nominations will be analysed and similar reports will be published over the eight poll phases, said Halim. Tuesday’s report also shows that in the state, BJP lawmakers are the wealthiest in terms of average worth of the assets declared by them in their affidavits. The average assets of the 29 BJP MPs and MLAs who have won since 2009 are worth Rs 2.27 crore, followed by 530 Trinamul lawmakers whose average assets are worth Rs 1.55 crore. In both these parameters, the percentage of tainted lawmakers and average asset worth — the CPM MPs and MLAs found their place at the bottom of the chart. While only 41 or 15 per cent of the 274 CPM lawmakers have criminal cases against them, their average asset is just worth Rs 22.37 lakh. The study has two broad categories. While it discusses the nature of all the candidates on one hand, on the other, it focuses on the candidates who were finally elected. “We have analysed a total of 6163 affidavits that were filed by the candidates since the 2004 Lok Sabha polls,” Halim said. Additionally, the WBEW has introduced a new section to this year’s report, which tries to predict the winning chances for a clean candidate and a person with criminal cases. According to the study, the chances of winning for a person with a clean image is only 15 per cent while that of a candidate with criminal cases is 28 per cent. “Our effort has always been to make voters aware…However, the findings of our winnability analysis is saddening,” Halim told the news conference. “It is very natural that BJP MPs and MLAs will have more criminal cases against them. This is because the Trinamul government has filed several cases against them just in order to either taint their image or stop them from campaigning in a full-fledged manner. Arjun Singh and Mukul Roy are such examples. None had any case against them when they were in Trinamul and when they switched to the BJP, they were booked under multiple criminal charges,” said election analyst and professor of political science Biswanath Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati issue: Prime Minister’s nominee Dulal Chandra Ghosh now dissenter||The nominee of Prime Minister and Chancellor Narendra Modi in the executive council, Dulal Chandra Ghosh, on Tuesday led around 100 retired teachers and staff of Visva-Bharati, to protest in front of the varsity’s central office against the varsity administration’s decision to scrap free medical consultation at the university hospital in Santiniketan. Ghosh, also the president of the Visva-Bharati Pensioners’ Association, has written  to the Prime Minister’s Office, requesting him to intervene and make the varsity administration reconsider. “Pensioners have been getting healthcare services at the hospital since the time of Rabindranath Tagore. Ever since vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty came here, he had been saying we will not be able to consult doctors at the hospital for free as the central government provides us Rs 1,000 a month as medical allowance. The varsity administration stopped the service since July 2020,” said Ghosh. Asked why he led the protest against the VC despite being a nominee of the Prime Minister in the varsity’s executive council, Ghosh said: “Look at the faces of these elderly people deprived of consulting doctors at the hospital. The VC told us that we have consumed Rs 1.20 crore by getting free health services from the varsity hospital. It is humiliation for pensioners.” Some varsity teachers said that things had come to such a pass that the Chancellor’s nominee had to protest. Visva-Bharati PRO Anirban Sircar issued a press release claiming that the varsity took the decision as “CAG has raised questions as to how pensioners could get free health service and Rs 1,000 allowance for health at a time”. A varsity official countered that had the administration wanted, the CAG could have been told that only consultation was free for pensioners and not medicines. The hospital was set up during Tagore’s lifetime to treat varsity staff and residents because healthcare services were very poor in Birbhum. Sources said in the 1950s the hospital was named after William Winstanley Pearson (1881-1923), the Cambridge graduate who had joined Santiniketan as a teacher in 1914.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||CPM and Congress tie-up triggers reception tweak||The electoral coalition between the CPM and the Congress has inspired two leaders of the respective parties in Durgapur town to take the spirit of the alliance home and readjust the timings of their sons’ wedding receptions to help common guests make it to both the events. CPM leader and blood donation activist, Kabi Ghosh, had fixed his son Kabya’s wedding on March 8 with a reception on March 10 and it clashed with the dates that Congress leader Tarun Roy had planned for his son Iman’s marriage. When the dates had been fixed, the poll bells did not toll and the February 28 mega-rally in Calcutta’s Brigade Parade Grounds had not been planned. The announcement of poll dates and the firming up of the alliance between the Left and the Congress got the two leaders thinking and they decided to send a message of unity through the wedding ceremonies of their sons. As both the events had a large number of common invitees, the two families opted to rework the ceremony timings. Both had planned to hold the receptions on Wednesday evening. To avoid the clash of the reception timings, CPM leader Ghosh has decided to host a lunch to enable common invitees to turn up for Roy’s dinner in the evening. “Under the earlier arrangement, most of us would have had to choose one function to attend in place of the other. Even if it was not poll time, this would not have been a good feeling,” said one invitee, a CPM worker from Durgapur town. Ghosh concurred, explaining that he was unaware of the clash of timings until recently, further explaining that Roy was also “a personal friend”. “Tarun Roy is one of my closest friends despite his association with the Congress, which was our rival earlier. When I came to know about the clash of dates, I immediately decided to adjust the timing of my son’s wedding reception,” he said. Asked, Roy said the two sat down earlier this week to find a solution after realising that it was posing a hurdle for the invitees, mostly leaders and workers from both the parties. “We have been friends for a long time but belonged to rival political parties. We are now political allies and the adjustment at the personal level will send a positive message to the rank and file of the parties,” said Roy. Both Ghosh and Roy said the adjustment of reception timing was meant to strengthen cordial bonding between the two parties in the town ahead of the polls. “It is understood that when we can adjust problems and differences of opinions on a personal level, the bonding between us will become stronger. It is a positive message to the grass root level of the party,” said Ghosh. Both expressed their conviction that the Sanjukta Morcha (the alliance between CPM, Congress and Indian the Secular Front) would come to power defeating both the Trinamul and BJP in May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission replaces police chief Virendra with P. Nirajnayan||The Election Commission has replaced director general (police) Virendra with P. Nirajnayan, a 1987-batch IPS officer currently posted as director general (administration) — the most significant rejig after the Bengal poll dates were announced. The order, issued by Rakesh Kumar, secretary of the poll panel, directed the chief secretary to execute the order “immediately” and send a compliance report by 10am on Wednesday. It also mentioned that the change was made after “reviewing the situation of poll preparedness” in the state on Tuesday. The Election Commission has said in its order that Virendra could not be sent to any post that involves any poll-related responsibility. Within 24 hours of the announcement of the election dates, the Election Commission had replaced Jawed Shamim, additional director general (law and order), with Jag Mohan. While it was still not clear why the DGP was transferred, a section of officials at Nabanna said the poll panel had acted on the basis of a series of complaints lodged by the BJP against Virendra over the last few days. “A delegation of the BJP had met the DGP a few days ago apprehending that postal ballots to be issued for police personnel could be misused under the direct involvement of police bosses. The BJP had lodged complaints with the EC that no step had been initiated in this regard even after the DGP had been informed in this regard,” said a source. A section of the officials also said the Election Commission was not satisfied with Virendra as the poll panel identified a series of flaws by the police administration ahead of the elections. First, the Election Commission had expressed its dissatisfaction with the non-execution of pending warrants in the state. The state had 50,000 pending warrants and the police administration could execute only 17,000 of them till last week. Second, the poll panel was apparently not happy with the police administration’s lack of interest in identifying the vulnerable areas in the state. Sudeep Jain, the deputy election commissioner, had pulled up the state administration for its lackadaisical attitude in identifying vulnerable areas properly. Third, the EC was unhappy with the state police as the bosses in the districts did not visit temporary structures — where polling stations would be set up in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic — till the last week of February. The Election Commission was unhappy because the total security arrangement plan could not be finalised until the police submits reports. “These might have triggered the change at the helm of the state’s police administration. The complaints by the BJP could have also played a role behind the change,” said a senior official. Nirajnayan, who would take over the charge early on Wednesday morning, is known to be an upright officer. He had worked in the CBI for years. He had earlier worked as the secretary in the home department in Bengal but he was transferred from the important post apparently after he had advised the state not to file “a politically motivated case” in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Religious symbolism marks chief minister's Nandigram tour  ||Chief minister and MLA-aspirant from Nandigram Mamata Banerjee held a public outreach here on Tuesday evening, after a meeting with Trinamul workers, a day before she files her nomination papers in Haldia. Nandigram, once the pivot of the anti-land acquisition movement that catapulted Mamata and her party to power in 2011, is now again the focus of this crucial Assembly elections, as Mamata takes on her trusted lieutenant-turned-bête noire Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. Mamata toured Nandigram for nearly four hours, paying visits to temples of sentimental value, at least two Shahid Bedis, sites of remembrance for those killed in the 2007 land agitations, and an Islamic shrine. Her multi-layered tour of the area comes soon after BJP neo-convert Adhikari shifted his voter registration to Nandigram from Haldia and declared he would “wait in line with people” to vote on April 1, the day Nandigram goes to polls in Bengal’s eight-phase polls. After ending her speech at Battala around 4pm, Mamata and a contingent of district leaders first went to the Basuli and Singha Bahini temples at Sonachura, some 16km from Battala, where the chief minister made offerings of fruits and vestments. Thereafter, they paid tributes at the Gokulnagar Shahid Bedi which marks the spot where land agitators in March 2007 lost their lives in clashes with the police. The entourage then proceeded to Chandimatha temple in Tekhali, the village where Mamata first broke news of her candidacy at a meeting on January 18, and were greeted by more than 1,000 cheering supporters. Widespread cries of “Didi we are with you”, alluding to the air of rivalry with Adhikari, were rife in the air. She then proceeded to the day’s second Shahid Bedi in Maheshpur’s Karpalli to pay her respects. The contingent visited a Sitala Mandir in Parul Bari and an Islamic shrine where the CM laid a scarf. The chief minister also made tea for people at a stall in Nandigram town at 6.30pm and ended the day at the Janakinath temple in Reyapara. Religious symbolism was rife through the day as Mamata also made a notable change of itinerary in deciding to spend the night at a home in Reyapara, a Hindu-dominated area, that the party has leased for a year. Sources said earlier plans were for her to stay in Battala, a minority area. Speaking to residents, she even pointed out “there is a Shib Mandir right by the house I am staying in,” making it clear that her plans for the constituency have to do with appealing to the “homegrown” sentiments as much as to ensure that Adhikari, with the polarisation card of his party, does not swing the Hindu vote. Mamata also declared on Battala earlier on Tuesday that she would build a small home in Nandigram this year. Trinamul block president Swadesh Das said Mamata had “won Nandigram’s heart” following her Tuesday tour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata visits Nandigram for first time after announcing candidature||Mamata Banerjee has chosen Nandigram to launch the second biggest battle of her life, too, taking by the horns the bull of polarisation and daring the proponents of the BJP’s brand of Hindutva to compete with her in practising the true form of Hinduism. “Some will try to break up homes, polarise, with that ‘70:30’ concept. Do tell them that it’s actually 100:0. People cannot be divided like that,” Mamata said in Nandigram on Tuesday on her first visit there since formally announcing her candidature from the Assembly seat. She did not name Suvendu Adhikari, the turncoat who has been citing a “70:30” formula — dog-whistling the approximate ratio of Hindu and Muslim voters in the Bengal electorate — implying that substantial support from the “70” would be enough to outweigh the support of the “30”. Adhikari, now with the BJP, has also been suggesting that Mamata is an outsider in Nandigram. On Tuesday, Mamata replied that a daughter of Bengal was far less of an outsider than people trying to call the shots from Delhi. Uproarious laughter rippled through the audience when Mamata said: “April 1, that’s when Nandigram votes. Make them April fools, please.” Addressing Trinamul workers in Nandigram, Mamata said: “I have a surname too, like everybody else. That makes me a Brahmin home’s daughter. Should I talk about it? Should the many leaders and workers here (both Hindus and Muslims)… talk about their last names?” “Nandigram, you taught us… at the peak of the movement, fighting for your lives and land between the bullets and the bombs, you resisted the terror, with the sound of azaan (the Islamic call to prayer) being sounded side by side with shankhadhwani (the sound from blowing the conch shell),” Mamata said to thunderous applause. In the Nandigram Assembly seat’s 355 booths, voters total 2.53 lakh. Over 69,700 voters — around 27.55 per cent — belong to the minority community. Adhikari has been saying in his public addresses that the “remaining” 1.83 lakh voters — tacitly referring to voters of the majority community — would be “enough”. But Mamata warned: “Don’t try to play the Hindu card with me. If you want to, first declare whether you are a good enough Hindu. The ideals of Hinduism are about loving the people.” Chanting several shlokas, Mamata asked: “You want to teach me Hinduism? You really want to play that game with me? Think again.” That refurbishing her Hindu credentials — deemed a necessity in the face of the saffron ecosystem’s Hindutva onslaught — would form a large part of her campaign this time has been evident for some time. After her speech on Tuesday, Mamata made several temple visits, offering prayers to Hindu deities, and has lined up similar visits on Wednesday too. She underscored how she plans to release her party’s poll manifesto on Maha Shivratri, on Thursday, in Calcutta. Mamata took time to address the other focus of Adhikari’s attack. “Some have been saying I am supposedly an outsider. I am a daughter of Bengal, even I am an outsider now? What about the people from Delhi… trying to call the shots? They are not outsiders?” she asked. “Then I should never have been the chief minister… then I simply had no right. No outsider can ever become the chief minister here, can they?” asked Mamata, seeking to touch a raw nerve in the BJP that remains unable to go to the polls with a homegrown chief minister candidate. The Trinamul chief directly asked the workers present at the meeting if she should withdraw from the contest. “If you genuinely believe I shouldn’t contest from here — my nomination is to be filed tomorrow — tell me, and I won’t contest. I don’t need to. If you think I am a daughter from your homes, born of your movement here, only then (ask me to contest),” she said to loud cheers in the affirmative. Underscoring how easy it would have been for her to contest from Bhowanipore instead, she spent time reminiscing her long association with Nandigram and its people, especially from the turbulent times of 2006-08. Mamata acknowledged that the anti-land acquisition movements in Nandigram and Singur had played a pivotal role in Bengal’s modern history — they certainly propelled her to power in 2011 — and said she would have contested from either seat this time. “Remember, when I came here (in January)…. I had tried running an idea by you, the people here responded overwhelmingly with positivity. Your courage, your enthusiasm, your respect, your love… it convinced me,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Talks for Covid-19 vaccination ease in Dooars tea belt||The state health department, which plans to start Covid-19 vaccination in the tea gardens of the Dooars, has convened a meeting here on Thursday to discuss issues related to the task. “We want to start vaccination in the tea gardens in the districts of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts and have invited the stakeholders, particularly tea planters’ associations and tea trade unions, for the meeting. We will discuss modalities and make decisions to clear deterrents so that the vaccination drive is smooth,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty for Covid-19 in north Bengal. In the Dooars, around 10 lakh people live in tea estates. According to sources in the health department, though vaccination of people aged above 60 years have started across the country, it has been found that tea garden residents are facing problems in registering themselves for the jab through cowin.gov.in. “Many elderly residents are not accustomed to smartphones. Also, in a number of gardens, Internet connectivity is poor. We need to explore effective alternatives to ease the registration process,” said a source. He also said that based on the location of the gardens, the nearest health centre or hospital where vaccination can be held has to be identified and intimated to people concerned. “Tea associations can play a major role in disseminating this information. The managerial staff of the gardens can help workers and their families know how they should register themselves and get vaccinated,” the source added. The health department has also come to know that in the brew belt there are fears over the side-effects of the vaccine among some. This is where they intend to engage tea trade unions. “It is necessary to clear doubts to encourage more and more people to take the jab,” said a health official. Sanjoy Bagchi, secretary of the Dooars branch of Indian Tea Association, said they would give all necessary help to the health officials for the vaccination and share ideas at the meeting to ease the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong joins polls and photography in one frame||Amid the heat and dust of the poll season, Kalimpong has linked elections with tourism with an innovative photography contest. The district administration of this hill district is encouraging voters to click pictures of hidden tourism gems of Kalimpong — holding their voter ID card — and submit the photographs to officials. Pictures, which can be selfies or clicked by someone else, if selected, will be publicised by the district in tourism-related advertisements and brochures. The competition is part of Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) initiative that the Election Commission of India started in 2009. The flagship programme is aimed at promoting and spreading voter awareness. “We are encouraging residents to take photographs holding voter cards amid the beautiful landscape of the district and submit the same to us. We feel this is a chance to showcase the hidden treasures of Kalimpong to the world,” said Kalimpong district magistrate Vimala R. Residents can submit their entries till March 15 and the best three submissions will get  cash awards of Rs 10,000, Rs 5,000 and Rs 3,000. This hill district has in many ways been under the shadow of its more famous neighbours Darjeeling and Sikkim. However, Kalimpong is coming of age. “Kalimpong district has the maximum number of registered homestays in Bengal,” said district magistrate Vimala. There are 337 registered homestays in Kalimpong, way ahead of South 24 Parganas’s 78 and Darjeeling’s 63, which come second and third place on the list of Bengal districts with registered homestays. No wonder the Kalimpong administration is keen to get the momentum going. On the photography contest, Vimala said: “We decided on this concept as we felt that most youngsters have mobile phones and they love photography. This way we are looking at promoting both voter awareness among the young and tourism.” Residents are being encouraged to click in any spot they feel “is the most beautiful spot or depicts Kalimpong perfectly”. The plan, district official say, is to create “a distinct and unique” brand for Kalimpong tourism. “We are trying to work on creating our own identity,” the district magistrate said. In the coming days, plans are also afoot to start a similar campaign under SVEEP to highlight river rafting and paragliding in Kalimpong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Police officer finds groom for girl left at altar||A police officer posted here went beyond the call of duty on Monday to arrange a groom for a girl who resides in a locality under his police station area after a youth with whom her marriage was fixed absconded a few hours ahead of the ceremony. Basudeb Sarkar, the inspector-in-charge of Kumargram police station, also took the task to collect the cash and other items which the youth had taken from the girl’s family. Sources said Mintu Burman, a resident of Baburhat in Alipurduar-I block and home guard by occupation, was supposed to marry a girl of Kumargram, Supriya Das, on Monday. The girl’s family had also handed over some cash, gold ornaments and a two-wheeler to Mintu as dowry. On Monday afternoon, when preparations for the marriage were on in full swing at the bride’s home, the family members of the groom-to-be called them up and said he would not marry the girl. “They called up and said he has an affair and that he has fled home in the last minute. We were too shocked to react,” said the girl’s father Rashu Das. As the news spread, some neighbours and relatives advised the bride’s family to approach the local police authorities. Accordingly, Das and some other relatives went to Kumargram police station. There, they briefed inspector Sarkar about the groom’s decision. Sarkar, on hearing the details, took up the task to find a groom for Supriya. He zeroed in upon Dhiresh Das, a civic volunteer posted at the police station. “I spoke to Dhiresh who is unmarried. He consulted with his family and agreed to marry the girl. It was good that the girl got married the same day and the arrangements made by her family did not go in vain. I appreciate Dhiresh’s decision,” said Sarkar. In the evening, Sarkar turned up at the bride’s place to greet the newlyweds. Sarkar, local residents said, is known to be a tough cop. His work during the KLO (Kamtapur Liberation Organisation) movement is well known and he has been recognised with a number of awards. “In Kumargram, he has arranged marriages of a number of girls from poor families. But what he did on Monday is remarkable. The girl’s family had lost all hope,” said a resident. Sarkar not only found a new groom for Supriya, he also made arrangements to get back the cash, gold and two-wheeler that her family had handed over as dowry to the home guard’s family. The girl’s father was overwhelmed. “We will stay grateful to him (Sarkar) all our life for what he did for my daughter,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung's camp to raise Gorkhaland issue during poll campaign||The youth wing of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to raise the Gorkhaland issue during the election campaign, an indication that the camp is running out of a core issue at the hustings. The stand is also diametrically opposite to the one taken by the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp of the Morcha. The rival factions of the Morcha are allies of the Trinamul Congress and have both decided to field candidates in three hill Assembly seats. Trinamul left Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong seats vacant for the “friends”. Prakash Gurung, the president of the Yuva Morcha (Gurung camp), said: “We will go to the people with our constitutional demand, which is Gorkhaland, in the current election.” Trinamul is opposed to the division of Bengal and the youth front’s statement could put the ruling party in a spot in the rest of Bengal. However, the bigger takeaway from the Yuva Morcha’s stand is an indication that the party is desperate to rely on its time-tested strategy of raising the Gorkhaland bogey when other issues have failed to lend an air of gravitas. In the past, Bimal Gurung had even fought civic elections on the Gorkhaland plank. Prakash tried to underline the fact that the youth wing’s stand was nothing new and reiterated that it had never really supported the formation of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). “When the GTA was formed (in 2012), the Yuva Morcha neither supported nor opposed the hill body. Even in 2017, I was the first to resign from the GTA in March (three months before the statehood agitation and before other elected GTA members resigned) opposing the GTA,” said Prakash. The Gurung faction’s leader added that the GTA was “not a permanent political solution” for the hills. While the Yuva Morcha has made its stand clear on Gorkhaland vis-à-vis election, Gurung has so far been measured in his speech and is stressing that he has “not sold the dignity of the hill people”. Leader of the other Morcha faction Anit Thapa had said recently: “It needs courage to say this, but I will not seek votes on the Gorkhaland slogan.” The Tamang camp has been stressing the need for “politics of reality” and said hill leaders should stop seeking votes in the name of Gorkhaland. “If elections are to be won for Gorkhaland, we should by now have had 10 Gorkhalands,” said Thapa. Acknowledging the statehood sentiment in the hills, Thapa has been saying while the demand is “dear” to the hill people, it should be pursued by apolitical forums and intellectuals. With the Gurung faction raising the statehood issue, the GNLF lost no opportunity to ridicule the hill party. “They surrender themselves at Didi’s feet and now, they are talking about Gorkhaland. This is nothing but a political drama,” said GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards. Many in the hills say the bigger question is whether the people will buy the Gorkhaland slogan raised by Gurung after his tie-up with Trinamul. “The Yuva Morcha’s latest stand reflects the desperation to win the election and the lack of a core issue to campaign on,” said an observer. Trinamul has some support in the hills and many wondered if Prakash’s statement might stop Mamata’s party from openly supporting the Gurung faction in the hills. Hill Trinamul leaders have said they are yet to receive a clear direction from their “high command” on which Morcha faction they should support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
10-03-2021||North East||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra brokers RJD deal in Assam||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra played a “key role” in prevailing over her party to leave the Tinsukia Assembly seat in Upper Assam to the Rashtriya Janata Dal which will be making its electoral debut in the state. The principal Opposition party in Assam had on Monday night announced that it will contest 43 of the 47 Assembly seats that go the polls in the first phase on March 27 while allies AIUDF, Anchalik Gana Morcha, CPI (ML) and RJD in one seat each. The RJD has fielded Hira Devi Choudhary, a 52-year-old history graduate from Bihar’s Bhagalpur University, who was till Monday the Tinsukia DCC treasurer and a secretary of the Assam Mahila Congress. She had even applied for a Congress ticket despite missing out twice in the past, making her candidature quite unique. Assam state RJD president Sheikh Shonarul  Shah Mustafa told The Telegraph on Tuesday, “Priyanka ji played a key role in us getting the Tinsukia seat. She wants to strengthen the bond with the RJD which is an ally of the Congress in Bihar... By leaving the Tinsukia seat to RJD, Priyanka ji reciprocated RJD and Tejashwi ji’s gesture of leaving 70 seats to the Congress in the Bihar polls last year. Discussion for four more seats are on,” Mustafa said. The RJD-led mahagathbandhan came close to unseating the JD(U)-BJP government in Bihar, which has 243 Assembly seats. There is another reason, according to Choudhary, a mother of two lawyers — one of whom practices in the Supreme Court and the other in Tinsukia court. “I had applied for a Congress ticket. Since Priyanka ji is a votary of women empowerment and the mahagathbandhan with the RJD, she suggested my name to the RJD. The Congress leaders called to know my opinion. I said I will abide by what the Congress leadership decides. Subsequently my candidature was also accepted by the RJD because of track record,” Choudhary said. Asserting that she was known more for her social work than as a politician since 1996, Choudhary said, “My candidature is bit unique. Applied for a Congress ticket, contesting on RJD ticket but with the full backing of both parties. I am an alliance candidate in true sense. The Congress and RJD members accompanied me when I went to file my nomination on Tuesday. I am grateful to the leadership of both the parties.” She came to Assam in 1984. The alliance between the Congress and the RJD is a first in Assam and has taken the number of allies in the grand alliance to eight parties. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav had said in Guwahati on February 27 that the party will be contesting the Assam polls and that Congress was its natural ally. Yadav had also said he will be  banking on the huge Hindi-speaking population from Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, influential in “eleven” of the 126 Assembly seats in the state. Tinsukia is one constituency where Hindi-speaking population play a decisive role. It is an important business hub of the state after Guwahati. However, it will be a difficult ask because the RJD has no “visible base” in the state despite launching its Assam unit in 2017 and the “five per cent” Hindi-speaking population Yadav was “banking” on has been mostly backing the BJP since 2014 while a small section is with the Congress and regional forces. The Congress candidate in 2016, R.P. Singh, has since joined the BJP and their candidate Sanjay Kishan is an incumbent minister and hail from the tea community. “With Congress not putting up a candidate, the RJD can fancy its chances. But most importantly it is positive development for the grand alliance in Assam,” said a Congress insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
10-03-2021||North East||Tripura bridge boost to Bangladesh ties ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated Maitri Setu between India and Bangladesh, a bridge that is poised to herald a new chapter for trade and people-to-people movement between the neighbouring countries through Sabroom in south Tripura district. Built at a cost of Rs 133 crore, the 1.9-km Maitri Setu, has been built over the Feni river connecting Sabroom in India with Ramgarh in Bangladesh. The inauguration marked the third anniversary of the BJP-IPFT (Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura) government in Tripura with Modi inaugurating and laying the foundation stone of nine infrastructure projects worth Rs 3,518 crore in the state. The alliance government came to power in 2018, ending the Left’s 25 years of uninterrupted reign in the state. Inaugurating the bridge through a videoconference, Modi said the improved connectivity is not only strengthening the friendship between India and Bangladesh but also proving to be a strong link of business. “Due to this bridge over the Feni river, Agartala will become the nearest city to an international sea port in India. Projects related to broadening of NH-08 and NH-208… for which foundation stone was laid will strengthen the connectivity of the Northeast with the port,” Modi said. He informed that the entire region is being developed as a trade corridor between India and Bangladesh while emphasising that rail and water connectivity projects that have been realised in the recent years have been strengthened by this bridge. “This will improve connectivity of south Assam, Mizoram and Manipur along with Tripura with Bangladesh and Southeast Asia. The bridge will give an impetus to the economic opportunity in Bangladesh also,” the Prime Minister said, thanking the Bangladesh government for its cooperation in the completion of the project. A video message from Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina was played on the occasion. Modi also laid the foundation stone for setting up a Rs 232 crore integrated checkpost (ICP) at Sabroom. It will work like a full-fledged logistic hub with warehouses and container trans-shipment facilities, easing the movement of goods and passengers between the two countries, provide new market opportunities for products from the Northeast. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb later tweeted how the Modi government’s “good governance has transformed Tripura in three years” with a 4.16 minute video of the Prime Minister’s inaugural speech. Modi said Tripura was experiencing the clear difference between the 30 years of earlier governments and the “double engine” government of the last three years with the hike in the Centre’s allocation for the state’s development. Tripura had received Rs 3,500 crore for central development schemes between 2009-2014 whereas between 2014-2019 more than Rs 12,000 crore has been provided, he said. “For the first time, MSP has been decided in Tripura where farmers used to face many problems for selling their produce,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
10-03-2021||Opinion||Act now: Myanmar military coup||Sir — History is replete with instances which show that it is difficult to dislodge a military government from the saddle once it is firmly astride. In Myanmar, the junta has a history of forcibly occupying parliamentary seats with the objective of enjoying perennial power (“Injured democracy”, March 7). Now, the citizens of Myanmar are undergoing a harrowing experience at the hands of the Tatmadaw. The international community must come to the rescue of the people of Myanmar. It should create pressure on the army so as to stop its atrocities on the countrymen. It seems that the army has launched a war against the unarmed people of the country. A coup is not acceptable in a civilized nation. The army must withdraw and hand over the power to the National League for Democracy-led government that won a landslide victory. Aranya Sanyal,Siliguri Sir — Even in a country as democratic as the United States of America, a nasty political melodrama was recently witnessed when the former president, Donald Trump, lost a hard-fought election and then alleged voter fraud for his party’s failure at the hustings. He nearly proceeded to overturn the election results by means of force. Similarly, in the recent elections held in Myanmar, the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party tasted a humiliating drubbing. This has now led to the army perpetrating a coup against the democratically elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi, on the pretext of voter fraud. The intensifying stand-off in Myanmar, however, is not surprising — the country has a long history of peaceful resistance to military rule as well as brutal crackdowns. The battered condition of democracy in Myanmar is disappointing. Earlier, incidents of genocide against sections of the population sullied the country’s record. It is now time for the comity of nations to proscribe the military government socially and impose sanctions on it. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Bitter taste Sir — Even as the protests against the three controversial farm laws continue, apple farmers in Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand seem to have spotted a speck that is causing a rot in their business. Some private players are allegedly importing Iranian apples in the name of Afghan apples — the latter are exempt from taxes. This is hampering the sale of indigenous varieties of the fruit. Apples from the three states in question are famous the world over. Given its lofty talk of being ‘vocal for local’, the Centre should immediately look into the complaint and act in the best interests of the farmers. Abhiroopa Das,Calcutta Look deeper Sir — There is no place for true ideology-based politics in New India. Ideologies are now used as triggers, only to win elections by polarizing the masses, through appeasement or hate-mongering. It is true that when ideologically motivated political parties were created, there must have been a specific thought process behind each of them, based on the societal situation of the time. But times have changed, and there is no need for those outdated ideologies any more. The perceptions and priorities of the people, too, have changed. As such, staunchly motivated parties can only disrupt communal harmony or incite violence. These days we see ministers jump ship from one political party to another with polar opposite ideologies right before elections. This proves that there is no ideological commitment in these political leaders. Rather it is simply about who is providing a better package, just like it is in a corporate deal. It is unfortunate to see that we, the common people of the country, fall prey to such ideological warfare. We should understand that these ideologies will not improve our lives in any way, and we definitely should not base our votes on them. The youth today should not tie itself to a polarizing thought process or succumb to propaganda. Instead, it should be more concerned about whether a party can deliver on issues such as employment, price rise and education and whether it can bring about positive change by making the lives of ordinary citizens better. Indranil Barat,Dhanbad Pay attention Sir — The lack of media coverage of the Simlipal fire is disturbing. Newspapers and social media are abuzz when a forest in a foreign land catches fire. But the fact that such huge stretches of forests are burning in Odisha — even as the Simlipal reserve continues to burn, the Kuldiha sanctuary has caught fire — is hardly generating any curiosity or support. The state authorities and firefighters are putting up a strong fight. But this will not be enough. The Centre must deploy aid for Odisha at once, and ordinary citizens should do their part to help as well. Ayan Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Opinion||Just Oral: Bar Council defends CJI||Laws matter less than social attitudes when the institutions of law and justice send confusing signals. The Bar Council of India’s resolution defending the Chief Justice of India in the face of criticism for two comments made orally in court has exacerbated dismay about the legal institution’s perceptions. Although numerous activists and other citizens expressed alarm at the CJI’s comments, it is the letter of Brinda Karat of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to the CJI and its reporting that have been described by the BCI resolution as contempt and part of motivated criticism that will weaken the institution of justice. Reportedly, the CJI had asked a petitioner accused of serially raping a minor — now past 18 — whether he would marry her and, in another case, had asked whether sexual violence towards the wife perpetrated by the husband, however brutal, can be termed rape. The BCI pointed out that oral comments which are not part of any judgment have no legal sanctity. The argument is a technical one. But can the issues raised by the comments be whisked away by a technicality? Is the BCI dismissing so many people’s concern as merely ignorant, or motivated, or both? By questioning the right to criticize, the BCI resolution undermined the right to freedom of expression. Besides, technicalities are irrelevant when, as Ms Karat said, even oral remarks by judges affect society, giving legitimacy to regressive social attitudes. These are particularly damaging in a country where laws have not yet been able to address gender-based cruelty and oppression adequately. And marital rape has still not been outlawed, the argument against it implicit in the CJI’s reported suggestion that sexual violence within marriage cannot be called rape. In the other comment, the CJI’s question to the petitioner undermined the rights of the alleged rape survivor, again by implication. Society could interpret these comments as putting the interests of the male accused over the complainants’. The BCI, however, ignored the need to uphold judicial principles and processes in its resolution, reportedly arguing that a marriage with the alleged rapist had been agreed to, and expended its ire on critics and criticism. But technical correctness has nothing to do with ethics. Surely, the BCI cannot believe that ethics is unrelated to the approaches inscribed in justice?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Opinion||Bad news: regulating media||In the age of communication, a government cannot be faulted for attempting to get the message right. The problem, however, arises when an elected government seeks to spread only its word — dressing up bitter truths as palatable dessert for the nation to consume. There are whispers that the masters of such spin have been at work, once again. The recent leaking of a ‘toolkit’ suggesting that among a range of options that were deliberated upon by a group of ministers in a series of meetings to improve communication during the pandemic were such measures as an alleged colour code for journalists to indicate their proximity or, conversely, opposition to the powers that be, strategies to neutralize ‘false narratives’ that are, in essence, critical of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led dispensation as well as the roping in of right-wing parties from the international fraternity to create a common cause. These measures, the wise ministers purportedly agreed, had become necessary given the negative perception of the government around the time. Some of the other interventions that were apparently discussed — a mechanism for digital entities and OTT platforms to comply to, for instance — have come to pass. This raises the possibility that the meetings may not be a figment of imagination. It remains to be seen whether the other strategies to bring ‘good news’ to the nation would assume concrete form in the days to come. But what must not go ignored is the nature of the thoughts that seem to be prevailing in the highest echelons of power. The BJP is often, and quite rightly, criticized for its inability to engage with criticism — in media reports or public opinion — in a constructive manner. The GoM’s enthusiasm for packaging content shows that its propensity for controlling independent narratives remains undiminished. The eagerness to court friendly journalists — unfriendly scribes are a rarity in New India — also violates the principle of fairness. The consequent erosion of independent, free-thinking discourse is, of course, of little concern for a regimented party. These spilled secrets, however, lend further credibility to international assessments of the deterioration of the quality and character of freedom in this democracy. The Centre’s stubborn refusal to admit that these transgressions — it was dismissive of Freedom House’s poor assessment of freedom in India recently — may not cut any ice soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Opinion||Mission: Shakti: the eyes do not have it||The Lucknow police is reportedly setting up AI-enabled cameras to record pictures of women ‘who look distressed’. The additional director-general explained that “The cameras will be able to detect any change in the facial expressions of a woman being subjected to stalking, threats or harassment on the streets, and an alert will be sent to the police control room.” He further clarified that around 200 hotspots for crimes against women have been identified by the Lucknow police on the basis of areas frequented by women as well as from spots that generated the most complaints. This initiative, which was launched under the Uttar Pradesh government’s ‘Mission Shakti’ programme, has met with a backlash from civil society organizations and lawyers. There is a lot to unpack here. First is the assumption that using AI to recognize emotion is helpful. Emotion regulation algorithms are increasingly employed in job interviews in the United States of America and in South Korea. But studies show that such claims are often not backed by scientific evidence and there have been several instances of false positives. AI gives the appearance of neutrality and credibility. However, the AI technology is structurally limited by the prejudices of those creating the algorithm and feeding it the initial data to run checks against. A leading research institute, AI Now, is worried that the use of emotion regulation algorithms may lead to racist and sexist outcomes. This technology is likely to lead to over-policing. Second is the assumption that surveillance of women is going to keep them safe. Surveillance can be defined as attention that is ‘purposeful, routine, systematic and focused’. Surveillance is not necessarily undesirable. Administrators need some types of information about the governed to do their job efficiently. However, surveillance sans transparency and accountability mechanisms is a means of controlling populations and has a disproportionate impact on marginalized communities. B.R. Ambedkar and, before him, Jyotirao Phule understood this back in the 1940s and urged the lower castes to migrate from villages to cities in the belief that the relative anonymity of the Indian city would allow them some reprieve from untouchability that was integral to lives lived in closely-knit social and commercial spaces. In other words, a life away from surveillance would allow them to lead a life of dignity.  Surveillance, on the other hand, has a chilling effect on the right to freedom of expression, freedom of movement and freedom of association. The Indian government has several surveillance systems, including the National Intelligence Grid and the Central Monitoring System. It has often relied on the argument that increased surveillance of public spaces would increase women’s safety. The installation of CCTV cameras, development of safety apps (Nirbhaya app), making it mandatory for all phones to have panic buttons — each of these policies has an adverse impact on privacy, a constitutional right protected under Article 21 and recognized by the Supreme Court in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy vs Union of India. This landmark case provides for certain standards that have to be met to justify intrusions into people’s right to privacy. These standards include the existence of a law, a legitimate State aim, proportionality and procedural safeguards to check against abuse. Crucially, in the present case, there is no anchoring legislation to regulate the use of emotion regulation algorithms by the police. We do not have a data protection regime to oversee the collection, processing and storage of data collected by these systems. Further, it has not been clarified whether the data collected would be analysed by the police officers themselves or sent to third parties. Without an express purpose limitation on data use, the ‘function creep’ of any technology enables its use in any number of insidious ways. For instance, surveillance of women might ostensibly seem like it is for their protection but it might also be used to control women who do not fit the stereotype of the ‘chaste, pure, domesticated and submissive’ Indian woman. Counter-intuitively, it might even lead to crime against women going unnoticed in the cases of those who do not meet the stereotype or have the ‘correct facial expression’. Sexual violence is pervasive in India. Resources should be diverted to fight the problem. However, this policy, which reinforces existing stereotypes while giving rise to a surveillance State, fails to acknowledge the agency of marginalized communities and intrudes upon their privacy rights through the use of technology by carefully examining contextual factors such as the types of crimes the particular model is meant to record, who has ownership over the device and the data, and who gets to mobilize it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Opinion||A novel unity||Western Uttar Pradesh is witnessing a novel unity between Muslims and Hindu Jat peasants in the course of the agitation against the three farm laws. This is important for an obvious reason. The Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 which had created a strong communal polarization in this region had enabled the Bharatiya Janata Party to reap rich electoral dividends in the 2014 parliamentary elections. Because of the huge number of seats it won in Uttar Pradesh, it got an absolute majority in Parliament, something that had eluded all previous BJP governments. The effects of this polarization also contributed to the BJP’s triumph in the UP assembly elections and even in the 2019 parliamentary elections. In fact, the perpetuation of such a communal division has been central to the BJP’s recent electoral ascendancy. The fact that this division is being overcome because of the anti-farm-law agitation helps undermine this ascendancy. So complete is this break from the past that an influential BJP leader of the region, currently a member of the Union council of ministers, who thought he could defy the leaders’ call to avoid BJP bigwigs even on social occasions by turning up on such events, was not allowed to remain in the village. Mass movements on issues of material life have this remarkable effect of uniting people. The anti-colonial struggle itself was a vivid example of this. The fact that a country marked for millennia by the institutionalized inequality of the caste system and by horrendous gender, caste and class oppressions could unite against colonial rule and adopt a Constitution that guaranteed universal adult suffrage, one-person-one-vote, a set of fundamental rights for all citizens and the separation of the State from all religions became possible because of the logic of the anti-colonial struggle and the mass movements it unleashed. The philosopher, Akeel Bilgrami, provides a very specific example of the effect of a mass movement in inducing attitudinal change. In 1921, a bill for introducing women’s suffrage was brought before the Bengal Provincial Legislative Council and was defeated, mainly because of the opposition of the Muslim members. But as the Khilafat Movement gathered steam, members of the Muslim community participated in large numbers in it. Meanwhile, Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das had started his Swaraj Party within the Congress to fight elections for entering legislatures so that progressive laws could be enacted; many Muslim participants of the Khilafat Movement joined the Swaraj Party. When in 1925, the bill on providing suffrage to women was brought, once again, before the Bengal legislature, it was passed with Swarajist Muslims, many of whom had opposed it in 1921, supporting it despite the Swaraj Party not issuing any whip. Participation in a mass movement, Bilgrami argues, had brought about an attitudinal change in prominent members of the Muslim community because of which they dropped their earlier opposition to women’s suffrage. The Khilafat Movement, although anti-imperialist in its outlook, was not even a progressive movement, and was certainly not concerned with issues of material life. But it was not a divisive movement. It still had this capacity for bringing about significant progressive changes in people’s attitudes. (In fact, many early communists had emerged from its ranks: the Tashkent School imparting political training to communists had recruited many Khilafatists. Some of them were arrested by the British while returning to India and tried in the Peshawar Conspiracy Case). Introducing respect for democratic values and unity among people is a hallmark only of non-divisive movements, for which I reserve the term, ‘mass movements’, as they are not directed against a particular segment of the masses themselves but are open to all. Many journalists had described L.K. Advani’s rath yatra for building a Ram temple in place of the Babri masjid as the biggest ‘mass movement’ witnessed in a long time; but this is an indiscriminate use of the term, which obliterates the distinction between movements that unite people and movements that divide people. Movements over issues affecting material life typically unite people: the ongoing kisan struggle, described as the biggest mass movement in the world, is one such. The Jat-Muslim unity is not the only novel unity being forged. There is an emerging unity between kisans and agricultural labourers which is even more striking because between these two groups there is not only a class contradiction (employers versus employees) but also a caste contradiction (Jats versus Dalits). This is a long-standing contradiction prone to occasional flare-ups, as had happened some decades ago in the village of Kanjhawala on the outskirts of Delhi when CPI-led agricultural workers had come into conflict with Jat landed interests. To imagine these two groups coming together would have been unthinkable earlier, but the mass movement against monopoly capitalist encroachment on the agricultural sector has united them. There is a common realization that if the farm laws are allowed to become operative, not only would the kisans come under the hegemony of monopoly capital, to the point of being pushed into landlessness, but also the agricultural labourers would find themselves without work as agriculture becomes corporatized. This realization has overcome their centuries-old hostility. Likewise, the large-scale participation of women in the anti-farm-bill agitation points to yet another major break in traditional patriarchal relations. Women becoming so active in the movement is partly explicable in terms of the years of suffering that have led to widespread farmer suicides, but the scale of their participation is as unprecedented as the scale of this movement itself; the importance of the issues underlying the movement has contributed to both. This is bound to have a lasting impact on gender relations. Similarly, the support extended by industrial workers in the neighbourhood to the agitating kisans has become a striking example of worker-peasant unity that was hitherto rather elusive. The kisan movement has not just fostered unity among disparate and even conflicting groups; the symbols it has used, the memories it has recalled, the history it has recovered are all highly evocative. For instance, the call for a ‘pagdi sambhal’ day is a celebration of an episode in 1906 when the colonial government had passed three anti-farmer laws, and in opposing these Bhagat Singh’s uncle, Ajit Singh, had played a leading role. Appropriately, Ajit Singh was remembered by the present kisan movement on the ‘pagdi sambhal’ day it observed on February 23. Likewise, the pervasive evocation of Bhagat Singh’s memory that informs the present kisan movement is indicative of its stress on secularism, non-divisiveness, and unity among the people. Divisive movements by contrast, those that pit one segment of the people against another, typically a majority community against a hapless minority, do not have this trait of bringing about any attitudinal changes in favour of democracy and unity. On the contrary, they build on the existing fault lines in society, on existing suspicions, prejudices and latent hatreds and exacerbate them; their success arises precisely because they build on the existing divisions based on the prevailing consciousness, which are not transcended but reinforced. Because of this, the oppressive society within which this consciousness has been nurtured also gets reinforced instead of being challenged. Such movements reinforce oppression, unlike the kisan movement which seeks to prevent a new chapter of Neel Darpan-style oppression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Evicted squatters return to encroach upon govt land in Khaasmahal again||Squatters evicted by the district administration on Tuesday promptly returned to the government land they were occupying in Khaasmahal area of Parsudih less than 24 hours later, leaving steel city authorities in a quandary over its next step. Dozens of encroachers from the adjoining slums like Jharkhand Nagar, Kitadih and Karandih fixed tents on Tuesday itself and started rebuilding their huts overnight. On Wednesday morning, more and more encroachers turned up at the troubled spot. They started demarcating areas to set up home and even arranged a community feast at the site, a 10-acre expanse of land belonging to the state government. But no action was taken by the district administration through the day. On Tuesday, Dhalbhum SDO Nitesh Kumar Singh accompanied others, including over 100 policemen, evicted squatters from the area. Singh, while returning from the operation, had instructed the Parsudih officer-in-charge Rajendra Prashad Das to keep a close watch on the place. Obviously, the police let their guard down. “I am at the Parsudih thana and I do not know whether anyone has returned to encroach the government land,” Das told this correspondent when told about the encroachments. DSP (law and order) Muhammad Akram, who looks after Parsudih thana, was incommunicado as his cellphone was switched off. Amit Shrivastav, circle officer of Jamshedpur, confirmed that government land at Khaasmahal had been encroached upon again by over 200 people. “Now the district administration is chalking out a plan which will be executed to evict the encroachers once again. The administration will also ensure that government land in question remains free from encroachment,” he told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia children make use of artistic skills to earn||The idea that came into Abda Parveen and her NGO’s minds last year during a workshop has now grown into a medium of earning for 12 artistically skilled children from the economically disadvantaged sections of the society in Jharia. The group of children, comprising 10 girls and two boys, make invitation cards for different events under the guidance of Parveen, a volunteer of Jharia based youth organisation Samadhan. “The idea of establishing the startup came in our mind during a camp held in January last year at our education Centre in Jharia when Dhansar-based social worker and artists Anita Nihshab conducted a card-making workshop,” Samdhan founder Chandan Kumar Singh told The Telegraph Online on Wednesday. The children have recently bagged an order for delivery of 50 cards for a wedding anniversary event, and are working on other orders as well. “Most of the students are children of economically weaker sections. We provide free of cost tutorial lessons under our free education programme since the last five or six years,” Singh added. “Besides spending our leisure time, this work will also help to us to support the family income as my father has a limited income of less than Rs 50,00 per month,” 16-year-old Nehari Rani, daughter of a wall-painter, said. Singh said that they have invested around Rs 2,000 for all necessary items and received Rs 11,000 from Gopal Katesaria, who had ordered cards for his anniversary. Divulging more details Abda Parveen, “All the 50 cards bear different images made by our students some of whom painted landscapes while others made paintings of deities, nature, rivers, etc. We are trying to procure orders for paintings that can be put on walls of rooms.” Kateseria said he found the idea of hand-painted invitation cards unique. “This move will also help to promote children of the economically weaker sections,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans 30,000 village-level clubs to promote sports||The sports department is working on plans to set up village-level clubs named after tribal freedom fighter duo Sidho-Kanho across the state to encourage talent at the grassroots levels. Announcing the initiative on Wednesday during the inaugural ceremony of the 11th Hockey India National Women's Sub-junior tournament in Simdega district, chief minister Hemant Soren said clubs would come up in about 30,000 villages and would be funded by the government to promote sports. “As a part of our mission to promote sports and players, our government has decided to form Sidho-Kanho clubs in about 30,000 villages in the state. Each club will be provided Rs 25,000,” he said, adding that sports and tourism are among the priority areas of his government. “We have made special provisions in our budget this year to develop these two sectors,” he added. Simdega, a remote and under-development district of the state is touted as the nursery of hockey, churning out numerous national and international level hockey players. But it is only now that the region is hosting a national-level tournament. Hemant also promised that Simdega would soon have a stadium with state-of-the-art facilities for players. “An Astroturf stadium which is coming up here on about 6.5 acre land will be one of the best. It is estimated to cost about Rs 18.5 crore. Besides hockey, we are also making provisions of volleyball and basketball courts. The stadium will also have a decent hostel facility,” he said, adding that the government was also seriously pursuing plans to set up a centre of excellence for hockey in Ranchi. Hemant said that in as many as four districts—Simdega, Gumla, Khunti and Ranchi—where hockey is more popular, the sports department was working to provide  Astroturf in government schools for a better playing experience for boys and girls. “In the first phase, we have identified 15 schools in these districts where this will be done,” he revealed. Sub-junior women's teams from 22 states are taking part in the Simdega tournament which will continue till March 18. On the first five days, the participating teams will play pool matches. The top eight teams will then battle for the title that will be decided on knockout basis. The quarter-finals  will be played on March 15 and 16 and the semis on March 16. The final will be held on March 18. Simdega will also host a junior national women’s championship from April 3-12. Welcoming all visitors, Hemant directed the district administration to make arrangements for guided sight-seeing tours to help the visitors explore  the tourism potential of Simdega. “The district is very beautiful and has several places to visit. I had a discussion with the deputy commissioner and told him to make arrangements for sight-seeing trips on off-days,”Hemant said amid a rousing applause from players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||IMD issues Nor'wester alert over state ||IMD 's Ranchi Meteorological Centre issued a Nor'wester alert on Wednesday for isolated pockets of Jharkhand on March 12 and 13. Deputy director of the Ranchi Met centre Abhishek Anand said excessive heating of land coupled with moisture incursion into the atmosphere would trigger Nor'wester activity, aided by a cyclonic circulation extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. "We have issued an alert of thunderstorm, lightning and rain due to the impact of a Nor'wester in western and central parts of Jharkhand on Friday, March 12 and Saturday, March 13. Partly cloudy sky is expected to prevail for the next three to four days,"  he said . The Met office forecast indicated clear sky from Sunday, March 14. Met statistics revealed that the maximum reading has already touched 38 degree Celsius in Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and some pockets of north western Jharkhand. Most places across the state recorded readings that were four to five notches above normal. IMD has already predicted a harsh summer this year. Met statistics revealed a highest maximum temperature of 38.4°C at Jamshedpur and the lowest minimum temperature of 18.6°C at Bokaro. Wednesday's satellite pictures suggested a  trough extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level from Karnataka to northeast Madhya Pradesh across central Maharashtra and northern Marathawada. The trough will assist in rainfall activity in Jharkhand. Apart from that two fresh western disturbances in quick succession are likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of north west India from March 11 to March 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||'Spiderman' Subrata Paul comes to special athlete's aid||Subrata Paul, who did duty under the bar for Jamshedpur Football Club for three seasons in the Indian Super League, has come forward to help a fellow sportsman. The 33-year-old goalie, who hails from  Sodepur (Bengal), provided financial assistance to former special athlete Sanjeev Kumar Das for the medical treatment of his infant son. Paul was kind enough to chip in with Rs 5,000 after coming to know about the problems being faced by Das who represented India’s handball squad in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Dublin, in 2003, and later assisted Jharkhand’s special handball athletes who participated in the next edition of the Games held at Shanghai in 2007. The Indian special team won a bronze in that event. According to Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota, he informed Paul about the problems Das was facing for the treatment of his 8-month-old son. "Paul was kind enough to provide Rs 5,000 through one of his acquaintances. The money reached Paul last evening. Mohit, son of Das, was suffering from diarrhoea and was undergoing treatment at a nursing home in Bhalubasa locality of the city for the past three days,"he informed. Mohit was discharged from the nursing home Tuesday late evening. Sahota, who also provided Rs 4,000 to Das, knows Paul from the time he was a cadet of Tata Football Academy from 2002-04. Paul switched over to Hyderabad FC this season before heading for SC East Bengal for the remainder of the cash-rich ISL. Both Hyderabad and East Bengal failed to reach the play-offs. Das, who has been rendered jobless for some months now lives with his mother in the steel city. The bill for the treatment of his son amount to over Rs 5,000 but he was unable to arrange the required money till Paul came to know about it. The former special athlete was working for Sodexo Facilities Management Services at Baroda (Gujarat) but lost his job as the company shut down due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown last year. Before his job in Baroda, Das worked on a part-time basis for a few organisations in Surat, Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad but had to return to Jamshedpur three years ago due to some unrest in Gujarat. "Das was also forced to rush to New Delhi last year to be with his pregnant wife, where he faced a similar situation. Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) provided Rs 10,000 to Das on our request. He badly needs a job to keep himself and his family afloat. We are trying our best to find something for him," said Sahota, a former international cyclist. Das profusely thanked Paul for help.”I am very thankful to Paul Sir for the timely help. I could not have arranged money for the treatment of my son. I need employment to sustan myself and my family. I am also thankful to Sahota ji who personally visited the nursing home last evening,” he added. Das also thanked  former international athlete and Arjuna awardee Bagicha Singh who assisted with Rs 2,000. Singh retired from Tata Steel last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Woman consumes poison after being branded a witch||A woman was rushed to the local hospital when she consumed poison on Tuesday, after being branded as a witch and beaten up mercilessly on Saturday at the Manatu village of Simaria block in Chatra on orders of a panchayat. The victim, working as a sahiya, was blamed by a group of locals for every other incident that took place in the village, following which five men beat her up despite pleading for mercy, she said. Villagers present at the scene remained mere spectators as she suffered, the woman alleged. Following this incident, the woman consumed poison under mental pressure on Tuesday night. She was rushed to a local hospital, while her family complained to the Simaria Police about the matter. The police have lodged FIR against seven persons and are conducting raids to nab the culprits, officer-in-charge Gobind Kumar said. However, some villagers alleged that the victim was making an issue out of a small incident of scolding, and denied that she was beaten up. “She was creating trouble for us due to her rough nature and so we scolded her, asking her to live peacefully in the village,” they said. The police said they are investigating the case from all angles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Forest officials using satellite images to locate, douse fires||Foresters are using satellite images to locate forest fires and douse them before they can cause major damage to flora and fauna,  officials said on Wednesday, a day after two seven-member teams were constituted to monitor the Mahilong area of Angara block in Ranchi district. “Forest rangers have constituted teams at their level to locate and douse forest fires. We are also using satellite images to identify areas which are affected by forest fires,” said Ranchi district forest officer Ashok Dubey, adding that the special teams are sent to the locations as soon as the department gets an alert through satellite. Incidents of man-made forest fires have been on the rise this month in Ranchi district as it is the time for harvest of Mahua – a flower used for making country liquor. Villagers, officials said, often set forest areas on fire to collect Mahua, which falls off trees during this season and is unaffected by fire. Incidents of natural forest fires are rare in Jharkhand but man-made forest fires are posing to be a threat for the wildlife in the state, say forest officials. The special teams constituted for dousing forest fires are equipped with sand and water containers to reduce the heat in the bushes. Once the heat is reduced, they beat the bushes to put off the residual fire, forest officials said. The Ranchi DFO said reaction time is quite less for teams on duty as fire may engulf huge areas of plantations in a short period of time due to the presence of dry leaves and branches. “It is particularly challenging for us as the leaves and branches are mostly dry during this time of the year and catch fire easily,” said Dubey. Environmentalists believe that dried up rivers and water bodies in the jungles are also partly responsible for the rise in incidents of forest fires. Nitish Priyadarshi, an environmentalist who recently visited forest areas around Sita Fall and Jonha Fall in Ranchi, said that water bodies add moisture to the soil, therefore preventing the fire from spreading fast. “But most of the rivers and ponds have dried up, leaving the soil dry. It will get difficult to contain forest fire when there is no moisture in the soil,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Passenger & goods trains to travel faster from now ||South Eastern Railway has raised sectional speed limits of trains in nine sections covering a length of around 435km in an attempt to ensure faster movement of  passenger and freight trains. According to sources at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, in Tatanagar-Kharagpur and Kharagpur-Andul sections, speed of all passenger and goods trains has been raised from 110 kmph to 130 kmph, and in Rupsa-Baripada section speed has been raised from 70 kmph to 100 kmph. In Banspani-Jaroli and Barajamda-Gua sections under Chakradharpur division of SER, the speed limit of trains has been increased from 50 kmph to 65 kmph. Speed has been also enhanced in Bimalgarh-Barsuan, Baripada-Bhanjpur, Hijli-Nimpura and Muri-Hatia sections. Moreover, data available from SER headquarters suggest that during the 2020-21 financial year there has been an improvement of 91 per cent  in average speed of freight trains in comparison to the previous year. SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh said, "The increased speed limit of trains was implemented from Tuesday in all the nine sections after successful trials." He added that all the nine sections underwent massive track and signal strengthening work during the last two years which helped implement the decision. " Increasing the speed limit of trains will also help improving punctuality of both passenger and goods trains in the zone, " he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||3 ex-CMs of Jharkhand to campaign for BJP in Bengal ||Three former former chief ministers of Jharkhand, Babulal Marandi, Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das, were among the 40 star campaigners named on Wednesday by the BJP ahead of the first phase of Assembly elections in Bengal on March 27. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the biggest star campaigner of the party, had kicked off the saffron camp’s high-pitched electioneering with his rally at Calcutta's iconic Brigade Parade Ground on March 7, the party will leave no stone unturned to launch a battery of other leaders in its endeavour to unseat the Mamata Banerjee- led Trinamool Congress from power. For Jharkhand BJP, the three former CMs are their biggest faces with rich political acumen for canvassing, said officials in the state unit. Of the three, Munda is currently a minister in the Modi cabinet while Das, after losing power in the state in 2019, is now a national vice president of the party. On the other hand, Marandi, who returned to the BJP fold in February 2020, is the state unit’s legislative party leader. A senior BJP leader in Ranchi said all three will have a key role to play in Bengal polls. “Large parts of Jharkhand are connected with Bengal by virtue of it being our immediate neighbour. People living on the border areas also have identical lifestyles, culture and customs. In that respect, they will have an important role to play to connect with voters,” he said. “The areas of Junglemahal that are going to polls in the first two phases have many tribal dominated pockets where Jharkhand’s two biggest tribal faces—Munda and Marandi _ will come in handy. Das on the other hand will focus on OBC voters,” added another state leader. BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo maintained that all three ex-CMs had already undertaken several tours of Bengal for meetings and rallies in the recent weeks. “With polls nearing, they will intensify their campaigning and public connect programmes as tasked by the party high command,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS junior doctors end strike after talks with director||Junior resident doctors of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) called off their strike on Wednesday following a closed-door-meeting with the Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad, but their counterparts in the remaining five medical colleges of Jharkhand continued with their strike to demand payment of pending salary dues as per the Seventh Pay Commission. The junior doctors also met health secretary K.K. Soan on Wednesday at Nepal House. “The junior doctors at RIMS have been pressured to end their protest. But the senior residents of all the six medical colleges and junior residents of the remaining five medical colleges will continue with the strike until we get a concrete assurance from the government,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, convener of Jharkhand Resident Doctors Association. Representatives of senior resident doctors in Jharkhand are likely to meet health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday, sources said, in the hope that statewide protest would end after adequate assurances from the state government. Earlier, hundreds of patients were denied OPD services at the six medical colleges across Jharkhand for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, leading to panic and chaos at some of the leading healthcare facilities in the state as resident doctors continued to boycott OPDs as a part of their indefinite strike against delay in payment of arrears as per the Seventh Pay Commission. The OPDs remained closed through the day in all six medical colleges – Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Hospital (MGM) in Jamshedpur, SNMMCH in Dhanbad, Palamu Medical College, Hazaribagh Medical College and Dumka Medical College. Only patients in need of immediate medical attention were treated at the emergency ward in RIMS, while those with minor ailments were asked to wait. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) extended its support to the protesting doctors and addressed a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren seeking payment of arrears to the resident doctors at the earliest. The letter, addressed by Jharkhand IMA chief Dr Arun Kumar Singh, stated that the government should take necessary steps to pay the arrears of the protesting doctors as soon as possible. Such protests created a bad image of the state nationally, it said. “As a result of such protests, doctors from other parts of the country do not show intent to work in Jharkhand, and those working here end up leaving the state. If doctors develop a negative idea of Jharkhand, then it will eventually affect the functioning of the six medical colleges in the state,” the letter, a copy of which is with The Telegraph Online, stated. The protesting doctors have alleged that they were not paid salary as per the Seventh Pay Commission since 2016 to March 2019. There are more than 500 resident doctors in Jharkhand. On an average, each doctor is entitled to payment of arrears worth several lakhs, they clamed. The doctors’ strike also rocked the state Assembly on Wednesday. The Opposition staged a demonstration outside the Assembly demanding payment of arrears to the resident doctors and strengthening of health facilities in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 50,000 senior citizens vaccinated in the state so far||The count of senior citizens vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand crossed the 50,000 mark on Tuesday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a report shared by the NHM on Tuesday evening, as many as 6626 senior citizens were vaccinated on the day, taking the total count of senior citizens vaccinated in the state so far to 50,413. Among Jharkhand districts, Ranchi has vaccinated most number of senior citizens in the state, while Chatra has vaccinated the least. As per NHM data, as many as 7,214 senior citizens have been inoculated in Ranchi in the past nine days, while only 316 got the jab in Chatra. As many as 2,468 senior citizens were inoculated in East Singhbhum, 2,960 in Dhanbad and 5,442 in Bokaro, highlights data compiled by the NHM. Despite initial hiccups in the second phase of the immunization programme, mostly caused by apprehensions related to side effects of the vaccination, the drive has picked up pace lately with more senior citizens voluntarily turning up at healthcare facilities to get inoculated, doctors spearheading the vaccination programme said. Very few cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) have been reported among the senior citizens despite most of them suffering from severe comorbid conditions and other health complications, doctors said. So far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 3,75,924 beneficiaries, and 57,007 of them were commoners. While senior citizens have turned up at vaccination centres and got the jab in healthy numbers, middle-agers with comorbid conditions have not been so keen on getting vaccinated, reveal government figures. Only 6,594 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand so far – about 13 per cent of the total number of senior citizens vaccinated in the state so far. As per government data, the first dose of the vaccine was administered to 2588 healthcare and frontline workers on Tuesday, while the second dose was administered to 13162 healthcare and frontline workers. The state achieved only 8 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers and 27 per cent of its target for the second dose. So far, Jharkhand has achieved 83 per cent of its vaccination target. Meanwhile, as many as 62 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while 40 patients recovered, a separate bulletin by the NHM stated. Ranchi reported 31 cases and 19 recoveries on the day. As per NHM data, the count of active cases of Covid-19 infection jumped to 494 on the day. So far, more than 1.20 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||NHRC notice over denial of pension in Jharkhand||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday issued notice to chief secretary Jharkhand, Sukhdeo Singh, and secretary ministry of social justice and empowerment R. Subrahmanyam taking suo motu cognisance of media report of delay and denial of pension and diversion of funds meant for senior citizens, widows and specially abled. The commission has given six weeks to both to submit a detailed report in the matter. Significantly, The Telegraph had highlighted the issue in its edition on January 31, 2021 titled “Jharkhand pension void”. The notice of the commission issued by three members of NHRC comprising Justice P.C. Pant, Jyotika Kalra and Dnyaneshwar Manohar Mulay has observed that it appears the funds became a bone of contention between the Union government and the Jharkhand government for a considerable period resulting in denial or delayed payment of financial assistance under various schemes, including the old age pension and Covid relief payments under the Pradhan Mantri Gharib Kalyan Yojana  (PMGKY) in Jharkhand. The notice states that as per reports, the denial and delayed payment took place since July 2020, amid Covid pandemic, which disrupted the livelihood of lakhs of people across the country, the Jharkhand government stopped distribution of pensions to nearly 10 lakh eligible widows, senior citizens and the specially abled citizen across the State. “The contents of it (media reports), if true, raise a serious issue of human rights violation,” the commission notice observes and expressed concern how the money received from the Centre under one head was reportedly utilised for another head, resulting thereby in denial of basic need for survival of the poor people. It has also expressed concern over a reported huge gap between the beneficiaries on the roll and those actually getting the pension under various categories. The notice informed that the media report highlighted the case study of 62-year old small farmer, with a meagre income, who had to borrow more than Rs 10,000 from the relatives to pay his hospital bills when his leg was fractured in Ukamar village in Latehar district in July, 2020. But for five months after his fracture, he did not receive any pension money of Rs 1,000 per month, as per his entitlement under a central government scheme for senior citizens. “The media report has claimed that this is not just one case of non-payment of financial assistance to the needy as per the Government scheme. Reportedly, the direct transfer of Rs 1,000 in two instalments to the three crore senior citizens, widows and people with disability in the country, had to be paid in addition to their regular pension. But, as reportedly claimed by an official, due to non-receipt of this budgetary allocation for the Covid-19 scheme from the centre until the end of the year, the state government was forced to use its existing pension funds for the Covid relief payments,” the notice states. Reportedly, all the eligible persons are not being paid the pension despite protest by the people for long. There is a huge gap of about 64 per cent between the beneficiaries on the rolls and the ones who are actually getting the pension under different categories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand woman hacked after witch slur||A 45-year-old woman’s body, chopped into six pieces, was found buried on the banks of a river in Pakur district of Jharkhand, some 330km north-east of state’s capital Ranchi, on Monday afternoon. The body of Sona Marandi, a resident of Bhattikunder village, has been identified by her son Manoj Hansda. According to a report, the body of the woman has been cut into six pieces, two legs, two hands, torso and head and buried in the Bansloi river stretch near the Pachuwada Ranga tola of Pakur district. Villagers first noticed two legs of the woman on Saturday evening near the river and informed the local police on Sunday morning. The police reached the spot and started searching in the nearby vicinity of the river for other parts of the body, but could not get any breakthrough. On Monday late afternoon, while digging they found other parts of the body and sent them for post mortem at Pakur Sadar Hospital. Pakur SP, Manilal Mandal confirmed that the son of the deceased woman, Manoj Hansda has alleged that few persons had threatened her mother of dire consequences for practicing witchcraft and a case has been lodged against the named eight persons on Tuesday morning. More than 1,500 people have been killed in Jharkhand on the pretext of practising black magic, a majority of them women, ever since the new state came into being in 2000. Sona was missing since February 24 and after failing to trace her, his son had lodged a missing case on March 3. “They had threatened the woman for practicing witchcraft and on complaint of the son we have registered a case against eight persons of the same village all of whom are absconding. We are trying to trace and arrest them and only then we will know the exact motive behind branding her as a witch by the culprits,” Mandal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
