11-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: campaign to not vote for BJP||Kushal Debnath, who spent five months behind bars after being arrested by the Trinamul administration in 2017 and is out on bail, said this was not the time to remember his personal grudge against the Mamata Banerjee government. Dipankar Bhattacharya, CPIML Liberation general secretary, pointed out: “Other ruling parties too have histories of torture but they are not fascists like the BJP.” Debnath is not advocating voting for Mamata. He and Bhattacharya are part of an extraordinary campaign in Bengal that stands out because they do not seek votes for any party or person. Instead, they have a crystal-clear appeal: Don’t vote for the BJP. Around 10,000 people bound by the common objective of not voting for the BJP walked together in a rally in Calcutta on Wednesday, asking everyone to follow their policy to save Bengal. They cautioned that if people did not vote pragmatically and the BJP came to power in the state, it would mean a “threat to the freedom people enjoy in Bengal”. The rally was not organised under the banner of any political party, nor did the participants ask anyone to vote for any particular party. All they asked was that no one vote for the BJP, so that parties are deterred in future from dividing society, curbing the independence of democratic institutions or targeting ordinary people for dissent. The participants said they would propagate the message in their neighbourhoods when they returned home. The one-hour march snaked from Ramlila Park in Moulali to Hogg Street, located along the eastern boundary of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation headquarters in Esplanade. Among the participants were students, retired professionals and college teachers. Some of them held flags carrying images of icons such as Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, B.R. Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh. “We are carrying flags showing people who worked for the rights of the lower castes and spoke in favour of unity and against dividing people along religious lines,” a marcher with a flag said. Arpita Banerjee, who teaches economics at a college, said all she was asking was that people not vote for the BJP. “I’m not recommending any political party — that’s the individual’s choice — but I’m saying one should not vote for the BJP,” she said. “If they (the BJP) are elected to power, it would severely erode the freedom we enjoy in Bengal.” While many of the participants had arrived in small groups, many others like Arpita had come alone. She said she had come because she supported the rally’s call: “No vote for BJP.” Anwesha Roy, a student of Bethune College, explained why the BJP was worse than other parties. “Remember the Muzaffarnagar riots, Delhi riots? No other party has orchestrated communal riots the way the BJP has done,” she said. “Members of all other parties too commit violence but not with an agenda of hatred against a community.” Anwesha said that if the BJP was voted to power, it could mean the end of the Opposition in Bengal. “They will put everyone behind bars on charges like sedition. There will be none left to oppose their acts. We have to stop that happening,” she said. Another participant said he was appalled at how “a section of the judiciary in India had crumbled” under pressure. “Whoever faced injustice from the police or the government used to feel the courts would stand by them, but do we have that faith in the courts any longer?” he said. Four conveners of Bengal Against Fascist RSS-BJP — the organisers of Wednesday’s rally — had been arrested by the Trinamul government in 2017 when they protested against the construction of a power substation in Bhangar. Debnath, who spent five months in custody, said: “We are not advocating voting for Mamata Banerjee. All we are saying is, ‘Don’t vote for the BJP; vote for anyone else’. The BJP is dividing our own people. This is something Mamata never did.” Slogans blared from the vehicles moving at the head of the rally and near its middle and tail. Hundreds chanted: “BJP-r teen tey gun/ Looth, danga, manush khun (The BJP knows three skills/ To loot, riot and kill).” Another slogan went “NRC-r naam kore/ Nagorikatto nichchhe kere/ Ei BJP ke vote noy” — a warning to people not to vote for a party that is “snatching citizenship on the pretext of the NRC”. Many had come from outside Calcutta. An organiser said there were participants from all the south Bengal districts. A few farmer leaders who had been protesting at Delhi’s borders since November marched in the rally and later addressed the crowd. As the participants walked along S.N. Banerjee Road, many pedestrians and people from roadside shops raised their hands in a gesture of solidarity. A shopkeeper near New Market kept chanting: "BJP ke ektio vote noy (Not a single vote for the BJP).” The participants had begun gathering at Ramlila Park from 12.30pm. The march began around 1.30pm and reached Hogg Street about an hour later. Farmer leaders, a few of the rally organisers and some others then delivered speeches. Bhattacharya, the CPIML Liberation leader, was among the speakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Here’s why we won’t vote for BJP’||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University to have more admission test centres||Presidency University will have many more centres this year for its undergraduate admission tests so that candidates have easier access. The tests, being held on July 31 and August 1, will be pen-and-paper. The state joint entrance examination board conducts the tests on behalf of Presidency University. Examination zones in districts like Calcutta and Howrah, where the maximum number of aspirants appear for the tests, have been split into smaller segments so a candidate can select a centre closest to his or her residence and the crowd of examinees gets evenly distributed to help maintain physical distance in the pandemic, said a JEE board official. According to the information brochure about the tests, exam zones in Calcutta have been broken into central Calcutta, north Calcutta, Salt Lake/New Town, south Calcutta and west Calcutta. Central Calcutta will consist of exam centres spread across Moulali, Beliaghata, Narkeldanga, Phool Bagan, Kankurgachi and Park Circus. North Calcutta will comprise centres spread across Shyambazar, Bagbazar, Girish Park, Burrabazar, College Street and Sealdah. The other zones also have smaller segments under them. JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha said: “We will allocate an applicant the centre closest to his or her residential address. While it will be advantageous for them to access, this will also spread the gathering, leading to maintenance of physical distancing as much as possible. We have increased the number of centres to facilitate this”. When asked what the number of centres could be, he said the figure would be drawn up after they have the number of applicants. Till last year, an exam zone would consist of centres in two to three segments at the most. Online submission of forms is likely to begin in the fourth week of March. Last year, the JEE board did not conduct the test in April because of the pandemic and Presidency University had to admit students on the basis of their performance in the board exams. This year, the board has restored the test. “Even as the tests are being held in-person, we are stressing on maintaining physical distancing.... Other protocols will be announced,” a JEE board official said. The practice of allocating centres closest to the applicants’ residence will be followed in this year’s JEE, for admission to BTech courses,  due on July 11. “In JEE, too, we have raised and split the exam centres into smaller segments so candidates can take the test at the centres closest to their residence and observe physical distancing,” the official said. The tests would be held for admissions to as many as 14 subjects at Presidency. The details of the schedule of the tests — date and time wise — have been uploaded in the information brochure posted on the JEE board’s website. The board is yet to announce when it will hold the entrance for admissions to the masters’ programmes at Presidency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Offices on 3 floors of New Koilaghat building resume||Police and fire services department on Wednesday allowed resumption of offices on the first three floors of the 14-storied Eastern Railway’s New Koilaghat building on Strand Road, following request from the railway authorities. A fire razed the 12th and the 13th floors of the building on Monday night causing nine deaths. Railway officials said the second floor of the building has servers that are used by six zonal railways for their online and offline ticket reservations. The third floor houses the office of the Railway Protection Force (RPF), one of whose constables — 36-year-old Sanjay Sahani — died in the blaze. On Wednesday, power connection was resumed across the three floors and employees were allowed in after verification by a police team, which ringed the building since Monday night. The floors above remained dark without power and even elevators were not allowed to move. “The all-important server is fully functional now after power was restored. We are trying to access other floors also but only after clearance from the investigating agency,” said Kamal Deo Das, the chief public relations officer of the Eastern Railway. “We don’t want to interfere with the investigation by the state agencies in any way….” The servers on the second floor of the building cater to the ticketing requirements of six zones, including the Eastern Railway, South Eastern Railway, Northeast Frontier Railway, South Central Railway, East Central Railway and East Coast Railway. Officers said it was a huge relief since online booking — done through the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) — and offline booking done at the reservation counters in stations and other places were affected over the last two days. At least 700 railway ticket reservation counters from Calcutta to Hyderabad, Mughalsari in Uttar Pradesh and Assam’s Tinsukia were hit throughout Tuesday with the servers remaining only partially functional. Senior railway officials said several offices of the South Eastern Railway are located across floors between eight and the 11th, including the office of the principal chief commercial manager who oversees entire commercial operations of the zone and that of the traffic accounts officer. The other floors have offices of the chief medical director, the principal chief security commissioner, chief commercial manager of passenger marketing of the eastern railway. The building also houses the eastern regional office of the Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS), which designs, develops, implements and maintains most of the important information systems of the Indian Railways. Senior officers of the railway said officers of these departments were working from a few other satellite units, so that work was not affected. Officers from the detective department of Calcutta police, who are probing the fire, said it was too early to deliberate when most of the floors could be thrown open.. “It’s just 72 hours. We are still trying to find out details of the building...,” said a senior officer of the probe team. Two men were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the cocaine case for allegedly supplying the white powder to Amrita Singh, who had in turn had allegedly supplied it to BJP leader Rakesh Singh. Farhan Ahmed, 26, and Daim Akhtar, 25, were produced before the Alipore NDPS court on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Golden jubilee of 1971 Liberation War||Army commandos rappelled down ropes from helicopters in a show of what a real war situation looks like and civilians across age groups gawked at weapons from up close at the Royal Calcutta Turf Club (RCTC) ground during an event organised by the Eastern Command on Wednesday to commemorate the golden jubilee the Liberation War of 1971 that lead to the birth of Bangladesh as a nation. A “victory flame” celebrating Swarnim Vijay Varsh has been moving all over the country since December 16 to mark 50 years of the victory in the 1971 war against Pakistan. The flame has since then passed through several villages, towns and cities. On Wednesday Lt. Gen. Anil Chauhan, army commander of the Eastern Command, received the flame at the RCTC ground in presence of several senior officers and other dignitaries. The flame will move to the military station in Barrackpore on Thursday where some of the veterans of the 1971 war will be felicitated. Civilians and NCC cadets thronged the ground in large numbers taking a close look at some of the weapons on display. “This will help young minds get an idea of the strength and the might of the Indian armed forces,” said a senior army officer. Army officers explained some features of a few weapons on display to the crowd who also got chance to hold some of the weapons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Schools to need more invigilators||Schools will require double or triple the usual number of invigilators during board exams this year and several schools have asked teachers not to make travel plans during the summer as of now. More teachers will be required on campus for invigilation because students will be spread across more rooms than usual. A larger number of teachers will also be needed to maintain distance on campuses before the start of an examination, several school heads said. The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) theory exams are beginning on May 4. ICSE will end on June 7 and ISC on June 18. The CBSE Class X and XII exams will begin on May 4 — the Class X exams will end on June 7 and Class XII on June 14. “We have asked teachers, not just those in senior school but also in middle and junior school, to not make any travel plans during the summer vacation because the requirement on the campus could be higher this year,” said Anjana Saha, principal, Mahadevi Birla World Academy, a CBSE school. In ICSE and ISC, the ratio of teachers to students during exams is 1:30 but several school heads said that unlike other years, all students cannot be accommodated in one hall this year and multiple rooms will have to be used to conduct the exams. For example, instead of 25 students only 12 can now be seated in one room, said a principal. In some schools, on days that both Class X and XII exams are scheduled on the same day, schools are also exploring the option of using separate rooms. In CBSE schools, too, heads said that instead of using one block or one portion of the building, the requirement will be much more this year. “We have requested teachers not to commit to any travel plans as of now this summer. We could need double or triple the number of teachers that we require each year and we know teachers will be supportive of this. On our part, we will certainly be mindful that some free-time window is given to every teacher,” said Damayanti Mukherkee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. The summer break will be shorter than other years and schools are contemplating giving teachers a week or two instead of the usual four or five weeks. “We have asked teachers not to make any travel plans but simultaneously we are working out a roster so that we can give them two weeks break instead of the usual four week,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy and Julien Day School Ganganagar have also told teachers not to make any travel plans for the summer. Rammohan Mission High school will be making the announcement on Friday. The requirement of rooms will go up and so, naturally, more teachers would be required, said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission. “The number of students in each room will be smaller and so, more number of teachers will be required. Teachers are directly involved in conducting the exams and they are aware of their responsibilities,” said Biswas. Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, a CBSE school, said that once they have details of the number of examinees at their school, it will be easy for them to plan a roster for the teachers. In ICSE and ISC, students appear for exams in their own school and schools have to send their teachers for invigilation to other schools. In CBSE, the students appear for exams from different schools. “If we require more teachers for invigilation, we are also expected to spare the same number of teachers,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town water plant for Sector V||The New Town water treatment plant will start supplying two million gallons per day (MGD) to Sector V from this week, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) that operates the plant with  public health engineering department said. The boost in water supply is likely to ease water scarcity in Sector V and adjoining areas during the peak summers, an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) said. Sector V now receives water from Tallah plant. According to a senior NDITA official, three new filter beds — where water flown in from the Hooghly is allowed to settle as the first step of the filtration process — have been put on trial run. “This has added another 5MGD capacity to this plant which has been supplying around 20MGD since it was commissioned.” Debashis Sen, the NDITA chairman, said the water supply will help all stakeholders in the tech township. “The water from New Town plant that we will get would be treated surface water and it will help all stakeholders in Sector V...,” said Sen. The plant now supplies water to New Town that gets the lion share of around 12 MGD while Salt Lake receives 4 MGD per day. Kalyan Kar, the vice-president of the Sector V Stakeholders’ Association, said there was a long-standing demand for treated surface water in Sector V. “...We are happy that we will be getting treated water from the water treatment plant in New Town.” Intake jetties have been built at the Chitpore Lockgate to draw in the water from the Hooghly and a 10.5-km underground pipeline has been laid from the jetties to New Town. The water enters a narrow channel in the Mission Bazaar area in Kestopur, now above the ground, but two contiguous steel plates are placed on the sides to prevent spillage and theft. An underground channel guides the water into five ponds in the plant’s backyard. Here the water is allowed to settle for a few days. The plant then turns on its state-of-the-art system for water treatment. The cost of the project has been estimated at over Rs 400 crore, of which Rs 291 crore has been sanctioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Floor plan question after Strand road railway office fire||In absence of a floor plan of the New Koilaghat building that caught fire on Monday, the firefighters might have found it difficult to locate the staircase and taken the elevator, a section of the fire department personnel who were on the spot on the night of fire, said. Allegations have also surfaced that there were no competent officials on behalf of the railways who could have assisted the fire fighting teams and helped them reach the spot safely. A fire department official said the fire teams had two options: either to wait for the railway officials to arrive with a floor plan to understand the structure of the building before making any move and let the upper floors burn or to take a risk. “Unfortunately, the risk did not pay,” the official said. Human intervention and assistance by railway officials could have been averted had there been a floor plan displayed inside the building, essentially near the staircase or the elevators, but there was none, said another fire department official. “The RPF personnel, who were also in the lift with the fire fighting team must have been trying to help them. But it is still not clear whether the RPF are trained and designated to handle a fire exigency,” said a divisional officer of the fire department. Display of floor maps near staircases and elevators is mandatory for highrise buildings just as the presence of fire fighting equipment like water sprinkler, hydrant, a pump, a fire-elevator and an alternative source of power. Metro had reported on Wednesday that the central government building did not have a fire certificate and had allegedly not acted on the recommendations made by the fire department in 2015. The Eastern Railway on Thursday sought the list of recommendations from the state fire and emergency services department, sources said. “They have asked us to send the list of recommendations again,” said an official in the fire department. On Tuesday, a senior fire department official had told Metro that the building authorities had applied for a fire certificate in 2013. The fire and emergency services department had sent a detailed list of recommendations for the 14-storied building which the authorities were expected to comply and revert to the fire department. The NOC (no objection certificate) could have been issued only after the final inspection. However, the building authorities allegedly did not respond after that. Calcutta police have initiated a probe to fix the cause of the fire on the 13th floor and the sequence of events that led to the death of nine persons inside two separate elevators. A senior officer in the probe team said the most vital part of the investigation was to find out who was in charge of the building-safety and security and why the power supply was not turned off even after the fire was reported. “Preliminary inquiry suggests that the power supply may have been switched off just when the second elevator in which two people were found dead, had reached the 13th floor,” said an officer in Lalbazar. “Unlike the first elevator whose doors had opened and exposed the seven men inside to the flames on the 13th floor, the two men who were in the second elevator did not suffer any burn injuries and were found dead inside an enclosed elevator. Possibly they were trapped and died of inhaling carbon monoxide once the power supply was off,” the officer added. The Rotary Club of Howrah organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp on Wednesday. Fifty people were administered the Covishield vaccine. The drive was supported by the state government and the Howrah Municipal Corporation. The effort was coordinated by Dr Monosij Dhara. The Rotary Club of Howrah is the first Rotary unit in Bengal to organise a Covid vaccination camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Business||After iPhone 11 and others, Apple starts assembly of iPhone 12 in India||Apple Inc is commencing assembly of its iPhone 12 model in India, a move that is expected to help the US tech giant further consolidate its position in the country. Apple has partnered with third-party manufacturers like Foxconn and Wistron to make some of its phones in India. These include iPhone SE, iPhone 10R and iPhone 11. "Apple is dedicated to making the best products and services in the world to delight our customers...We are proud to be starting production of iPhone 12 in India for our local customers, Apple said in a statement. While the Cupertino-based company did not name the supplier partners, sources said Foxconn will be making the iPhone 12 in India. Apple had started manufacturing iPhones in India in 2017 with iPhone SE. In a tweet, Electronics and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said: "Nice to see our efforts to make India a big hub of mobile and components manufacturing is attracting global attention. This will create jobs in large numbers." Apple, which competes with players like Samsung and OnePlus in the premium smartphone segment, has been aggressively ramping up its presence in the Indian market. In January, Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook had stated that the company has doubled its business in India in the December quarter on the back of strong performance of its online store, and that the tech giant sees a good growth trajectory going ahead. "India is one of those, where our share is quite low. It did improve from the year-ago quarter. Our business roughly doubled over that period of time. And so, we feel very good about the trajectory. We are doing a number of things in the area. We put the online store there, for example, and last quarter was the first full quarter of the online store," Cook had said. Apple also plans to set up brick-and-mortar outlets in India in addition to the online store as the iPhone maker looks to further cement its position in one of the world's biggest smartphone markets. In the past, Apple has stated that it is keen on offering online and in-store experiences to Indian users that are at par with its global standards and that it aims to open its maiden retail store in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||Bank of Baroda seeks investor in credit cards||Bank of Baroda (BoB) is scouting for an investor in its credit card business even as it is considering a potential listing of its insurance joint venture in the next 18 to 24 months. Managing director & CEO Sanjay Chadha told Reuters that the lender is looking to bring in an investor in its credit card business over the next 12 months. The credit card business is currently housed under BoB Financial Solutions, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BoB. While its core business is credit card issuance, it also provides support to the PSU lender by carrying out its merchant acquiring operations, debit card operations for its overseas territory apart from providing consultancy services. During the year ended March 31, 2020, it had suffered a net loss of Rs 31.52 crore. It has more than half a million customers. Chadha further said BoB is also looking to list its insurance joint venture — IndiaFirst Life Insurance Company — in the next 18-24 months. Here the Reuters report quoting the BoB CEO said the business has been doing very well and it has significant value. While BoB has a stake of 44 per cent in the venture, the rest is held by Union Bank of India at 30 per cent and Carmel Point Investment at 26 per cent. The insurer began its operations in 2009 and it ended the previous fiscal with Rs 3,360 crore of total premium collected and an assets under management of Rs 14,723 crore. Shares of BoB closed marginally lower at Rs 80 on the BSE on Wednesday. During the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, BoB had reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,159.17 crore as compared to a net loss of R 1,218.87 crore for the same period a year ago. During the quarter, total income of the bank fell to Rs 22,070.52 crore from Rs 23,134.67 crore in the year-ago quarter. However, its asset quality saw an improvement with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 8.48 per cent of the gross advances by December-end 2020 from 10.43 per cent by the same period a year ago. In absolute terms, gross NPAs or bad loans fell to Rs 63,181.55 crore as against Rs 73,139.70 crore. Net NPAs also declined to 2.39 per cent or Rs 16,667.71 crore from 4.05 per cent or Rs 26,504 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||Telecom companies can only install govt approved gears from June 15||The department of telecommunications has amended the Unified Access Service Licence to prevent telecom players from acquiring equipment from untrustworthy vendors. The changes will take effect from June 15 and are meant to prevent Chinese telecom equipment makers such as Huawei and ZTE from taking part in the 5G rollout roadmap. The amendment will help the government control sourcing of products from China and other non-friendly countries. The National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC) may also notify a list of designated sources that cannot participate. Airtel and Vodafone Idea have existing contracts with the Chinese vendors, while Jio works largely with Korean vendor Samsung. Reports said that Vodafone Idea was in advanced stages of processing an order for network capacity expansion in six circles through Chinese telecom gear makers. Vodafone Idea did not respond to questions from this newspaper about how the changes in the licensing norms will impact its dealings with Chinese equipment makers. With effect from June 15, telecom operators will only connect trusted products in its network and seek permission from the NCSC for the upgradation of existing networks and for using telecom equipment not designated as trusted products. According to the licence amendment, the NCSC will be the designated authority that can impose conditions for the procurement of telecom equipment in matters directly related to national security. “However, these directions will not affect ongoing annual maintenance contracts or updates to existing equipment already inducted in the network as on date of effect," the amendment notification said. While the government has not barred procurement of equipment from Chinese companies, it amended the general financial rules 2017 to enable the imposition of restrictions on bidders in public procurement from countries that share a land border with India on grounds of the defence of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||RBI takes IDBI Bank out from its prompt corrective action framework||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday lifted the tough restrictions on the operations of IDBI Bank under its prompt corrective action (PCA) framework. IDBI Bank was put under the central bank’s PCA framework in 2017. The banking regulator had introduced the PCA mechanism in 2002 that forced banks to follow pre-set guidelines if their performance in terms of capital adequacy ratio, net non-performing assets (NPA) and return on assets fell below a desired threshold. The banks under the framework were subject to restrictions in a number of areas such as expansion of their lending book and entry into new lines of business. The banks had to reduce or skip dividend and check management compensation and director fees. Subsequently, the RBI revised the guidelines in 2017. In a statement on Wednesday, the central bank said the performance of IDBI Bank was reviewed by the Board for Financial Supervision (BFS) in its meeting held on February 18. The RBI said on the basis of its published results for the quarter ending December 31, 2020, IDBI Bank was not in breach of the PCA parameters on regulatory capital, net NPA and leverage ratio. “The bank has provided a written commitment that it would comply with the norms of minimum regulatory capital, Net NPA and leverage ratio on an ongoing basis and has apprised the RBI of the structural and systemic improvements that it has put in place which would help the bank in continuing to meet these commitments,” the RBI said. “Taking all the above into consideration, it has been decided that IDBI Bank Limited be taken out of the PCA framework, subject to certain conditions and continuous monitoring,” it added. With the exit of IDBI Bank, there are three PSU banks under PCA. The three banks are Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank of India and Uco Bank. For the quarter ended December 31, 2020, IDBI Bank had reported a net NPA ratio of 1.94 per cent while its capital adequacy ratio stood at 14.77 per cent and leverage ratio at 5.71 per cent. The prompt corrective action framework  is invoked if a bank’s capital adequacy ratio falls at least 250 basis points below the minimum prescription of 10.25 per cent and its net NPAs are over 6 per cent. The other two criteria are negative RoA for two consecutive years and leverage ratio — the percentage of capital to exposure — falls to four per cent. The exit of IDBI Bank should help the government in getting a better price as it looks to pare its stake in the bank. The shares of the lender on Tuesday ended with gains of 5.08 per cent at Rs 38.25 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. IDBI has a market capitalisation of Rs 41,128 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||India to challenge Cairn arbitration award, plans the same in Vodafone case||The Modi government on Wednesday set the stage for fierce battles with Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Plc after Parliament passed the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that empowers Indian courts to set aside arbitration awards if it believes that there is a prima facie reason to believe that these have been “induced by fraud or corruption”. The Act will take retrospective effect from October 23, 2015. Cairn Energy recently won an award from the Permanent Court in the Netherlands that directed India to pay $1.2 billion in damages plus interest and costs to the oil company after rejecting the government’s demand for retrospective payment of capital gains tax arising from a corporate restructuring dating back to 2007. Cairn Energy has been trying to exit the country but has been unable to do so because of the tax dispute. Last September, Vodafone Plc also won an award in The Hague that nixed an Indian tax demand for Rs 22,100 crore related to its acquisition of a 67 per cent stake in Hutchison Whampoa’s telecom business in 2007 for a little over $11 billion. At the end of a short debate in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said: “It had become a national compelling necessity to pass this legislation.” The Lok Sabha had passed the legislation on February 12. The legislation, which will replace an ordinance issued on November 4 last year, became a “compelling necessity” after Cairn Energy moved courts in nine countries to enforce the award by seeking to seize the assets of the Government of India which has refused to pay the sum. It has already won court verdicts in five countries, including the US and the UK. The legislation provides for an amendment to Section 36 of the existing Act which empowers an Indian court to “stay the award unconditionally pending disposal of a challenge” if it is satisfied that (a) the arbitration agreement or contract which is the basis of the award, or (b) the making of the award, was induced or effected by fraud or corruption. The explanatory note says  “…For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the above proviso shall apply to all court cases arising out of or in relation to arbitral proceedings, irrespective of whether the arbitral or court proceedings were commenced prior to or after the commencement of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015.” The challenge to a court stay can be mounted under an amended section 34  which carries some infirmities that Amar Patnaik, MP from Odisha, highlighted during the extremely short debate on the subject. Patnaik said: “We find that under Section 34 (2) (a) of the Act which has to be read with Section 36, it states that ‘An award shall not be set aside merely on the ground of an erroneous application of law or by re-appreciation of evidence’... So, the question of re-appreciation of evidence is not provided for in Section 34... It is not an appeal provision. But how is it possible that a prima facie case can be made without first providing for it in Section 34?” More pertinently, Patnaik went on to add: “Any issue of fraud is a mixed fact of law as well as facts, and, therefore, it cannot be summarily decided unless it is proved... And that particular proving would require that they would have to take evidence from sources other than what was provided in the initial arbitral award. So, I really do not know how this particular provision will be implemented unless the court is able to reopen the entire case.” The law minister said in defence that his government was determined to beef up the arbitration regime in the country and turn India into a hub for arbitration cases. “Should India have to pay when an award is tainted by corruption? Where a CBI enquiry is in progress? ... where on the basis of a collusive agreement, there is an attempt to pay an arbitral award using taxpayers’ money? We are only interested in creating an honest arbitration regime in India... we are only interested in frustrating any effort to loot the taxpayers’ money from this country through an award,” he added. He added: “A CBI enquiry is on. I will not name any company but they are trying to go abroad and enforce (an arbitral award). What are they saying?... Pay us thousands of crores based on our claim... first, they sign an agreement that was based on corruption...they acquired natural resources of this country through corruption...the government of the day at that time did not work at all... when our government came in, we caught all the irregularities...we are using law to tighten the country’s arbitration system... it is based on honesty. Prasad added: “Should some businessmen be allowed to come into this free country, abuse the system and  grab its natural resources... negotiate collusive contracts? And will we allow them to go abroad and enforce those awards and then demand thousands of crores from us? We are changing this law to stop them from doing so.” The amended Act could also impact the dispute between US-based Amazon Inc and the Future group over the sale of the latter’s retailing business to Reliance Industries under a Rs 24,713-crore deal. Amazon has been trying to enforce an interim award it won from a Singapore tribunal against the Future group’s sale of its retail business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||Nandan Nilekani's grandson becomes an Infosys promoter||The country’s second largest IT services firm will now have a four-year old as one of its promoters. The surprising development arose after Janhavi Nilekani, daughter of Infosys chairman and co-founder Nandan Nilekani, transferred 7,77,600 shares to her son, Tanush Nilekani Chandra. The Infosys stock on Wednesday closed at Rs 1,368.10 on the BSE and based on this price, these shares are valued at Rs 106.38 crore. According to the shareholding data of Infosys for the quarter ended December 31, 2020, Janhavi Nilekani held 1.2 crore  shares of the IT services giant which translate to a holding of 0.30 per cent. The total promoter holding stands at 12.95 per cent. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Tuesday, Infosys said that Janhavi made an “off market” sale of 7.77 lakh shares, or 0.01 per cent, to Tanush. After the transaction, her stake stands at around 1.1 crore shares, or 0.27 per cent of Infosys’s equity. This is not the first time that a grandchild of a promoter is holding some shares of the prized IT services firm. For instance, co-promoter S.D. Shibulal’s grandson Milan Shibulal Manchanda at present holds 1.3 crore shares of Infosys. While Tanush Nilekani Chandra may be one of the youngest promoter in the country, experts say there is nothing wrong in such a transfer to even a four-year old child. Shriram Subramanian, founder and managing director of proxy advisory firm InGovern Research, told The Telegraph that these are inter-se transfers and there are no issues in such transfers or gifts and there is no age floor for a person to be classified as a promoter. Pointing out that even Sebi rules allow such inter-se transfer of shares, Subramanian said promoters of a listed company do not have a fiduciary responsibility which rests with its board of directors. It may be recalled that the founders of Infosys had in 2014 sought the approval of Sebi to reclassify themselves as public shareholders. However, the market regulator said they would be allowed to shake off the promoter tag only if the collective shareholding of the founders and their family members was brought down below 5 per cent. According to Section 2 (69) of the Companies Act, a promoter means a person who has been named as such in a prospectus or is identified by the company in the annual returns referred to in Section 92; or who has control over the affairs of the company, directly or indirectly whether as a shareholder, director or otherwise; or in accordance with whose advice, directions or instructions the board of directors of the company is accustomed to act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji reportedly in the last stages of debt recast||The Shapoorji Pallonji group is reportedly in the last stages of its debt recast under a one-time restructuring plan that was announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last year. Earlier, Shapoorji Pallonji Company Pvt Ltd was looking to restructure around Rs 10,900 crore of its debt after the banking regulator accepted the KV Kamath committee report which allows firms to recast their debt for two years. Reports now say that the group is looking to sell partial or full stakes in group firms such as Eureka Forbes, Afcons Infrastructure and Sterling & Wilson Solar and proceeds of over Rs 10,000 crore will be used to pare some of its debt. The group has a total debt of over Rs 22,000 crore. Its debt recast proposal has received the necessary RP4 rating from Care Ratings which is the minimum required for the one-time restructuring mechanism. The plan entails conversion of due interest into a term loan. Rating agency Icra had said in a note in January that the ratings of Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd (SPCPL) continue to be on watch with negative implications as the implementation of the one-time restructuring of its loans under the RBI’s resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress announced on August 6, 2020, is still under process. “Icra is given to understand that the servicing of debt for the lenders who are not part of the resolution plan is timely. The rating watch with negative implications reflects the uncertainty around the terms of the resolution plan. Timely implementation of the resolution plan with favorable terms easing the burden on the cash flows, resulting in improvement of coverage metrics  would be a key rating monitorable,” Icra observed. It further pointed out that SPCPL’s liquidity position is stretched and that the company has free cash balance of around Rs 181.1 crore (along with Rs 380.9 crore cash balances in international EPC projects) as on November 30, 2020. Icra further noted that the estimated cash flow from operations along with the existing cash balance would not be adequate to meet the high repayment obligations falling due over the short to medium term. "ICRA has taken note that SPCPL has applied for one-time restructuring of its debt exposure. Timely implementation of the resolution plan in a manner that alleviates the company’s tight liquidity position would be crucial’’, it said.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||TRAI gives companies seven days to register themselves and their message template||The telecom regulator has given companies seven days to register themselves and their message template after banks, e-commerce players and others sought time following major disruptions in SMS and OTP deliveries for banking, payments and other transactions. DoT officials said it is high time companies register themselves because block chain technology would restrict messages that do not conform to the registered template. The ministry will review the issue with the regulator and a decision on allowing more time will be taken if necessary. “In order to protect the interests of consumers, it has been decided that scrubbing of SMS by telecom service providers shall be suspended temporarily for seven days… to enable principal entities to register the template of their text messages so that customers don’t face further inconvenience,” Trai said. Several banks approached Trai as they were unable to send texts and one-time passwords (OTPs), which impacted important services such as net banking, online transactions, credit card payments, bookings and more. “It has been observed some of the principal entities have not fulfilled the requirements as envisaged in Telecom Commercial Communications Customer Preference Regulations, 2018. As a result, their text messages were getting dropped after implementation of the scrubbing of SMSes by telecom service providers,” it said. Trai regulations were introduced in 2018 and a framework was put in place to protect customers from fraud and phishing. Under these regulations, companies which send messages are registered and the messages are verified by telecom firms using a block chain-based solution. Text messages from unregistered sender IDs or headers are blocked. Rules mandate telcos to verify the content of every SMS with the registered text before delivering it to consumers. For this, telcos have adopted blockchain-based technology (or distributed ledger technology—DLT) that checks headers, or sender IDs, and content of every SMS originating from a registered source, while unregistered sources are rejected. This means all transactional and promotional messages are supposed to have a standard template with header, preference and consent, which should be registered with the telecom operators. While banks complained of faulty implementation, telecom industry sources said there was some difference in templates shared with telecom companies and text messages sent to their customers by banks which resulted in messages not being delivered. “TSPs (telecom service providers) are following Trai regulations and have activated the due process of content scrubbing to address the issue of unsolicited commercial communication. TSPs have sent various communications to the principal entities to register their content template with TSPs before 7 March. We request all principal entities to get their content template registered with TSPs and help address the issue of unsolicited commercial communication," S.P. Kochhar, director general, Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||India||After govt ‘admission’, desi cows no longer the gold standard||Is this the final blow for desi cows? After initially claiming that the milk from Indian cows contains “traces of gold” and is superior to the milk from foreign cows, the government now has disavowed those claims. In the chilly bureaucratese of a parliamentary answer, the government pronounced, “as per the information received from ICAR (Indian Council of Agricultural Research), there is no conclusive information available regarding the difference between the quality of milk of foreign breeds of cows and indigenous cattle.” The bad news was delivered by Sanjeev Balyan, minister of state for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying. It contradicts the extravagant claims made by the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA)which is part of Balyan’s own ministry, about the virtues and superior quality of Indian cow breeds. The RKA, which is the body established for cow welfare, had planned to hold a massive online exam last month to educate the public on the virtues of Indian cow breeds and how they were far superior to “exotic” beefier imports like the Jerseys and Holsteins. Nearly half a million people in India and around the world had registered to take part. But the exam was called off at the last moment, reportedly because of opposition within the ministry to the “unscientific” claims being touted by RKA in the syllabus for the exam. Relying on a study from Junagadh University, a blog on the RKA website asserted that experiments had “successfully identified more than 752 compounds found in cow urine having immense medicinal value.” The RKA also claimed that a host of illnesses could be cured by the milk from Indian cows, including “obesity, joint pain, asthma, mental illness”. It added that, conversely, the milk from foreign cows could trigger these illnesses. The syllabus took particular aim at the Jersey cow which it described as “lazy” and prone to disease. Indian cows, it said, followed hygienic practices being “hardy and clever enough not to sit at dirty places.” The Kamdhenu Aayog was set up in 2019 and its specific goal was the “conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny.” However, it appeared to have interpreted its mission as being the salvation of Indian cow breeds like the Red Kandhari and the Kasaragod dwarf cow. Agricultural experts call most of the RKA’s claims far-fetched. They point out that the real problem for Indian livestock is that artificial insemination over the last four-to-five decades has created a situation where it is impossible to find pure cattle breeds. “Breed surveys show 80 per cent of cattle is unidentifiable. You have a complete mix of breeds,” says Vikas Rawal, who’s a professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning at Jawaharlal Nehru University. So even if the milk from Indian cow breeds were superior to foreign ones, pure desi cows are thin on the ground. Rawal says that cross-breeding and artificial insemination have been done mainly to increase milk yields. “With an eye to increasing milk yield. Artificial insemination has helped to increase milk production. This means the identifiable cattle population has shrunk hugely,” says Rawal. Balyan’s dismissal of the virtues of Indian breeds came in response to a question from YSR Congress MP Magunta Sreenivasulu Reddy. Still, desi or not, BJP leaders are still keen to extol the cow’s virtues. On Sunday, Madhya Pradesh Culture minister Usha Thakur declared that a mix of ghee made from cow milk and added to cow dung cakes during a havan at sunrise or sunset can sanitise a home for 12 hours and prevent Covid-19. Thakur also advised adopting a Vedic lifestyle to be protected against the coronavirus. BJP leaders have drawn much attention for their ideas for combating the coronavirus. At the height of the pandemic last year, West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh advocated drinking cow urine to ward off Covid-19. In 2019 he also claimed that “desi cows have a hump on their back” and that “the hump has a ‘Swarna nari’. When sunlight falls on the hump, it produces gold.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
11-03-2021||India||Ravneet Bittu to undertake charge as leader of Congress in Lok Sabha temporarily||Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu would function as the leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha for the remaining part of the Budget session of Parliament, sources said on Thursday. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday entrusted the responsibility to Bittu, who is already the party's whip in the Lower House of Parliament. The change was made as the Congress' leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury would be busy in West Bengal assembly elections which is starting on March 27. Chowdhury is also the Congress' West Bengal unit president. Bittu, the three-time MP from Ludhiana, will discharge the role of Congress leader for the ongoing budget session of parliament. The Congress' deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi is also busy campaigning in poll-bound Assam. The Congress has been stalling both the houses of Parliament since the beginning of the second part of the budget session from March 8, demanding a discussion on the rise in fuel prices and on the farmer's issue and demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Covaxin out of ‘clinical trial mode’ now, declares Centre||The Centre on Thursday said Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin is out of the "clinical trial mode" and that it has now been granted the restricted emergency use authorisation. Addressing a weekly press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said Covaxin has been granted the permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest and that both Covid-19 vaccines Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute have the same licensure status now. "The condition of it (Covaxin) being required to be administered under clinical trial mode is no more there," Paul said. "Both the Covid-19 vaccines Covaxin and Covishield have the same licensure status. Covaxin has stood the test of time in terms of great safety. Only 311 individuals had minimal side effects. It is the triumph for India's research and development enterprise and science and technology enterprise," he said. India's drug regulator on January 3 had granted permission for the restricted use of Covaxin in emergency situations in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The Subject Expert Panel on Covid-19 of the CDSCO had recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin while removing the condition for the vaccine to be administered in "clinical trial mode". Replying to a question whether the government has a timeline in mind for phase 3 vaccination drive and who gets included in that, Paul said, "We are now focused on the relatively large group of individuals above the age of 60 as well as those aged 45- 60 with comorbidities. We are building a momentum to cover this significantly large group." "We will see progress and moving forward, yes, further increase in the circle of those who are eligible will be considered," Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India|| Health Ministry urges people to be ‘careful’ amid Covid surge||Expressing concern over the rise in active Covid-19 cases in a few states, including Maharashtra, the Centre on Thursday advised people to be "careful and watchful" and not lower guard as the pandemic is not yet over. At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul termed the coronavirus situation, especially in Maharashtra, "worrisome". He referred to the lockdown imposed in Nagpur from March 15 to 21 to say, "We are reaching a situation where these approaches (to tackle the spread of Covid-19) are being brought back." "We are very worried about the rise in cases in Maharashtra. Don't take this virus for granted. It can come up unexpectedly. If we have to remain free of this virus, Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy as well as vaccination has to be brought in," Paul said. He advised that in districts where Covid-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised. Sounding a word of caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, Paul said the national capital is seeing a rise in positivity rate, so is Gurgaon, Faridabad and to an extent Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad. "Be careful, be watchful. We still have a huge population at risk of this virus. This pandemic is not yet over. Be vigilant," he said. "Today, using the force of vaccination, we are in a position to give a stronger fight (to the pandemic). We plead again, do not lower your guard and please embrace the vaccines that are available," Paul added. Asked whether a mutant strain of the coronavirus is responsible for the rise in cases, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said it has not been found incriminating in the surge in Maharashtra. "At the moment, it is just related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing as well as Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations," he said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Nagpur, Pune, Thane, Mumbai, Bengaluru Urban, Ernakulam, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nashik and Aurangabad districts have the highest number of active Covid-19 cases. Bhushan said Kerala had 64,607 active cases of Covid-19 on February 11 which has now declined to 35,715. "We need to appreciate this," he said. In Uttar Pradesh, from 3,256 active cases on February 11 it has come down to 1,689 on March 11. In West Bengal, active cases have come down from 4,300 to 3,127, the Union health secretary said. However, in the case of Maharashtra, there were 36,917 active cases on February 11 and now it has crossed a lakh. Punjab had 2,100 cases which is now touching 9,400, Bhushan said. "We think Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are at a tipping point. They are yet to have a surge. But looking at early signs of increase in numbers, we have had three meetings where the states have been told to increase the number of tests, surveillance, containment areas," he said. Bhushan informed the press conference that 2,56,90,545 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Thursday 1 pm, which includes 67,86,086 for the elderly and those aged 45-60 with comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Kangana challenges court warrant in case filed by Javed Akhtar||Actor Kangana Ranaut has approached a sessions court here challenging a bailable warrant issued by a magistrate in a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. Ranaut's plea, filed on Wednesday, is slated to be heard on March 15, court sources said. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court had on March 1 issued a bailable warrant against the actor after she failed to appear before the court. The magistrate had issued summons in February, directing her to appear on March 1. Earlier, the police had submitted a report on Akhtar's complaint, saying an offence of defamation was prima facie made out against Ranaut. Akhtar has accused the actor of making false statements about him and damaging his reputation when she spoke about a 'coterie in Bollywood in the aftermath of Sushant Singh Rajput's death last June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Maharashtra CM hints at 'strict lockdown' in parts of state||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said strict lockdown measures will be enforced in some parts of the state to contain the spread of COVID-19. Thackeray, 60, was speaking after receiving the first dose of the vaccine against COVID-19 at the government-run J J Hospital here. Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 13,659 new coronavirus cases, the highest one-day spike this year, which took the state's caseload to 22,52,057. The state has so far reported 52,610 deaths due to the disease, as per official data. "Some areas of Maharashtra will witness strict lockdown measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus infection. The government is going to hold a special meeting with officials before coming out with the lockdown measures," Thackeray said. He said the government has been requesting people to wear mask, maintain physical distance and avoid moving out unnecessarily. Earlier in the day, minister Nitin Raut announced a "strict lockdown" in the Nagpur police commissionerate limits from March 15 to 21. Raut is the guardian minister of Nagpur. Last month, lockdown was enforced in Amravati, while certain restrictions were imposed in some other districts of the Amravati division. Meanwhile, the chief minister took the first shot of 'Covishield' vaccine at the J J Hospital here on Thursday. His wife Rashmi Thackeray and mother-in-law also received the vaccine doses. The CM was accompanied by his son and state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||PM's picture removed from Covid vaccine certificates in poll-bound states||The Union Health Ministry has applied filters in its Co-Win platform in poll-going states and a union territory to exclude the picture of the prime minister from the COVID-19 vaccine certificates, sources said on Thursday. In a letter to the Election Commission on March 9, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan is learnt to have said that "technical measures to comply with the directions of EC have been explored promptly." "Necessary filters" in Co-WIN have been applied for the vaccination centres situated in the four states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Bengal and Union Territory of Puducherry, as suggested by the Commission. Following a complaint by the Trinamool Congress, the Commission had asked the health ministry to follow the model code in letter and spirit. It had suggested use of filters in the Co-Win platform to exclude the picture of the prime minister in COVID-19 certificates being given to people in the poll-bound states and the UT. Sources aware of the correspondence between the Election Commission and the ministry said the panel has not referred to any individual or personality but had asked the health ministry to follow the provisions of the model code in letter and spirit. The poll panel had suggested use of filters to comply with the provisions of the poll code. The model code had come into force in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry on February 26, the day the EC announced polls in these four states and union territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Crux of  'Atmanirbhar Bharat' is to create wealth, value for humanity, asserts Modi||Asserting that a self-reliant India is good for the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that at the core of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' is to create wealth and values "not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity". Speaking at the launch of the Kindle version of Swami Chidbhavananda's 'Bhagavad Gita' via video conferencing, the prime minister said 1.3 billion people of India have decided their course of action which is that they are going to make India 'Atmanirbhar' or self-reliant. "In the long term, only a self-reliant India is in everyone's interest. At the core of Atmanirbhar Bharat is to create wealth and values not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity. We believe that an Atmanirbhar Bharat is good for the world," he said. In the recent past, when the world needed medicines, India did whatever it could to provide them, he said. "Our scientists worked in a quick time to come out with vaccines. Now, India is humbled that vaccines made in India are going around the world. We want to heal as well as help humanity. This is exactly what the Bhagavad Gita teaches us," the prime minister stressed. He said when the Bhagavad Gita was born there was conflict and many feel that humanity is passing through similar conflict and challenges now, Modi said. "The world is fighting a tough battle against a once-in-a-lifetime global pandemic. The economic and social impacts are also far reaching. In such a time, the path shown in Bhagavad Gita becomes ever relevant," he asserted. It could provide strength and direction to once again emerge victorious from the challenges humanity faces, he said. "In India, we saw many instances of this. --our people-powered fight against COVID-19, the outstanding spirit of the people, the courage of citizens, one can say that behind this is a glimpse of what the Gita highlights," he said. Noting that E-books are becoming very popular specially among the youth, Modi said, therefore, this effort will connect more youngsters with the noble thoughts of the Gita. The beauty of the Gita is in its depth, diversity and flexibility, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||India logs over 22,000 fresh Covid cases after more than two months||India recorded its highest daily tally of COVID-19 cases this year with 22,854 new infections, taking the total tally to 1,12,85,561, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The country last recorded such an increase in daily cases 76 days ago on December 25 when it registered 23,067 infections in a day. The death toll increased to 1,58,189 with 126 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total active cases have increased to 1,89,226 which now comprises 1.68 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,38,146 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.92 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,42,58,293 samples have been tested up to March 10 with 7,78,416 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 126 new fatalities include 54 from Maharashtra, 17 from Punjab and 14 from Kerala. A total of 1,58,189 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,610 from Maharashtra followed by 12,530 from Tamil Nadu, 12,379 from Karnataka, 10,931 from Delhi, 10,283 from Bengal, 8,740 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,177 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Research organisation declares India as an ‘electoral autocracy’ ||The V-Dem Institute, an independent research organisation based in Sweden, has declared India an “electoral autocracy”, downgrading the world’s largest democracy from the 2019 ranking. The new ranking suggests India is as autocratic as Pakistan when it comes to censorship and worse than Bangladesh and Nepal. In 2019, India was counted among the 10 autocratising countries. The development comes a week after the democracy watchdog Freedom House, mostly funded by the US government, dropped India from the list of “free” countries and designated it as “partly free”. The report of the V-Dem (Varieties of Democracy) Institute, which conceptualises and measures democracy through what is said to be one of the largest-ever social science data collection efforts, was released on Wednesday in the presence of Sweden’s deputy foreign minister Robert Rydberg. Billing 2020 as another year of decline for liberal democracy, the new report stated that “a major change is that the world’s largest democracy turned into an electoral autocracy: India with 1.37 billion people”. Autocratisation, according to the report, typically follows a similar pattern across very different contexts. “Ruling governments first attack the media and civil society, and polarise societies by disrespecting opponents and spreading false information, then undermine elections,” the report said. In the India chapter, the report detailed the downward trajectory. “India’s autocratisation process has largely followed the typical pattern for countries in the ‘Third Wave’ over the past ten years: a gradual deterioration where freedom of the media, academia, and civil society were curtailed first and to the greatest extent.” On the V-Dem Institute’s scale, India recorded a 23 percentage-point drop from 2013 to 2020-end, “making it one of the most dramatic shifts among all countries in the world over the past 10 years, alongside autocratising countries like Brazil, Hungary, and Turkey”. The unkindest cut for the Narendra Modi government was the comparison with Pakistan. “India is, in this aspect (censorship), now as autocratic as is Pakistan, and worse than both its neighbours Bangladesh and Nepal. In general, the Modi-led government in India has used laws on sedition, defamation, and counter-terrorism to silence critics,” the report said. The report referred to the constraints imposed by the Modi government on civil society, the weakening of secularism under its watch with particular reference to the Citizenship Amendment Act, the use of the UAPA to harass, intimidate and imprison political opponents, people mobilising to protest government policies and silence dissent in academia, and the repression of civil society organisations. “Meanwhile, civil society organisations aligning themselves with the Hindutva movement have gained more freedom,” the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||SC plea to allow women into National Defence Academy||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on two petitions seeking permission for women to be allowed admission into the National Defence Academy (NDA), where only men can join now. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian was hearing separate petitions filed by Anita and Kush Kalra alleging that the system of confining the eligibility criteria to male candidates was unconstitutional and discriminatory under Article 14 (equality) 15 (non-discrimination) 16 (equal opportunities in government jobs) and 19 (right to practise one’s profession or livelihood) of the Constitution. The petitioners were represented by advocates Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and Mohit Paul. According to the petitioners, eligible and willing women candidates are being denied admission to the NDA on the basis of their sex, thereby categorically refusing them a chance to train at the premier institute of the Indian armed forces. “…Systematic discriminatory treatment meted out to eligible female candidates who are aspiring to join the National Defence Academy to train as future officers of the Indian armed forces is done away with and a system is brought into place through which the eligible and willing female candidates are not able to enrol and train in the National Defence Academy,” Anita’s petition said. She contended that due to the discrimination she could not join the NDA and had to pursue a post-graduate course in law. “The applicant herein could identify with the issues and the discrimination being faced by eligible female candidates to join the National Defence Academy on a personal level as she herself aspired for a career in the armed forces as a school student. “The applicant had seen her male classmates from school prepare for the National Defence Academy and the Naval Academy examination and the applicant was left distraught when she learned that she did not have the opportunity to prepare for the National Defence Academy and the Naval Academy examination as females are not admitted into the National Defence Academy on the sole ground of their sex,” Anita’s petition said. A career as a permanent commissioned officer of the armed forces is considered to be one of the most respected and exciting professions in India, the petitioner said. However, women are not eligible to get directly recruited to that position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
11-03-2021||India||Kerala Assembly elections 2021: CPM faces questions over decision to omit popular duo||The CPM is facing uneasy questions over the decision to omit two battle-hardened ministers from the list of candidates for the Kerala Assembly elections, with its justification that MLAs who have completed consecutive terms should make way for fresh faces failing to smother speculation. Finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, an economist with a doctorate, and public works minister G. Sudhakaran are both popular and affable leaders with a clean image and CPM bulwarks in Alappuzha district for about two decades. Their relationship with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan that has raised tantalising questions in party circles. Isaac had famously snapped at the vigilance department’s raid on the Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd in December. “I don’t know whose mad idea is this,” he had lamented when vigilance officials had searched the KSFE premises. Being a senior minister it was unlikely that Isaac would not have known that vigilance was under the home department handled by Vijayan. Several CPM leaders had rushed to prevent that spark from raging into a fire within the party. The state secretariat had issued a statement pointing out that Vijayan had described the raid as a “routine examination”. Without naming Isaac, the CPM had said: “Such public statements should have been avoided.” A CPM source who cannot be named said on Wednesday: “There were some differences. But unlike other parties we don’t wash our dirty linen in public.” He, however, denied that differences had guided the candidate selection. “I think the chief minister had some issues with their independent style of functioning although he never doubted their capabilities. They were denied tickets only because of the two-term norm,” he said. While Isaac is a four-time MLA, Sudhakaran has been elected thrice. A leader from a CPM pocket borough in north Kerala contended that Isaac’s outburst against the raids on the KSFE had not gone down well with the chief minister. Writer and political commentator M.N. Karassery said: “It is generally admitted that things are not well between Pinarayi and the two ministers. Their friendly and corruption-free style of functioning had won them massive support among the people. Imagine a public works department without a single case of corruption.” “Everyone knows that Pinarayi doesn’t tolerate any challenge to his authority,” Karassery noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Kerala Assembly elections 2021: CPM drops 38 MLAs, picks youths||The CPM has dropped 38 sitting MLAs including five ministers from its candidate list and fielded an equal number of newcomers, banking on youth to try and retain power in Kerala. The party on Wednesday announced its nominees for 83 of the 85 constituencies it will contest when Kerala votes on April 6 to fill its 140 Assembly seats. A party release said 25 of the candidates were aged below 50, including four who were under 30 — K.M. Sachin Dev (Balussery), Jaick C. Thomas (Puthupally), Linto Joseph (Thiruvambady) and P. Mithuna (Wandoor). Twelve women, including eight newcomers, have been fielded. Another 33 candidates are under 60. The CPI, the second-biggest partner in the ruling Left Democratic Front, had on Monday announced candidates for 21 of the 25 seats it will contest. All the MLAs and ministers dropped had served two or more consecutive terms — a yardstick the CPM has adopted to ease out the veterans in favour of younger and fresher faces. The ministers left out are Thomas Isaac (finance), G. Sudhakaran (public works), E.P. Jayarajan (sports), C. Raveendranath (education) and A.K. Balan (SC/ST development). Also dropped is Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan. While announcing the list, CPM acting state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan told a news conference the party wanted to promote young candidates and professionals. The list includes 28 lawyers, an architect and 2 medical doctors, party sources said. Vijayaraghavan said the candidates for Devikulam in Idukki and Manjeshwar in Kasaragod would be announced later but didn’t explain the delay. Local leader K.R. Jayananda had been tipped for the Manjeshwar ticket but party cadres have been demanding a stronger candidate considering the CPM had come  third from the constituency in a triangular fight the last time. The candidate of the Indian Union Muslim League, a constituent of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, had edged past state BJP president K. Surendran by just 89 votes in 2016. Apart from withholding the nomination from Manjeshwar, the CPM has largely ignored the brewing ground-level resentment in several districts over its choice of candidates. CPM leaders have declared there would be no going back on the party decision. The candidate list names eight state secretariat members including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan (Dharmadom), health minister K.K. Shailaja (Mattannur), excise minister T.P. Ramakrishnan (Perambra) and electricity minister M.M. Mani (Udumbanchola). Vijayaraghavan said 42 of the candidates were graduates, 14 others held master’s degrees and another 2 had doctorates. Of the 83 candidates announced, 9 are Independents, including minority affairs minister K.T. Jaleel. The CPM will field V.P. Sanu, national president of its student arm SFI, in the Lok Sabha by-election from Malappuram constituency, recently vacated by P.K. Kunhalikutty of the IUML. Vijayaraghavan denied allegations that the CPM had had to compromise on seat-sharing with its 10 LDF partners. “All the LDF partners have sacrificed seats; the CPM gave up five sitting seats,” he said. Former Lok Sabha member M.B. Rajesh, who had lost during the 2019 general election, will contest the Thrithala Assembly seat in Palakkad, where he will battle the incumbent V.T. Balram of the Congress. “The party and the LDF have entrusted me with a very important task. This election is crucial for Kerala’s future and India’s political trajectory,” Rajesh told reporters. The Left had won 91 of the 140 seats in 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Shiv Sena asks Narendra Modi to act on Dadra MP suicide ||Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut on Wednesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to suspend and prosecute top administrative officers in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, alleging the suicide note of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar had accused them of harassment. One of those purportedly accused in the note is Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the Union Territory and former BJP minister from Gujarat who is believed to be close to Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Raut said that while Mumbai police were investigating the suicide, the Centre couldn’t ignore its responsibility to act since Delkar was a senior MP and had first complained about his troubles to the Lok Sabha Speaker. Raut’s request to Modi comes at a time Delkar’s suicide is emerging as another flashpoint between the BJP-led central government and Maharashtra’s Sena-Congress-NCP administration, which has been underlining that as a Union Territory, Dadra and Nagar Haveli came directly under the Centre’s control. Delkar, an Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli serving his seventh term, was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel last month. Media reports say he left behind a 15-page suicide note in Gujarati alleging systematic harassment by Patel, collector Sandeep Kumar Singh and five other officials. Delkar’s son Abhinav has said his father wrote in the suicide note that he was ending his life in Maharashtra because he had faith in the state government. “My father was aware that if he ended his life in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the suicide note would have vanished and no case would have been registered,” he said. Mumbai police on Tuesday lodged an FIR and registered a case of abetment to suicide against the accused after the Uddhav Thackeray government announced a probe by a special investigation team (SIT). Raut, the Sena’s leader in the Lok Sabha, raised the subject during Zero Hour and waved a copy of Delkar’s suicide note. He recalled that Delkar had earlier written to the Speaker about harassment, and that this letter was sent to the House privilege committee. “The senior MP had circulated his letter among all members of the House. At the privilege committee meeting on February 12 he had (said) that if his harassment by the officers of the Union Territory was not stopped, he would be compelled to commit suicide,” Raut said. He added: “Therefore, through you (the Speaker), I want to request the Prime Minister to suspend the administrative officers, the SP (superintendent of police) and the collector responsible for the suicide of the MP and start criminal proceedings against them under 304 of IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder).” Delkar had posted a video a few months ago threatening to resign from Parliament if the officials harassing him were not curbed. Delay worry Sources said Sena and Congress leaders were upset at the state government’s slow probe in the suicide case at a time when the BJP was attacking the administration over the discovery of an explosives-laden vehicle near Mukesh Ambani’s home in February. But state home minister Anil Deshmukh, who is from the NCP, has apparently justified his cautious approach saying the police were discreetly examining the entire range of issues. A senior Congress politician from Mumbai suggested the BJP’s “belligerence on the Ambani issue” was probably a pressure tactic to ensure the state authorities went slow on the Delkar case. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Wednesday said Ambani’s home was 1km from where the car was parked and would have been in no danger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Half of urban slum households use LPG despite having connections: survey||Only half of urban slum households surveyed in six states exclusively use liquid petroleum gas for cooking despite 86 per cent of these families having LPG connections, a study has found. Researchers associated with the survey have cited the poor doorstep delivery of LPG cylinders at slums and the sharp rise in cooking gas prices as some of the reasons why many families turn to alternative cooking fuels. They have emphasised that these alternative fuels can cause severe indoor air pollution and leave households more vulnerable to Covid infection. The Cooking Energy Access Survey, 2020, was conducted by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, which together account for nearly a quarter of India’s urban slum population. The survey covered 656 households across 83 urban slums in 58 districts. “Only half of the urban slum households in six Indian states use LPG exclusively. This is in spite of 86 per cent of urban slum households in these states having an LPG connection,” the survey says. Some 16 per cent of the households still use traditional fuels such as firewood, dung cakes, farm residue, charcoal and kerosene as their primary cooking fuel, thus increasing indoor air pollution, the survey says. Over a third stack LPG with these polluting fuels. “As part of the next phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, the government must target poor households without an LPG connection in urban slums. Policymakers must also nudge oil marketing companies and distributors to improve home delivery of LPG refills in slum areas to increase the exclusive use of LPG,” council CEO Arunabha Ghosh said. “Also, as the LPG refill prices rise, the government must target vulnerable households — beyond the PMUY beneficiaries — with differential subsidy support for using LPG in a sustained manner.” A sizeable share of urban slum households cannot afford LPG for all their cooking, especially because of the rising fuel prices and the economic impact of the pandemic, said Shaily Jha, research analyst with the council and lead author of the study. Jha suggested that “access to clean cooking energy” be included within the ambit of the government’s welfare schemes. According to the study, three-fourths of households that use polluting fuels cook inside the main house, and two-thirds have no chimneys, exposing their women and children to high levels of indoor air pollution. Long-term exposure to emissions from biomass burning also makes the population more vulnerable to Covid-19 infection, the survey says. It has highlighted that 37 per cent of LPG-using slum households do not receive the cylinders at their doorstep. The survey has recommended leveraging platforms like “LPG panchayats” to increase awareness about the way the cooking gas subsidy is calculated for households. It says male family members dominate the decision-making about refill purchases, and increased awareness about the actual expense on the refills may help raise women’s bargaining power within the household.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||AAP competes with BJP in grabbing nationalist space||The Aam Aadmi Party government plans to install 500 Tricolours across Delhi as part of an avowed “deshbhakti (patriotism) budget” that also promotes yoga and Ayodhya pilgrimage, appearing to compete with the BJP in grabbing the nationalist and majoritarian space. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told the Assembly on Wednesday his government was striving to establish “this model of Ram Rajya in Delhi”, although he defined the concept in terms of welfare measures such as education and healthcare along with state-funded pilgrimages to Ayodhya. In the budget presented on Tuesday, his government had set aside Rs 45 crore to erect across the capital 500 Tricolours, which an independent expert estimated would be about 100 feet tall. “I propose that in the 75th year of Independence... all citizens of Delhi, when coming out of their homes even for short distances, do not return without similar sentiments of patriotism and national pride,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in the budget speech. “With these 500 Tricolours... we will decorate our entire city in such a way that even if you pass through one or two kilometres in Delhi, you will find a flag waving high.” The Rs 69,000-crore budget focuses on 75 weeks of celebrations, from March 12 until Independence Day next year, with various public events. Sums of Rs 10 crore each have been set aside for programmes on Bhagat Singh and B.R. Ambedkar. The budget proposes a new Sainik School and a defence preparatory academy. It proposes yoga instructors for neighbourhoods – something not usually identified with patriotism outside the BJP-RSS ecosystem. On Wednesday, Kejriwal told the House: “All of us worship Lord Ram. Personally, I worship Lord Hanuman who was a devotee of Lord Ram. So, I’m a devotee of both Lord Ram and Hanuman. Lord Ram was the king of Ayodhya. “During his rule, it is said, people were content, with no sorrows in life as they had access to all basic facilities…. Hence, we have been constantly striving to establish this model of ‘Ram Rajya’ in Delhi for the past six years, based on 10 principles.” He said these principles included food security, quality education, the best healthcare, free electricity and water for those who consume less, employment, public housing, security for women and the state-funded pilgrimages for all faiths introduced in 2019. Kejriwal said: “After the Supreme Court judgment (handing the disputed plot in Ayodhya to Hindus), a magnificent temple is yet to be constructed. I would like to declare before senior citizens of Delhi that once the temple is constructed, I will ensure that all of you can visit the Ayodhya temple free of cost.” Many saw in the visual spectacle of the proposed flags a low-cost challenge to the Centre’s Central Vista project to redevelop Lutyens Delhi. Kejriwal has over the past couple of years abandoned his strident opposition to Hindutva politics, choosing instead to project the AAP as a benign Hindu outfit with better credentials than the BJP in upholding nationalism and the majority faith. On Tuesday, when reporters drew parallels between the AAP budget and the Centre’s thrust on nationalism, Kejriwal had said: “The central government is of this country; the Delhi government, Madhya Pradesh government are all of this country. We will all celebrate (the 75th anniversary) together.” When a reporter asked him to define patriotism, he said that for him it meant being proud of India, obeying traffic rules, and not taking bribes. Ajay Gudavarthy, associate professor of political science at Jawaharlal Nehru University, dubbed the AAP flag proposal “cartographic nationalism”. “This kind of cartographic nationalism has become a counter-narrative to people’s aspirations. This will clearly tell us the directions in which the AAP is going,” he told The Telegraph. “The thing with welfare is that once it is fulfilled, the second time around the demands will be much bigger. The AAP pre-empts that — they know the mood (of hyper-nationalism) that the BJP has built.” Research by American psychologists Markus Kemmelmeier and David G. Winter, published in the journal Political Psychology in 2008, found that college students gave more nationalistic responses to questionnaires designed to measure patriotism and attitudes to authoritarianism when the American flag was visible in the room. The display of the national flag increased greatly in the US after the Twin Tower bombings in September 2001. Authoritarian Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan — in power since 2003 — has promoted the display of the national flag and the slogan “One nation, one flag, one state”, particularly when faced with dissent. Turkish political scientist  Asli Cirakman wrote in 2011: “On ordinary days, flags hang out of windows and shops and are displayed on the rear panels of cars much more often than before. Daily the nation is indicated, or ‘flagged’ in the lives of its citizenry to protest against Kurds, the European Union, the USA, or political Islam, depending on the specific political agenda of the day. “National identity is being underlined not by hanging out flags on official days from official buildings (for which there is specific legislation), but by citizens’ daily assertions in initiating the flag to become visible against the ‘enemies’.” In India, supporters of the Narendra Modi government as well as its critics — such as the protesters against the new citizenship and farm laws — have made use of the national flag. Height and cost Delhi has several permanent flag installations, most notably a 207-foot-tall one at Connaught Place that is illuminated at night since the flag code prohibits the Tricolour from being flown in the dark. In 2016, the Centre had urged all central universities to erect similarly large, 24-hour flags. The Connaught Place flag was put up by the Flag Foundation of India (FFI), an NGO funded by industrialist and Congress politician Naveen Jindal that has erected such flags at several places in India. An FFI source said the cost of a steel flagpole went up “exponentially” once it crossed 100 feet, and that flag tears caused by winds became more frequent at higher altitudes. Nowadays the FFI recommends only 100-foot-tall flagpoles. The FFI source said the Rs 9 lakh set aside per flag by Sisodia’s budget suggested that Delhi’s flags would be about 100 feet tall. “The Connaught Place flag has to be replaced five to six times a year because of tears. Repairs are done every month for damage to the large flag,” the source said. “A new flag costs around Rs 60,000. We are not charged for power. The monthly maintenance costs and the guards’ salaries come to around Rs 40,000.” The illumination consumes around 2,400 units of power a month. Education push A quarter of the budget has been earmarked for education, with the proposals including a new university, a new board of education, 100 schools of excellence, and a virtual school. For students of government schools, the budget suggests mentorship volunteers — people from various professions who would offer career counselling. Olympic bid One of the big-ticket proposals in the budget is to bid for the 2048 Olympics. The budget talks of increasing the average income of citizens 16-fold before the centenary of Independence in 2047.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Manohar Lal Khattar govt defeats no-confidence motion||The Manohar Lal Khattar government on Wednesday comfortably defeated the no-confidence motion brought by the Congress, as expected, after the Speaker disallowed the Opposition’s appeal for a secret ballot. While moving the motion, in the backdrop of the farmers’ protests that the BJP-JJP government in Haryana has tried its best to thwart, the Congress had said its aim was to “expose” the MLAs who are not standing with farmers. “The government has been exposed. I had said they would get majority as they had issued a whip.… Had there been secret voting, the results would have been different,” former Congress chief minister and incumbent leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said. The government secured 55 votes and the Opposition 32. The BJP has 40 MLAs, including the Speaker, and ally JJP has 10. Five Independents and the lone Haryana Lokhit Party MLA voted with the government. Two Independents who had withdrawn support to the government on the farmers’ issue voted for the no-confidence motion. As did all 30 of the Congress MLAs. The current strength of the Assembly is 88. The BJP had been confident of sailing through because MLAs would not dare to risk disqualification by violating the party whip. Further, most MLAs had been promised posts helming various boards and corporations, sources said. Since ministerial berths are limited, boards and corporations are used to check defections by MLAs. One JJP MLA who had before the voting called on his party to quit the alliance, Devender Babli, protested because he was not allowed to speak during the debate. He, however, voted with his party. Khattar brought up the strikes against Pakistan, the border face-off with China and Rahul Gandhi’s recent statement about politics in Kerala being centred on issues. He claimed his government had been retrained in its handling of the farmers’ protests. Farmers resolute The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ movement against the three new laws, said in a statement: “The anti-farmer face of the JJP, which describes themselves as a party belonging to the farming community, has been completely exposed.” Earlier, addressing a media conference at the Singhu border soon after the Khattar government survived the no-confidence vote, Vikas Sisar of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, Haryana, condemned the BJP and JJP MLAs for their doublespeak and said the farmers of the state would step up their boycott of these legislators. “As it is many of them were unable to move around the state; we will make it even more difficult for them,” he said, urging people to ensure that the leaders cannot enter villages. While the Haryana farmers had been hopeful of being able to force some JJP MLAs to cross over, many in the SKM leadership were not surprised by the result. Buta Singh Burjgill said farmers were prepared for the long haul. The SKM has given a call for a Bharat Bandh on March 26 to mark four months of their protest at Delhi’s borders, followed by the burning of copies of the three farm laws for Holika Dahan to symbolise the victory of good over evil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Valley protest triggers biggest crackdown since 2019||The first protest in months in Srinagar’s old city has triggered the biggest government crackdown since 2019, with dozens of youths arrested since Friday and some of them booked under the stringent Public Safety Act. Police said they had arrested 39 “stone-throwing” youths during dozens of raids after a protest at Jamia Masjid on Friday. Fifteen accused have been booked under the PSA, Valley police chief Vijay Kumar told a news conference on Wednesday. A person can be detained for six months or even longer without trial under the PSA. Friday’s protest came after the government went back on its decision to release moderate Hurriyat chairman and the Valley’s chief cleric, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who has been under house arrest for the past 19 months. Areas around the Jamia Masjid are seen as the nerve centre of Kashmir’s pro-independence movement. The stringent clampdown that coincided with the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019 had succeeded in silencing the protests there. The mosque had been shut for months to prevent gatherings. On Friday, a group of stone-throwing youths clashed with security forces in the first bout of violence in the area since August 2019. The protest was mild by the area’s own yardstick but the authorities went into an overdrive, raiding dozens of houses to arrest suspects. “We will not allow stone-pelting at any cost. We have arrested 39 who indulged in stone-pelting in Srinagar recently. Fifteen of them will be booked under PSA,” Kumar said. The crackdown suggests the government continues to have a zero-tolerance policy towards protests in the Valley 19 months after revoking key Article 370 provisions. Thousands of people, including three former chief ministers and dozens of former legislators and ministers, had been arrested during the 2019 clampdown to pre-empt protests. A resident of Srinagar’s old city said just a handful of people had engaged in stone-throwing on Friday and that the government’s reaction had been harsh. “They are arresting youths at random. There are raids during night. Some of our young men have shifted to safer places to evade arrest,” the resident said. Police sources said more arrests were expected. The Mirwaiz was to be released on Friday to allow him to attend congregational prayers after a long time. He has said the police initially gave him the go-ahead to join the prayers but the authorities later changed their mind. Security has been stepped up at the Mirwaiz’s home in Nageen to prevent him moving out and stop his supporters from gathering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Swedish bribe finger at Indian minister||A Swedish bus maker paid bribes, including to an unnamed minister, in India to win bus contracts in seven states between 2013 and 2016, Reuters reported from Stockholm, quoting an investigation by three media outlets, including Swedish news channel SVT. Some media reports in India said a company with ties to the family of Nitin Gadkari, BJP leader and Union surface transport and highway minister, was provided a luxury bus that was allegedly used in the wedding celebrations of his daughter in 2016. The Wire news portal quoted Gadkari’s office as denying the allegations and saying that the claims were “malicious, fabricated and baseless”. The Swedish company is Scania, a truck and bus-making unit under Volkswagen AG’s commercial vehicle arm Traton SE. Gadkari’s office told the portal that he was “a pioneer in introducing Scania’s ethanol-run bus in Nagpur as a part of his drive to bring in green public transport in India” and it was purely a commercial arrangement between the Nagpur civic body and the Swedish bus manufacturers. Gadkari and his family had nothing to do with it, the minister’s office added. An investigation started by Scania in 2017 showed serious shortcomings by employees, including senior management, a Scania spokesperson told Reuters. The “misconduct included alleged bribery, bribery through business partners and misrepresentation”, Reuters quoted the spokesperson as saying. The Scania spokesperson said the company had since stopped selling city buses in the Indian market and the factory in the country had been closed down. The spokesperson said its investigation of wrongdoing had not involved the police as the evidence was not strong enough to lead to prosecution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Plea for TB drug generic production in India||Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to respond to a petition seeking legal steps to allow generic production of two patented anti-tuberculosis drugs currently unavailable to all patients in India who need them. The court has asked the Centre to respond by April 28 to the petition by two TB survivors seeking a government use authorisation order or compulsory licence — provisions in Indian patent laws to allow local production of the drugs bedaquiline and delamanid. The petitioners have said the Centre is currently relying on donations from the patent holders — the US-based Janssen Pharmaceuticals for bedaquiline and Japan’s Otsuka Pharmaceuticals for delamanid — to procure a “miniscule quantity” of the drugs compared to what India needs. Bedaquiline and delamanid are prescribed to a subset of patients with multi-drug resistant (MDR) or extensive-drug resistant (XDR) TB that carry high mortality rates without the appropriate treatment. The petitioners told the court that in 2019 alone, 44,724 MDR-TB patients eligible to receive bedaquiline did not get the drug and 830 patients with XDR-TB did not receive delamanid. India’s TB control programme, in line with World Health Organisation guidelines, has recommended the use of bedaquiline and delamanid but, the petitioners have said, the limited supplies make them unavailable to patients. Many MDR-TB and XDR-TB patients in India thus continue to receive earlier generation anti-TB drugs that carry high toxicity and have poor cure rates. The WHO has estimated that treatment success rates with those earlier generation drugs are only 57 per cent for MDR-TB and 39 per cent for XDR-TB. “India is relying on donations for these two drugs,” said Anand Grover, director of the Lawyers Collective, a legal organisation representing the petitioners. “Without access to bedaquiline and delamanid, eligible patients face the risk of extremely high death rates.” The petitioners, Meera Yadav and Brinelle D’Souza, both TB survivors and representing Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a network of health rights advocates, told the court that Janssen and Otsuka are selling the drugs at high prices and government efforts to procure the drugs through tenders “have failed”. Bedaquiline is priced at Rs 26,600 for a six-month course, and a prescribed 18-month regimen for MDR-TB patients would cost Rs 79,800 for one patient, the petitioners said, and delamanid is priced at about Rs 91,000 for a six-month course. However, a team of UK researchers have estimated that generic production could slash the price of both drugs to below Rs 10,000 per patient for a six-month course. Several manufacturers in India have said they have the capacity and technology to make generic versions of the drugs but no licensing pacts have emerged yet, the petitioners have pointed out. Health activists say the Centre’s inaction on taking legal steps to facilitate generic production of bedaquiline and delamanid contrasts with the Indian government’s application at the World Trade Organisation seeking waiver of intellectual property rights on Covid-19-related technologies. “For Covid-19, India proposed waiver of all patents on medical products. It is time drug resistant TB which is a public health emergency received similar attention,” Leena Menghaney, a lawyer and an adviser with the global humanitarian agency Medicins Sans Frontieres, told The Telegraph. Doctors and health activists said the Covid-19 mortality rate was significantly smaller than the mortality rate among patients with MDR-TB and XDR-TB. “It is time this appeal from TB survivors is considered by the government to encourage generic drug makers to enter the supply chain,” Menghaney said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Opposition protests against farm laws in Parliament||After rising fuel prices, Parliament was rocked by the Opposition’s protests against the three contentious farm laws on Wednesday. The Opposition members raised slogans demanding repeal of the laws and stalled business in both Houses after their adjournment motions were rejected. In the Lok Sabha, Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury stressed the need to discuss the farmers’ protest immediately. Speaker Om Birla pulled up the Opposition leader for obstructing the business of the House every day. Undeterred, the Congress and some other Opposition parties raised slogans demanding repeal of the farm laws as the Speaker went ahead with Question Hour and adjourned the House after half an hour. In the Rajya Sabha, too, the Opposition MPs demanded suspension of business to discuss the farmers’ protest. But this was disallowed by Chairman Venkaiah Naidu. Very little business could be transacted during the day, which saw two adjournments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
11-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat sworn in as Uttarakhand chief minister||Lok Sabha member Tirath Singh Rawat was on Wednesday sworn in as the new Uttarakhand chief minister, a day after the incumbent Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned after being told to by the BJP central leadership. The choice of Tirath, 56, a low-profile MP from the Garhwal constituency, came as a surprise. Several party leaders had said an MLA would be elevated as chief minister, with the young Uttarakhand minister Dhan Singh Rawat considered the favourite. On Wednesday, party insiders said Tirath had been picked to strike a balance between senior and junior leaders in the state. Many claimed that Tirath was the personal choice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Tirath implied he was surprised himself. “I had never imagined I would be given an opportunity like this by the party,” he said after being formally elected leader of the legislature party in the morning in Dehradun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
11-03-2021||India||Father of rape victim killed after alleged perpetrators threaten to kill family members||The father of a gang-rape victim was crushed to death by a truck in front of policemen in Kanpur on Wednesday, a day after the alleged perpetrators had in the presence of cops threatened to kill members of the girl’s family. The son of the deceased farmer alleged that policemen accompanying his father outside the community health centre where the 13-year-old girl is admitted pushed him in front of the truck. The police refused comment on the allegation. Earlier in the morning, one of the rape accused, Deepu Yadav, had been arrested. He is the son of Devendra Yadav, a sub-inspector posted at Banda. Another accused, Deepu’s friend Raj Kumar alias Golu Yadav, is still at large. Deepu and Raj had allegedly assaulted the brother of the girl, a resident of the Ghatampur area of Kanpur, when he was going to Sajeti police station on Tuesday morning to register a complaint. “The policemen kept threatening me with dire consequences till 6pm on Tuesday and registered the case under pressure of the media. The accused and some of their family members, including Saurabh Yadav, the elder brother of Deepu, had also come to the police station and declared that they would kill me and my father,” the brother of the girl told reporters near Anupur Crossing, where the family organised a dharna against the alleged “murder of the father”. “Although I was not there, an eyewitness told me that policemen accompanying my father outside the local community health centre on Wednesday morning pushed him in front of the truck,” the brother added. Brijesh Srivastava, the superintendent of police of Kanpur Rural, said: “The father of the victim had gone out for tea when a truck hit him. He was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. “The truck driver has been taken into custody and the police are interrogating him. We will initiate action on the basis of the complaint of the family members. We have also arrested Deepu and are trying to nab the second accused.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
11-03-2021||India||Central team to help Odisha curb forest fire||The Centre will send an expert team to Odisha to help the state government effectively tackle the devastating fire raging in Similipal National Park, the second-largest biosphere in Asia. The team is scheduled to reach here on Thursday to assess the situation in the national park, a major part of which is located in Mayurbhanj district. Some of its periphery areas touch neighbouring Keonjhar and Balasore districts. “Today Sh. @dpradhanbjp & other MPs from Odisha met me regarding Forest Fire in #SimilipalNationalPark & nearby. @moefcc is sending a committee of experts to Odisha to give technical advise &help out state forest dept. in effective management of forest fire incidents in the region,” Union minister for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar tweeted on Wednesday. The expert team from the ministry will be in touch with the Odisha forest officials on the issue of tackling fire in the Similipal forest. “The experts will work in coordination with the deployed team for early and effective dousing of forest fire. Will be reviewing the situation with the team on a regular basis,” Javadekar tweeted. The nine-member delegation of Odisha BJP MPs in their memorandum to the Union minister demanded setting up of a committee with representatives both from the central and state forest departments, environmentalists and forest conservationists to come up with a long-term action plan to prevent the recurrence of such incidents in Odisha. After meeting the Union minister, BJP MP Suresh Pujhari said, “Forest fire takes place in April and May. But this year, it started in February. The fire has spread to nearly 650 small and big forests, including Similipal forest, destroying the flora and fauna. It needs immediate attention.” The Press Information Bureau in a media release said, “Acting on the directions of the Union environment minister, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change has constituted a team consisting of Dr Amit Mallick, inspector-general of forests, National Tiger Conservation Authority, New Delhi; Subratt Mahapatra, deputy director-general of forests, MoEF&CC regional office, Bhubaneswar; and Arti Chaudhary, head, Silviculture–ICFRE (as fire expert). The initial terms of reference for the team would be to assess the status of fire incidents in Odisha and Similipal Tiger Reserve, provide expert and technical advice to the state for containing fire in forest area, gauge the status of loss of forest and wildlife and its relationship with poaching, if any. The team will be working till the state attains a normal situation with respect to fire incidents. The environment minister said along with the team at MoEFCC, he would himself monitor the map showing the forest fire detections in Odisha every day and a separate map showing fire detection in Similipal Tiger Reserve / Biosphere Reserve. Ruling Biju Janata Dal Rajya Sabha member Dr Sasmit Patra tweeted: “Odisha Govt along with its Task Force is working tirelessly 24x7 to control and eliminate the fire in Simlipal. The BJD volunteers on ground and working in tandem to douse the fire. Thousands of Forest Officials, ODRAF Personnel, Fire Services are at work. #BJDWithSimilipal” The state government has set up a 24x7 control room to get feedback from the people about the forest fire. The state government has also cancelled the leave of forest officials in all the forest divisions of Odisha for an indefinite period. “We have decided to involve the panchayat-level officials in the control and mitigation of forest fire incidents,” said Sandeep Tripathi, head of the task force constituted to suggest measures to tackle such incidents in Odisha. Tripathi also said that the active fire in Similipal had been contained now. According to the decision of the government, district-level officials will take the help of the sarpanches and panchayati raj institutions to douse the forest fires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
11-03-2021||India||Puri Jagannath temple sets Rs 1,000cr target||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration in Puri on Wednesday set a target to enhance its corpus fund to Rs 1,000 crore from Rs 650 crore by 2023. To realise the target, it will organise extensive donation programmes and set up donation boxes in places such as railway stations and airports to reach out to the devotees in large numbers. “We are no longer getting adequate money as interest from the banks towards our deposits. Besides setting up donation boxes, the administration will lease out its stone quarries for mining to augment its revenue base and also invest in other sectors,” a senior official of the temple administration said. After a meeting of the financial sub-committee of the temple, which met on Wednesday to draft an annual budget of Rs 202 crore for the financial year 2021-22, chief administrator of the temple Dr Krishan Kumar told reporters: “We have planned to enhance the corpus funds from Rs 650 crore to Rs 750 crore”. He said: “We have earmarked Rs 11 crore for the upcoming Rath Yatra. Besides, we will come up with a welfare fund to the tune of Rs 5 crore for the servitor families. We will soon set up an Adarsha Gurukul school for children of the servitors. Work is on to finalise the MoU,” Kumar added. The welfare fund will provide immediate financial assistance to the servitors and their kin in critical illnesses related to heart and kidney. The scheme will be operated on the lines of Odisha State Treatment Fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
11-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC memorandum full of insinuations and averments: Election Commission||The Election Commission on Thursday sent a strongly-worded letter to the Trinamool Congress on its memorandum over injuries to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party". The EC said at the outset, it needs to be stated that injuries sustained by Banerjee at Nandigram "is indeed an unfortunate incident and deserves to be inquired into with promptitude and dispatch." "Having said that it is rather unfortunate that the memorandum in question is full of insinuations and averments, which in fact questions the very basis of creation and functioning of Election Commission," the letter said. It is completely incorrect to suggest that the Election Commission has taken over the law and order machinery in the state in the name of conducting elections and appropriated the whole governance structure, the poll panel said. "This virtually tantamounts to undermine the very foundation of the Constitution of India, the most sacrosanct document in democratic polity. The Commission does not appropriate or take over the day-to-day governance of any state including West Bengal...," it noted. The EC said, "It looks undignified even to respond to the allegations of all this being done on the behest of a particular political party, etc". The poll panel said West Bengal Director General of Police Virendra was not removed summarily and without any application of mind. "It was the outcome of the recommendation given by Special Observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube. In fact, yesterday also when the Commission became aware of the unfortunate incident from the electronic media, report was immediately sought from the Chief Secretary, West Bengal and from both the Special Observers, at present in West Bengal, within 48 hours.... Till such time the reports are available to the Commission it will not be possible to draw any empirical conclusion let alone start linking it to the removal of earlier DGP Virendra." The Election Commission on Tuesday ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound West Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday that she suffered injuries in her left leg after being attacked by "four-five men" in Nandigram during election campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MPs to meet EC officials in wake of ‘attack’ on Mamata||A parliamentary delegation of the Trinamul Congress will meet Election Commission officials in Delhi on Friday over concerns following the alleged attack on party supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, party sources said on Thursday. Six TMC MPs from both the Houses of Parliament are expected to arrive in Delhi to join the delegation, a source said. A delegation of the party met poll panel officials in Calcutta on Thursday and later alleged that the "Election Commission did nothing despite there being reports of a possible attack on Banerjee". Claiming that the attack was a "deep-rooted conspiracy to take the life of the TMC supremo", party leaders said anti-social elements have been mobilised from the neighbouring states by the BJP in Nandigram to unleash violence. The EC can't shun responsibility as it is in charge of the law-and-order situation in poll-bound Bengal, it said. The Trinamul Congress supremo was injured in the leg after being allegedly pushed by unidentified people near a temple at Reyapara area during campaigning at Nandigram on Wednesday, where the BJP has pitted her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari against her. Banerjee alleged that she was pushed by four to five men while she was trying to get into the car, following which fell flat on her face. Earlier in the day, TMC activists blocked roads, burnt tyres and raised slogans, blaming the BJP for the alleged attack. Besides several areas in Calcutta, including Chetla and Sovabazar, TMC workers protested in Howrah, Hooghly, Bankura, Paschim Medinipur, Jalpaiguri, Paschim Bardhaman and Purba Medinipur, among others. Following this, the TMC supremo urged her supporters on Thursday to maintain peace and not do anything that would inconvenience the public. In a video message from the hospital bed, Mamata said she would be back for poll campaigning in a few days and would probably need to use a wheelchair for some time. "I appeal to my party cadres, supporters, activists and common people to maintain peace and calm. It is true that I was badly hurt last night and felt severe pain in the chest and head. The doctors are looking after me," she said. "I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. I hope to be back on the field in the next few days," Mamata added. Doctors treating her said that the chief minister is stable but is suffering from severe pain in her injured left leg and has a low sodium concentration in blood. She will be under strict observation for the time being, they said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata in pain, but stable; sodium count low, say doctors||The health condition of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is stable but is suffering from severe pain in her injured left leg and has a low sodium concentration in blood, doctors treating her said on Thursday afternoon.  She will be under strict observation for the time being, they said.  "The chief minister has severe bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, besides injuries in right shoulder, forearm and neck. She is stable now but is having severe pain in the injured leg," a senior doctor at the state-run SSKM Hospital said.  "The board of doctors evaluated her condition in the afternoon and has decided to conduct a further radiological investigation to exclude any pathology arising out of the post-traumatic syndrome," he said.  The doctors will meet again in the evening for another round of review. "The treatment continues in the same line with correction of hyponatremia. The review board will again meet in the evening," the doctor said.  Hyponatremia is a condition in which the concentration of sodium in the blood is abnormally low.  Banerjee, 66, will not require any surgery for the injuries, the doctor said.  Replying to a question on how long the chief minister is needed to remain at the hospital, the doctor told reporters, "Can't give you any date, the treating doctors will decide depending on her health condition."  Till afternoon, Banerjee underwent around eight different types of blood tests, sources at the hospital said.  The doctors are planning to conduct a series of medical tests, including a CT scan, to assess the degree of her injury, they said.  "A temporary plaster was done on her left ankle. Her ECG report was fine. Her fever has subsided," one of the sources said.  The state government constituted a six-member medical team to treat Banerjee, and doctors conducted an X-ray on the chief minister as soon as she was taken to the hospital from Nandigram on Wednesday evening.  Banerjee is undergoing treatment at special cabin number 12.5 at the Woodburn Block of SSKM Hospital, following an alleged attack on her during the election campaign in Nandigram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata appeals for calm in video message from hospital bed||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, recovering from an alleged attack on her that has left her with a cast on her left ankle, urged her supporters on Thursday to maintain peace and not do anything that would inconvenience the public. In a video message from the hospital bed, Mamata said she would be back for poll campaigning in a few days and would probably need to use a wheelchair for some time. "I appeal to my party cadres, supporters, activists and common people to maintain peace and calm. It is true that I was badly hurt last night and felt severe pain in the chest and head. The doctors are looking after me," she said. "I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. I hope to be back on the field in the next few days," Mamata added. The Trinamool Congress issued the over-a-minute-long video clip that was recorded at a special cabin bearing number 12.5 of the Woodburn Block of SSKM Hospital where Mamata is undergoing treatment after being injured during the election campaign in Nandigram. Doctors said on Thursday that she was stable and would be kept under observation for 48 hours. The chief minister was rushed back to Calcutta on Wednesday and admitted to the state-run hospital with injuries on her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck, according to doctors. She has alleged that while in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging the door of her SUV on her while she was standing on the footboard to greet people. "I was doing 'namaskar' standing on the bonnet of my car… at that time pressure was exerted, because of which my leg was hit by the car. In that condition, whatever medicine I was carrying I had those and soon we left for Calcutta. Since then, the doctors are treating me," the chief minister said in the video. "I will be back within one or two days," she said and appealed to her supporters for calm in the wake of widespread protests by Trinamool Congress workers across the state. TMC activists blocked roads, burnt tyres and raised slogans, blaming the BJP for the alleged attack. Besides several areas in Calcutta, including Chetla and Sovabazar, TMC workers protested in Howrah, Hooghly, Bankura, Paschim Medinipur, Jalpaiguri, Paschim Bardhaman and Purba Medinipur, among others. Earlier in the day, doctors said they were planning to conduct a series of medical tests, including a CT scan, to assess the degree of Mamata’s injuries, sources at the facility said. Preliminary medical tests conducted on Banerjee late on Wednesday night detected severe bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, and injuries in her right shoulder, forearm and neck, they said. "A temporary plaster was done on her left ankle and she will undergo several blood tests this morning. Her ECG report was fine. "Banerjee is stable now. She will be under observation for the next 48 hours. A CT scan may be conducted during the day. We will again examine her and decide on our next course of treatment. Her fever subsided," a doctor of the SSKM Hospital told PTI. On Thursday morning, senior district officials visited the area in Nandigram where the chief minister was allegedly attacked while campaigning for the upcoming Assembly elections. Purba Medinipur District Magistrate Vibhu Goel, SP Praween Prakash and other officers visited the Birulia Bazar area to inquire about the incident, officials said. The officers spoke to eye-witnesses, besides looking for footage from any CCTV installed in the area to ascertain the exact sequence of events, they said. "We are talking to people who were present here during the incident. We have not got hold of any clear footage of that moment till now," the district magistrate said. "Multiple people are giving multiple versions of the incident. We are trying to listen to those who were present at that moment, and then file our report to the Election Commission," he added. The district administration may file a report to the Election Commission by the second half of the day, sources said. Trinamool Congress and BJP supporters got engaged in a war of words over the attack on Mamata as the officials were visiting the Birulia Bazar area. While TMC supporters alleged the "attack was a pre-planned conspiracy", BJP workers termed it a “lie”. On Wednesday, the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday postponed the release of its manifesto for the upcoming elections in West Bengal, following the alleged attack on Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
11-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC slams EC, asks them to take responsibility of 'attack' on CM||Trinamool Congress on Thursday slammed the Election Commission for failing to provide security to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who was injured during election campaign in Nandigram, and said the EC can't shun responsibility as it is in charge of law and order situation in the poll-bound West Bengal. Accusing the EC of acting "as per orders" of the BJP leaders, the TMC delegation after meeting the EC officials here, alleged that the "Election Commission did nothing despite there being reports of a possible attack on Banerjee". "The law and order situation in Bengal was good. But, after announcement of elections law and order became the responsibility of the EC. "The EC removed the DGP of the state police and the very next day she was attacked," TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said. Claiming that several comments by senior BJP leaders had dropped enough indications that Banerjee might be attacked, Chatterjee said "despite having those inputs the chief minister was left with no proper security". "Who will take responsibility for the attack on Mamata Banerjee, when EC is in charge of administration? EC has to take responsibility for the incident. "They are acting as per orders of the BJP leaders. The BJP is asking the EC to remove an official and they are removing him," he said. The three-member TMC delegation, led by state minister Partha Chatterjee met EC officials and registered a complaint into the incident and demanded a thorough probe. Chatterjee was accompanied by TMC leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien and state minister Chandrima Bhattacharya. "You have to understand the chronology. You remove the DGP, leave a woman chief minister's security less and then attack her. If you go through social media post by the BJP leaders there have been indications that she would be attacked," O'Brien said. Banerjee is at present undergoing treatment at the SSKM hospital in Calcutta with injury to her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck, according to doctors. The TMC supremo alleged on Wednesday evening that during her campaign in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging on her the door of her car, leading to the injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Protests erupt across Bengal over 'attack' on Mamata||Trinamool Congress activists took out rallies across Bengal on Thursday, protesting against an alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram. Protests were held in different parts of Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Birbhum, South 24 Parganas, Jalpaiguri districts, and Trinamool Congress supporters briefly blocked roads in some areas. They shouted slogans against the BJP, accusing it of conspiring against Banerjee. The ruling party activists took to the streets and burnt tyres to protest against her political conspirators in Nadigrams Birulia Bazar area where Banerjee sustained injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground after she was allegedly pushed by unknown miscreants while campaigning for assembly elections on Wednesday. A scuffle broke out between the Trinamool Congress activists and a group of BJP workers in the Birulia area this morning but the situation was soon brought under control, police said. Prayers were held by Trinamool Congress workers in various temples and shrines of Pirbaba (Mazar) in Nandigram for her speedy recovery. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block of the SSKM Hospital in Calcutta. Banerjee had on Wednesday alleged that she was attacked by "four-five men" in Nandigram, hours after she filed nomination as a Trinamool Congress candidate from the high-profile seat. She is pitted against her former confidante Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP some time ago, in the Nandigram constituency that will go to poll on April 1 in the second phase. The eight-phased elections to the 294 seats in West Bengal will be held between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh demands CBI probe into 'attack' on Mamata||BJP's Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh on Thursday demanded a CBI probe into the alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying that it needs to be seen whether the incident was a "well-scripted drama" to garner votes. Speaking to reporters, Ghosh said that the people of the state have seen such "drama" earlier as well. "It needs to be probed what actually happened. How come a Z-plus protectee gets attacked is a matter that has to be looked into. The state should order a CBI probe to bring out the truth," he said. "It needs to be seen whether it was a true incident or a well-scripted drama," Ghosh said, referring to Banerjee's photos on the hospital bed with her leg plastered. Ghosh said that "such a drama" to garner sympathy votes, sensing defeat, would not yield any results this time. "The people of the state have seen such drama earlier too. Those who know they would be voted out of power can stoop to any level to get votes," he said. The chief minister is at present undergoing treatment at the SSKM Hospital in Kolkata with injury to her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck, according to doctors. Banerjee alleged on Wednesday evening that during her campaign in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging on her the door of her car, leading to the injuries. The Trinamool Congress alleged that it was a well- planned conspiracy to "remove her" from the poll campaign. "Many people don't want her to campaign for the elections. They want her to be removed from their path. The BJP should be ashamed of themselves that they have stooped so low that they are attacking a woman," TMC leader Sougata Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata ‘stable’, officials visit Nandigram to piece together events of Wednesday||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is undergoing treatment at a state-run hospital here following an alleged attack on her in Nandigram is "stable" now, and doctors are planning to conduct a series of medical tests, including a CT scan, to assess the degree of her injury, sources at the facility said on Thursday. Preliminary medical tests conducted on Banerjee late on Wednesday night detected severe bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, and injuries in her right shoulder, forearm and neck, they said. "A temporary plaster was done on her left ankle and she will undergo several blood tests this morning. Her ECG report was fine. "Banerjee is stable now. She will be under observation for the next 48 hours. A CT scan may be conducted during the day. We will again examine her and decide on our next course of treatment. Her fever subsided," a doctor of the SSKM Hospital told PTI. On Thursday morning, senior district officials visited the area in Nandigram where the chief minister was allegedly attacked while campaigning for the upcoming Assembly elections. Purba Medinipur District Magistrate Vibhu Goel, SP Praween Prakash and other officers visited the Birulia Bazar area to inquire about the incident, officials said. The officers spoke to eye-witnesses, besides looking for footage from any CCTV installed in the area to ascertain the exact sequence of events, they said. "We are talking to people who were present here during the incident. We have not got hold of any clear footage of that moment till now," the district magistrate said. "Multiple people are giving multiple versions of the incident. We are trying to listen to those who were present at that moment, and then file our report to the Election Commission," he added. The district administration may file a report to Election Commission by the second half of the day, sources said. Trinamool Congress and BJP supporters got engaged in a war of words over the attack on Banerjee as the officials were visiting the Birulia Bazar area. While TMC supporters alleged the "attack was a pre-planned conspiracy", BJP workers termed it a “lie”. Banerjee alleged on Wednesday evening that she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging the door of her car on her, injuring her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck as she fell on the ground. Soon after the alleged incident, the Election Commission sought a report on the matter from Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. "This is a serious matter which needed to be investigated. We are constantly keeping a tab on the situation. We have sought a report from the state police and administration. The report must be sent quickly," a senior official at the CEO said. In a video message from the hospital, the TMC supremo urged her followers to keep calm. The state government constituted a nine-member team to treat Banerjee, and doctors conducted an x-ray on the chief minister as soon as she was taken to the hospital from Nandigram on Wednesday evening. Banerjee sustained injuries on her left leg and waist. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block of the SSKM Hospital. On Wednesday, the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday postponed the release of its manifesto for the upcoming elections in West Bengal, following the alleged attack on Mamata Banerjee. As the party chairperson, she was scheduled to release the manifesto in the afternoon at her residence in Kalighat. "The manifesto release has been postponed for the time being. It will be released after Mamata Banerjee gets well and is back home. Although our manifesto is ready, there is no question of releasing it without her," a senior TMC leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee injured in Nandigram after filing nomination||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was admitted to hospital with multiple injuries to her left ankle, hip and the region around the collar bone, suffered when a group allegedly slammed the door of an SUV on whose footboard she was standing to greet people after filing her nomination for the Nandigram seat on Wednesday. Late on Wednesday night, an MRI scan showed a crack in the left foot, and ligament and soft tissue injuries, sources said. “I was standing on the footboard of the car to greet the crowd when four to five people suddenly slammed the door (of the car). See how my feet have swollen. It’s a conspiracy.... It was deliberate,” Mamata, who was clearly in severe pain, said in Nandigram. “There was no one from the local police. The SP was not there, either,” she added, sitting in the front seat of the SUV. As Mamata was feeling nauseous, a green corridor was created and she was rushed to Calcutta for admission to SSKM Hospital. A five-member medical board has been set up. The incident injected an unexpected element into the election discourse, with some Opposition leaders such as the BJP’s Arjun Singh calling it “drama”. Several other leaders, including railway minister Piyush Goyal, echoed him and suggested that Mamata’s allegations stemmed from the realisation that she would lose from Nandigram. By night, however, some in the BJP appeared to have realised that the barbs were in poor taste and might backfire at the hustings. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited SSKM. “Sought an update from Director, Security and Chief Secretary in matter. Health Secretary and Director of Hospital urged to take all caution,” Dhankhar tweeted. The police administration in the state is now under the Election Commission as the polls have been notified. The Election Commission has sought a report on the incident. “Such statements from BJP leaders are in poor taste…. The country’s lone woman chief minister suffers injuries and they make such comments,” said Trinamul MP Saugata Roy. The chief minister complained of excruciating pain when doctors met her at cabin number twelve-and-a-half in the Woodburn Ward of SSKM Medical College and Hospital. She was given painkillers and had X-rays taken. From SSKM, she was taken to the Bangur Institute of Neurosciences next door for the MRI scan. “The chief minister complained of nausea and was clearly in severe trauma,” a doctor said. “She was stabilised immediately after admission.” Several Trinamul leaders, many of whom had rushed to SSKM in the evening, iterated the conspiracy charge. Good wishes for Mamata poured in from different parts of the country. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “I strongly condemn the attack on Mamata Didi. Those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. I pray for her speedy recovery.” Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav expressed concern and demanded a probe. Poll observer Vivek Dubey said the police would conduct an investigation after recording the chief minister’s statement. Mamata had a busy day in Nandigram on Wednesday. She filed her nomination in Haldia and then visited several places of worship, participated in programmes and interacted with ordinary voters. Before her injury, she had planned to spend the night in Nandigram. Local sources said the incident took place while Mamata was leaving the Giribazar area of Rani Chowk in Nandigram after visiting a temple. “The place was very crowded: around 5,000 people were waiting when she came out of the temple.… Seeing the crowd, she stood on the footboard to greet the people. Suddenly, she fell down and then we heard her cry out in pain,” an eyewitness said. “Her security guards lifted her and placed her in the car. She was writhing in pain.… She was being taken to a rented accommodation in the Reyapara area of Nandigram when she complained of excruciating pain. A swelling had developed around her left ankle. Her security guards got ice cubes from an ice cream shop and applied them to the swelling.” The alleged attack on Mamata and her accusations about the absence of local police threw up questions about her security, which counts as Z-plus. Sources in East Midnapore police said the crowd had been beyond control through the day, with the chief minister travelling around Nandigram after filing her nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Suvendu questions Mamata’s hymn recital||Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari marshalled hundreds of BJP workers for a rally in East Midnapore’s Nandigram town on Wednesday morning and used the opportunity to attack the chief minister for trying to reach out to the local Hindu community in the run-up to the polls. Suvendu, who is scheduled to file his papers on Friday, played out the dual narrative of Hindutva and “son of Midnapore’s soil” claim as he accused Mamata Banerjee of waking up to the sentiments of Nandigram “only with an eye on votes”. “I have requested Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to address a rally here. Central ministers Smriti Irani and Babul Supriyo have also expressed interest in coming here,” he said while inaugurating the BJP’s campaign office in Nandigram town. Ridiculing Mamata for visiting several temples since she landed in Nandigram on Tuesday, Suvendu said: “The same Mamata who took offence at the chanting of Jai Sri Ram on the occasion of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary in Calcutta is now paying obeisance at our Janakinath temple…” Suvendu then proceeded to play the radio broadcast of Mahalaya, famed amongst Bengalis as an early morning ritual heralding the Pujas, and then played Mamata’s recitation of the Chandipath verses asking the crowd to “point out the original”. Mamata had recited the verses from a Nandigram podium on Tuesday proclaiming she was “a Hindu woman”. “She has made no contribution to Nandigram and her promises of employment are all dubious,” Suvendu said to cheers from BJP supporters. “Thirty thousands of our youths are migrant labourers thanks to her... She paid no heed to Nandigram when the lockdown happened, when Amphan happened.... If the BJP comes to power, we will return all the money that was stolen from you in chit funds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Sports icon for disabled voters in Jalpaiguri ||A sportswoman in Jalpaiguri who can’t speak or hear but has proved her mettle in different national sports events both as an athlete and as a coach has been selected as the icon by the Jalpaiguri district administration to encourage physically-challenged voters to exercise their rights in the Assembly elections. Saswati Guha Roy, who is in the mid-forties and is a hearing-impaired person since her birth, will move around across the district and would explain to voters through sign language about the importance of voting, the use of EVMs and the significance of VVPAT and how one should maintain the Covid-19 safety protocols during the elections. Saswati, who resides at Raikatpara here, is known for her prowess as a basketball player and as an athlete. In the nineties, she had secured medals in state and national level sports events hosted for deaf and dumb sportspersons. In 2005, she had participated in the special Olympics in Melbourne. Later, she had trained players and in 2017, she was the chief coach of the national games for the deaf and dumb in Chennai. As The Telegraph met and interacted with Saswati via WhatsApp, the woman appeared confident that she would be able to convince physically-challenged voters as a section of them feels discouraged to exercise their franchise. “I thank the administration for selecting me for the campaign. During the lockdown, I have attended a number of virtual sessions where I have emphasised the need to bring in more and more physically-challenged people to the sports arena,” she said through Whatsapp. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said:  “She will be the face of our campaign. The Election Commission has given impetus to specially-challenged voters and there are provisions even to cast votes through postal ballots if they find it inconvenient to reach the booths. Saswati Guha Roy has the experience to work with such persons and hence, she will move around the district and encourage such voters.” Saswati, who is a graduate, also has diplomas in information technology and in management of deaf and dumb persons. As of now, Saswati is working as an executive assistant at the block health centre of Rajganj in Jalpaiguri that is located at Belakoba, around 25km from Jalpaiguri town. “Her success in the sports arena and her experience to interact with specially challenged persons can help us get more and more such people to the booths. We have already communicated with her and she is eager to join us in the campaign,” said an official of the district administration. Sanjoy Chakraborty, the secretary of Jalpaiguri Welfare Organisation — a social organisation with which Saswati is associated — has also appreciated the administration’s decision. “For years now, she had been taking care of deaf and dumb people who often turn up in our office for different purposes. She is indeed a role model for such people and we believe this new engagement will bolster her confidence to work for people,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Young faces make a mark on Left list in Bengal||The presence of youths in large numbers at the rally of the Sanjukta Morcha at the Brigade Parade Grounds here on February 28 found reflection in the Left Front’s candidate list that saw several veterans taking a step back and handing over the baton to young faces to fight the polls. Left Front chairperson Biman Bose on Wednesday declared the names of nominees, a large number of whom are below 40 years, for 124 Assembly seats that the Left parties would fight as part of the alliance with the Congress and the Indian Secular Front (ISF). “The choice of young candidates by the CPM has been done in keeping with the party’s state committee’s decision to field candidates below 40 in the majority of the Assembly segments,” said a senior CPM leader. The Left had on Friday published the list of candidates for the first two phases of the Bengal Assembly polls. DYFI state president Minakshi Mukherjee will take on chief minister Mamata Banerjee and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari for the high-profile Nandigram seat. Other than Minakshi, the CPM’s relatively “younger list” includes SFI state president Srijan Bhattacharya, DYFI state secretary Sayandeep Mitra, SFI state secretary Pratikur Rahaman, JNU student leader Aishe Ghosh and SFI’s national joint secretary Dipsita Dhar. “There are several candidates who are below 40 years of age. We will mention the age of the candidates along with their names on our website,” Bose said while releasing the list. Srijan has been fielded from Singur. Sayandeep will contest from Kamarhati in North 24-Parganas, Aishe from Jamuria in West Burdwan, Pratikur from Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas and Dipsita from Bally in Howrah. The CPM has re-nominated Satarup Ghosh from Kasba from where he had lost to Trinamul’s Javed Khan in the 2016 Assembly polls. In Rajarhat-Newtown, the CPM has fielded Saptarshi Deb, the son of former minister Gautam Deb who had played a major role in the metamorphosis of Rajarhat into a new town. Similarly, Pritha Tah, the daughter of slain CPM leader Pradip Tah, has been fielded from Burdwan South that had in the past elected party veteran Nirupam Sen. Among the list of Left candidates, activist and actor Debdut Ghosh has been fielded from Tollygunj. There were talks that the ISF would contest from Nandigram, but on Wednesday, Bose put the rumours to rest by fielding Minakshi. Reacting to the party’s choice to field her from the high-profile seat, Minakshi said: “It is a difficult seat since the chief minister and one of her former colleagues are contesting. As a candidate of the Sanjukta Morcha, I will have to fight against two forms of Trinamul. However, our focus will be on employment, good governance and saving democracy in Bengal.” Commending the party’s decision to field young faces, she added: “It is a very brave step. All those who had been fighting for our cause in the streets will now take the fight to the booths.” However, a bunch of important Left veterans have also found mention in Wednesday’s list. Two sitting MLAs — Sujan Chakraborty and Ashok Bhattacharya —have been fielded from their respective seats Jadavpur and Siliguri. Septuagenarian Kanti Ganguly is the Left candidate from Raidighi and politburo member Mohd. Salim has been fielded from Chanditala in Hooghly. Even though the nomination process for the first phase of polls is over, the Sanjukta Morcha alliance is still having the jitters with the Congress fielding candidates from three seats in Purulia — Kashipur, Baghmundi and Joypur — despite the Left Front announcing their candidates for those constituencies. Asked about the stalemate, Bose said: “The state Congress chief is in Delhi…once we sit together, all the differences will be solved in minutes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Two Trinamul MLAs minus tickets go to BJP||Two Trinamul MLAs, including a minister of state, joined the BJP on Wednesday. Bachhu Hansda, the MLA of Tapan in South Dinajpur and the minister of state for the north Bengal development department, switched to the saffron camp after his former party did not provide him with a ticket for the Assembly polls. Gauri Shankar Dutta, the sitting Trinamul MLA of Tehatta and the former chief of Trinamul in Nadia district, also joined the BJP. He was also denied a ticket. Hansda, sources said, was aggrieved with Trinamul. On Tuesday, Trinamul leader and MP Arpita Ghosh had met him and tried to placate him. “He, however, remained unperturbed, quit the party and joined the BJP,” said a party insider. Along with Hansda and Dutta, a hoard of dissident Trinamul leaders — most of them from Nadia and Howrah districts — joined the BJP in the BJP office in Calcutta. Some of these leaders had held administrative positions at different local bodies in the two districts. Another actor from the Bengali film industry Bonny Sengupta and filmmaker Rajib also joined the BJP on Wednesday. Sengupta’s mother Piya Sengupta and partner Koushani Mukherjee had recently joined Trinamul. Koushani has also been named as the Trinamul candidate for Krishnanagar North. The joining process of ex-Trinamul leaders and workers continued for over 20 minutes. Old and new BJP leaders couldn’t remember any other instance where the event took so long other than in December when Trinamul leader and state minister Suvendu Adhikari had joined the saffron brigade. Members of the workers union of a Calcutta-based club and a glass factory also took the BJP flag from state party chief Dilip Ghosh, which several old timers said was below Ghosh’s dignity. “Is this some kind of a joke? A joining event for 21 minutes has never happened inside the party office,” an angry BJP leader said. “And who are these people? Apart from a couple of MLAs and a few others, most of them are nobodies. Why should the party’s state president be bothered for their joining?” the leader added. In a second news conference, Adhikari inducted a few leaders from East Midnapore into BJP. In Siliguri, Shankar Ghosh, a CPM leader and a member of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, severed all ties with the CPM. Ghosh has submitted his resignation from primary membership of the party, he said. “I had been associated with the CPM for the past 30 years. But I have been cornered in the party for the past three-four years and my voice was suppressed for some unknown reason. Considering the situation, I felt it is better to quit rather than facing humiliation,” Ghosh, who was also a member of CPM’s Darjeeling district secretariat, said on Wednesday. Ghosh, one of the popular faces of the CPM in Siliguri, was elected as a councillor for the first time in 2015. He was made a member, mayor-in-council and was considered over the close associates of Siliguri MLA and senior party leader Asok Bhattacharya. “I also stepped down from the post of the member of BoA of the civic body on Tuesday. So far, I have not decided anything about joining some other party. I will make a decision in another couple of days,” he added. Sources in the CPM said his decision had come as a shocker for the party. Even Bhattacharya and the party’s district secretary Jibesh Sarkar had been to his house but could not make him change his mind, said sources. On Wednesday evening, however, senior CPM leaders tried to put a brave face. “It will have hardly any effect on the party…. his (Ghosh) political aspiration has forced him to take such a decision,” Bhattacharya said. The Bengal BJP on Wednesday nominated actor Hiran Chatterjee alias Hiranmoy Chattopadhyay from the Kharagpur (Sadar) Assembly seat. In 2016, Dilip Ghosh won his first Assembly polls from this seat but in the bypoll of 2019, after Ghosh was elected as an MP, this seat was wrested by Trinamul candidate Pradip Sarkar. “Our young workers in Kharagpur wanted a young leader. Hence, Hiran has been fielded from that seat. His candidature will encourage the workers,” Ghosh said. Also, Supriti Chatterjee has been named as the BJP candidate from Barjora, on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s Nandigram outreach before injury||Mamata Banerjee went on an outreach overdrive on Day 2 of her Nandigram campaign, conducting a march, filing her nomination, visiting places of worship, participating in programmes and issuing brief statements thanking the people for getting her to contest from the East Midnapore seat. Before her plans were unexpectedly terminated by injuries she suffered in an accident which she attributed to a conspiracy, the Bengal chief minister spent Wednesday trying to woo the 2.53 lakh Nandigram electorate for her fight against former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari, now the BJP’s candidate. “Nandigram leaders requested the chief minister to visit temples in Nandigram 2 (block) before going back to Calcutta. That is why she had decided on Tuesday itself to extend her stay,” said a district party leader. Even on Tuesday, she had paid several visits to places of worship, apparently trying to nullify the desperate attempts by her principal adversary, the saffron ecosystem, to polarise the elections along communal lines. “The chief minister has been picking many Hindu temples, along with one or two Muslim places of worship. She will not neglect the minorities, of course. But she also has to take a more in-your-face approach with regard to proving her Hindu credentials as well,” said a senior Trinamul Congress MP. “None of this ought to be part of a democratic election in a so-called civilised nation in 2021. But, sadly, the rules of the game have been drastically changed over the past few years, and she cannot afford to ignore the harsh reality,” added the MP. In the afternoon, accompanied by her party’s state president Subrata Bakshi and district leader Sheikh Sufian, the chief minister travelled by helicopter to Haldia around 1pm and made her way to the SDO office — by means of a one km march — where she was later joined by Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen, one of the people handling her campaign in Nandigram. Her nomination was accepted by deputy magistrate Kishore Kumar Biswas, a returning officer for the April 1 polling in the constituency. Speaking to journalists afterwards, Mamata said: “My proposers were Mahadeb (Bagh), Swadesh Das, Susama Das and Abdul Samad, who hail from families of martyrs (of 2007)…. My chief election agent is Sheikh Sufian.” “Our election manifesto will be released tomorrow, on Maha Shivratri, after I go to Calcutta,” she said, hours before the injuries forced her to return in the evening, for urgent medical attention. After the nomination-filing, Mamata once again underscored how easy it would have been for her to contest from her Bhowanipore instead, but she had decided to contest from one of the two “holy movement sites” of Singur and Nandigram this time. She said she had zeroed in on Nandigram on the basis of the people’s “overwhelming response” when she had popped the question at a rally here in January. After the nomination process, the Mamata contingent travelled back by helicopter to Nandigram 2 and visited temples by road. Her stops included Shibrampur’s Kalimandir, where the chief minister spent eight minutes, the Chalmari temple, a Durga temple, a Shivalay temple and finally, the Giribazaar temple at Ranichowk, where a crowd of over 2,000 supporters awaited her. Speaking to the crowd, Mamata said: “Our gathering here is proof of our unity.... The world will remember us for this.” Lashing out at Adhikari, she added: “I have built all of Nandigram, starting from its bus stops, but somebody else takes credit for it.” “It doesn’t matter to me as I know the real truth.... I want no divisions in Nandigram from here on out.… It (winning) will be a game for us,” said the Trinamul chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021:Trinamul seeks to reach voters via Birbhum temples||Trinamul leaders in Birbhum have launched a drive to clean temples in their respective areas in an apparent bid to counter, though subtly, the BJP’s Hindutva-driven narrative to appropriate places of worship and pilgrimages. Sources said ruling party MLAs and workers had started the drive in the run up to the Assembly polls to establish its “connect” with the Hindu way of life, while simultaneously, hinting at the BJP’s apparent failure to put its words into actions. The temple clean-up comes in the backdrop of BJP leaders trying to polarise voters on religious lines and accusing Trinamul of appeasing minorities. While the temple sanitisation is an obvious attempt to level with the BJP’s tactics, rival parties in the district played it down, terming it “unoriginal” and condemning Trinamul’s introduction of politics into religious spaces. “The move will establish good faith among local residents while also countering less obvious forces of the Hindu right-wing on the ground like the Viswa Hindu Parshad,” said a source. The initiative, reportedly conceived by poll consultant Prashant Kishor, comes after the Sangh parivar has launched fundraising for the proposed Ram temple at Ayodhya. Sources said before launching the clean-up drive, Trinamul leaders had been asked to draw up a list of temples and schedule visits where they would interact with devotees and take part in temple-cleaning drives. The leaders are reportedly touring the surrounding areas to gauge people’s sentiments. “Leaders are also holding meetings regarding their attentiveness towards the Hindu community and fuse those speeches with their eye towards local development,” said a worker, adding that Trinamul’s doles for temples and priests were being discussed with the local populace. “The BJP and its wings are playing the polarisation card against Trinamul before the Assembly polls. So, it is high time to reach out to temples so as to send a message to the Hindu community that Trinamul is also there for them,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Asit Majumdar, the Trinamul MLA from Hooghly’s Chinsurah, has visited several temples to clean the premises and interact with local people. “I have already visited six temples and there are at least six more to visit. I, along with our party workers, are going to temples, cleaning premises and interacting with common people and devotees there,” Majumdar told The Telegraph recently. In Purulia, Trinamul leaders have identified around 100 temples for leaders to visit. In the Ayodhya hills in Purulia, the zilla sabhadhipati and a group of Trinamul leaders cleaned a Ram temple two weeks ago. “MLAs are busy for the polls and the drive to reach and clean temples has started. Our leaders already visited around ten important temples in our area,” said a party worker. In a bid to woo Hindu voters, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had already started paying a monthly honorarium for Hindu priests and allotted funds for the development of several temples across Bengal last year. According to the 2011 census, Bengal has a 70.54 per cent Hindu population, making them a deciding factor in the elections. Even prior to the temple clean-up drive, Trinamul had taken several measures across different districts to woo Hindu voters. In Purulia, party leaders had organised a large-scale Ram Navami celebration in 2019 to counter the BJP’s polarisation cards. In Birbhum, district Trinamul leaders had distributed khols and kartals to the kirtan groups at a cost of around Rs 2 crore in 2018. BJP leaders, however, said Trinamul’s ‘gimmicks” would not work. The CPM also criticised Trinamul’s temple sanitisation saying it had been “copied” from the Sangh parivar’s playbook. “We can’t find any difference between Trinamul and the BJP as both are focussing on temples. Politics on religion is nothing but a result of political bankruptcy. We think both the parties are playing polarisation cards to win the elections but are forgetting their social responsibilities,” said Ram Chandra Dom, a CPM central committee member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC special observers’ scan Bengal law and order||Two special observers — Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube — sent by the Election Commission to Bengal met chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, home secretary H.K. Dwivedi and director general of police P. Nirajnayan at Nabanna on Wednesday and asked them to lay stress on law and order issues ahead of the polls. Sources aware of the meeting said the observers laid stress on identifying vulnerable areas properly, optimum use of central forces and mobile patrolling in trouble-prone areas ahead of the polls. “Special observers visiting the state administrative headquarters to hold a meeting is a rare instance. Usually, the EC officials or the special observers call on state government officials in case they need to give any instruction. This gives a hint that the EC is attaching importance to the state’s law and order,” said a senior government official. The sources said the special observers were unhappy as the district authorities were delaying in identifying vulnerable areas in the state. “So far, only about 20 per cent of the estimated vulnerable areas have been identified officially. The poll panel wanted early identification of vulnerable areas,” said another official. Identification of vulnerable areas is very important ahead of the polls as political parties can influence people living in the area by giving cash or liquor, sources said. The special observers also emphasised proper use central forces during and ahead of the voting. “Deployment of central forces is usually done on the basis of inputs sent by the district authorities. In the past, it had been seen that central forces were not used in poll-related responsibilities while state police were involved in majority of such duties,” said an official. The sources said the EC was trying to ensure use central forces in law and order-related responsibilities ahead of the polls as the Opposition parties, particularly the BJP, was alleging that the state police were playing a partisan role at many places. “Besides, 295 companies of central forces were sent to the state so far. Such a huge contingent of forces was never sent to the state so many days ahead of the polls. Using the forces properly is also a factor that the EC is trying to resolve,” said another official. The EC is also trying to ensure that proper mobile patrolling is done in trouble-prone areas. “Patrolling in the trouble-prone areas and the bordering areas is important as it builds confidence among the voters. Involving central force jawans in the patrolling teams is also an issue on which the EC is laying stress,” said a source. A senior government official said visit of the special observers a day after the removal of the DGP, Virendra, was significant as it sent a message to the top brass of the government. “The visit made it clear why Virendra was removed. Moreover, it also sends a message that the top brass of the government should look into the issues with utmost urgency,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Kin of martyrs feel let down by Darjeeling parties||Gorkhaland invariably becomes the major plank of all elections in the Darjeeling hills, but family members of Gangamaya Biswakarma, who lost her life during the statehood agitation in 1986, maintain that “martyrs’ families” are in most deplorable conditions and they have no faith in the present political leaders and their slogan. Gangamaya was 56 when she was killed in a police firing in 1986. She was apparently charging at the paramilitary forces with a sickle in the hand at Thana Dara in Kalimpong when the shots were fired. In recognition of Gangamaya’s contribution to the statehood agitation, Gangamaya Park was built in Darjeeling in 1996 by then chairman of the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC). The park is now a popular tourist point in Darjeeling. On July 27, 1986, Gangamaya, his son Daljit, who was 24 then and daughter Shila, then 29 years, were part of a procession that was on their way to Kalimpong Mela Ground to burn the copies of 1950 Indo-Nepal friendship treaty following a call given by Ghisingh who was spearheading the Gorkhaland demand. Thirteen people were killed in Kalimpong on July 27, which is now marked as Martyr’s Day by all hill parties. A bullet missed Daljit by a whisker. Another Gorkhaland supporter Chunnu Limbu, who was injured that day, died a few weeks later. “Today, the martyr’s family members, those who were jailed in Berhampur jail, those who faced the brunt of the agitation are in the most deplorable condition,” Daljit said on Wednesday. After Ghisingh accepted the DGHC in 1988, Daljit was called to Bhanu Bhavan on June 19, 1989, and handed over “Rs 8000.” “Subash Ghisingh sahib then said the amount might seem less but parsad (holy offering) is also less. He also said the DGHC would soon get its own budget hinting that we would get something more,” said Daljit. The martyrs’ families received nothing more. “All I got was a grade-D contractual job in 1993 through the efforts of C.K. Pradhan (then GNLF leader from Kalimpong,” said Daljit who is still fighting to get his job regularised. Ironically, Daljit was posted at the Sahid Bedi or martyrs column in Kalimpong. When Bimal Gurung renewed the Gorkhaland agitation in 2007, Daljit said, he, too, had hit the streets, once again. “Martyrs' dream is still unfulfilled because leaders are not united. When the agitation reaches its height, it is brought down. Leaders don’t seem to be sincere,” said Daljit adding that he was now busy with his job to be involved in politics. Does his family believe in the present hill leadership and their Gorkhaland slogan? “No,” says Daljit. “There is nothing for us to be happy. If all intellectuals and politicians were united, it would have been good. When one thinks of the present situation, one feels bad,” he said. The Telegraph spoke to Daljit on Wednesday following an announcement by the Bharatiya Gorkha Ambedkar Yuva Sena to confer Gorkha Ambedkar Award on Gangamaya, Anit Gazmer and Bhupen Mothey (three people from the Schedule Caste community who lost their lives in the 1986 agitation) and Bimal Shashankar and Suraj Bhusal (who died in the 2017 agitation) in Darjeeling on March 14. Also, the youth wing of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction said it would campaign in the coming Assembly elections on the Gorkhaland issue. The Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha had already said it wouldn’t seek votes in the Assembly polls on the statehood plank. Daljit, however, seems disenchanted with the political system in the hills. “None has been sincere (on the issue). My mother made the supreme sacrifice.” Daljit comes from a farmer’s family at Sindabong in Kalimpong. “That day, three of us from the family decided to take part in the procession. Little did we know about the turn of events,” he said. The son does not remember his mother carrying a sickle from the house but he does remember that she had a habit of carrying a sickle as she would mostly be on the fields. “That day, she did mobilise some supporters. We were at the forefront of the procession. Once the firing started, we all dispersed,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Largest tea estate in north Bengal shut ||The management of Chengmari tea estate — the largest in north Bengal — in the Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district announced suspension of work in the plantation on Wednesday. A section of workers had been creating problems which were leading to disruption in regular activities, the management representatives said. Tea trade unions, however, criticised the decision and demanded immediate reopening of the garden that closed down operations at the commencement of a new tea season. Sources said some senior workers, who had been functioning as “sardars” (group leaders), were asked by the management to work as “chowkidars” (security guards). This had left the workers disgruntled and they had registered their protests against the decision. On Tuesday, the workers, under the banner of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, held a meeting at the garden on the issue. Later on Tuesday night, they realised that most of the managerial employees had left the garden. “On Wednesday night, as the workers went to join their duties, they found that the factory is closed and the management has announced suspension of work. We condemn the decision and want the district administration and the state labour department to take necessary steps,” said Manoj Munda, the local panchayat member of Chengmari. He mentioned that a few days back, they had spoken with the management representatives who had assured that the issue would be discussed in a bipartite meeting. “Instead, they announced suspension of work,” alleged Munda. Chengmari, which has a plantation area spread across 1,500 hectares, employs around 5,000-odd workers. Back in 2018, the garden had closed down in a similar manner but was later opened through tripartite talks initiated by the state labour department. As the news spread, workers assembled near a local club. They discussed the issue and demanded that the management should replace the manager. Kamalesh Kumar Jha, the manager, however, has denied the charges. “We were abiding by all the decisions made through tripartite talks. However, a section of workers were not following the rules and creating tension in the gardens. They were even intercepting temporary workers who are engaged during the peak season which eventually was affecting the production. In such a situation, we had no option but to announce suspension of work,” said Jha. Senior officials of Jalpaiguri district administration, when asked about the closure of Chengmari, said appropriate initiatives would be taken immediately to expedite reopening of the garden. “Officials of the state labour department and the block administration would be asked to look into the issue,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
11-03-2021||North East||Bid to polarise Assam with doctored video of AIUDF chief ||A doctored video clip that gives the impression that All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief Badruddin Ajmal has said in Bengali that the Congress-AIUDF alliance will turn India into an Islamic state has set the temperature soaring in poll-bound Assam. While Ajmal has threatened to take legal action against those behind the alleged doctored viral video, BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma has called for a thorough probe. The video, which started doing the rounds of the social media on Tuesday night, has been found to be “doctored” by Alt News, a non-profit fact-checking website in operation since 2017 to detect and curb fake news. The website on Wednesday afternoon carried a report under the headline “AIUDF’s Badruddin Ajmal didn’t say India will become Islamic nation, 2019 speech clipped”. The report said the clipped video was “made” viral by “regional news and right-wing influencers”. Ajmal called a hurried media conference to dismiss the video clip released by an NGO — the Legal Rights Observatory — as “100 per cent fake and adulterated” and circulated to “create” communal divisions. Ajmal and the AIUDF released the original clip of his speech delivered in Barpeta in 2019. In the original speech, Ajmal says the Mughals did not dare to turn India into an Islamic state and asks Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to dream about a Hindu rashtra. The LRO is a legal rights body “linked’ to the RSS. In December, the LRO had tweeted, “FIR filed against body run by Badruddin Ajmal for receiving funds from foreign ‘terror financiers.…” Ajmal also saw in the viral video a “ploy” by his political rivals to “damage” the party’s electoral prospects in the upcoming polls in the state after the formation of the Congress-led grand alliance involving eight Opposition parties. The AIDUF is contesting 19 of the 126 Assembly seats. The AIUDF chief said he had started discussions with his lawyers about filing an FIR and moving the Election Commission against those behind the circulation of the “fake” video. His party retweeted a tweet by a senior journalist: “AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal’s viral video with blatant ‘communal remarks’ is doctored. Several Assam TV channels telecast it. DY365 now shows both the doctored & the original, the meaning of what Ajmal said in the original is exactly the opposite.” The AIUDF’s ally Congress, too, hit out at those behind the viral video. PCC general secretary Diganta Choudhary said: “We strongly condemn the nefarious designs of the BJP to polarise voters during the election. After miserably failing to protect Jati-Mati-Bheti and their much hyped developmental planks, price hike of all essential commodities, including petroleum products, they have nothing else to show the people and hence they are stooping to new lows.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
11-03-2021||Opinion||Food wastage and hunger||A closer look at the cause of human suffering can yield shocking revelations. The United Nations’s Food Waste Index Report 2021 showed, for instance, that in 2019, an estimated 931 million tonnes of food were thrown away by households, restaurants and other food services around the world. This, at a time when hunger and malnourishment are global concerns. It is often believed that hunger is the result of inequitable access to food or its underproduction. The UN report, however, tells a different tale. In India, the food wastage per person in a year was estimated to be 50 kilogrammes. One of the consequences of such waste is there for all to see; in last year’s global hunger index, India ranked 94 out of 107 nations and was bracketed in the ‘serious’ hunger category. The report underscores the need to view hunger holistically: lack of access to food, faulty distribution, chronic poverty, conflict, populous societies and, significantly, food wastage all play a part in aggravating the problem. While the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India launched an initiative to encourage saving and sharing food that might have been wasted, it is unlikely to yield far-reaching results without governments conducting targeted awareness campaigns to sensitize households to the need to cook and consume according to their needs. There is an additional — moral — issue that must not be ignored. The excessive purchase, stocking and consumption of food is increasingly being projected as a signifier of wealth, ostentation and power. According to one estimate, about 10 to 20 per cent of the food at the Great Indian Wedding — and, possibly, at other such social occasions — is wasted. Such pandering to excess, mostly by the rich, in a country that accounted for 22 per cent of the global burden of food insecurity — the highest for any nation — in 2017-19 is shameful. China has launched the ‘clean plate’ campaign under which efforts are being made to reduce food wastage. Similar policies to curb criminal wastage elude India. In 2018, the Delhi government told the Supreme Court that it was considering imposing restrictions on the number of guests at “extravagant” weddings to minimize food wastage; it is unclear whether the policy has fructified. Meanwhile, there is a push to reduce food subsidies with the Niti Aayog recently recommending the reduction of the rural and urban coverage under the National Food Security Act. In a nation floundering under the weight of starvation, a concerted public campaign fortified with a legislative framework must be in place to prevent and penalize food wastage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
11-03-2021||Opinion||Great tragedy: Koilaghata Building fire||Sir — The death of nine people a few days ago in a fire that broke out in a building in Calcutta that houses offices of the Indian Railways is particularly egregious as the tragedy took place in a modern multi-storied building (“Lift tragedy in city blaze”, March 9). What is even more appalling is the blame game that is being played between the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, and the Union railways ministry even before a probe can be conducted. Several such tragedies have taken place in Calcutta in quick succession. The inferno that broke out in the Bagbazar area earlier this year is still fresh in everyone’s mind. The preliminary account suggests that poor attention to fire safety basics and, possibly, the absence of robust fire mitigation technologies led to the unfortunate incident. It must be investigated whether the Strand Road building met the fire safety norms prescribed in the National Building Code. According to recent data by the National Crime Records Bureau, deaths from accidental fires stood at a staggering 10,915 in 2019. There is an urgent need to remedy the situation. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It was heartbreaking to read that nine people lost their lives in the fire that broke out on the 13th floor of the New Koilaghat building on Strand Road. It is being reported that the fire started in the office space of the Eastern Railway and spread to other parts of the building. This is not the first time that such an incident has occurred. It is shameful that we have not learnt any lessons from the past. The authorities must investigate the matter and do all they can to ensure that such accidents are prevented. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Grave news Sir — As countries begin the vaccination process in full swing, a new study has revealed that the Covid-19 vaccines produced by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech appear to be significantly less effective against the mutated strain of the coronavirus that was first found in South Africa. The Covid-19 vaccines, which were developed at an accelerated pace, had failed to convince many about their efficacy. Findings such as these will only reduce public confidence and discourage many from getting inoculated. It seems that it will take longer than anticipated for the situation to get back to normal.  Ananya Saha,CalcuttaDangerous war Sir — The veteran actor, Mithun Chakraborty, recently joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in a flagrant show of publicity at a rally at the Brigade parade ground (“Mithun joins BJP with cobra quip”, March 8). Sadly, it was another act of deception and spewing of venom by an actor rather than a serious show of commitment towards politics. He quoted several threatening one-liners — “I will hit you here, and you will land in a crematorium” followed by “I am not a non-venomous snake... we are purebred cobras. One bite is enough to kill”. Such arrogant and divisive comments take the political discourse in our country to an all-time low. It is hoped that people will respond justly to this unprovoked verbal attack through the power of the ballot. The irresponsible and threatening language used by Chakraborty may appeal to a few but it poses a serious question for the majority: how long must we tolerate politicians’ lust for power that has ruined the inclusive fabric of our nation? Aires Rodrigues,Ribandar, Goa Sir — The campaigning in West Bengal is undoubtedly heating up in the run-up to the 2021 assembly elections. It has now become so vitiated  that the erstwhile Bollywood actor, Mithun Chakraborty, on joining the BJP, thought it would be appropriate to liken himself to a “purebred cobra”. The Trinamul Congress and the BJP appear to be the main contenders for power. However, the alliance forged by the Left Front, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front may make unexpected gains. More than ever, tactical voting by the different constituencies will have a bearing upon the results of the election. The 2021 polls will be an ideological battle between secularism and the forces of Hindutva. The religious connotations inherent in the BJP’s campaigning are being amplified by the indiscriminate use of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ as a war cry in a bid to polarize the voters. This election is crucial as it will decide if West Bengal remains multi-hued or turns saffron. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, has vowed to bring about ‘asol poriborton’ or ‘real change’ in the state. So far his promises of change have led to the untold misery of the people in the country. Thus, Mamata Banerjee’s comment, “Before the election he said Ujjwala and after the election all is jumla, all is ghapla...” will resonate with the voters. The economic policies of the BJP have made daily life much more difficult for ordinary people. Such factors will play an important role in determining the outcome of the election. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
11-03-2021||Opinion||Only cake: Modi at Brigade||Promises, fault-finding — not always without foundation — and mockery seem to have become the formula for campaign speeches from leaders of the party ruling at the Centre. Specific issues touching people in their everyday lives have never been favourite subjects of any ruling party, because that suggests accountability. But Bharatiya Janata Party leaders have made this avoidance into high art. The prime minister sets the model; his speech at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta was a lovely example of bland evasion. True, Narendra Modi did not harp on religion or cows, his party’s preferred themes, or go overboard with sedition or ‘anti-nationals’ — although he did promise that the BJP would work against anyone who is ‘anti-Bengal’. But nothing of what Mr Modi said — like a party leader and not a prime minister — referred to people’s needs and demands. The incredible rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas cylinders have added to the miseries of a population already fighting high costs together with the loss of jobs and livelihoods. Entertaining his audience with a vision of the West Bengal chief minister almost falling off a two-wheeler she rode in protest against the inexplicable rise in oil prices cannot be the best way to dodge that. Or is it? Religion and cow-worship have paid the BJP well in the past; bread-and-butter issues could be ignored. To say that the Trinamul Congress government has done nothing for workers and farmers may raise cheers too, but it glosses over countrywide unemployment and the controversial new labour laws, while pretending that thousands of farmers are not waiting for months with their demands outside Delhi in spite of deaths and sickness. The TMC government is far from perfect, and can be charged with numerous failures, corruption among its adherents being most notable. The lack of industry, which Mr Modi promised to correct, is an inescapable fact. But criticizing the chief minister at length and painting a rosy picture of an imagined BJP-led Bengal is not a road-map, nor does it answer any questions. The Bengal chief minister is bringing up some bread-and-butter issues pertaining to the BJP-led government. But it is not yet clear how far political parties can go with the rhetoric of religion, nation, future success, aggressive criticism and contempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
11-03-2021||Opinion||Prisons and the pandemic||The World Health Organization declared the outbreak of Covid-19 as a pandemic in March 2020. Everyone around the world experienced a ‘house arrest’ (lockdown) for months. But things were different for prisoners. The prisons were overcrowded, making prisoners particularly vulnerable to Covid-19. According to 2019 National Crime Records Bureau data, 1,350 prisons in India have a combined capacity of 4.03 lakh people, but house 4.78 lakh prisoners. The Justice A. Roy Committee report stated that the total prison population in India increased by 8.2 per cent against a rise of 0.7 per cent in the sanctioned capacity of prisons between 2016 and 2018. In its order dated March 23, 2020, the Supreme Court said, “The bitter truth is that our prisons are overcrowded, making it difficult for prisoners to maintain physical distancing... like any other viral disease’s susceptibility of Covid 19 is greater in over-crowded places, mass gatherings…” It instructed states and Union territories to decongest prisons. The direction was to constitute a ‘High Powered Committee’ to ascertain categories of prisoners to be released either on bail/parole or furlough. Finally, it was decided to set free prisoners convicted for one offence or imprisoned for less than seven years. Delhi, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh implemented the directive proactively. An HPC was formed in Bihar but no data on meetings were provided. Fifty eight prisons in Bihar had 39,814 prisoners with an occupancy rate of 93.4 per cent. According to the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative’s ‘Covid-19 State-wise Response’, the Bihar government’s estimate of the release of undertrial prisoners was zero. Later on, 413 such prisoners  were ‘released’: the state government transferred undertrial prisoners from one jail to another. During the pandemic, we visited the Beur Central Jail in Patna as well as four other sub-jails to find that not a single prisoner had been released. Prisoners in Beur Central Jail were transferred to prisons in Samastipur, Jehanabad and Bhagalpur. Family members found it difficult to travel so far and several bail applications could not be filed because of the transfer of prisoners. But it would be unfair to blame only the prison authorities. The role of courts needs to be scrutinized as well. Almost 14,000 bail applications were filed in different trial courts, out of which a large number of applications were rejected because case documents were not available. Several undertrial prisoners languish in jail for periods that are longer than the terms of imprisonment. Some prisoners had been granted bail but they could not be released on account of irregular court services. Marginalized undertrial prisoners are landless and have no money to pay as surety. They were not given the benefit of such provisions as personal recognizance bail bond. We took up the matter with the Chief Justice of Patna High Court. An order was issued in this regard: undertrial prisoners who are destitute or mentally challenged must be released on the PR bail bond. But the prisoners who received bail faced formidable socio-economic challenges. Their criminal history made it difficult for them to be rehabilitated and reintegrated into society. They had no source of livelihood to support their family. On analyzing this pitiable situation, we prepared a list of families that were in dire need. We drafted a proposal and had it mailed to the Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives, mentioning our objective and presenting a blueprint on how to assist marginalized undertrial prisoners during the pandemic. We soon received an email confirming that the APPI was ready to finance our initiative. In collaboration with the Bhartiya Jan Utthan Parishad, we were able to reach out to more than 150 families of undertrial prisoners, providing them with ration kits and, more importantly, a glimmer of hope. There is no legislation that empowers prisoners to secure decent jobs after they leave prison. Their voices are rendered inaudible to the government and most of them suffer in silence. In spite of the fact that several directions have been passed and appropriate guidelines framed to ameliorate the conditions of prisons, affirmative actions are yet to be taken. It is high time that the recommendations on jail reforms are accepted and implemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
11-03-2021||Opinion||Serious erosions||Some major states are going to choose a new legislative assembly in the coming month. West Bengal’s outcome is of particular significance to the future of Indian politics. The Bharatiya Janata Party has been trying its level best to make deep inroads into Bengal, and has been reasonably successful so far. This success can be traced to a number of reasons. The first is the undercurrent of discomfort with minorities that the middle-class Bengali bhadralok hides beneath a façade of liberal posturing. The second is the Trinamul Congress government’s pandering to minorities in an attempt to ensure the support of a very large vote bank. The third is of course the anti-incumbency factor that has set in, with many people perceiving the state government as corrupt, inefficient and unduly centralized, with effective power resting almost exclusively in the hands of the chief minister. Finally, the BJP is a well-organized party with a strong backing from the even more organized Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh that has concentrated its efforts in expanding its organizational base in the rural areas and small towns of the state. This time, therefore, there is a substantial chance of the BJP winning a majority in the state elections. This chance is being enhanced by the fact that the opposition is splintered and fragmented. The TMC has been losing a number of popular faces of the organization to the BJP. The Congress exists only in tiny pockets with hardly any organization worth the name. There is no well-known state level leader who has any mass base. The Left parties have become moribund with not a single new young face projected at the state level. Many Left party workers joined the TMC and even the BJP, possibly to save their own skins, or perhaps to partake of the political loot that every ruling party in India extorts. The Left appears confused about what to do and what strategy to adopt, except making sporadic noises about the imperial machinations of neo-liberalism. One might say that political parties come and go, governments change, illustrious personalities win and lose elections — indeed, is this not the name of the game called democracy? Hence, what is the big issue about the Bengal elections? Yes, Bengal has a history of electoral violence and hence the rather outlandish schedule of holding elections in eight phases. Is it not better to be safe than sorry? All these are true but this election is still significant in terms of long-term political trends. For the BJP there will be a huge symbolic significance if it can wrest West Bengal from the TMC, or even come close to a majority. Bengal has a strong legacy of left democratic politics and dissent. Indeed, Mamata Banerjee’s political and economic priorities (despite her deep dislike of the Marxists) are extremely similar to the Left’s populist strategies, barring, of course, the mention of Marx or Lenin in its official discourse. Bengal also has the second largest concentration of Muslims in India. Gaining control of the state and preaching the gospel of Hindutva would be a spectacular gain for the BJP. It would appear to reclaim the territory from where one of the icons of Hindu nationalism came — the late Shyama Prasad Mookerjee. It could also become another laboratory for the UP style of politics. Uttar Pradesh, incidentally, has the highest number of Muslim residents in the nation. Finally, it would be a big step forward for the BJP in creating an Opposition-free India. With the BJP in power, the organizational set-ups of the Opposition parties (weak as they already are) could soon be decimated in the state. In this important election, the role of the Left-Congress combine could be decisive. It has acquired a new ally in the Indian Secular Front which is essentially a minority vote bloc. The combine is equating, in its election campaign, Mamata Banerjee’s TMC with Narendra Modi’s BJP. However, its own support has been dwindling rapidly, and its ability to win a significant number of seats in a triangular contest is exceedingly slim. What it might be able to do, however, is split the anti-Hindutva vote so as to give an advantage to the BJP. The Left parties have often realized their tactical errors after the opportunity has slipped away. This election is likely to add to their list of historic blunders. Why would it be inaccurate to equate the TMC with the BJP? The answer lies in distinguishing between authoritarianism and fascism. Mamata Banerjee does not have a defined ideological position. She is focused on more mundane, daily issues. She is surrounded by opportunistic and self-seeking sycophants. Banerjee finds comfort, in her inimitable maverick way, in centralizing power. She has few people she can trust. Her party’s organizational strength is weak. She rides on the popularity of her own image. She takes decisions on her own. She is quick to isolate anyone she is suspicious about. Her personal likes and dislikes are important ingredients in her decision-making process. She is authoritarian without a doubt. However, she is not communal and does not believe in majoritarianism. She has also been, arguably, the strongest, most consistent and loudest anti-BJP political voice in the country. This is the vital difference between her authoritarian politics and the fascist trends exhibited by the BJP. The BJP has a clear ideology about the concept of nation, the importance of religious practices as a cultural force, and the secondary position of minorities in the order of citizenship rights. The party’s organizational strength and financial resources are awesome, especially considering the backing of the RSS. The senior party members speak the same language and share the same vision. Their ability and propensity to shut out dissent are much stronger and purposive than those of the TMC. The TMC leadership can be undemocratic and has used force to increase political control. This is a feature of all political parties in India. The BJP can and does do the same, but the key difference is that the political tactics of the party lead to well-defined outcomes. Mamata Banerjee is the TMC and the TMC is Mamata Banerjee. This is not true for Narendra Modi and the BJP. The Left might have one argument in favour of its strategy: it wants Banerjee to be defeated so that it can gloat over a pyrrhic victory. With the BJP in power, it perhaps believes that all anti-fascist forces will gravitate towards the Left parties. The Left parties are still licking the wounds inflicted by the TMC. But with the TMC gone, the Left is likely to get a more comprehensive beating from the Right. That is what history has taught us a number of times. The argument for a purely left anti-fascist movement is not very convincing either, since it has tied up with its bitter old enemy, the Congress, in an effort to boost its electoral tally. Indian politics is at a crossroads. We are looking at the concrete possibility of a political Opposition-free nation with serious erosions of civil liberties. The country has already slipped from being considered a free nation to being categorized as a partly-free nation for the first time in history. India’s economy continues to slip, as discontent and despair keep mounting and inequality gathers momentum. Yet, strangely, these issues are considered less important. The promise of a messiah, the return to a golden age and the vision of a strong nation remain the key ingredients that stoke the fire of hope in so many of our fellow citizens. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Sanitation workers of MGM hospital go on indefinite strike||All the 60 sanitation workers of the MGM Medical College Hospital on Thursday went on an indefinite strike protesting against the non-payment of regular salary as well as their yearly bonus. The workers were engaged on contract basis by a Ranchi-based outsourced agency, Shiva Protection Force. The protesters, who used to carry out their shifts from 6 am till 10 pm, did not turn up for their duty on Thursday, leaving the wards to remain in unhygienic conditions. Floors of the emergency ward were filled with medical waste and filth as a result. One of the workers Ravi Namta said that most of them hail from poor families and face difficulties when salaries are not paid to them. “We have not been paid last months’ salary till now. The contract agency's management maintains that they will pay the salary after their bill is passed by the hospital authority," said Namta while talking to this correspondent. MGM Medical College Hospital superintendent Sanjay Kumar said they were trying to resolve the issue. Significantly, about 100 nurses who are also on contract by the same agency have given an ultimatum to go on strike from Friday over the same issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Congress, BJP leaders spar over upcoming water scheme ||Former Dhanbad mayor and BJP state executive committee member, Chandrashekhar Agarwal on Thursday hit out at Congress leader Purnima Singh for performing Bhoomi Pujan of a water supply scheme last Sunday. Agarwal said that the laying of the foundation stone for the water supply scheme worth Rs 311 crore, meant for ensuring river Damodar water supply to more than 1 lakh households of Jharia, was already done by former chief minister Raghubar Das in 2019, when the BJP was in power in Jharkhand. The spar between the Congress and the BJP continues at a time when the scheme itself is yet to be initiated. Agarwal accused the JMM-Congress coalition government of causing unnecessary delay in implementation of the scheme, which is supposed to be completed in October this year. He said only one per cent of work has been done so far. Addressing a press conference, Agarwal said that the entire roadmap of the project was introduced by the erstwhile BJP government, but the new government derailed it first and now was taking credit for it. “The present government, soon after coming to power, tried to change the agency for  implementing the scheme from JMADA to Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company (JUIDCO) thereby causing the delay of more than an year,” he said. District Congress president  Brajendra Prasad Singh on wednesday had accused the BJP government of preparing the scheme in undue haste and laying the foundation stone in a hurry. Reacting to this, Agarwal said, “With due respect to Brajendra Prasad Singh, I would like to inform him that he has been provided wrong information about the scheme. It has been prepared after three rigorous surveys and studies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||AIIMS-Deoghar sets up OPD at a local health centre in temple town||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Deoghar has set up an out patient department (OPD) at a community health centre of the temple town to initially offer free medical consultations twice a week, officials of the district administration said. The OPD was inaugurated by Deoghar deputy commisioner Manjunath Bhajantri and AIIMS-Deoghar’s incumbent director Saurabh Varshney earlier this week (Tuesday) at Devipur community health centre (CHC).  “The OPD will initially function twice a week—Mondays and Fridays,” the deputy commissioner said in a statement issued by the district administration. The OPD will function from 10am to 2pm, a considerable boost to the district in its efforts to improve health services. The temple town Deoghar, which is home to renowned Babadham temple, is short of adequate healthcare facilities to cater to its vast population. As per district health department records, for a population of about 18 lakh, the district now has eight community health centres (CHCs), five primary health centre (PHCs), and 300 sub health centres, besides one sadar (district) hospital. “We are short of 10 CHCs compared to the population, but we are extending sub-health centres to fill the gap,” said an official, unwilling to be named, adding that the district currently has close to about 50 doctors on government rolls, which is also short by about half the total requirement. “In that respect, the start of OPD services by AIIMS, will be a boon for us,” he remarked. Bhajantri said that the AIIMS management was also working out plans on priority to start a permanent OPD at its upcoming campus in Devipur after which one can expect specialists from Delhi and other AIIMS centres to be available for consultations. AIIMS-Deoghar is currently operating from the Panchayat Training Institute in Deoghar. Work on a permanent campus is underway. Bhajantri said the permanent campus was expected to be ready by next year. In the 2017-18 Union budget, the Centre announced an AIIMS in Jharkhand. Later, the state government identified a 236.92-acre plot in Deoghar to set up the hospital. In May 2018, the Union cabinet approved funds to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore for the project after which Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone. AIIMS-Deoghar began inducting MBBS students since 2019. It admitted 50 students in the first batch and increased it to 62 last year. This year’s admissions are yet to get over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand chess veteran is new secretary of Players Forum ||In a huge boost for the chess fraternity of Jharkhand, International Master (IM) Neeraj Kumar Mishra has been elected as the secretary of Chess Players Forum (CPF). The Jamshedpur-based Mishra was elected at the first managing committee meeting of the freshly elected members of the CPF on Wednesday. IM Varugeese Koshy and Women Grandmaster Swati Ghate will continue as president and treasurer respectively of the Forum. Koshy is a retired employee of Tata Steel and has spent several years in Jamshedpur. He is presently located in Chennai. The CPF also elected Grandmaster Dibyendu Barua to continue as vice-present and Venkatachalam Saravanan as joint secretary. The managing committee has a term of three years, The Chess Players Forum was founded to lend a voice to the chess players of India for their own welfare, rights and duties. It is a democratic and transparent organisation to empower the players to shape their own destinies and make the game grow. The Forum aims to act as an intermediary between the chess players and the governing bodies of the game as well as the government of India. It also aims to make the authorities aware of various issues involving chess players. Mishra, who runs chess training centres in Jamshedpur and Ranchi, said he was happy to be elected as secretary of the CPF and would try to do his best to co-oordinate with other members for the welfare of players. "Well, I am glad to be elected. I'll try my best to raise the issue involving welfare of the chess players," Mishra, who also happens to be secretary of All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA), added. He is also a former coach of the Calcutta-based Debyundu Barua Chess Academy. The highly experienced mentor, who took ESS from Tata Steel, is presently conducting chess training online. He has an impressive number of trainees at his disposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||OPD services resume after govt promises to pay doctors' arrears ||OPD services resumed in all six medical colleges of Jharkhand on Thursday after state health minister Banna Gupta met a delegation of protesting senior resident doctors at his residence in Ranchi and assured it that the government would pay arrears of the Seventh Pay Commission in installments, the first of which would be disbursed by March-end. “The strike in all medical colleges have been officially called off after the meeting with the health minister today. The government has admitted that our demands were legitimate and assured us that our arrears would be paid in installments,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, convener of the Jharkhand Resident Doctors Association (JRDA). Around 800 junior and senior resident doctors across Jharkhand had boycotted OPD in all the medical colleges in the state as a mark of protest against the delay by the government in payment of their arrears due since 2016. Several patients were denied OPD services during the strike that started on March 9. There are around 400 senior resident doctors in Jharkhand with arrears worth Rs 50,000 to Rs 3 lakh depending on their service period since the implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission, members of the JRDA said. Gupta, who chaired the meeting on Thursday, said that the government was indebted to the doctors for their services during the Covid-19 pandemic and did not wish to see them unhappy. “We wish to see our doctors wear a smile on their faces when they are on duty. The government is committed to fulfill all their legitimate demands,” said the minister. A member of the JRDA said that chief minister Hemant Soren himself had asked the chief secretary, health secretary and finance secretary to look into the matter and address the issue. Many protesting doctors were adamant to get at least 50 per cent of their arrears paid in the first installment, but eventually agreed to accept whatever the government offered considering the poor condition of the state coffers, sources present at the meeting said. The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), which had on Wednesday written to the CM seeking his intervention. The junior resident doctors of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi had called off their strike on Wednesday evening after a meeting with state health secretary K.K. Soan. However, the senior resident doctors continued with their protest until they got direct assurances from the health minister himself on Thursday. OPD services in the six medical colleges – RIMS, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Hospital in Jamshedpur, SNMMCH in Dhanbad, Palamu Medical College, Hazaribag Medical College and Dumka Medical College – are run by the resident doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant joins Shivaratri festivities ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand researcher publishes unique book on fishes||In a unique step to help students and researchers, Vandana Srivastava, a Ph.D holder on systematic survey of different kinds of fishes in and around the state, has written a book on the fish fauna of the region -- the first of its type in the state. The book, titled Fish Fauna of North Chotanagpur Region, Jharkhand (Rs. 610), was released by Vice Chancellor of Vinoba Bhave University, Mukul Narayan Deo, who termed her work as ‘unique’. With no other document or research present in Jharkhand on the topic, Srivastava said her book can be used by students of any university and now she is sending a copy to several institutions. According to her, when she was completing her postgraduate course in Zoology, there was a huge part in the syllabus that focused on fishes but only one rare book was available to her and her batchmates. “The problem I had faced with 150 other students of my batch at that time inspired me to write a book on this subject. For 20 years, I kept researching on the fish fauna of seven districts under the North Chhotanagpur commissionerate, before coming up with my book,” the block program officer of Jharkhand Education Project told The Telegraph Online. The book contains all basic fundamental accounts of fishes of Jharkhand including their 57 species found in Hazaribagh, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Giridih and Chatra. It also has detailed accounts of every fish fauna including their scientific name, identification, life cycle, systematic position and economic importance, which are part of the syllabi running in Ichthyology, fish and fisheries at PG level under different universities. This book also includes content regarding various scopes of employment in the field of fish and fisheries so that students and researchers can go about with their careers. Srivastava said that she has also included various government schemes and policies to further help the readers. Recently, the department of fisheries sent details of fishes found in Jharkhand and officials took my help. Even the director of the state department talked to me and asked to include five more species in this book which will then cover the details of all the fishes found in the state,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant calls for probe into  attack on Mamata ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren expressed concern  and demanded a high-level investigation into  the purported attack on his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, who is currently hospitalised after sustaining multiple injuries, in Nandigram on Wednesday. Hemant tweeted, “Concerned & disturbed to know about the foot injury & hospitalisation of @MamataOfficial Didi during her election campaign in Nandigram. A high level investigation should be conducted to identify those behind this incident & punished. I wish her a speedy and healthy recovery.” An MRI done Wednesday night, revealed a crack on her left foot, and ligament and soft tissue injuries, as per  media reports. Mamata has alleged that a group of people slammed the door of an SUV on her while she was standing on its footboard  to greet people after visiting a local temple, hours after filing her nomination. Hemant is working president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which heads  coalition government along with Congress and RJD in Jharkhand. After an emphatic win in the 2019 assembly elections in the state and unseating BJP government, JMM too was looking at contesting  Bengal elections to expand its political footprints. However, in a sudden turn of events following a call from Mamata Banerjee last week seeking his support in her favour, JMM is now believed to be supporting Didi’s Trinamool Congress. Even though JMM is still to make an official announcement of its decision not to join the hustings in Bengal, party sources claimed that by not fielding any candidate in the first phase of elections that are scheduled on March 27, the JMM had indicated it's mind. Of the 30 seats that will go to polls on March 27, about half a dozen are seats reserved for scheduled tribe (ST), which the JMM was eyeing to put up candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over one lakh residents complete two-dose vaccination course||The count of Jharkhand residents who received both the jabs of Covishield vaccine crossed the 1 lakh mark on Wednesday as the state administered the second dose of the vaccine to 14,840 people on the day, taking the total count of those beneficiaries who have completed the double-dose-course of the vaccine in the state to 1,06,385, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per NHM data, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 3,92,027 people and over 1 lakh of them have got the second dose. The state has so far achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to registered healthcare and frontline workers. Around 74 per cent of the over 1.4 lakh beneficiaries registered for the second dose of the vaccine have got the jab. As many as 10,544 senior citizens and 2048 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As many as 1707 senior citizens were vaccinated in Ranchi, while 1830 senior citizens got the jab in Giridih. Over 700 senior citizens were administered the first jab of the vaccine in East Singhbhum on the day. As per government data, as many as 61,507 senior citizens have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand since the launch of the second phase of the immunisation programme on March 1. At least 8341 residents, above the age of 45 years and suffering from comorbid conditions, have been vaccinated. Senior citizens in Ranchi were most prompt in getting the first jab of the vaccine in Jharkhand. Of the over 61,000 senior citizens vaccinated so far, at least 9,099 were Ranchi residents. As many as 6265 senior citizens got the first jab of the vaccine in Bokaro, while East Singhbhum only managed to vaccinate over 3000 senior citizens. Meanwhile, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand crossed the 500 mark on Wednesday, as the state reported 62 Covid cases against only 36 recoveries, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Active cases of infection also crossed the 300 mark in Ranchi as the district alone accounted for 35 cases and 23 recoveries. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 305 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by Wednesday evening. As per government data, the over 1.2 lakh people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. At the current rate, it would take over 1900 days for the cases to double in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||All Jharkhand Students Union to try its luck in Bengal polls||All Jharkhand Students Union (Ajsu) is the only Jharkhand-based political party that has entered the Bengal poll fray so far with its candidate filing nomination for the Baghmundi Assembly seat in Purulia district. “Ashutosh Mahato, who filed his nomination papers yesterday (Tuesday), is our candidate there,” Ajsu spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said here, adding that the BJP left the seat to Ajsu, its NDA partner. Ajsu is likely to be the only political party from Jharkhand to try its luck in Bengal polls as the JMM did not field its candidates for the first phase of elections when most of the Jungle Mahal seats with formidable tribal concentration will go to polls. The JMM was earlier eyeing seats in Jungle Mahal, including seven reserved for the Scheduled Tribes, spread over the districts of Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapur, claiming that the party had considerable influence over the tribal voters there. “We’ll soon issue a statement clarifying our position,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said when asked if they had pulled out of Bengal polls. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, when asked about the JMM fielding candidates in Bengal, told reporters in New Delhi on Sunday that Mamata Banerjee had called him to seek his support, indicating that his party was likely to pull out to consolidate anti-BJP votes. “This is for the first time we are contesting this way,” Ajsu spokesperson Bhagat said about their contesting from the Baghmundi seat as an NDA constituent. The party had unsuccessfully contested from the seat earlier and its performance was very poor. Though Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato of the BJP, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, won the Purulia seat of which Baghmundi is a segment, the party’s candidate did not do well in Baghmundi in the 2016 Assembly polls. Congress’s Nepal Mahato has been winning the seat since 2001 when it was known as Jhalda Assembly constituency and the TMC candidate finished second in 2016. Besides, a section of BJP supporters did not like the fact that the party left the seat to Ajsu and two local leaders filed nomination papers as Independent candidates in protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rescued camel care in Jharkhand hits cash hurdle||Paucity of funds is impeding efforts to send camels rescued from smugglers back to Rajasthan at a time 10 of them have succumbed to injuries and old age within a span of two months in Jharkhand’s Pakur district. A total of 29 camels were seized from smugglers in two crackdowns earlier this year. Forest department officials seized 14 camels on January 11 and another 15 on February 3 while the animals were being crammed inside trucks to be smuggled to Bangladesh through Pakur. Both the seizures were done at the Gokulpur checkpost in Pakur. “We had arrested several persons and slapped cases under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. They were interstate gang members who had brought the camels from Rajasthan and were taking them through different states of northern India and through Pakur to Malda in Bengal so that they could be smuggled to Bangladesh for meat. Several of the rescued camels that were old and had some ailment died. A meeting of the district animal welfare committee has decided to hand over the surviving camels to an NGO in Rajasthan that looks after such rescued animals. But there will be a huge cost incurred on the transportation of the camels. We are waiting for funds,” said Pakur divisional forest officer Rajnish Kumar. Pakur deputy commissioner Kuldeep Choudhary said they had written to the animal husbandry department for grant of funds to transport the animals back to Rajasthan. “We had entrusted the district animal husbandry unit to look after the camels and ensure that they were vaccinated and quarantined for the requisite period. Their quarantine period is over and we are planning to shift them after completing all the required processes,” Choudhary added. However, sources in the forest department said it would cost not less than Rs 10 lakh to ferry all the 19 surviving camels back to Rajasthan. “They would have to be given proper space in a big truck and would have to be ferried with proper medicines and food items along with an escort of police team and the animal husbandry unit while being taken to Rajasthan. It would cost nearly Rs 10 lakh. We do not have that much fund and are waiting for government allocation. This is delaying the transport of the animals even though their quarantine period was over on February 26,” said a senior forest official preferring anonymity. The forest official said camels needed specialised health care, which was not available in Pakur. “We have to manage with a visiting veterinary doctor. But they require a specialised care, which is available in Rajasthan,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
