12-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal tourism dept launches book showcasing heritage bungalows of Darjeeling and Dooars||Heritage bungalows in the hills of north Bengal are replete with stories, stories of the second flush harvest, of the torrential rain wiping out all vestiges of roads, of wild elephant herds visiting well laid out gardens, of cocktail parties stretching into the little hours of the morning, of the majestic Kanchenjunga in clear moonlight and not to forget the resident bhoot in the burra bungalow. The word burra bungalows come from the term burra sahibs. In tea gardens the managers were referred to as burra sahib or the big boss by the workers. Documenting and photographing all this and more is a book Burra Bangalows of North Bengal: Glimpses of Built Heritage and Lifestyle of Tea Estate in North Bengal, published by Intach, Calcutta with support of West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation Limited. Covering 140 bungalows in Darjeeling and the Dooars and the Terai region, this book gives a glimpse of the sprawling residences of the burra sahibs, complete with pictures of the compounds, gardens, porticos, master bedrooms, living space, fireplaces, and even furniture. Along with the pictures are texts by members of the tea community, describing the planters’ lives. There is also a travel guide to north Bengal by the state tourism corporation which lists its tourist lodges and places to visit and also shares tips for the tourists. “We had done a book on burra bungalows of Assam a few years back. We have done a similar thing with north Bengal. Today, with space being at such a premium, it is important to document these bungalows because one never knows when they will disappear. In Assam, we photographed the only thatched burra bungalow existing. In north Bengal, we documented the bungalow of Makaibari which was devastated in a fire in 2017,” said G.M. Kapur, convener, Intach Calcutta. “The burra bungalows were more than homes, they were status statements,” said Nandini Chakravorty, principal secretary, tourism department, government of West Bengal. “It has been said that the planters were wedded to their tea estates and built bungalows that were of architectural and historical significance,” she added. The burra bungalows were typically single or double storied with a flower garden (Phool Bagan), and a vegetable garden (Maali Bari). Some also had swimming pools and tennis courts. Inside were spacious living rooms with fireplace. A bar was common to these bungalows. Bedrooms had attached washrooms (Gusalkhanas), which are spacious enough to accommodate a modern day flat. The washrooms were preceded by changing rooms. Guest rooms are also common, particularly if the bungalow was two-storied. They also had a Jaali Kamra (room with a net) as the sahib’s smoking area or leisure room complete with a billiard table. Photographer Nikhil Kapur, who has extensively shot at the locales, said: “North Bengal has over 500 tea gardens. After much research we were able to shortlist about 140. This was done keeping in mind the gardens that still had colonial bungalows with minimal and no modification and in fair condition. The tea community helped us out in this tremendously.” Reaching the burra bungalows was no mean feat. Most of them are in remote locations and roads are a 4x4 territory, said Nikhil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee vows to campaign in wheelchair||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday issued a video message from her hospital bed, urging “calm and restraint” from her supporters and vowing not to let the injuries disrupt her campaign even if it meant using a wheelchair. “I hope I will be able to return to the field in two-three days. But the problem in my leg will probably linger. But I will manage. I will not spoil any of my meetings. But I might have to use a wheelchair for a few days. I will request your cooperation,” Mamata said in the video clip tweeted by Trinamul. But it was not clear whether medical advice would allow Mamata to go ahead with her weekend campaign rallies in areas that would go to polls in the first phase on March 27. Some protests have been reported in the state after the chief minister was injured in Nandigram on Wednesday. “I would like to tell everybody, my brothers and sisters who form the masses, my brothers and sisters who are workers... it is true that I was hurt very badly yesterday, and I have injuries in my arms and legs, in a ligament. Yesterday, there was a lot of pain also in the head and the chest after such a serious injury,” Mamata said. In the 79-second video, the chief minister did not iterate the conspiracy allegation she had levelled on Wednesday. Neither did she blame anyone. A preliminary report from the district administration, including police, said a group of men from among the hundreds who were running behind the chief minister’s Scorpio had collided with a concrete pillar (meant to block heavy vehicles) on the road and fallen on the car’s fortified door, which slammed against Mamata. The early report of the administration partly corroborates Mamata’s description of the events although it does not go into the conspiracy theory. The initial report goes against a claim of the saffron ecosystem that her vehicle hit a pole and the door slammed into Mamata. The suggestion that a huge crowd was allowed to gather around the chief minister and that could be the trigger for the incident has raised the question whether policing was adequate when she was in Nandigram. The administration is technically under the Election Commission during the poll process although the panel has contested such suggestions. The chief minister said in the video: “I was standing on the footboard of the car, offering namaskar, when such a forceful pressure came that the car pressed against my leg. In that situation, whatever medicines I was carrying, I had them… rushed towards Calcutta. Since then, I have been under treatment.” From her bed in the Woodburn Ward of SSKM, Mamata continued: “I request everybody to stay calm and restrained, stay well. Do not do anything that inconveniences the people.” The chief minister concluded by hinting that she might have to use a wheelchair for a few days. Trinamul sources said Mamata’s tour programme for the Jungle Mahal areas this weekend might be changed. But organisers elsewhere had been instructed to put in place ramps and other provisions necessary to make the venues wheelchair-friendly. Before the injuries, Mamata was scheduled to visit Purulia on Saturday and hold three rallies in the Jhalda, Jaypur and Balarampur Assembly constituencies. On Sunday, she was supposed to visit Bankura for rallies in Saltora, Chhatna and Raipur. On Monday, two rallies have been lined up in Jhargram and Gopiballabhpur. Officially, the programmes stood unchanged till Thursday evening but party sources said the events might be cancelled if medical advice suggested such a precaution. Leaders in the Jungle Mahal districts of Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram have been asked to construct ramps at all the eight venues. On an eventful day when all stakeholders in Bengal politics tried to assess the possible impact of the Nandigram incident on the Assembly elections, Trinamul uploaded a tweet urging calm before Mamata’s video message was shared on social media. “We appeal to all our workers to not let their emotions overflow. We understand your concerns and we’ll keep updating about Hon’ble @MamataOfficial’s health. We request to maintain peace and not resort to means which Didi would not approve of. Let us all pray for her speedy recovery,” read the Trinamul tweet. A senior cabinet colleague of Mamata said the appeals were necessitated by reports of protests, some of which appeared aggressive, and inputs on plans being made at various levels of the party in the districts to conduct more agitations over the next couple of days. “That is why the party’s leadership met in the evening and took ownership of the protests — ensuring they would be peaceful — and formalised plans to ensure discipline,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee suffers hairline fracture||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has suffered a hairline fracture above her left heel, doctors who have gone through several images of her injured leg at SSKM Hospital said on Thursday. A temporary plaster has been applied to the area because the foot is still swollen. The chief minister has been advised to ensure her left foot takes as little of her body weight as possible to help faster healing. Mamata is said to have asked the medical team treating her to let her leave by Friday. If she is discharged on Friday, Mamata will have to confine herself to a wheelchair, a doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Probe into two north Bengal deaths after taking jabs||Two persons from Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri who were administered the first dose of Covishield on Monday have passed away though there is no evidence yet to suggest that the deaths were related to the vaccine. The state health department has started an investigation into the cause of deaths. A preliminary probe suggests that “vaccination is unlikely to be responsible for such sudden deaths”, said the state’s director of health services, Ajay Chakraborty. “There were pre-existing cardiac diseases in both the persons, which frequently causes sudden death in this age group. However, since both the persons were vaccinated against Covid prior to the onset of symptoms we need final confirmation and causality analysis,” he said. Parul Dutta, 75, from Darjeeling, had received her first dose around 3.30pm on Monday. Dutta went home without any complaints. “She came back to the health centre around 6pm with bouts of diarrhoea and uneasiness. She was referred to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital at 7.30pm,” Chakraborty said. “She passed away at 9.30pm.” Chakraborty said that the woman was under treatment for “atrial fibrillation for quite long time”. A doctor with a state government hospital said atrial fibrillation meant that the beating of the heart was faster than usual. Such a condition can disrupt the normal functioning of the heart. The second person who died, Krishna Dutta, 65, of Jalpaiguri, received the first dose around 10.50am on Monday and went back without any complaints. “He had vomited at 4.30pm. Around 5am on Tuesday, he developed sudden breathlessness. He passed away in his home within half and hour, before getting medical assistance,” Chakraborty said. “He suffered from multiple cardiac problems, including cardiomegaly and cardiac muscle fibrosis, suggestive of old infarction,” he said. Cardiomegaly is a condition where the muscle of the heart gets thicker and the chamber inside gets narrower. Cardiac muscle fibrosis is damage of the cardiac muscles. The doctor with the state government hospital said that both the conditions can disrupt the normal functioning of the heart and can cause death. The man also had hypertension — high blood pressure — for last five or six years, Chakraborty said. Both of them had received the Covishield vaccine, which has been developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India. The state health department has referred both cases to a causality assessment committee that was already in place for Covid-19 vaccination and other routine immunisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Farmers and Bengal fighting same 'fascist' enemy: Punjab kisan leaders ||A group of farmer leaders from Punjab on Thursday recalled the shared history of resistance between Punjab and Bengal during the Independence movement and said the present political scene demanded a similar response. The farmers’ movement for the repeal of the three new farm laws and the Assembly elections in Bengal are both fights against the same “fascist force”, they said. “The battle must be fought hand in hand. Bengal and Punjab fought together during our Independence struggle,” said Raminder Singh Patiala, member of the legal cell of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is spearheading the protests at Delhi’s borders. Patiala, the member of the legal cell of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said: “Rashbehari Bose had suggested to Ghadar party members how to plan their activities when the party was a fledgling one. He had particularly helped Kartar Singh Sarabha plan underground activities against the British.” He added: “We are in a similar situation again. You have your election here in Bengal where the BJP is trying to wrest power, while the farmers of Punjab have been protesting against the farm laws.” Patiala was speaking at a convention organised by Bengal Against Fascist RSS-BJP, an association of citizens who are urging people to oppose the BJP. Several farmer leaders addressed a nearly packed Bharat Sabha Hall at the Indian Association building in Bowbazar. Patiala also referred to Jatin Das’s association with Bhagat Singh, fellow comrades in the Hindustan Socialist Republican Army, to stress the Bengal-Punjab alliance. Das, who died in Lahore jail in 1929 after a 63-day hunger strike in protest against prison conditions, is still a revered figure in Punjab, Patiala said. “Who suffered more than Punjab and Bengal during the Partition?” he said, drawing another historical link. “The people of these two states know the consequences of a communally polarised society. So we should never allow the BJP a foothold in Bengal.” The mainly young audience kept breaking into applause, particularly when the speakers rebutted the BJP’s criticism of the farmers’ agitation. A BJP defeat in Bengal will help debunk government supporters’ claim that the farmers’ movement is restricted to Punjab and Haryana, several of the speakers said. “It will mean that Bengal’s farmers too have rejected the farm laws. It will mount pressure on the Centre to listen to the protesting farmers,” one of the speakers said. “A BJP victory will allow the party to go around the country and project the election as a referendum on the farm laws that went in its favour.” Harnek Singh Mehma, a farmer leader, said: “There has been so much propaganda against us. The BJP and the RSS are saying that farmers from Punjab and Haryana alone are protesting. If the BJP is defeated, we can say Bengal’s farmers have rejected the BJP too.” He added: “In any case, we will win our fight against the Centre. They have to repeal the three farm laws eventually. But a defeat for them in Bengal will bolster our claim that farmers across the country are angry with the BJP. They have already done miserably in the recent urban body polls in Punjab.” The farmer leaders who spoke at Thursday’s convention had participated in Wednesday’s march in the city, organised with the call “No Vote to BJP”. On Thursday, Patiala said the organisers should change the slogan to “Defeat the BJP”. The farmer leaders cautioned the audience that the BJP would use every resource it has to try and win Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||PM, kindly inaugurate Dr BC Roy institute for IIT: Ex-professor ||Ajay Kumar Roy, former head of the school of medical science and research, IIT Kharagpur, wrote to Metro about the birth of Dr B.C. Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, a super specialty hospital that has now been renamed after Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder of the Jana Sangh, who had nothing to do with either medicine or IIT. Roy, who had retired as a professor of electronics and electrical communications engineering at IIT, was one of the signatories to the letter that the IIT Kharagpur alumni had written to the Prime Minister last month, requesting him not to inaugurate the hospital that has been renamed on the occasion of IIT’s convocation on February 23. While the inauguration was put off, the renaming has been formalised by the institute surreptitiously last week.  IIT Kharagpur, the first IIT in India, started its journey on Aug 18, 1951 with eminent academician and scientist Sir JC Ghosh as the first director and Dr B.C. Roy, the legendary doctor and chief minister of West Bengal, as the first chairman, board of governors of IIT Kharagpur. At the dawn of 21st century in 2000-2001, IIT Kharagpur was celebrating its golden jubilee year and as a part of that celebration decided to start a new school “School of Medical Science and Technology” at IIT Kharagpur. Prof. Amitabha Ghosh, the then director, took special interest in initiating this school — the only one of it’s kind in India. The idea behind starting this school was to initiate multi-disciplinary research in medical and engineering sciences and technologies. The school, right from its initiation, received support from eminent space and defense scientist Dr A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, the then scientific advisor to the Prime Minister, the director general, ICMR and many eminent physicians across the country. IIT Kharagpur started offering a three-year interdisciplinary course “Master of Medical Science and Technology” specially designed for doctors with MBBS, MS or MD degrees. The course is aimed at providing basic ideas of electronics and communication technology, computer science and engineering, mechanical engineering, medical physics, material science, mathematical tools in medicine and so on. One of the major problems that the institute was suffering from, and is still suffering from, was the absence of any worthwhile good hospital on the IIT Kharagpur campus or even in the whole of Kharagpur subdivision. We, the IITians have lost many of our colleagues — teaching and non-teaching staff — and also students because of the non-availability of any good healthcare facilities. A 21-year-old student of IIT Kharagpur had died in March 2009 after he fell off a rickshaw, prompting charges of medical negligence at the campus hospital and triggering a students’ protest that forced the director of the institute to resign. Rohit Kumar, a third-year electrical engineering student, was playing basketball outside his Lala Lajpat Rai hostel in the morning. His death a few hours later stunned the campus, and shock soon snowballed into outrage. A violent protest engulfed the residence of then director Damodar Acharya, who resigned in the evening of March 21, and the medical officer of the hospital was suspended We then had a small healthcare facility, which still exists today, known as B.C. Roy Technology Hospital. This hospital does not have any major surgical facility or major radiological imaging facilities like MRI, CT etc. From the School of Medical Science and Technology  (SMST) our students and researchers felt that the absence of an excellent multi-specialist research hospital was a major hurdle to carry out major research projects. The specialist research hospital could at the same time meet the requirement of proper health care facility. In late 2006, we wrote to our President Dr A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, who always used to take interest in the development of the school. He expressed his desire to see the facilities at School of Medical Science and Technology (SMST) and the research, which was going on. In 2006, we strongly felt the immediate requirement of setting up a research hospital with diverse disciplines including cardiology and cardiac surgery, neurology and neuro surgery, endocrinology, oncology and so on. We also had an idea of starting a major area on traditional medicine including Ayurvedic, homeopathy and so on. We, the students, teachers and our former director Prof. S K Dube decided to name this major multi-disciplinary research hospital and research centre in the name of Dr B.C. Roy who was one of the founders of the first IIT at Kharagpur and who remained as the chairman, board of governors of IIT Kharagpur till the last day of his life. When we proposed this name to Dr Kalam, he was extremely happy. We requested him to lay the foundation stone of this research hospital and research institute and he immediately agreed to lay the foundation stone on May 17, 2007. As President of India, possibly this was his last foundation stone laying function Dr Kalam, in his address to the teachers, students, researchers and many distinguished persons from the entire state had said: “I am very happy that this multi-specialty research centre is named after the great personality of India, Dr B.C. Roy, who was a freedom fighter and a professional doctor….I am sure that his name will be ringing in the ears of our teachers and students so that they follow his ideals of service towards mankind.” Later on Dr Kalam wanted to know the progress of Dr B.C. Roy Medical Research Institute from time to time. Even as I had joined Bengal Engineering and Science University (BESU) Shibpur as the vice-chancellor in 2009 and continued as director of IIEST (BESU was elevated to Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology in 2014) till 2018, I kept myself abreast about the development of the project. It’s great to witness the completion of this unique medical research institute, which is a boon to many patients suffering from major illnesses and also to hundreds of researchers, not only from IIT Kharagpur but also from the institutes across the country. However, just before the inauguration of this institution, to our utter shock, we came to know that the name has been suddenly changed to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. (On February 12 night, IIT Kharagpur director V.K. Tewari had made a Facebook post on the upcoming convocation on February 23: “The Prime Minister will also inaugurate (virtually) Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, IIT Kharagpur.”) To thousands of our alumni, professors, both present and past, students, this was an inappropriate decision. It would be incongruous to rename the facility, given the role Dr B.C. Roy had played in shaping this IIT. The hospital was named after B.C. Roy because of his contributions to the field of medical science. We are dismayed to find that the name of the hospital has been changed to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, inconsistent with the origins of the institute and sentiments expressed by the respected former president of India, dedicating the institute in memory of a great visionary of modern Bengal. We urge our Hon’ble Prime Minister to kindly restore the original name and inaugurate Dr B.C. Roy Medical Research Institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||The lockdown effect: special kids turn more dependent ||The 11-month stay at home has made many children and individuals with special needs more “dependent” on people around them and in some cases their “learning” has suffered, said psychologists and special educators working with them. Some of the centres are gradually reopening for shorter hours and for individualised therapies and the discomfort of children who had been settled in the home environment is apparent. Both psychologists and parents said a school or centre trains them in “following a routine” or learning to tolerate discomfort which has suffered a setback during this stay-home period because of the pandemic. “In school or centres, children or individuals with special needs are under constant guidance. We feel that we are now having to restart again because a lot of unlearning of life skills have taken place during this period,” said Sudeshna Chowdhury, principal of Bhabna Child Development Centre that caters to individuals with autism and intellectual disabilities. Chowdhury said that there has been a change in the toilet training, sitting and eating habits. “Even those who are non verbal would show through signs that they need to to go the washroom but now they need support. Also, since their sitting habits have suffered, it is becoming difficult to do activity-based therapy with them,” she said. A teacher said the children have become restless. Parents are also facing resistance from individuals to go to centres even if it is for reduced hours. “My son has to go for two hours in the afternoon but that was a time when he would relax at home and after the first couple of days he has been resisting going to the centre,” said a father whose son has autism. Psychologists have not just noticed changes in their individual habits but also in their attitude. “We are noticing that the individuals have become more dependent on their parents or guardians around them and they are unable to think on their own. There is a lack of drive,” said Ishita Sanyal, psychologist and founder of NGO Turning Point. Sanyal said since they have reopened for reduced hours parents prefer to wait and take the individuals back with them. “While we are doing activities with them we see that many of them are looking at their parents’ who are waiting in the balcony for help or prompting even for simple activities,” said Sanyal. Not all schools or centres have reopened yet. Some of the schools or centres that have opened are providing individual therapies or are doing so on the request of parents. “Once all schools open and for longer duration it will be a testing time for parents and challenge to get them adjusted to a routine that was there before the pandemic,” said Soumen Upadhyay, the general secretary of Parivaar Bengal, a state parents’ federation. For schools or centres that are yet to reopen but are conducting online sessions, are also noticing a change in the children with special needs and an increase in “restlessness” during the online classes. “There is a kind of unlearning that has happened in certain areas. This is a loss. The entire workload is on parents and schools are giving guidance to them. It is difficult to do certain therapies like speech, occupational therapy in the online mode,” said Sudakshina Sinha, the co-ordinator of Ahead that caters to individuals from the age group of three. The centres which have opened are focusing on speech and occupational therapy and training them in activities of daily living. “For those in early intervention group the social skills and activities of daily living like maintaining their hygiene, combing, toilet training has been hampered. It has happened more who have moved into a comfort zone and in many cases the parents are not trained to give them proper directions. Our focus is to get them back into a routine and are able to follow instructions,” said Siddhartha Sankar Mulhopadhyay, the founder secretary of Kalyani Life Institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||New Koilaghat building fire: Cops try to reconstruct fire sequence||A team of Calcutta police officers probing the fire at New Koilaghat building tried to reconstruct the sequence of events that led to the death of nine persons inside two lifts on Monday night. A team of police officers visited the building on Thursday along with officials from the fire department, Eastern Railway and the state forensic science laboratory. The team asked the fire department officials to earmark where the building fire safety devices should have been in place and also asked the fire and railway officials to explain the circumstances under which the incident happened. The fire on the night of March 8 killed nine persons, including four firefighters, four railway employees and one police officer, in two separate elevators. At least one of the teams was purportedly heading towards the 13th floor to control the fire. “We have asked the fire department officials to explain why the firemen had taken the elevator instead of the staircase when the building was on fire. The fire (department) officials have explained the sequence of events and also the problems they faced in absence of any floor map,” said a police officer. Sources in the fire department said in absence of a floor map to guide them to the staircase, there was an apparent “initial confusion to locate the staircase” after which members of the fire fighting team decided to take the lift instead of wasting more time to locate the staircase. “They (fire fighters) had two options — either to wait for a competent railway authority to come with a floor plan or to risk their lives and move without wasting any more time. It is also apparent that the RPF personnel who were accompanying the fire fighting team did not have the training to act in such a fire exigency,” said a senior official of the fire department. The 14-storied building has four elevators and two staircases. Seven persons had taken one of the two elevators and were found charred on the 13th floor, while a railway officer and a staff were found dead inside another elevator also on the 13th floor. Police said, they also sought details of the officials in the railways who were entrusted with the safety and security measures of the building that houses several offices of the Eastern Railway. “We have sought the recommendations of fire-safety devices made by the fire department that should be in place in a building like this. The recommendations will be matched with the existing facilities,” said an officer. Sources in the forensic department said they would examine the nature of the control panel in the elevators and if there was provision to stop them in between two floors. Police officers said they were trying to conduct the probe in the floors other than the 12th and 13th floors first to ensure that work in the lower floors could be resumed as early as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Online classes bring moms back to books||Women from less-privileged families who had to forego their studies are now using texts and videos sent by schools of their children to resume studies, at least three school heads have said. Most of these women from low-income group are homemakers or into tailoring work to supplement the family income. Some have studied till Madhyamik in vernacular schools but aspire to provide their children with an English medium education. The children of most of these women are in primary classes and they have been learning “simple mathematics and English words and phrases” from online classes of their children. Some of these women have communicated to teachers how these online classes have helped them. Online classes have various limitations but the silver lining is the enthusiasm of these women and that they are getting empowered, a principal said. “Many of the women have not been able to receive proper education… but the online classes are providing them with an opportunity to have some sort of structured learning, however, rudimentary or unintentional by the school,” said a principal of a city school. “Some of these women are getting access to education that had otherwise been denied to them and they now help their children record their responses and take an active interest in the work sent by the school,” the principal said. Schools have been sending videos to the children and parents can refer to them as well. “The videos are a ready reference,” Angela Ghose, acting principal, Scottish Church Collegiate School, second campus (Kestopur), said. “Parents can watch them at their convenience,” she said. The school now has students in pre-primary up to Class II. Some of these women have told teachers how they have been picking up English, Ghose said. “I give them instructions in English and the women are asked to repeat them to their children in English. It helps both the mother and the child to learn spoken English.” Initially, the women wanted specific answers to questions. “They are used to rote learning. But I told them that we will not give them answers like that. They have to practice by speaking to their children,” she said. Despite the vernacular background of some parents, teachers have been asked to send notices in English. Parents have been told to speak to teachers if they can’t understand something, Ghose said. Ghose said the mothers are also picking up table manners and etiquette lessons from the videos that the school is sending them and are teaching their children as well. A few school heads felt many parents were taking more interest in the education of their children. Shahani Begum said she had been attending online classes with her son who is in Nursery. “I completed Madhyamik from a Hindi medium school but I wanted my son to study in an English medium school. The online classes have helped me, too…. I have been learning.” “Many parents have told me they are attending online classes and learning. Some of them had to quit studies… and some are from vernacular schools,” Father Devraj Fernandes, principal, St Aloysius Orphange and Day School in Howrah, said. “Hence, the English medium and a structured education are helping them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Video learning app for Bengali medium kids||Students of state board schools in Bengal now have an app to access topics from their text books through video recordings and storytelling sessions by teachers that would make learning “easy and enjoyable”. “Tutopia learning App”, specially designed for students of classes VIII, IX and X of Bengali medium schools affiliated to the state board, was launched on Thursday. The content for students appearing in Madhyamik this year is available now and that for students of VIII, IX and X will be available from March 15. “The app will cater to all subjects and for each topic in a particular subject, there will be a well-animated video. There will also be chapter-wise notes that students can download or take printouts of. Students can also take a test,” said Subrata Roy, director, Tutopia Pvt Limited. Roy said because of the pandemic, there has been a switch from on-campus classes to online classes across homes and that had given them the opportunity to cater to specific learning needs. “This will be a new-age learning tool for the Bengali medium students (both in the city and in the districts). We have put in hundreds of hours to understand the students’ learning needs by mapping their goals, strengths, weaknesses and interests in order to get the best out of them,” Roy said. He said that even in urban poor homes, parents are trying to cater to the learning needs of their children by buying smartphones. The app, developed by Roy along with partners Gaurav Dugar and Anurag Chirimar, can be downloaded from Google Play Store and Apple App Store. On board are teachers who are adept in developing course materials using animation, graphical representation and info graphics. “The tutoring programs are structured in a modern user-friendly storytelling manner that help the students to easily ‘relate and remember’, reducing the burden of cramming through rote,” said Anurag Chirimar, one of the directors. “The curriculum has been designed keeping in mind the guidelines of the state board.” The students appearing for Madhyamik this year will not be charged any fee and can access the content for free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Clinic uses virtual reality support to treat phobia||You are standing on a plank protruding from the 20th floor of a building. You are being asked to walk up right to the edge. But you are scared to look down to the street far below. But you feel sick, your head swims. You are allowed to slowly step back inside. The session is over for the day. The experience of facing one’s fear is real but the circumstances are simulated as it all happens in the confines of a doctor’s chamber. A clinic has opened in DD Block to address a variety of mental health issues. There are psychologists, psychiatrists, therapists and special educators, and assisting them is technology-aided simulation of stress-inducing circumstances using virtual reality (VR). Inaugurated by actress Ritabhari Chakraborty, Sahayta Clinic is on the second and third floors of the building that also houses Suraksha Diagnostics. “This clinic will address issues of depression, anxiety and stress which have increased today. We want to provide mental healthcare like any other healthcare treatment and the stigma has to reduce among people to reach out for help,” said psychiatrist Syed Naiyer Ali, who, along with colleagues Tathagata Chatterjee and Debasish Sanyal, has founded the clinic. The centre claims to be the first of its kind in eastern India to use VR for treatment. Through this, patients would be subject to virtual environments where they can overcome their phobias or situations of distress. The virtual environments have been engineered through panoramic images and videos and will give patients life-like sensations. At the inauguration, a VR module for patients of acrophobia (fear of heights), was demonstrated. A volunteer was asked to don VR goggles and then look down. He was virtually standing on the second floor of a building. The man was then virtually taken to the 20th floor and asked to look down. When he confessed to feeling nauseous, he was taken back to the second floor so as to not rush things. The technology allows the doctor to move the patient to the middle or edge of a plank protruding from these buildings, thereby customising treatment. The technology has been procured from Barcelona and has around 15 modules to help patients overcome issues like acrophobia, agoraphobia (being in situations where escape might be difficult), claustrophobia, anxiety, depression etc. The modules for treating agoraphobia include environments in a crowded street like Times Square in New York, whereas the ones for treating claustrophobia include getting stuck in a lift or a closet. “VR treatment for mental health is at a nascent stage and doctors have teamed up with engineers to build modules to treat patients. Currently 10 organisations are working on this technology, which has been in commercial use for three years at most, in North America and some European countries,” said Chatterjee, the managing director of Sahayta Clinic. The clinic also provides counselling to corporates, married couples, children, adolescents along with geriatric and career counselling. Ritabhari lauded the effort. “People shouldn’t hesitate to seek mental help if they feel the need for it. Many also think mental healthcare is expensive but that is a myth. We should reach out to professionals rather than suffer in silence,” said the actress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Car accident in GD Block||The president of GD Block residents’ association was injured after he got hit by a vehicle on one of the block roads. Dilip Das is admitted to a private hospital off the Broadway, opposite the Salt Lake stadium. According to a resident of the block, Das was crossing the road when the vehicle driven by another resident hit him. Kumar Shankar Sadhu, the secretary of the block, said that the driver of the vehicle who owns the car took him to the hospital to get him admitted. On Wednesday, several residents of the block went to the Bidhannagar South police station and asked the police to take stern action against the driver. “We are scanning the CCTV footage and it seems the driver had very less time to react,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Book fair at Ultadanga||There was no Calcutta International Book Fair in Central Park this winter, but spring is making up for the loss. Even as the New Town Book Fair was drawing to a close, another book fair started next door. Bidhan Boi Mela was inaugurated last Friday at Bidhan Sishu Udyan in Ultadanga, next to Police Abasan. There are 41 stalls, all selling books, including the likes of Ananda Publishers, Dey’s Publishing, Patra Bharati and Deep Prakashani. “This is the first time we are holding the fair in a big way. In 2018, we had held a three-day event with just a single stall from the guild,” said Gautam Talukdar, secretary, Bidhan Sishu Udyan. It was an appeal from him to the joint organisers, Publishers and Booksellers Guild, on stage during the inauguration that has resulted in a 20 per cent discount on all sales. Visitors buying books over Rs 1000 will also get a folder as gift from the Udyan authorities. The fair is on till March 14, and is open from 2pm to 9pm. “There is no other city in India with so many booklovers. We have 24 lakh people visiting and sales worth Rs 22-24 crore at the Book Fair. In the run-up to that fair, which has been postponed to July this year because of the pandemic, we are holding smaller book fairs across the city. The one in Jodhpur Park in February was a success. So now we are here,”  said Tridib Chatterjee, president of the guild. The inauguration was attended by two literary greats who stay in neighbouring Salt Lake — theatre personality Manoj Mitra and poet Joy Goswami. Poet Sankha Ghosh who stays close to the venue had been invited too but could not make it due to advanced age. “During the lockdown period, we could not open bookshops. But when people started asking us for books, we made deliveries on bikes and cycles. So many people spent the lockdown period reading books,” said guild general secretary Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey. Talukdar recalled how Atulya Ghosh, the founder of the Sishu Udyan, had left instructions that only books be given as prize. “He had a great personal collection in his Karbala Road house which even Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru had gone to see. Till now, we stick to the tradition of giving books as prizes to our little members,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Science fiction in epics, Sukumar & beyond||What is common to the Puranas, The Ramayana and The Mahabharata one hand and recent Hollywood films like Interstellar and Inception on the other? Both, it was pointed out in course of a panel discussion, are works of science fiction. Science fiction had its beginning in ancient Syria and Indian literature has a rich legacy in the genre too. On March 5, New Town Book Fair hosted an event where authors Souvik Das and Partha De discussed the future of adult science fiction in Bengali literature with Deep Ghosh, a publisher and editor of Kalpabiswa, a Bengali science fiction magazine, and Arunava Gangopadhyay, who has made Kolpobignan, a documentary film on the subject. Riju Ganguly, who has translated many works of science fiction from English to Bengali, was the moderator. Das disagreed with the perception that science fiction only predicted doom. “Our epics are my favourite works of science fiction and they are quite utopian.” He cited the love story of Balaram and Revathi in the Puranas. “It talks about the parallel existence of two different space-time relationships. The same concept has been used in Interstellar and Inception.” He also spoke about the interpretation of Creator god Brahma’s four heads. “They represent the four most abundant elements behind Creation -- oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and nitrogen. The fifth head of Brahma is hidden. That represents soul which is the essence of Creation.” De’s interpretation ran contrary to Das’s view. “Adult science fiction is a realistic speculation about dystopic future events, based solidly on adequate knowledge of the real world, past and present. It warns the reader about some impending disaster,” De said. Ghosh said a good work of science fiction had to be one where readers could relate their present situation as leading to the dystopia at the centre of the story. He expressed concern about the challenges faced by the genre in Bengali literature, referring to the apathy of popular Bengali magazines towards science fiction. De felt Bengali readers had drifted more towards fantasy and horror stories over the last decade. However, Gangopadhyay said he was optimistic about the future of the genre. “When I spoke to readers across age groups during the filming of my documentary, they showed keen interest in good content,” he pointed out. Das reminded the audience that the future would be a continuum of the rich heritage of sci-fi writers in Bengali, including Sukumar Ray, whose Heshoram Hnushiyarer Diary (Diary of Heshoram Hnushiyar) was a parodic take on Arthur Conan Doyle’s The Lost World and Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose, whose Palatak Tufan (Runaway Cyclone) uniquely brought together sci-fi and satire. Alluding to Woman’s Day coming up three days later, Das also paid homage to Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain as the first woman writer of science fiction in India whose story Sultanar Swapno (Dream of Sultana) challenged the archetypal representation of men in society as macho. Though differing on several counts, the speakers agreed that science fiction was difficult to define as there was no easily demarcated limits to science fiction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Bankim link to crisp Ray dialogues’||Satyajit Roy’s crisp dialogues were influenced by Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay’s writing style. “Bankim liked short conversations, terse responses. He found a technique by which the respondent did not repeat the information in the question,” said Ujjal Chakraborty in course of his talk on Ray at the New Town Book Fair on March 2. Chakraborty, who worked with Ray at the children’s magazine Sandesh and received tips in illustration from him, gave examples from novels of both to show their minimalist approach to the spoken word. “This helped speed up pace of the events,” he said. He also pointed to the presence of witnesses to every key event in a Ray film. “Without an observer there is no emotion in the scene. It may even appear staged. It is the observer who creates the reality,” said the author of The Director’s Mind and other books on Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Actor hid behind role, poet wanted voice to be heard’||An artiste who hid behind his characters, an indomitable spirit and one who sought the ultimate connect - that was Soumitra Chatterjee to theatre actor Debshankar Haldar. The latter was speaking about his senior colleague and inspiration at a tribute organised at the seventh New Town Book Fair on March 3. The two versatile actors had shared stage and screen space on a number of occasions including Phera, a play directed by Chatterjee’s daughter Poulomi Bose, that completed 100 shows in 2019. Haldar spoke of the Chatterjee he knew ‑ a tireless actor and poet who,  despite being into his 80s, would teach and share experiences with even the junior-most artistes backstage and in between shots. “His knowledge was as rich and varied as his book shelves,” said the actor at the New Town fair ground, behind which stood Snehodiya, the senior citizens’ home whose brand ambassador was Chatterjee himself. The anecdotes that Haldar shared were mostly about the aging Chatterjee who would never let his bad back and knees deter him. “We have worked in several films together, but with Phera we shared stage space for the first time. Chatterjee was then over 80. Before that we had played the same part in many plays but never together,” said Haldar, who is currently essaying the role of Ashwatthama in Bose’s play Andha Yug, which had  earlier been played by Chatterjee. “I learnt a lot from him in happiness, sadness, during crisis and also in the green room where our clothes would often hang together. Just as his costumes would touch ours as they hung together from the same string, Soumitra da would always manage to touch our lives in every situation,” said Haldar. What he remembered the most was Chatterjee’s resilience even when Phera - based on Friedrich Durandmand’s The Visit ‑ crossed its century mark. “It was no mean feat for an 85-year-old to travel to different venues and project the same energy for so many days. But he would keep trying to form a special connection both with his audience and his co-workers,” added Haldar. connection that Chatterjee sought with the audience had the depth of “a blind man’s touch”.  Even when he had to portray a complex character with myriad shades, Chatterjee did not believe in exaggerated gestures, loud pitch and mannerisms. Subtlety was his trump card. “Which words do we utter from the innermost core of our hearts?” Chatterjee had once asked Haldar during a conversation. “I was left flummoxed. I wanted to pass the test but was not sure what to say,” laughed Haldar. The answer was “Ma” and “I love you”. “Soumitrada told me how both ‘Ma’ and ‘I love you’ usually come out muffled though the speaker may be feeling a whirlwind of emotions inside. Likewise, the best connect on stage is often achieved through silence and subtlety. A good actor needs to know how much to reveal and when to let the audience draw their own inferences. This was an important lesson that I learnt from him,” said Haldar. While Chatterjee the actor was subtle and liked to hide behind his characters, Chatterjee the poet wanted his voice heard. His favourite critic, at one point, was poet Shakti Chattopadhyay. “During their youth, the two would often carry their poetry in their pockets, sometimes comparing notes right in the middle of a busy Esplanade. Shakti Chattopadhyay was mild in his criticism but he did help Soumitrada find his own voice,” said Haldar. Chatterjee knew how to use different genres of art to their advantage. “As he aged, he felt more conscious of his duties and responsibilities as an artiste. He was always ready to break shackles. And, he focused only on the art, never letting audience reaction bog him down,” he summed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Roads being repaired, but method in question||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has finally started repairing the potholed roads of Salt Lake but their archaic road-laying methods have got both residents and engineers of other government agencies worried about their quality and longevity as well as a spike in the air pollution. Potholes dot all major roads of the township. Some are in worse state than others. The civic body however is mostly relying on patchwork — a layer of bitumen that is laid over craters — as a quick-fix solution. To add to this, smoke-belching machines, fed on coal, are in action in multiple blocks including DL and FD blocks, to heat up liquid bitumen and in the process, are choking residents and passers-by. The Telegraph Salt Lake had reported in 2019 how similar smoke-spewing machines were causing breathing problems for residents of a block in Sector III. Two years down the line, the civic body has seemingly learnt no lessons and its contractors are still using this polluting method to heat up the mix. Paritosh Ganguly, a septugenerian who stays in DL Block, said that although he was happy that the civic body had finally repaired several cratered roads in his block, he had to spend sleepless nights due to the overwhelming odour of the acrid smoke that somehow managed to enter his home even though he had shut all windows and doors. “The workers took two days to repair the stretch in front of my house. My balcony is entirely covered in soot. I suffer from asthma and the smoke that was emitted by the heating machines made life miserable,” said Ganguly. Residents on the service road flanking FD Block near the Netaji statue are keeping doors and windows shut all day as a bitumen melter is parked in front of FD 462, with jet black smoke rising up even to the third floor. “What can we do? At least the road is finally being repaired,” said a man who refused to give his name. A senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said that they had started repairs of roads inside blocks like FD, FE, AC, ED among others. According to him, once the block roads are repaired the main roads, including stretches of the Broadway, will be repaired as well. Roads in other parts under the jurisdiction of the Corporation, including Baguiati, Kestopur and parts of Rajarhat, are also in a state of disrepair. Kaushik Ganguly, a resident of Baguiati, said that the stretch of road that leads from the Kestopur bazaar to Mahisbathan is in a shambles. “Multiple accidents have taken place and the entire road remains in a state of haze throughout the day as vehicle struggle to negotiate the potholes and their wheels kick up dust,” he said. Tapas Chatterjee, the former deputy mayor of the corporation who was in charge of roads and who is now a member of the board of administrators, said that they had started repairs in phases and soon all roads in Salt Lake will be repaired. “We want to finish the repairs by next month,” said Chatterjee. He said that they had no option but to use hot-mixing machines as the civic body does not have the resources to run a cold-mix plant. “This is how road repairs have been done since ages. We are aware of a new lesser polluting technology but it is expensive and we don’t have any experts who build roads using that technology. However we are welcome to change and will use it if we find it cost effective,” said Chatterjee. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has identified a plot at Sirakol in South 24-Parganas’ Mograhat for a factory to manufacture the bitumen mixture needed to lay roads.  The move came after the National Green Tribunal asked the civic body in October 2018 to shut down its two hot mix plants that produced bitumen. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, however, has not taken any steps to build a cold mix plant. Hot mix and cold mix are two ways of preparing the bituminous mixture that is used to lay asphalt roads. The bitumen used in the two technologies is different. In the hot mix technology, bitumen remains in solid state and has to be heated to turn it into a liquid state so that it can be used to lay roads. Carbon dioxide, the primary cause of global warming, fine particulate matters that can enter the deepest crevices of lungs and even cause cancer, and other toxic fumes are released when bitumen is heated. In cold mix technology, the bitumen remains in liquid state even in ambient temperature and doesn’t need any heating. That means no toxic fumes are released. Many environment experts have said the civic bodies should go for cold mix technology that is less polluting. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Seniors queue up for shots||Vaccination has started for senior citizens from March 1 and though there are several private options where the shots are available at a cost of Rs 250, a significant section of residents of the twin townships is trusting the government facilities. The Telegraph Salt Lake takes a tour of Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital and NKDA Covid Vaccination Centre, the two government sites in Salt Lake and New Town respectively that have been providing the service to senior citizens since the start, and tracks how the arrangements have improved at both places as the administration learnt from experience over the first 10 days. NKDA Covid Vaccination Center Where: Action Area IID (on the road opposite Greenwood Elements, near Tank 12. Take a right turn from the Major Arterial Road at the first crossing after Akankha More when approaching from the Eco Park side) When: 9am to 4pm (reporting by 3.30pm) Though the site welcomed senior citizens, including unregistered walk-ins, right from Day 1, i.e. March 1, when vaccination started for the elderly and those above 45 years with comorbidities, it is from Day 4 that attendance started picking up. So much so that last week, about 70 senior citizens turned up together one day without appointment, leading to chaos. Since then, the authorities have been urging people to register on the New Town helpline 18001037652 and take an appointment before going. “There was no shamiana. It was hot. The Co-Win portal was crashing. There were some initial hiccups,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The authorities have taken measures to rectify the problems. There is ample seating space now, both at the ground floor level where a cover has been provided and drinking water is being served, and on the first floor where people are being allowed up in small numbers once some get the vaccine and leave. The biggest benefit is the option to register by simply calling the helpline at any time. “While the Co-Win portal only indicates first half or second half of the day for a slot, for bookings on the helpline we are giving hourly slots so that waiting time is minimal,” said an NKDA official. “We could not have registered if the helpline was not there,” said Santanu Mukherjee, a senior citizen from AC Block, on Tuesday. “We are registered for the 12-1pm slot.” The NKDA helpline is being flooded with calls. “Earlier they received 30-40 calls, now there are about 900 calls every day. The call centre staff were overwhelmed. The call centre had to multiple the staff strength by four times. Now we are asking people to leave a missed call 24x7. The staff are calling back in due course and providing a slot,” said Sen. When The Telegraph Salt Lake visited the centre on Tuesday, there were two queues — one for the registered, be it through Co-Win or the helpline, and the other for walk-ins. Due to technical glitches, some of those registered were also being shifted to the unregistered queue, like in case of East Enclave resident Tarun Goswami who had received a slot on registration. But the registered name could not be found on the list with the officials at the desk. “What can we do if the names do not show up in the printouts we have got for the day or on the portal itself when we are checking upstairs?” an official said. But since the shift is just from one table to the next or from one room to another next door, the beneficiaries did not mind. A third vaccination room was started on Tuesday to speed up the process. Intermittently, a nurse was announcing the contra-indications over the microphone downstairs, which included getting Covid-19 in the last month and half, being lactating or pregnant, taking any other vaccine within the last 30 days and having any kind of drug allergies. “We want people to come fully fit. So those with fever, cough or cold at the moment are also being discouraged. But please consult your doctor if you have specific doubts,” she said, on being quizzed further. “Great arrangement,” said Kartik Chandra Chatterjee, a 77-year-old from Greenwood Elements as he sat watching TV in the observation room with his wife Reba, 72. Each person has to wait for half an hour to check for post-vaccine contra indications. AtishchandraSinha and his wife Rina had walked in at 8.20pm from neighbouring Alaktika Housing Complex, before the process had started. A civic volunteer gave us  serial numbers of 4 and 5. It was a smooth process,” he said while walking out at 11.10am after a chat with a neighbour. Automatic token generators were introduced on Wednesday to maintain the sequence of reporting. The only complaint came from those with foot problems. “If only they had a lift,” moaned SupriyaChakraborty, a 77-year-old from NBCC Vibgyor, as she balanced her walking stick, pleats of her sari and the railings of the stairs. S.R. Das and Tapati Das could reach the first floor only because their son aided them. “I have varicose vein. I cannot get up easily once I sit down,” said the 79-year-old from Uniworld City who has had an open heart surgery. His wife Tapati has had a knee replacement. Also in the queue were nurses from Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre in New Town. “There are 15 of us. This will be our second dose,” smiled Amrita Barik. Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Where: DD Block, Salt Lake When: 9am to 4pm The facility which is the cold chain point supplying vaccines to all the centres in Salt Lake is also vaccinating possibly the highest number of people in the subdivision now. The hospital was seeing snaking queues of polling personnel and police from the beginning of the month. “We vaccinated 798 people on Wednesday and 853 the day before,” said superintendent Partha Pratim Guha. On the first few days, the two queues — of polling personnel and police on one hand and senior citizens on the other — were standing parallely in the same corridor. This was causing inconvenience to both sides. The senior citizens complained of the other queue being a boisterous one, including many without masks. Sikha Mukherjee, a 72-year-old from BF Block, came at 12.20pm and on seeing the length of the queue went home for lunch. “We returned at 3.10pm,” she said at 4pm. With the vaccinating point being the same for both queues, they were being called alternately in small numbers. “The elderly people stay close by whereas we are coming from afar. Why can’t they be vaccinated separately without delaying our queue? I came at 10.30am. All of us missed lunch. One who went out to eat missed his turn as they gave out tokens at that point,” Kalpana Biswas, a Jalsampad Bhavan employee. Arunima Roy, who works in AG Block, had a chocolate bar for lunch. “I was carrying it since I am a diabetic,” she said. It was 4.30pm then.  The slow Co-Win portal was not helping either. The hospital authorities realised the problem and shifted the vaccination of the elderly to the recently opened CCU unit on the second floor from Sunday.  While downstairs there was little scope to sit till one was called inside, the space upstairs has an air-conditioned waiting area with television. And since the hospital has an elevator, the floor is not a cause for worry for the elderly. “Seeing the long queue, many of the polling personnel were returning without taking the vaccine and then refusing to take on poll duty. So we had to act fast,” said a hospital official. Queues for the polling personnel and the police are separate now. “We are stuck at home for a year. I took the vaccine so that we can return to normal life,” said Debamitra Das, an 81-year-old from FE Block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||More jab centres in New Town||The NKDA has opened a second vaccination centre at the CB Block community market in Action Area 1. The centre is housed in the second floor of the building but senior citizens need not worry. The building has a lift. Vaccination there started on Wednesday after NKDA officials met health department officials on Monday. Two nurses have been assigned to the new site from the office of the Chief Medical Officer of Health, North 24-Parganas, to add to the three on duty at the Action Area II centre. According to Hidco authorities, New Town will also get more paid facilities shortly. Till Tuesday, there were only Charnock Hospital on the township's fringes and Tata Memorial Center. “We met the private medical establishments of New Town which have got permission to start vaccination on Tuesday and requested them to also allow walk-in registration as senior citizens are unable to register on Co-Win. Only establishments which have doctors in attendance to deal with post-vaccination complications are given permission to vaccinate,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Ohio Hospital, too, started on Wednesday and vaccinated 56 people on Day 1. “We are allowing walk-ins if we have slots free over and above the day’s registrations,” said a hospital official. Vaccination started at Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre as well on Wednesday. HCG Eko Cancer Centre has started vaccination from Monday. Apollo Clinic will start vaccination at both its Salt Lake and New Town centres from Monday, an official said. While vaccine is free at government sites, the private centres are charging Rs 250.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Shyamadas De and his ‘obedient’ pet dogs||He celebrated his two daughters’ birthdays at the same time with cakes, flowers and treats this March. Nothing unusual in that, except the younger one is a six-year-old fawn-coloured Labrador Retriever called Chinky. Welcome to the house of HA Block resident Shyamadas De. Two days after the celebrations Chinky sits with brother Choco, a chocolate-coloured Labrador Retriever, on the living room couch, still wearing red nail polish from the party. A die-hard dog lover, De along with his wife Sangeeta and daughter Saunli have always shared their lives with pets. They also have a rescue ringed-parrot called Khuku. “At one point, we were living with six dogs. My parents also had cows in our ancestral house in Birbhum. We cannot think of life without animals,” said De, a civil engineer by profession and a proud father who takes the initiative to obedience train his dogs himself. Choco and Chinky were brought from Kochi and Chennai respectively in 2014-15. Choco was born on December 5 in 2014 and Chinky on February 20 the next year. “We usually celebrate birthdays. But since we were out of town on Chinky’s special day this year, my daughter decided to go for a joint celebration. We ordered two separate cakes,” said De. From dog beds to bow ties and a range of treats, the labs are spoilt rotten with gifts on their birthdays. “I wanted to train them for dog shows. Choco comes from a line of champions. But finally, I did not get the time with my schedule. Choco and Chinky are now just well-trained house dogs who rule our hearts and homes,” said De. The six-year-old labs are best friends themselves, enjoying attention from De’s friends and family as well. “They are usually the heart and soul of any gathering. Chinky also enjoys a drop of red wine in winters and Belgian beer in summer. They also need their special mangsho-bhaat (mutton curry-rice) on Sundays like us,” laughed De. Every evening after work, De savours some family time over tea and snacks. “We gather round our living room chatting for a while. Choco and Chinky always push their way between us, enjoying our adda,” he added. The two also wait for Sangeeta to finish puja every morning so that they can have their share of the fruit prasad. The dogs share De’s bedroom, lying around as long as De sleeps. “They need an early-morning snack. But after that they go back to bed, waking up only when I do and feed them biscuits,” said De. The morning routine often includes bathing the two and taking them for a game on the terrace. “They have balls and other toys. I often make them play fetch on our terrace,” said De who has also trained the dogs to fetch newspaper. “Choco can be disobedient at times.  But Chinky is the intelligent one. Chinky has learnt to open the tap and drink water directly from the basin. She has taught Choco to do the same. It’s funny when they are at a loss about how to close the tap. The two are often there when my daughter attends her online classes. I keep joking with my daughter about which subjects they enjoy the most,” said De. He has often taken the dogs on a car ride round Salt Lake and New Town. “They enjoy these treats. I dream of taking them to the seaside some day. That will be their first holiday,” said De.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||How to pick a puppy ||A dog seems to be the perfect way of coping with stay-at-home blues. A puppy will love you and keep you busy at home when you need to stay home as much as possible to stay safe. But as explained by canine trainer and behaviourist Paramita Das in the first instalment of this column, a dog is not a toy. Das, a resident of FE Block, had held a webinar telling families interested in adopting pets, what to expect. In the earlier instalment, she had explained the kind of time, effort and support system one needs at home before getting a dog, whether one should get a puppy or adult dog and about how to choose a puppy that would compliment the ambience in your home. In the second instalment today, she explains what to do next. What breed to get Choose a breed that suits your lifestyle. Spend time researching breeds and don’t just pick one up as it looks cute. Activity level- Do you sleep till 10am? Do you watch TV all evening and want your dog to sit next to you or are you a runner who wants to take your dog on treks? Do you have kids at home or adults? These questions are important in picking a breed. People think Labradors and Golden Retrievers make great companions but this is not what they were bred for. These dogs were bred to retrieve fishermen and hunter’s catch. So you may want to relax in the evening but your Lab is energetic and wants to play then. Mind you, not giving your dog exercise amounts to cruelty. People think they can make Calcutta comfortable for a Siberian Husky by air-conditioning his room but that’s not enough. These dogs were bred for endurance, to survive miles in the snow. To keep a Husky healthy you have you wake up at 4.30am and take him for a long run before it gets hot. Can you do that? After the lockdown, we all know how frustrating it is to be stuck indoors. This is how your dog feels if you don’t let him out. Flooring- Breeds like Labradors and Golden Retrievers are prone to a condition called hip dysplasia. Pups of these breeds should not be running on marble floors that can be slippery. Grown-up dogs with this condition should not be walking on marble either. Games- Beagles are extremely popular as they are compact-sized with short coats but they are also stubborn. You have to design mentally stimulating games for them else they’ll get frustrated and destructive. Beagles are scent hounds and so they see the world with their noses, even more than other dogs. To keep a Beagle happy you can hide his toys in the house or in the park and ask him to find them. Training- Should you want breeds like German Shepherd Dogs, Rottweilers and Belgian Malinois, you must train them well. These breeds were meant to rear sheep and cattle and nipped the legs of these animals when they tried to go astray. Unless trained, these dogs may bite children they see running. One need not always hire a professional trainer; you can do it yourself but you need to learn it first. Once the pup comes home From the age of 60 days (eight weeks) to about 20 weeks, the pup’s sense of smell, sight and touch is developing rapidly and he is curious about his environment. Ideally you should expose him to 100 new experiences every month at this stage. Throw steel vessels on the floor, open and shut umbrellas before him, burst fire crackers, play Rabindrasangeet and rock music… Otherwise, your summer-born dog may panic on Diwali night or in winter, when he sees people wearing hoodies. You also need 100 new people to handle him in this period. Sadly, we live in an age when we have 5,000 friends on Facebook but none that we can call to play with our pup. Nonetheless, allow the puppy to explore. Unless the pup explores now, his curiosity will get replaced by fear later and you’ll need a behaviourist to help him out of it. You’ll complain that he bites but you won’t realise that he bites out of fear and not aggression. • To be continued||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Matri Sadan vaccinates without Co-Win listing||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has started at least six vaccination sites where those above 60 years and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities can get Covid-19 vaccines. Till last Sunday, there was not a single health centre run by the civic body where people in these two categories could receive the shots. The centres that are now ready to administer Covid-19 shots include Matri Sadan in Salt Lake’s EE Block, the primary healthcare centre in Duttabad, a health centre in Ashwininagar near Baguiati, the Jhautola primary health centre near Rajarhat,  Deshbandhu Nagar Hospital in Narayanpur and Vidyasagar Matrisadan o Hospital in Rajarhat. People can walk in to these centres and receive the Covid-19 shots free of cost, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. The Telegraph Salt Lake visited two of these vaccination sites and all those who had queued up to receive the vaccines said that they had gone there after coming to know of these places through word of mouth. Krishna Chandra Das, a 72-year-old EE Block resident, had taken the shot with his wife Jayanti, 67,at the Matri Sadan close to his home. They had neither received a notice from the civic body nor was there any sort of awareness-building activity to let people know that a new government-run vaccine site had opened. “I stay very close to the hospital and suddenly we saw that chairs had been set up in the open area near the hospital. I walked in with my wife wondering whether the chairs were meant to seat people taking vaccines and we were pleasantly surprised when the nurse said that they had indeed started administering vaccines,” said Das. Mukti Choudhary,64, a resident of Karunamoyee Housing Estate’s G block who had come to take the jab with her son Anindya, also said that they came to know from a few of their neighbours that vaccines were getting administered at Matri Sadan. “We had no clue that a vaccine centre had opened so close by. Neighbours told us. So I brought my mother here,” said Anindya. A senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said that they were yet to start any awareness drive about the new centres. “We have not received any orders to start awareness programmes. I don’t know if we are supposed to conduct any. Turnout is still quite low at these sites simply because people don’t know about them,” said the official. Krishna Chakraborty the chairperson of the board of administrators of the civic body, said that there were plans to start awareness programmes. “The model code of conduct is in place and we cannot initiate any such activity. However we have requested the senior officials of the corporation to start an awareness campaign," said Chakraborty. The superintendent of Matri Sadan Debiprasad Acharya admitted that the facility was not listed as a Covid-19 vaccination centre. “We were asked to administer the vaccines to reduce the load on the Duttabad urban primary health centre centre. All those receiving vaccines here and the other sites are getting registered under the Duttabad centre,” said Acharya. A health department official also said that the corporation had set up these six new sites as a “stop-gap measure intended to give service to the people”. “None of these features on the list of authorised sites,” said the official. There are massive crowds in private nursing homes and hospitals in and around Salt Lake, like Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, AMRI Salt Lake, ILS Hospital Salt Lake and the Calcutta Heart Clinic among others. In contrast, the civic body-run vaccination centres are getting merely a handful of people everyday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Green Bench prod on New Town crop burn||The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed chief secretary of West Bengal, Alapan Bandopadhyay, to look into the issue of burning of crop residue in various parts of West Bengal, including New Town Action Area II, in coordination with the departments concerned. The order was passed in the first week of March by the bench comprising Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, chairperson of NGT; Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and Nagin Nanda, expert member; in response to a petition filed by environment activist Subhas Datta alleging acute air pollution in the area due to stubble burning. “…There can be no dispute that sources of air pollution need to be controlled. What is required is implementation of law by the concerned Executive Authorities. Accordingly, the Chief Secretary, West Bengal may look into the matter in coordination with the concerned Departments and take appropriate action in accordance with law,” reads the NGT order, a copy of which is with The Telegraph Salt Lake. “Though the problem still persists in some stretches but I can vouch that the stubble-burning issue has been largely controlled,” said Debashis Sen, chairman and managing director of Hidco, on Wednesday. Sen admitted that earlier the problem was rampant. Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the state Pollution Control Board (PCB), the headquarters of which is located in Salt Lake, also claimed that whenever the green board got a complaint about stubble burning, it immediately referred it to the police. However, the state PCB has no record of police action on the issue. “It’s a matter of concern and shock that the unbearable air pollution level in our city is accelerated due to such stubble burning,” mentioned Datta, while pointing out that burning of crop residues also happened at the land earmarked for the Calcutta High Court complex in New Town. Stubble burning in vacant plots in New Town has been adding high level of toxic particulate and gaseous pollutants over and above the already deteriorating air in the area, mainly triggered by large scale construction. Interestingly, the air pollution sensor set up by IIT Delhi under a NASA pilot programme, has found “unhealthy” air quality in New Town area, even on Wednesday noon, long exposure to which can impact the lungs of common men. PM 2.5, the ultrafine particulate, is found mostly responsible for the pollution in New Town. PM 2.5 can enter deep crevices of the respiratory system and trigger a range of diseases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Second innings||A new beginning with a new menu. After a forgettable year, Hit Wicket in FE Block is wooing back clients by adding a variety of cuisine to its menu and refashioning its character. “Earlier, it was a pasta-pizza place with some tandoor and Chinese dishes. The feel was of a lounge café and the clientele was largely the youth and the IT crowd. Now the younger generation has less income at their disposal to eat out as frequently as they used to. Many have had their pay packages reduced. So we want to focus on families,” said Md. Faizullah, the managing director of Impreza Kitchen and Restaurant, which runs the eatery. This is not the first time the address is seeing a change of character. Before Faizullah bought the place, it used to be a hookah lounge called Ground Zero. The place therefore has been divided into a restaurant with bright lights and a lounge with sofa sets and a giant screen TV. The latter will continue to have an all-day menu, with Italian dishes and tea, shakes and mocktail. The restaurant has started serving south Indian and Pan Asian dishes. “Try our vegetable, chicken and lamb stews with Appam. We also have half a dozen types of biryani,” says the chef, pointing to Chennai Military Biryani as a speciality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town: enjoy open-deck bus tour during weekends||An open-deck bus service has been started in New Town to take people on a tour of the township’s attractions. Run by the tourism department in association with Hidco, the tour will be offered in the weekends. Tickets on the lower deck will cost Rs 945 while an upper deck seat has been priced Rs 1208. The tour will start at 2pm at Biswa Bangla Gate, and include Rabindra Tirtha, Coffee House, Mothers’ Wax Museum, Seven Wonders of the World and end at Eco Park at 7.30pm. Booking can be done at the Biswa Bangla Gate ticket counter on Saturday from 10am to 5pm and on Sunday from 10am to 1pm. The first trip took place on March 7, on the eve of Women’s Day when a woman companion of a ticket buyer got a free ride. Some weeks ago, Hidco chairman cum managing director Debashis Sen had taken officials from local hotels on a trial run, accompanied by The Telegraph Salt Lake. “We had been discussing this facility for a long time. We talk of IT and hospitals when we talk of the development of New Town but tourism has to be part of the plan also. There are a lot of stories to be told in New Town for which you needed a platform. This bus service will provide that,” said Sandeep Johri, general manager of Novotel, who has spent four years in the township but learnt of the deer park in New Town that day. The trip was even more insightful for Ajit Jose, who has recently joined as general manager of Ibis Kolkata Rajarhat. “I never knew there was so much to see in New Town. It would be a good option for our guests to relax and unwind over half a day,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
12-03-2021||Business||Retail inflation in February grows to 5.03 per cent||Retail inflation rose to 5.03 per cent in February mainly on account of higher food prices, government data showed on Friday. The consumer price index (CPI) based retail inflation was at 4.06 per cent in January. The rate of price rise in the food basket accelerated to 3.87 per cent in February, as against 1.89 per cent in the preceding month, as per data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Inflation in the 'fuel and light' category remained elevated at 3.53 per cent during the month vis-a-vis 3.87 per cent in January. The Reserve Bank, which mainly factors in the retail inflation while arriving at its monetary policy, has been asked to keep CPI inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. The top bank had assumed the retail inflation to be 5.2 per cent for the fourth quarter of the current fiscal, in its monetary policy announcement in February. The Monetary Policy Committee chaired by the RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das, projected the gross domestic product (GDP) growth to be at 10.5 per cent in the next fiscal year, which is lower than the projections by Economic Survey 2021 and International Monetary Fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
12-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 487 pts; Nifty slips below 15,100||Snapping its three-session rising streak, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 487 points on Friday, tracking losses in financial and auto stocks.  After gyrating 1,283 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 487.43 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 50,792.08.  The broader NSE Nifty tanked 143.85 points or 0.95 per cent to end at 15,030.95.  Bajaj Auto was the top loser in the Sensex pack, falling around 3 per cent, followed by Maruti, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, ONGC, Titan and Infosys were the gainers.  According to Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, after seeing a brisk opening on favourable global cues, domestic equities fell sharply mainly led by selling pressure in financials and auto stocks.  "10-Year US treasury yield again surged back to 1.6 per cent on anticipation of spike in inflation led by USD 1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus backed faster economic recovery. This has weighed on investor sentiments," he said.  Hardening bond yields and soaring oil prices are also expected to weigh on investor sentiment and may keep markets volatile in the near to medium term, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in losses in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent lower at USD 69.57 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in opening trade on Friday, buoyed by gains in financial and IT stocks amid positive global cues. The 30-share BSE index was trading 503.28 points or 0.98 per cent higher at 51,782.79, and the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 144.35 points or 0.95 per cent up at 15,319.15. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, NTPC, HDFC Bank, SBI, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, Infosys and TCS. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Sun Pharma, HUL and Maruti were among the laggards. In the previous session on Wednesday, the Sensex ended 254.03 points or 0.50 per cent higher at 51,279.51, and the Nifty rose 76.40 points or 0.51 per cent to 15,174.80. Markets remained closed on Thursday for Mahashivratri. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they sold shares worth Rs 15.69 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the 'risk on' in global equity markets got another push with the passage of a massive fiscal stimulus. US President Joe Biden has signed a USD 1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan which is expected to provide a major boost to the country's economy. US equities ended with strong gains in overnight trade. Back home, Nifty is again likely to reach record highs since SGX Nifty is indicating 15,400 levels. IT has been leading this leg of the rally. Now financials may catch up, Vijayakumar said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.14 per cent lower at USD 69.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Arbitration act amendments may hit FDI||The latest arbitration act amendments may not have the desired impact to make the country an arbitration destination, legal eagles said. Besides, investors would be wary of taking significant exposures in a country notorious for the extremely slow pace of the legal process. The amended act passed by Parliament on Wednesday gives an impetus to frustrated litigants to knock on the doors of the judiciary in India to set aside an arbitral award on grounds of alleged “fraud” or “corruption”. Since what is required under the amended clause is prima facie satisfaction of courts that a particular award is vitiated by fraud or corruption, the judicial system is likely to be inundated with appeals against arbitral awards. Speaking to The Telegraph, senior advocate and former additional solicitor-general K.V. Viswanathan feels the present amendment is manifestly arbitrary and bound to weaken confidence in India as an investment friendly destination. “This is a manifestly arbitrary amendment  as its only purpose is to take away the discretion available to a court and fetter its hands and force it to pass an order in a particular manner, without even referring to balance of convenience and irreparable loss,” says Viswanathan. He said the amended provision contravenes Article 14 of the Constitution relating to equality before law. “The provision will erode investor confidence. Already in the statute as it stands sufficient safeguard exists for protecting parties rights. If India is to be made an arbitration hub the act should not be repeatedly tinkered with regressive amendments. This amendment has the effect of shackling courts powers.” However, another senior advocate Arijit Prasad welcomed the legislation as according to him it is in sync with other international laws on arbitration. Since most MNCs are familiar with the international arbitration laws, there is no reason why they should find any difficulty in complying with the amended provisions. “I think the amendment is very appropriate which has aligned the Indian laws with the International laws. I don’t think it would have any adverse effects on investment into India as the multinational companies have to comply with similar laws in their own countries. Therefore, they should not have any difficulty in complying with similar laws in India,” said Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Coal India expects to earn net quality bonus of Rs 660 crore||Coal India on Wednesday said it was expecting to earn a net quality bonus of Rs 660 crore, allaying concerns over grade slippage. As of January 2021, Coal India stands to receive Rs 571 crore as net quality bonus for providing better quality coal than the declared grade. Coal quality has been a key concern for thermal power generators who have taken up the issue of grade slippage with the power ministry. The difference in billed coal grade and actual coal supply is also a concern among the non-power consumers of the miner. Coal India officials, however, said the notion that customers are billed for higher grade coal that the one actually supplied is “misconceived”. According to the miner, Coal India initially bills customers based on the declared grade of coal supplied which is later adjusted once the actual quality is tested and established by an authorised third party sampling agency, which are the Central Institute of Mining & Fuel Research and Quality Council of India. This system is in place since 2016 and there are plans to introduce two more globally reputed agencies for third-party sampling. “No consumer suffers financial loss arising out of quality variation between the declared grade and the actual tested grade” said a senior executive of the company. According to Coal India data, grade slippage during the third quarter of 2020-21 was down to 34 per cent from 41 per cent in the year-ago period. During January and February it has further declined to 23 per cent. Officials explained the primary reason for grade variations is the inherent heterogeneous nature of Indian coal itself meaning, calorific value of coal extracted within the same seam at different points tends to vary. The gradation of mines is determined by the Coal Controller’s Office and not by coal companies, officials said. Officials also said that there is a provision in the supply agreement for challenging the results of third-party sampling either by consumers or the coal company based on the analysis results obtained at their ends. In the case of a challenge, part of the coal samples are preserved and sent to a designated government laboratory for re-analysis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Commercial vehicle segment targeting 30 per cent growth in next fiscal||The commercial vehicle segment is expected to recover from the ravages of the pandemic, with the industry targeting 30 per cent growth  in the next fiscal. “The commercial vehicle (CV) segment underwent a cyclical downturn and it started in November 2018 when a dip in year-on-year sales was noticed. This was triggered by the increased axle load norm and the credit crisis. An economic downturn was witnessed with the BS-VI transition which led to a reduced stock in the system,” said Girish Wagh, president, commercial vehicle business unit of Tata Motors. He was speaking during a virtual media interaction after the launch of the Ultra Sleek T series range of Intermediate and Light Commercial Vehicles (I&LCV) on Thursday. “The lockdown aggravated the situation with a 90 per cent drop in sales in the first quarter of 2020-21, with the unlock in the second quarter there was 24 per cent downturn which further improved in the third quarter  to single digit and now in the fourth quarter we have month-on-month improved volumes,” said Wagh. “The segment is witnessing a combination of headwinds and tailwinds. Demand is back in the tipper and hauler segment. But the increase in tyre and fuel prices are putting pressure on the operators,” said Wagh. The new Ultra Sleek T-Series is available in three models – T.6, T.7 and T.9 in varied deck lengths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business|| Kalyan Jewellers fixes price band of Rs 86-87 a share for its Rs 1,175-crore IPO||Kalyan Jewellers India Ltd (Kalyan Jewellers) on Thursday fixed a price band of Rs 86-87 a share for its Rs 1,175-crore initial public offering (IPO), which will open for subscription on March 16. The share sale comprises issuance of fresh equity aggregating up to Rs 800 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) worth Rs 375 crore. Kalyan Jewellers’ promoter T.S. Kalyanaraman will be offloading shares worth up to Rs 125 crore, while Highdell Investment, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus, will sell up to Rs 250 crore of shares through the OFS route. Around 50 per cent of the issue is reserved for qualified institutional buyers, 35 per cent for retail investors and 15 per cent for non-institutional bidders. Proceeds from the fresh issue of shares would be utilised for working capital requirements and general corporate purpose. The three-day public issue would conclude on March 18 and the bidding for anchor investors would open on March 15. Bids can be made for a minimum of 172 shares and in multiples of 172 shares thereafter. At the end of June 2020, the company had 137 showrooms with 130 of those in India and 30 in West Asia. Within India, while 65 showrooms were in South India, 42 were outside this region. Kalyan Jewellers designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of gold, studded and other jewellery products.Axis Capital, Citigroup Global Markets India, ICICI Securities and SBI Capital Markets are the global co-ordinators and book running lead managers. While the secondary equity markets have remained volatile because of concerns of rising US bond yields, the primary segment continues to witness hectic activity. Last year despite the pandemic, fund raising through the public equity markets came at a record level as Rs 1,77,468 crore was mobilised. This was 116 per cent higher than Rs 82,241 crore that was raised in 2019, according to Pranav Haldea, managing director, PRIME Database group. So far in this calendar year, almost a dozen companies that includes IRFC, Home First Finance, RailTel Corporation and Indigo Paints have tapped the markets. Senior officials with the firm said that one of the reasons behind the success of Kalyan Jewellers emerging as one of the trusted brands in this business is the quality & transparency, even as the adoption of an hyper-local approach has also paid rich dividends. Industry circles here indicate that impact of Covid-19 on retail jewellery business is almost over and that while expenses on matters like food & beverages have come down during a wedding, the same trend is not seen when it comes to jewellery demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Sebi forms group of experts to examine the feasibility of introducing SPAC-like structures in India||Capital market regulator Sebi has formed a group of experts to examine the feasibility of introducing special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs)-like structures in India, sources said on Thursday. The group, formed under Sebi’s Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC), has been asked to submit its report at the earliest, the sources added. “Sebi wants to explore the potential of SPACs while at the same time building adequate checks and balances in regulatory framework to take care of the associated risks,” said a source privy to the development. SPACs are formed to raise capital in an initial public offering (IPO) with the purpose of using the proceeds to identify and merge with a target company. SPACs are usually formed by private equity funds or financial institutions, with expertise in a particular industry or business sector, with investment for initial working capital and issue related expenses. Such companies have recently become popular in the US. There has been increasing demand that SPACs should be allowed in India as well. According to market experts, while SPACs have several advantages, they also raise various regulatory concerns. For public shareholders, SPACs give the advantage of investing along with the sponsors in the SPAC-like private equity type transactions. The advantage for the sponsor is that it allows rapid deployment of capital to take advantage of opportunities. It also helps the target company acquired by the SPAC going public during periods of market instability or volatility in traditional IPO markets. SPACs also face several challenges. According to experts, SPACs have distinct trading cycles unlike an IPO. They also need to deal with uncertainty risk like divergent interests of sponsors, investors and the target company. In the Indian context, some of the challenges are that a merger through a scheme of arrangement could be time consuming. Similarly, the process of liquidation could take considerable time, which might reduce the attractiveness of SPAC over IPO. There are regulatory concerns and issues as well in the SPAC proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||India’s steel and cement companies witnessing revival||India’s steel and cement companies are witnessing a revival after getting eviscerated by the pandemic, a sign the infrastructure sector is returning to normality. A report by CARE Ratings said the margins of steel companies were expected to grow further in the last quarter of the fiscal following a sharp drop in the first quarter and a gradual improvement in the next two quarters. Cement companies too have retained their vigour and the industry is expected to report a volume drop of 2 per cent this fiscal after a 31 per cent contraction in the first quarter, according to Crisil. The rating agency said the industry was  set to hit a decade-high volume growth of 13 per cent in the next fiscal, helped by an expected revival in demand from the infrastructure and urban housing sectors. In steel, the output this fiscal is set at around 102 million (mt) a decline of 7 per cent, CARE said. “Similarly, fall in steel consumption is estimated to be around 8 per cent to about 92 million tonnes considering that January-March is a seasonally heavy quarter for the industry.” JSW Steel show Meanwhile, JSW Steel has reported  a marginal decline of 1 per cent in its crude steel output at 13.06 lakh tonnes (lt) in February. The company, which is among the top six steel producers in the country, had produced 13.20lt of steel in the same month last year. In cement, rising power and fuel costs will impact the industry. “While volume growth will rebound, higher cost of sales would weigh on cement profitability next fiscal,” Crisil said. Rising prices of raw materials such as diesel, pet coke or coal, and polypropylene bags may push up costs by Rs 150-200 per tonne, it said adding that freight, power and fuel constitute almost 55 per cent of the total cost of sales of cement. “Increasing share of infrastructure and urban housing means a higher proportion of sales will be from the cost-conscious non-trade channels. That would translate to marginally lower net realisation for cement companies,” the agency said. Crisil Ratings director Nitesh Jain said demand from the hinterland, which was a saviour for the cement industry in the pandemic impacted 2020-21, should sustain on the back of higher rural incomes. “Higher spends on infrastructure development would be in line with the 26 per cent increase in budgetary allocation for infrastructure in the Union Budget 2021-22. That, coupled with pent-up demand in urban housing, will drive volume growth,” he said. Operating profits could moderate by Rs 200-250 per tonne next fiscal because of higher cost and lower net realisation, said Crisil research director Isha Chaudhary. Coking coal gains The steel industry, however, benefited from softer coking coal costs as well as from improved demand and realisations. Margins in the fourth quarter will be driven by healthy export orders and higher realisations, CARE said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Top guns want to set up mutual funds||A long queue has formed before the capital market regulator to set up mutual funds even as investors make a beeline to the exit door in current funds. Singapore-based Samir Arora’s Helios Capital Management and Rakesh Jhunjhunwala’s Alchemy Capital are  the latest to apply to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for mutual fund licences. Helios Capital Management has applied for the licence on February 25, while Alchemy Capital Management applied  earlier on January 1. Singapore-based Helios Capital Management was formed by Arora in 2005. Helios runs a global long-only equity fund with an India focussed mandate. Helios Singapore holds a capital markets services licence of the Monetary Authority of Singapore and is registered as a foreign portfolio investor (FPI) with Sebi. Alchemy’s founders include Jhunjhunwala, Hiren Ved, Lashit Sanghvi and Ashwin Kedia. It offers portfolio management services (PMS) and alternate investment products. These are not the only two who are waiting for approvals for their applications. The other aspirants include Bajaj Finserv, Capitalmind, Frontline Capital Services, Unifi Capital Pvt and Zerodha Broking Ltd. Samco Securities has already won Sebi’s in-principle approval. In a recent report, analysts at ICICI Securities had said that mutual fund penetration ratio — which is the ratio of assets under management to gross domestic product — is significantly lower in India at 11 per cent compared with the global average of 55 per cent, which leaves enough opportunity for growth. The report said there was a lack of participation beyond the top 30 cities, which could be because of low financial literacy and a cultural attitude towards savings in physical assets, gold and bank FDs. The analysts at ICICI said various segments of the mutual funds industry such as equity, debt, liquid and others, including ETFs, will see better returns. For instance, the share of equity funds to nominal gross domestic product was expected to rise to 0.7 per cent of GDP in another 10 years from 0.5 per cent now. The brokerage has forecast that the assets under management of India’s mutual fund industry will increase to Rs 100 lakh crore over the next nine years  even as the trend of financialisation of savings continues. In February, equity mutual funds witnessed net outflow of Rs 4,534 crore  in the eighth consecutive month of outflow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||BNP Paribas Cardif looking to sell stake in SBI Life Insurance||French insurer BNP Paribas Cardif is looking to sell its stake in SBI Life Insurance (SBI Life) marking the end of its two-decade long collaboration with India’s No. 1 bank. BNP Paribas Cardif is classified as a promoter of the life insurer. At the end of December 2020, it held 5.2 crore shares in SBI Life equivalent to 5.20 per cent stake in the company. The SBI Life scrip had ended at Rs 940 on Wednesday. The bourses were closed on Thursday on account of Mahashivratri. At this price, the value of the holding by the French firm stands at around Rs 4,888 crore. A Moneycontrol report said that BNP Paribas Cardif is selling 3.5 crore shares or around 3.5 per cent SBI Life shares, which are being offered at Rs 870-Rs 917 each. This represents a 2.45-7.44 per cent discount to the closing price of the SBI Life scrip on the BSE on Wednesday. It also has the option to increase the deal size by another 1.5 crore shares or 1.5 per cent. If the second option is exercised, BNP Paribas would be left with only a 0.2 per cent stake. It may be recalled that in June 2019, BNP Paribas Cardiff had sold a 2.5 per cent stake in SBI Life Insurance for about Rs 1,625 crore. In March 2019, it had offloaded a 5 per cent stake for Rs 2,889 crore and another  9.2 per cent stake for Rs 4,751 crore in the life insurer. The latest development comes at a time the Centre has raised the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in insurance to 74 per cent. Covid impact During the quarter ended December 31, 2020, SBI Life reported a 40.2 per cent drop in net profit to Rs 232.85 crore largely because of a rise in Coronavirus-related provisions. The insurance firm had posted a net profit of Rs 390 crore in the same period of the previous year. During the period, net premium income rose to Rs 13,766.49 crore from Rs 11,694.51 crore. The insurer had said that it has assessed the overall impact of the pandemic on its business and financials, including valuation of assets, policy liabilities and solvency for the reporting period and had made adequate provisions. The period also saw its assets under management crossing the Rs 2-lakh-crore mark, rising 28 per cent year-on-year. Its market share among private players rose to 23.7 per cent in terms of new business premium. While renewal premium grew by 27 per cent, gross written premium increased 21 per cent to Rs 34,610 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||India||Kerala Gold Smuggling case: ED forced me to name the CM, says accused||A prime accused in the Kerala gold-smuggling case has written to a sessions judge in Ernakulam alleging that a senior official of the Enforcement Directorate had compelled him to name the chief minister and others. Sandeep Nair, the fourth accused in the high profile case, has in a hand-written letter to the sessions judge complained about the harassment by an ED officer identified only as Radhakrishnan to name Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, some ministers and the son of a senior party leader. “Investigating officer from this agency, Mr Radhakrishnan, told me they won’t oppose my bail plea if I named the Kerala chief minister, some ministers and the son of a senior leader,” Nair stated in the letter, a copy of which was leaked to the media on Friday. Nair alleged that the ED official even offered to arrange a good lawyer. “I was offered a good lawyer and promised not to oppose my bail plea if I named those mentioned (chief minister, ministers and the son of a leader) and stated that they had investments in some companies, that I have not even heard of,” he wrote in the letter. Currently in judicial custody, Nair accused the officer of harassing and threatening him while he was in the ED custody. “While in their custody, I was denied adequate sleep and faced all kinds of harassment and was threatened several times. When I refused to do his bidding and said I have a family, the officer named Radhakrishnan said I would get to see what they are capable of doing.” The date of submission of the letter was not clear in the leaked copy. A BJP worker, Nair is a co-accused along with P.S. Sarith, Swapna Suresh and others in the case related to smuggling 30kg of gold from Dubai allegedly using a diplomatic consignment addressed to the attache of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in July last year. His allegations against the ED is quite similar to what two Kerala policewomen had narrated in their statements to a special investigating team probing an audio clip of Swapna, who too had alleged coercion to name the chief minister. The policewomen, who were among those who took turns to provide security to Swapna when she was in the ED custody, had admitted of being witnesses to Radhakrishnan forcing Swapna to name the chief minister. The policewomen had apparently recorded their separate statements after the state police launched an investigation into Swapna’s audio clip leaked on November 19 last year. Their statements were leaked to the media just days after customs commissioner Sumit Kumar filed a statement before the Kerala High Court citing Swapna’s confidential statement in which she allegedly named the chief minister and three other ministers for “illegal money transactions” in a dollar smuggling case linked to the gold-smuggling scandal. The customs department is investigating the suspected smuggling of $190,000 (Rs1.3 crore) from Thiruvananthapuram to Oman by an accounts officer of the consulate. The money was allegedly a kickback received from a local builder who was awarded the contract to build free houses for some of the 2018 flood victims in a project funded by Emirates Red Crescent. The advocate-general of Kerala had on Tuesday issued notice to the customs commissioner in a petition seeking contempt proceedings against the officer for leaking Swapna’s confidential statement filed before a court. The notice was based on a complaint by CPM’s Ernakulam district committee member K.J. Jacob who noted that leaking of a confidential statement amounted to the contempt of court. The petitioner had alleged that the officer deliberately leaked the petition to embarrass the Left Democratic Front government ahead of the April 6 state polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Covid cases rising in eight states||Eight states currently display an upward trend in daily new Covid-19 cases, the Union health ministry said on Friday as India’s count of Covid-19 patients under medical supervision approached 200,000 for the first time in over eight weeks. The number of active Covid-19 patients nationwide increased on Friday to 197,237 from 189,226 on Thursday. The count had dropped below 200,000 on January 20 under a near steady fall since its peak of over a million cases in mid-September. Maharashtra and Punjab show the sharpest rise in daily new Covid cases over the past four weeks, but counts have also increased in Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Health authorities have attributed the rise in several states to crowding, laxity in personal precautions and lowered levels of testing and contact tracing, but some epidemiologists believe viral genome sequencing needs to be intensified to determine whether faster-spreading mutants have any role. “We need some explanation for what’s happening in Maharashtra — some parts of the state such as Pune which were among the hardest hit areas of the country shouldn’t be seeing the kind of rise that we’re seeing now,” D.C.S. Reddy, a community medicine specialist and member of the government’s Covid-19 epidemiology expert group, said. Surveillance studies have suggested that in parts of Mumbai and Pune, the fraction of infected people is so high that the virus shouldn’t find it easy to spread as quickly and widely as it is now. But the surveillance also revealed even larger fractions of people susceptible to the infection and, health officials believe, the current growth appears to be driven by the virus spreading into this susceptible pool of the population. India had till Friday evening administered over 28 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines. Over 7.2 million healthcare workers, 7.2 million frontline workers, 7 million people aged 60 years or older and 1.2 million between 45 and 60 with health disorders have received their first doses. Over 4 million healthcare workers and nearly a million frontline workers have also received second doses. Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, accounts for over 90 per cent of the doses administered so far. About 1.9 million people have received doses of Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine made by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 15,817 new infections, 56 deaths||Maharashtra recorded this year's highest one-day spike on the third day in a row on Friday with 15,817 new infections coming to light, a health official said. The caseload in the state rose to 22,82,191, while the death toll reached 52,723 with 56 new fatalities. The state had earlier reported more than 15,000 cases on October 2 last year, after which new cases had declined. But a fresh surge in cases began last month and the state recorded 13,659 and 14,317 cases on Wednesday and Thursday. As many as 11,344 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday, taking the total of recoveries to 21,17,744. There are 1,10,485 active cases. Pune city recorded the highest 1,845 new cases, followed by 1,729 in Nagpur and 1,647 in Mumbai. Pune division comprising civic bodies of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad as well as districts of Pune, Solapur and Satara reported a total of 3,580 cases, highest among the divisions. The number of cases in the Pune division so far stood at 5,53,064 and death toll at 11,832. Mumbai on Friday recorded 1,646 cases of coronavirus, the highest since mid-October, raising the tally of infections to 3,40,277, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. With four fatalities in the last 24 hours, the toll reached 11,519, the official said. The daily count of infections in the city has crossed the 1,500 mark for the third consecutive day. This is the first time since October 17 that the city has witnessed such a high number of cases. At least 1,122 patients recovered from the infection during the day, taking the number of recoveries to 3,15,379, the official said, adding that the city now has 12,487 active cases. According to the civic body, as many as 20,730 swab samples have been tested in the last 24-hours, taking the number of tests conducted so far to 35,16,875. The average growth rate of cases in the city has increased to 0.35 per cent from 0.17 per cent on February 18, while the average doubling rate stands at 196 days. The city has 30 containment zones in slums and chawls, while 214 buildings have been sealed, it was stated. The wider Mumbai division reported 3,137 new cases and 11 deaths, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,52,986 and death toll to 19,932. Nashik division's case tally till now stood at 3,12,328 and the death toll at 5,357. Kolhapur division has reported 1,20,859 cases and 4,084 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 88,467 and the death count at 2,085. Latur division has reported 90,774 cases until now and 2,557 fatalities. Akola division has reported 1,14,655 cases while 1,893 people have succumbed to the disease until now. Nagpur division has reported 2,48,912 infections and 4,893 fatalities so far. With 97,274 tests carried out on Thursday, the state has so far tested 1,73,10,586 samples for coronavirus. There are 5,42,693 people in home quarantine while 4,884 are in institutional quarantine. Out of 56 deaths reported on Friday, 32 occurred in the last 48 hours, eight in the last week and 16 deaths were from the period before the last week. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 22,82,191, new cases: 15,817, death toll: 52,723, discharged: 21,17,744, active cases: 1,10,485, people tested so far: 1,73,10,586.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Covering areas like vaccines makes Quad a force for global good: Modi at Quad meet||The Quad has come of age and its agenda covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies makes it a force for global good, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the first summit of the coalition. In his opening remarks, he also talked about shared values and promoting a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific. "We are united by our democratic values, and our commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Our agenda today covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies makes the Quad a force for global good," he said. The virtual summit was attended by US President Joe Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. "I see this positive vision as an extension of India's ancient philosophy of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, which regards the world as one family," Modi said. "We will work together, closer than ever before, to advance our shared values and promote a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific," he said. The prime minister said the holding of the summit shows that the Quad has come of age and it will now remain an important pillar of stability in the region. In his remarks, Biden said there was a need to focus on generating domestic demand and driving sustainable global growth. He also talked about having an ambitious new joint partnership that is going to boost vaccine manufacturing and strengthen vaccinations to benefit the entire Indo-Pacific region. "We are establishing a new mechanism to enhance our cooperation and raise our mutual ambition as we address accelerating climate change," he said. The US president also mentioned the commitment to ensure that the region is governed by international law and it is free from coercion. "I am optimistic about our prospects," he said. The most significant among the deliverables envisaged in the summit is a coronavirus vaccine initiative that will allow new manufacturing capacity to be added in India for exports to the Indo-Pacific region, sources said. Known as the "Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, representatives for the four member nations have met periodically since its establishment in 2007. The Quad member states have been resolving to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the region. The foreign ministers of the Quad countries held a virtual meeting on February 18 during which they vowed to uphold a rules-based international order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. The foreign ministers of the Quad member nations met in Tokyo on October 6 last year and reaffirmed their collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The Quad foreign ministers held their first meeting under the Quadrilateral or Quad framework in New York in September 2019. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||India, China hold talks to maintain stability at border||India and China on Friday held "in-depth" discussions on addressing the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, holding that disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake provided a good basis to work towards their early resolution. The two countries also agreed during the parleys that in the interim they should continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident. The talks were held under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC). The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the two sides agreed to maintain close communication and dialogue through both the diplomatic and military channels and agreed to convene the 11th round of military talks at an early date. In a statement, it said the two sides should continue their dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest. "This would enable two sides to look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. They also agreed that in the interim two sides should continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident," the MEA added. The MEA also said that India and China agreed that the agreement reached between the two foreign ministers in Moscow in September last as also their recent phone conversation in February should continue to guide the work of the two sides. "The two sides reviewed the situation along the LAC in the Western sector and had in-depth discussions on the remaining issues along the LAC in the Western sector," it said. "They agreed that the completion of the disengagement in North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake provided a good basis for the two sides to work towards early resolution of these remaining issues." The Indian delegation was led by Additional Secretary (East Asia) in the MEA while the Chinese side was headed by director general of the boundary and oceanic department of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two countries had completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. After completion of the disengagement process in Pangong lake areas, senior military commanders of India and China held another round of talks on February 20 with a focus on taking forward the disengagement process in other friction points. At the talks, India pitched for a faster disengagement process in areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the mountainous region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||BJP demand independent inquiry into Mamata injury incident in Nandigram||A BJP delegation comprising Union Minister Piyush Goyal and party general secretary Bhupender Yadav on Friday met Election Commission officials and demanded an independent inquiry into the incident in which TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee got injured. The BJP delegation met poll panel officials hours after a six-member group of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders met the EC demanding a high-level probe into the alleged attack on West Bengal Chief Minister in Nandigram that led to her injury. Besides Goyal and Yadav, party leaders Sambit Patra, Anirban Ganguly and Swapan Dasgupta were also in the BJP delegation. Addressing reporters after the meeting, Yadav said the BJP has demanded an independent inquiry into the incident in West Bengal's Nandigram on March 10 when Banerjee got injured. Yadav, a general secretary of the BJP, said, "The party also requested the election commission to make public the video of Banerjee's rally in which she got injured." The BJP leader said once a candidate files nomination, the poll panel maintains a visual record of his public engagements. The saffron party also demanded that special observers be appointed for the Nandigram Assembly seat from where Banerjee is contesting against her protege-turned-adversary the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari. Earlier in the day, a TMC delegation met the Election Commission and demanded a high-level probe into the alleged attack on Banerjee in Nandigram and claimed it was not an "unfortunate incident", but a conspiracy. The TMC met the full EC team, including Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, for over an hour and submitted a memorandum to it, highlighting how BJP leaders in West Bengal had threatened the chief minister through tweets and other remarks. In the memorandum, the TMC has made allegations against Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Nandigram in the upcoming state Assembly polls. TMC leaders had also met EC officials in Bengal on Thursday, following which the poll body sent a strongly-worded letter to the party on its memorandum over injuries to Banerjee during the campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Modi flags off government’s initiative to mark 75 years of independence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', the government's initiative to mark 75 years of India's Independence. Modi said the 75th anniversary celebrations will continue till August 15, 2023, adding "conscious efforts" have been made in the last six years to preserve the history of unsung heroes of the country. The prime minister flagged off a padyatra (foot march) from Sabarmati Ashram to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi march. The padyatra is being undertaken by 81 marchers from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Navsari, a journey of 386 km. The march will end after 25 days, on April 5. Led by Mahatma Gandhi, 78 people had started the Dandi Yatra on March 12, 1930 from Sabarmati Ashram by announcing the 'Salt Satyagraha', a non-violent protest against the oppressive British taxes on salt, which played a vital role in the Independence movement. "We are proud of our Constitution and democratic traditions. India is the mother of democracy and we are marching ahead by strengthening it. India's achievements are not just our own. Our achievements are showing light to the entire world," Modi said after launching the celebrations. India's 'Atmanirbhar' approach of development will give momentum to the development journey of the world, he said. "Five pillars - Freedom Struggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75 and Resolves at 75 - are the guiding force for moving forward," he said. Listing the contributions made by freedom fighters and different incidents related to the freedom struggle, Modi said, "The country has been making a conscious effort for the last six years to preserve this history, in every state and every region. "The revival of the site associated with the Dandi Yatra was completed two years ago. The site where Netaji Subhash (Chandra Bose) hoisted the tricolor in Andaman after the formation of the country's first independent government has also been revived. "The Andaman and Nicobar islands are named after the freedom struggle. Places associated with Babasaheb (Ambedkar) have been developed in the form of Panchatheertha. The memorial in Jallianwala Bagh and Paika movement memorial have also been developed, Modi said. After landing at Ahmedabad airport, Modi drove to Sabarmati Ashram, where he paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi. He also visited Hriday Kunj, the house in the Ashram where Mahatma Gandhi stayed with his wife Kasturba from 1918 to 1930. Modi wrote in the visitors' book that the Mahotsav is a tribute to our freedom fighters and freedom struggle. "By coming to the Sabarmati Ashram and with the inspiration of Bapu, my determination for nation building is strengthened," the prime minister wrote. "Mahatma Gandhi gave the message of atma-nirbharta (self-reliance) and atma-vishwas (self-confidence) from here, Modi wrote. "Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav is a tribute by our people to our freedom fighters and freedom movement. During the celebrations the country will not only remember all the important milestones, important times during the freedom movement but also gain new energy for development of our future," Modi wrote. "I am confident that with the blessings of Bapu, we Indians will follow our duties and achieve the goals set during this Amrut Mohatsav," he added. Modi then went to the venue of the cultural programme adjacent to the Ashram. "Todays #AmritMahotsav programme begins from Sabarmati Ashram, from where the Dandi March began. The March had a key role in furthering a spirit of pride and Aatmanirbharta among Indias people. Going #VocalForLocal is a wonderful tribute to Bapu and our great freedom fighters," Modi tweeted before the launch of the celebrations. "Buy any local product and post a picture on social media using #VocalForLocal. A Charkha will be installed near Magan Niwas at Sabarmati Ashram. It will rotate full circle with each Tweet related to Aatmanirbharta. This shall also become a catalyst for a peoples movement," Modi tweeted before the Mahotsav launch. The Central government has constituted a committee under Union Home Minister Amit Shah to chalk out policies and planning of various events to be undertaken as part of the celebrations. Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani were present at the launch of the celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Kamal Haasan to contest from Coimbatore South constituency||Actor-turned politician Kamal Haasan would make his electoral debut, contesting from Coimbatore South constituency in the April 6 Tamil Nadu assembly elections. The Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president made the announcement here on Friday, releasing the second list of his party's candidates. Remembering his late father Sreenivasan, Haasan expressed confidence that the people of his constituency would enable him to voice his views in the assembly by voting for him. "My father's dream was I should become an IAS officer and then enter politics. Though I could not realise his dream (of becoming an IAS officer), my party comprises many (former) IAS officers. That is a proud moment for us," he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Covid vaccine supply likely to be the focus of first Quad Summit||In their first summit under the Quad framework on Friday, leaders of India, the US, Japan and Australia will deliberate on expanding cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region and focus on a coronavirus vaccine initiative to effectively deal with the pandemic, people familiar with the matter said. They said the virtual summit is expected to delve into pooling in individual strengths by the Quad countries to expedite global vaccine delivery and explore concrete collaboration in supplying safe and affordable vaccines in the Indo-Pacific region. The people said the Quad vaccine initiative will project and reinforce India's credentials as a reliable manufacturer and supplier of the vaccines, reaffirming the country's stature as the "pharmacy of the world". The summit will be participated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US President Joe Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga. Biden is attending the summit less than two months after he took charge as US President. It is learnt that a major deliverable at the summit will be the vaccine initiative under which vaccines against COVID-19 will be developed in the US, manufactured in India, financed by Japan and US, and supported by Australia. The people cited above said the leaders will discuss regional and global issues of shared interest, and exchange views on practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The summit is likely to exchange views on contemporary issues such as post-pandemic recovery, resilient supply chains, emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, and climate change. The four Quad member countries have been resolving to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the region. The foreign ministers of the Quad countries held a virtual meeting on February 18 during which they vowed to uphold a rules-based international order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes. India's approach to the Indo-Pacific was enunciated by Modi in a speech at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore in 2018. Inclusiveness, openness and ASEAN centrality and unity lie at the heart of India's Indo-Pacific vision. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. The foreign ministers of the Quad member nations met in Tokyo on October 6 and reaffirmed their collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The foreign minister of the four countries held their first meeting under the Quadrilateral or Quad framework in New York in September 2019. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. Prime Minister Modi and his Japanese counterpart Suga, during a telephonic conversation on Tuesday, shared the view that cooperation towards realising a free and open Indo-Pacific is becoming increasingly important, the Japanese foreign ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
12-03-2021||India||Netflix asked to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' over inappropriate portrayal of children||The apex child rights body NCPCR has asked Netflix to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' citing inappropriate portrayal of children in the web series. In a notice to Netflix on Thursday, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the OTT platform to furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which it said it will be constrained to initiate appropriate legal action. Objecting to the alleged inappropriate portrayal of children in the series, the commission said this type of content will not only pollute the young minds but may also result in abuse and exploitation of children. The commission took action based on a complaint which alleged that the series normalises minors indulging in casual sex and drug abuse. "Netflix should take extra precaution while streaming any content in respect of the children or for the children and shall also refrain themselves from getting into such things," the commission said in its notice. "Therefore, you are directed to look into this matter and immediately stop streaming of this series and furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which the Commission will be constrained to initiate appropriate action pursuant to the provisions of Section 14 of the CPCR (Commission for Protection of Child Rights) Act, 2005," the commission said. 'Bombay Begums' delves into the lives of five women from different sections of society who all want different things in life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||India registers over 23,000 fresh Covid cases, 117 casualties in a day||India recorded 23,285 cases of coronavirus infection in a day, the highest in around 78 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,13,08,846, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,58,306 with 117 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total active caseload increased to 1,97,237, which now comprises 1.74 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has dropped to 96.86 per cent. On December 24, 24,712 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to1,09,53,303, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,49,98,638 samples have been tested up to March 11 with 7,40,345 samples being tested on Thursday. The 117 new fatalities include 57 from Maharashtra, 18 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. A total of 1,58,306 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,667 from Maharashtra followed by 12,535 from Tamil Nadu, 12,381 from Karnataka, 10,934 from Delhi, 10,286 from West Bengal, 8,741 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,179 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||We need to be in spaces to drive policy: Aishe ||When the CPM announced her candidature for the Bengal polls on Wednesday, Aishe Ghosh had just led a group of students into Jawaharlal Nehru University’s B.R. Ambedkar Central Library and compelled the administration to reopen the reading rooms, closed since the pandemic began. Aishe, president of the JNU students’ union and just over five feet tall, was in the limelight last year when she suffered a deep cut on her forehead from an assault with steel rods by alleged ABVP supporters while leading a campus agitation against a hostel fee hike. The Durgapur native and leader of CPM student arm SFI is now one of a set of young candidates the party has fielded to try and wrest power back from the Trinamul Congress in Bengal. Aishe, 26, is the candidate from Jamuria, West Burdwan. From a varsity known for its disdain for the establishment, she is the first incumbent students’ union president to contest for public office. Her fellow SFI leader from JNU, Dipsita Dhar, is contesting from Bally and has already begun campaigning. Aishe told The Telegraph a realisation was growing that student leaders need to enter electoral politics to have an impact on the lives of students. “Whatever we face on campus is now seen in the context of what is happening outside. Be it the dilution of reservation, the growth of communal forces that led to the disappearance of (JNU student) Najeeb, or budget cuts,” she said. “Inside the university, when we talk of bringing about change, such a change has to be systemic, (involving) policy-level changes. And if there has to be change, we need to be in spaces where we can voice our opinion about what policies there should be.” JNU has been simmering since Aishe joined the School of International Studies for an MA in 2016. That year saw a police crackdown against alleged sedition by some students, and the disappearance of student Najeeb Ahmed after a scuffle with ABVP members. The following years witnessed seat cuts and a range of changes that the students’ union says were aimed at making the university inaccessible to students from marginalised segments and unduly congenial to those who espouse Hindutva. “When I joined JNU in 2016, activism itself was new to me. There were suggestions not to join JNU. Student politics and the political culture were new to me,” Aishe, who had joined the SFI after enrolling at JNU, said. Five years on, she has waded into electoral politics just when she has submitted the first draft of her MPhil dissertation on the “Impact of human intervention in the Tibetan plateau, 1980-2019”. She explained the plunge and the timing: “I know that the organisation I belong to, the SFI, and the party I represent now have an ideology. It’s not my individual view: it’s the organisation that has backed me up in JNU, it’s the party that is now backing me to contest.” After the attack on January 5 last year, Aishe had needed 16 stitches on her forehead and had to endure the false propaganda that her injuries were staged. When she returned home, neighbours came to see if the injury was real. She continues to suffer spells of dizziness. While no one has been arrested for the assault, during which several students and teachers were roughed up, police have accused Aishe of leading a mob that day. She has not yet been chargesheeted. With the self-disregard expected of communists, Aishe told this newspaper her injuries needed to be seen in the context of governments encouraging goons to quell protests. “The violence I have faced personally could have been faced by anybody in this university, and it may increase in the coming days…. Even in Jamuria, if there’s a fee hike the students will fight against it. What happened to me can happen to them if they fight for a government to spend more on education. So what has happened in JNU is not isolated,” she said. “These forces, which have attacked us before, will never be able to break our spirit. I had said back then that the answer to the iron rod will always be iron will, the answer for all kinds of violence will always be alternative policies that we put forward. An idea doesn’t die because of an attack on one person.” Indeed, it’s because violence is so common in Bengal that many students like her have moved out for higher education. Aishe graduated from Delhi University. She spoke of the Bengal she was now returning to. “In some places there is an ‘insider-outsider’ debate, or a Hindu-Muslim divide. The real issue is that a lot of people are forced to migrate. I would have been happy studying back home; we couldn’t because of a certain educational environment. Tomorrow we have to make sure that people are not forced to migrate for jobs or education,” Aishe said. “The idea of homogeneity is problematic. From Durgapur to Calcutta you will find three or four different kinds of Bengalis. We have always celebrated that. Everyone has the right to assert their culture. We can’t let people divide us on ‘insider-outsider’ lines or say that someone’s religion is not acceptable. That is what the front (Left-Congress-ISF alliance) and the Left have to make sure.” Transplanted from a campus of political purity to the realpolitik of allying with a party led by a cleric, Aishe was blunt when asked about the tie-up with Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui and his Indian Secular Front. “He (Siddiqui) is talking about the oppressed, the minorities, Dalits, Adivasis, their condition, education and employment. Not in a single place has he used religious jargon to mobilise people,” Aishe said. “Even on (the JNU) campus we have prioritised the inclusion of the marginalised in education. That priority remains the same in the Assembly elections.” Asked about Siddiqui’s misogynist and polarising utterances in the past, such as those against actress turned Trinamul MP Nusrat Jahan, she replied: “I’m not here to defend that. In the coming days it is for all of us to work towards a society where women are not objectified and are not in the clutches of a patriarchal society.” She added: “We need to go out and vote. I appeal to people to vote for the Morcha. While thinking (about) that, it is (also) very important that the fascist forces are defeated…. On May 2, voters must usher in a government that brings back the Bengal where people have a better standard of living and can hold their heads high.” With that she was off to the library, just like Wednesday, this time to catch up with her reading before she left for Jamuria on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||Congress questions Yogi Adityanath's credentials to hold forth on women’s safety ||The Congress on Thursday questioned the credentials of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to hold forth on women’s safety and law and order while campaigning in election-bound states such as Bengal, contending that the crimes against women under his watch were a blot on civilised society. Referring to the death of a Kanpur man who had lodged a complaint about his daughter’s rape, the Congress also questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the unending horrors of crime against women in Uttar Pradesh and the apathy of home minister Amit Shah who has concentrated his energies on toppling Opposition governments. Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “A very disturbing news from Kanpur — first the rape of a 13-year-old girl, which in itself should shake the collective consciousness of our society, but, what we see after that is even more shameful. Her father is crushed by a moving vehicle and this is a script that gets repeated in Uttar Pradesh. “This is the same thing that had happened in Unnao. The victim was intimidated, her family members were killed one by one to remove evidence and finally BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar was found guilty.” Shrinate added: “It is no surprise to me that the main accused (in the latest Kanpur case) is the son of an Uttar Pradesh police officer but the abject silence of Yogi Adityanath or Amit Shah or Modi is very, very questionable. They are conspicuous by their silence. “Adityanath has the time to go and campaign in West Bengal and talk about crime against women, what about your own track record? What is happening in UP and who is going to be responsible for that? Your information officers, your senior police officers, your MLAs, your ministers, their first attempt is to deny rape; and when they fail to do so, they start assassinating the character of the victim herself.” The Congress demanded the resignation of Adityanath. Campaigning in Bengal’s Malda on March 2, Adityanath had said: “The law and order in Bengal is in a shambles. Cattle rustling and cross-border smuggling have become commonplace and police and the administration do not take steps against criminals…. Even women aren’t spared. Any government that can’t ensure the safety of women and residents of the state as a whole should not be in power even for a day.” The Congress on Thursday urged Modi and Shah, who have been focussing on electoral campaigns, to speak on the situation in Uttar Pradesh. Shrinate said: “Instances after instances — Unnao, Hathras, Barabanki, Shahjahanpur — the kind of political protection that is offered is perhaps the reason for crimes like these and which is why, out of 312 elected BJP MLAs in 2017, 114 face criminal charges and 82 of them, nearly 40 per cent, face grave criminal charges like rape and murder. Can we even expect that people like these will ensure justice?” The Congress also raised issues like the reports of a Swedish bus maker paying bribes, including to an unnamed minister, in India to win bus contracts in seven states between 2013 and 2016, the abnormally high petroleum prices and the global warnings about erosion of democracy in India to caution voters in the election-bound states against trusting BJP propaganda. Referring to the report by the Swedish V-Dem institute classifying India as an “electoral autocracy”, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “India is no longer a democratic country.” Turning to corruption, Srinate said: “The reports of the bus contract scam are indeed very, very disturbing. The Scandinavian government reports point a finger at India’s central government, various ministers, various state governments and even the Prime Minister’s Office. The same Prime Minister who used to speak about probity in public life is today forced to remain silent. He does not even want to talk about this. Allegations are against the highest levels of the government. There are pictures of various ministers, including the Prime Minister, with the management of Scania (the company allegedly involved in bribery).” Showing pictures at the media conference, the Congress spokesperson said: “Modi with the Scania CEO, various pictures are there. There are pictures with surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari. There are also pictures with Vasundhara Raje, who was then the Rajasthan chief minister. With Ravi Shankar Prasad, the law and telecom minister. What is happening? They will have to answer a very basic question, who is responsible for this? “Their absolute silence, their conspicuous silence cannot be ignored and their absolute conspicuous silence is on account of this government’s complicity. There is no other reason why they are silent. Look at these pictures and they tell you a tale of a lot of proximity. They tell you a tale of lack of accountability. We demand a judicial inquiry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||Print, TV platforms’ urge govt to keep them out of new ethics code purview||Digital news platforms linked to print and electronic media houses on Thursday urged the information and broadcasting ministry to keep them out of the purview of the new digital media ethics code. They pointed out that they already come under the Press Council of India and the News Broadcasters Standards Authority (NBSA). The request was made during a videoconference with I&B minister Prakash Javadekar where the ministry noted the request but remained non-committal. Digital-only platforms such as The Wire, Scroll, The Quint, AltNews, The News Minute and Newslaundry — which many see as the main targets of the new ethics code — were not invited for the consultations, and there was no indication from the ministry of there being a separate such interface with them in the near future. According to the ministry, Thursday’s meeting was attended by representatives of ABP, The Times of India, Dainik Bhaskar, Dainik Jagran, Hindustan Times, The Indian Express, India Today, Eenadu and Lokmat, and they welcomed the new code while seeking exemption for themselves. At the meeting, the minister briefed them about the new code, which included a three-tier grievance redress mechanism. While the first two tiers comprise people from the industry, the third tier provides a foothold to the government to step in through an oversight mechanism under the I&B ministry. After the meeting, the Digital News Publishers Association — “a body comprising of top media companies of India” — tweeted: “DNPA thanks the Minister for today’s constructive meet. DNPA made suggestions that preserve freedom of the press and emphasised that all its members are bound by — and follow — the regulations of Press Council of India and/or NBSA.” Jency Jacob of one such independent platform, Boom, tweeted in response to the DNPA’s tweet: “We have read the statement and it’s a shameful one. You asked for exemption while throwing standalone websites under the bus. Not sure why that was needed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||Rising Covid cases highlight need for masks ||India on Thursday recorded over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time in two months amid Maharashtra’s second wave, Punjab’s third wave, and increasing counts in three other states, but continued declines elsewhere. However, health experts believe a second nationwide wave is unlikely without concurrent surges in many more large states. Health authorities recorded 22,854 new Covid-19 cases nationwide — the highest since 20,346 on January 6 — after a near-steady increase in the counts of Covid patients over the past month from 135,000 on February 12 to over 189,000 on March 10. Maharashtra and Punjab are largely driving the epidemic’s current growth. In Maharashtra, the seven-day average daily new cases have increased four-fold — from 2,500 to 10,000 — over the past month. In Punjab, counts have increased six-fold from 200 to over 1,300. “We’re very worried about several districts in Maharashtra. There are lessons for us — don’t take the virus for granted,” said Vinod Paul, a senior pediatrician, chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccines and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. Paul said the surge in Maharashtra and other states underlines the importance of personal precautions such as masks and avoiding crowds and the need for rigorous implementation of standard public health measures such as testing, containment and health system preparedness. “It will also be our suggestion that vaccinations should be intensified and prioritised in districts where cases are on a significant rise,” Paul said. Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 13,659 new Covid-19 cases, more than halfway to its peak count of 24,886 on September 10 during the state’s first epidemic wave. Experts said the current rise represents a second wave in the state and appears driven by laxity in both precautions and public health measures. Punjab’s current rise marks a third wave, after the first in mid-September and a second peak in November. Health officials said Gujarat, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have also shown a steady rise in counts over the past month. “We think Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana are at a tipping point close to a surge,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The daily new cases have more than doubled in the three states since early February. “The states have been told that they need to pull up their socks — increase their tests, increase their surveillance, increase their containment areas. Basically whatever we’ve been doing so far. More of the same but in a more efficient manner,” Bhushan said. Epidemiologists said while the surge in Maharashtra is surprising because the state had consistently reported large numbers of cases since the start of the epidemic in 2020, a nationwide second wave is unlikely without similar surges in other states with large populations. Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal are among the states that have continued to show a decline in the counts of active patients over the past month. In Kerala, the number fell from 64,000 in early February to around 35,000 this week. In Bengal, patient counts decreased from 4,300 to 3,100, while in Uttar Pradesh, the counts declined from 3,200 to 1,600. Community medicine specialists say the key to avoiding a second nationwide wave would be to ensure that surges like the one in Maharashtra do not occur in other states with large populations such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh or Tamil Nadu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||Petition to compensate innocent people jailed for long periods||A petitioner has asked the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the states to provide compensation to innocent people arrested and jailed for long periods, the plea coming amid a spurt in citizens being put behind bars for criticising the government. Wrongful imprisonment, resulting from “gross abuse of power and authority by the State” or from false allegations by citizens, violates a person’s right to life and liberty under Article 21, says the petition, moved on Thursday. “There has been a spurt in false cases. Wrongful prosecution and incarceration of innocent persons with no effective statutory and legal mechanism available... is causing ‘miscarriage of justice’ and has created a black hole in the criminal jurisprudence of our country,” says the petition from Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, an advocate. The petition says: “There are many startling cases which show the gross abuse of power and authority by the State and vexatious complainant(s), which caused absolute ‘miscarriage of justice’ by irreparable damage to right to life, liberty and dignity of innocent citizens in the justice dispensation with no relief given by the courts.” The petition cites how, on January 28 this year, a division bench of Allahabad High Court declared an accused innocent after he had spent 20 years in jail. Vishnu Tiwari had been arrested on September 16, 2000, after being accused of rape and atrocities under the SC/ST Act. While acquitting Tiwari, however, the high court awarded no compensation, the petition says. It has urged the apex court to direct the central and state governments to evolve guidelines for awarding compensation to victims of wrongful prosecution. The petition wants governments to pay compensation even in cases of malicious prosecution by individuals because it is the State’s duty to properly investigate any criminal complaint. Indian law, anyway, has a provision for punishing people who file false cases and forcing them to pay compensation to the victims. The petition underlines that the Law Commission had in 2018 recommended compensation for victims of miscarriages of justice. It complains that the Centre has not implemented it. It has suggested the top court frame the guidelines for compensation and direct the Centre and the states to follow them until the Law Commission recommendations are implemented. The petition has cited the Delhi High Court ruling in Babloo Chauhan vs State Government of NCT of Delhi, which expressed concern at the lack of a legal framework to provide relief to people who are wrongly prosecuted and eventually acquitted after long imprisonment. It was at the behest of this November 30, 2017, ruling that the law panel had gone into the subject and submitted its recommendations on August 30, 2018, the petition says. It recalls that the Supreme Court too had held that compensation can be awarded for violation of Article 21, and that this had led to the award of compensation to some of those wrongly imprisoned. The petition has quoted a Prison Survey of India report that says prisoners awaiting trial continue to outnumber convicts in India’s jails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||Denmark, Norway and Iceland put Astra Covid vaccine on hold ||Denmark, Norway and Iceland on Thursday suspended the use of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine shots following reports of the formation of blood clots in some people who had been vaccinated. A national expert panel in India has begun an exercise to “take a closer look” at the incidence of hospitalisations or deaths after vaccination with Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India by the Serum Institute, an advisor to the panel told The Telegraph on Thursday night. India has not suspended the use of the vaccine. “We’re aware of the temporary suspension by some countries. We’ve initiated an exercise to examine the incidence of hospitalisations or deaths, if any, involving thrombo-embolic (clotting-related) events,” said Narendra Arora, advisor to the national panel on adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). The European medicine regulator EMA said the vaccine’s benefits outweighed its risks and could continue to be administered. Denmark suspended the shots for two weeks after a 60-year-old woman, who was given an AstraZeneca shot from the same batch used in Austria, formed a blood clot and died, Danish health authorities said. Their response was also prompted by reports “of possible serious side effects” from other European countries. “It is currently not possible to conclude whether there is a link. We are acting early, it needs to be thoroughly investigated,” health minister Magnus Heunicke said on Twitter. The vaccine will be suspended for 14 days in Denmark. “This is a cautionary decision,” Geir Bukholm, director of infection prevention and control at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health (FHI), told a news conference. The FHI did not say how long the suspension would last. “We... await information to see if there is a link between the vaccination and this case with a blood clot,” Bukholm said. Iceland on Thursday suspended jabs with the vaccine as it awaited the results of an investigation by the EMA. Italy said on Thursday it would suspend the use of an AstraZeneca batch. Austria had earlier stopped using a batch of AstraZeneca shots. Some health experts said there was little evidence to suggest the AstraZeneca vaccine should not be administered and that the cases of blood clots corresponded with the rate of such cases in the general population. AstraZeneca told Reuters in a written statement the safety of its vaccine had been extensively studied in human trials and that peer-reviewed data had confirmed it was generally well tolerated. In New Delhi, Arora, the national expert panel member, said the Indian exercise would seek to determine whether there had been any spike in thrombo-embolic events among vaccinated people compared with the natural background rate of such events expected in the same age band as those vaccinated. For instance, if the natural background rates for thrombo-embolic events among people aged 60 to 70 is 4 and the panel finds 3 such events occurred among those within that age band who received vaccinations, these would be considered natural. But suppose the panel detects 6 or 7 events, it could demand further investigations. More than 18 million people in India have received Covishield among the 26 million vaccinated across the country so far. The Union health ministry has said that none of the deaths probed so far has been linked causally to the vaccines. Covaxin The Centre has said Bharat Biotech’s indigenously developed Covaxin is out of the “clinical trial mode” and has been granted the regular restricted emergency use authorisation just like Covishield, adds PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||India||Designer’s kin blame BJP govt for suppressing suicide investigation||The family of interior designer Anvay Naik, who allegedly committed suicide in 2018, on Thursday accused the previous BJP-led Maharashtra government of suppressing the investigation. Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and two others were arrested on November 4 last year by Raigad police in connection with the suicide of Naik and his mother over unpaid dues. They were granted bail by the Supreme Court a few days later. Naik’s daughter Adnya and his wife Akshata made the allegation while speaking to reporters at Prabhadevi in central Mumbai. “The previous state government 100 per cent suppressed the case of my father’s suicide and I think there should be an investigation into it,” Adnya said. “The then investigating officer in the case had tried to forcibly take our signature on the case-closing form,” she alleged. Akshata said: “On whose instructions these things were happening? The police should investigate the entire chain behind it. There should be a thorough inquiry of the previous government in connection with the case.” Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said: “We share the family’s grief. However, the apex court has already given its verdict in the Anvay Naik suicide case and cleared the previous BJP-led government from charges of suppressing the investigation.” Akshata said the family had been denied justice. “We are again requesting everyone to give us justice in the case.… One person gets justice within two days and people are transferred only on the basis of suspicion…. Is it that only if you are the richest person of Asia, you will get justice?” Adnya said: “After the arrest of the accused persons, we have been continuously getting threats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee discharged from hospital||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was discharged from state-run SSKM Hospital here on Friday evening after doctors found her recovery to be "satisfactory". Doctors took the decision after the 66-year-old TMC supremo repeatedly requested them to discharge her from the medical establishment. Banerjee, seated on a wheelchair with her left foot plastered, greeted several party activists gathered outside the Woodburn Block of the hospital. She left the hospital in her vehicle for her Kalighat residence. Her nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, party colleagues and state minister Firhad Hakim were present at the medical establishment. "Her condition has improved a lot and she repeatedly insisted on being discharged from the hospital. She will be able to move with restrictions but she needs to come back for another round of check-up within a week," the doctor said. Banerjee fell and suffered severe injuries in her left ankle and foot and right shoulder, forearm and neck after she was allegedly pushed by 4-5 unidentified persons on Wednesday evening during her campaigning in Nandigram seat, from where she is contesting in this assembly election. She was rushed to SSKM Hospital in Calcutta from Purba Medinipur district through a green corridor and was kept under observation for 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||CBI summons Partha Chatterjee in ponzi scam case||The CBI has summoned Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on March 15 in connection with a probe into a ponzi scam pertaining to ICore group of companies, officials said on Friday. Chatterjee, considered close to Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been asked to appear before a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team on March 15, they said. The CBI had registered the case against ICore group which had allegedly raised over Rs 3,000 crore from people by offering high returns on investments and diverted a portion of these funds, defaulting on promised returns, they said. The agency had taken over the probe into the matter in 2014 and registered an FIR ICore E-services under IPC sections related to criminal conspiracy and cheating. The case was registered on the basis of a Supreme Court order in 2014 directing the central probe agency to take over all cases related to chit fund companies that were being probed by the state police. Company directors Anukul Maity and his wife Kanika were arrested by the agency in 2017. Maiti, a prime accused in the ICore E-Services ponzi scam, died at a Bhubaneswar hospital while under judicial custody. Action by the CBI has picked up pace in poll-bound West Bengal. The BJP is leading a vigorous campaign to oust the ruling Trinamool which had secured consecutive wins in 2011 and 2016 under its leader Mamata Banerjee. The agency has already questioned the family members of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee in connection with the illegal coal mining case and summoned two more relatives on March 15 in the case, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Attack on Mamata a conspiracy, TMC delegation tells EC||A TMC delegation met the Election Commission (EC) on Friday and demanded a high-level probe into an alleged attack on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, while claiming that it was not an "unfortunate incident", but a “deep-rooted conspiracy”. The six-member delegation of the Trinamul Congress (TMC) met the full EC team, including Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, for over an hour and submitted a memorandum to it, highlighting how BJP leaders in Bengal had threatened the chief minister through tweets and other remarks. "Injuries to Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram were not a result of an unfortunate incident but that of a conspiracy. The events leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was part of a deep-rooted conspiracy," TMC MP Saugata Roy told reporters after meeting the EC. The delegation comprised Derek O’Brien, Saugata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Satabdi Roy, Pratima and Santanu Sen. In the memorandum, the TMC has made allegations against Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Nandigram in the upcoming state Assembly polls. "When an attempt was made on the life of Ms Banerjee, in which she was grievously hurt, to cover up the attack, eye-witnesses were planted, illustratively, eye-witnesses Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, who testified that Ms Banerjee's car was hit against an iron pillar, are associates of Suvendu Adhikari, BJP candidate from Nandigram," the memorandum says. The TMC boss had suffered injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground after being allegedly pushed by unknown people while campaigning for the assembly elections in Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block at SSKM Hospital. In the memorandum, the members said the “events or actions leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was premeditated and part of a deep-rooted conspiracy,” The Indian Express reported. Explaining about the chain of events, the leaders wrote that on March 8, 2021, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh had posted a caricature on his Facebook page where it was shown that Mamata Banerjee would be “hit” when she visits Nandigram. “Around the same time, numerous complaints were filed by the BJP with the Election Commission of India seeking immediate removal of the erstwhile Director General and IGP of West Bengal and almost immediately and unilaterally, on March 9, 2021, in an abrupt decision, without consultation with the state Government, the ECl removed the erstwhile DGP,” the memorandum added. Reiterating their conspiracy jibe, the TMC leaders said that BJP MP Saumitra Khan, on March 9, had written to Babul Supriyo on twitter that “you will come to know tomorrow after 5pm”. “It clearly indicates that something grave was planned and was in the offing beyond at Nandigram on March 10, 2021,” the leaders wrote. Slamming the police for being equally responsible for the attack on Mamata Banerjee, the leaders said, “The SP and local police were suspiciously absent when an attempt was made on the life of Ms Banerjee, in which she was grievously hurt.” Responding to the eye-witnesses who have claimed that no such “attack” took place and the Chief Minister was hurt when the door of her car hit against a pole, the leaders wrote, “To cover up the attack, eye-witnesses were planted. Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, who testified that Mamata Banerjee’s car hit an iron pillar are associates of Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP candidate from Nandigram.” Saying that the chain of event clearly shows a “nexus between the post by Dilip Ghosh on Facebook, the unilateral decision of the ECI to remove the erstwhile DGP, the plan revealed by Saumitra Khan on Twitter, resultant attempt on the life of Mamata Banerjee and the cover up of the same by Adhikari”, the TMC leaders demanded a thorough and unbiased investigation into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||British Council hosts virtual event for those applying to UK varsities||If you are planning to study in the UK in 2021, you can find answers to all your questions at a virtual event being hosted by the British Council from March 8 to March 19. Study UK Student Connect promises to be a one-stop solution for Indian students and professionals who want to pursue undergraduate or postgraduate courses in the UK in 2021.  Those interested can book exclusive appointments with 10 UK universities, attend live sessions by subject experts and get information about courses, admission process, scholarships, modes of study and more. The participating universities include Brunel University London, Queen Mary University of London, Manchester Metropolitan University, Newcastle University, The University of York, The University of Northampton, The University of Sheffield, University of East Anglia, University of Bristol, and University of Kent. Webinars were held from March 8 to March 12. These will be followed by exclusive meetings with participating universities from March 15 to March 19. Students can also attend seminars conducted by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) on student visas, the new graduate route and the British Council for information on living and studying in the UK and scholarships. Students preparing for the September 2021 admissions are expected to benefit the most. Here is how you can register: All British universities and colleges accept IELTS academic results. Students will not need to take an IELTS for UKVI (Academic). The UK government has announced a new two-year post-study work visa. The visa will be open to all international students who have valid UK immigration status as a student and have successfully completed a course of study in any subject at undergraduate level or above at an approved UK Higher Education Provider. The visa will allow eligible students to work or look for work in any career or position of their choice for two years after completing their studies. The number of Indian students being granted visas for higher studies in the UK increased by a staggering 93 per cent post the visa rule changes, a report released by the UK immigration department in 2020 revealed. For more information on the event visit: https://study-uk.britishcouncil.org/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal theatre group drops actor for joining BJP||A theatre group in West Bengal, known for productions on socio-economic themes, has dropped an artist from one of its plays after the actor joined the BJP. The play being enacted is Saurav Palodhi's Ghum Nei. An  adaptation of the Utpal Dutt classic, it is on the present political situation of the country, seen through the prism of Left ideology. Palodhi had posted on his official Facebook account that the actor, Kaushik Kar, was removed from the production for joining the saffron party. Kar, had been invited by Palodhi's group "Ichcheymoto" in 2019, to play a character whose name had a reference to the man who was lynched at Dadri in 2015 on suspicion of eating beef. Palodhi, known to be a Leftist, posted on Facebook three days back in Bengali, "We are removing Kaushik Kar from Ghum Nei with immediate effect because he has joined the BJP. And that is enough reason to remove him in the present times. There can be no place for communal elements in a play for the working class". The theatre group, he added, would soon announce the date for the next show of Ghum Nei. The post triggered a storm in social media with netizens like Arka Roy saying, "Is it the example of artistic freedom? Democratic right? Can an artist be judged by his Leftist or Rightist leanings? ......It should be left to the person concerned which political party he or she should join. None has the right to interfere." Director Kamaleswar Mukherjee said, "As far as I am concerned, my casting had never been influenced by anyone's political belief or colour." Palodhi said he stood by his decision "as the play is fundamentally against the BJP's ideology and someone associated with that party cannot be a part of Ghum Nei. "Associating Koushik Kar with the production, despite being aware of his current political identity, will be a grave injustice to the spirit of the play and the working class for whom it is meant," he said. Describing the entire episode as a manifestation of "Left-wing Fascism", Kar said, "Only armchair elites, who give lectures on communism with no connect with the masses and are ignorant about the history of progressive cultural movement. can take such a decision. "I am shocked at the unilateral decision."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Attack on Mamata a conspiracy, TMC delegation tells poll panel||A TMC delegation met the Election Commission (EC) on Friday and demanded a high-level probe into an alleged attack on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, while claiming that it was not an "unfortunate incident", but a conspiracy. The six-member delegation of the Trinamul Congress (TMC) met the full EC team, including Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, for over an hour and submitted a memorandum to it, highlighting how BJP leaders in Bengal had threatened the chief minister through tweets and other remarks. "Injuries to Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram were not a result of an unfortunate incident but that of a conspiracy. The events leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was part of a deep-rooted conspiracy," TMC MP Saugata Roy told reporters after meeting the EC. In the memorandum, the TMC has made allegations against Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Nandigram in the upcoming state Assembly polls. "When an attempt was made on the life of Ms Banerjee, in which she was grievously hurt, to cover up the attack, eye-witnesses were planted, illustratively, eye-witnesses Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, who testified that Ms Banerjee's car was hit against an iron pillar, are associates of Suvendu Adhikari, BJP candidate from Nandigram," the memorandum says. The TMC boss had suffered injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground after being allegedly pushed by unknown people while campaigning for the assembly elections in Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block at SSKM Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi working on welfare of nation but Didi taking credit, says Smriti Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Friday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for getting her photos clicked and affixed to posters claiming credit for central schemes started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and wondered whether the people of the state would vote for "such a daughter" who unleashes violence on mothers and masses. Taking a dig at TMCs poll slogan 'Bangla Nijer Meyeke Chai' (Bengal wants its daughter), Irani wondered if the people would want the return of a regime that unleashes political violence on people of the state. "Will the people vote for such a daughter who unleashes violence on an 80-year-old mother? Will you vote for the daughter (whose party) hangs BJP activists? "The people of the state are awaiting 'Asol Poribortan' (real change)," she said. Irani along with her cabinet colleague Dharmendra Pradhan participated in a rally on the way to filing of nomination by Suvendu Adhikari from the high-profile Nandigram assembly seat. Irani assailed the TMC government, saying benefits of the central schemes, including PM-Kisan yojana, could not reach to the poor in the state. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working day and night for the welfare of the masses and Didi is busy clicking photographs by falsely claiming credit for several central schemes. "Didi is changing names of the central schemes and claiming them to be their programmes," she said launching a scathing attack at the TMC supremo who has already filed nomination from the Nandigram constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC betrayed people's trust after coming to power, says Suvendu after filing nomination||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who is pitted against his former protege and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee from the high-profile Nandigram assembly seat, on Friday urged people not to vote for "outsiders", as he flayed the ruling party for betraying the trust of people. Adhikari, who recently became a voter in Nandigram from Kanthi in East Midnapore district, filed his nomination from the seat a short while ago. Adhikari filed his papers at the sub-divisional office in Haldia after leading a-km-long roadshow. "I am 100 per cent confident of my victory in Nandigram. The people of the area are with me. I am the son of the soil," he told reporters. Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Smriti Irani took part in the rally before Adhikari filed the nomination papers. Adhikari, who switched over to the BJP in December, is up against the chief minister who decided to challenge him at his home ground. Adhikari won the Nandigram seat as a TMC candidate in 2016 by bagging over 67 per cent of the votes, defeating his nearest rival of the CPI by a margin of 81,230 votes. Adhikari has been calling himself "bhoomiputra" (son of the soil) and dubbing Banerjee as an outsider in Nandigram as she does not cast her vote there. The feisty Bengal leader who represented Bhowanipore seat in the West Bengal assembly since 2011 has given up her tradition seat in favour of Nandigram. He also asserted that people duped by the chit fund companies in the state would get back their money if the saffron party is voted to power. "If we are voted to power, we would ensure all the duped investors of Chit Fund scam get back their money. The properties seized by ED and CBI would be auctioned to return money to the duped investors. "The Chit Fund scam happened because of the TMC government, their leaders looted public money," he said. He claimed that the Trinamool Congress has turned into a private limited company, where other leaders "neither have a say in policy-making of the party nor in the state government". "Everybody else, apart from the aunt and nephew (Mamata and TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee), are lamp posts in the party," Adhikari said. The Nandigram assembly constituency is set for a high-octane battle with Banerjee deciding to contest from the seat against Adhikari, who recently switched over to the saffron camp from the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata 'stable', responding well to treatment||The health condition of West Bengal Chief MInister Mamata Banerjee, who is nursing injuries suffered during poll campaigning at Nandigram, is stable and her improvement is satisfactory, doctors said on Friday. Banerjee slept well at night and is responding well to treatment, said doctors at the state-run SSKM hospital, where the TMC supremo was rushed to on Wednesday after being allegedly pushed by unknown people while campaigning for the assembly elections in Nandigram in Purba Medinipore district. "Our team will review her condition this morning. They may cut open the temporary plaster on her left leg to see how the injury has healed. A few medical tests might also be conducted," a senior doctor told PTI. The swelling on her left ankle has subsided and she is feeling less pain in her neck, shoulder and waist, he said. "We generally advise patients with similar injuries as that of Banerjee at least three to four weeks of rest," the doctor said. The 66-year-old chief minister will try out different kinds of wheelchairs soon, he added. Asked when Banerjee could be discharged from hospital, the doctor said the team would be assessing her health condition on Friday morning and take a call accordingly. The Trinamool Congress boss had suffered injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground following the alleged attack. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block at SSKM Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC delegation to meet EC today over 'attack' on Mamata||A six-member parliamentary delegation of the Trinamool Congress will meet Election Commission officials in Delhi on Friday over concerns following the alleged attack on TMC supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the party sources said. Six TMC MPs from both the Houses of Parliament have flown to the capital to be part of the delegation which will meet the EC at 12 noon. The delegation comprises Derek O'Brien (Leader, AITC Parliamentary Party, Rajya Sabha), Saugata Roy (MP, Lok Sabha), Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar (MP, Lok Sabha), Satabdi Roy (MP, Lok Sabha), Pratima Mondal (MP, Lok Sabha) and Santanu Sen (MP, Rajya Sabha). A delegation of the party also met poll panel officials in Calcutta on Thursday and later alleged that the "Election Commission did nothing despite there being reports of a possible attack on Banerjee". Claiming that the attack was a "deep-rooted conspiracy to take the life of the TMC supremo", party leaders alleged that anti-social elements have been mobilised from the neighbouring states by the BJP in Nandigram to unleash violence. The EC can't shun responsibility as it is in charge of the law-and-order situation in poll-bound West Bengal, it said. The Trinamool Congress supremo was injured in the leg after being allegedly pushed by unidentified people near a temple at Reyapara area during campaigning at Nandigram on Wednesday, where the BJP has pitted her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari against her. Banerjee alleged that she was pushed by four to five men while she was trying to get into the car, following which she fell flat on her face. The EC on Thursday sent a strongly-worded letter to the TMC on its memorandum over injuries to Banerjee during campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Some people did fall on SUV door that hit CM: Report||The East Midnapore district authorities on Thursday sent a preliminary report to Nabanna on the incident that had left Mamata Banerjee injured on Wednesday, suggesting that the door of the Scorpio that the chief minister had been riding had gone back to hit the chief minister’s left leg after some men had fallen on it. The report has revealed a group of men from among hundreds who were running behind the chief minister’s car at Birulia market in Nandigram on Wednesday evening to catch a glimpse of her had tripped after hitting a four-feet high concrete pole that stood on the 12-feet wide road and fell on the car’s door that she had left ajar while waving at the mass, said sources. “The door, which was heavy since it was a bullet-proof vehicle, went and hit the CM even as she was trying to set her left foot on the ground from her seat in the front. This caused severe injury to her left foot,” an official quoted the preliminary report. The report reached the state secretariat within hours of district magistrate Vibhu Goel and superintendent of police Praween Prakash visiting the Birulia market to inquire about the incident. “This is a preliminary report. The district administration has sought time to send a detailed report,” said a senior official of the home department. The report partly corroborates the version of Mamata, who had said immediately after the incident that four-five men had forcibly slammed the door of the SUV with an intention to injure her. The saffron ecosystem had said the door, which was open, had hit an iron beam and that had resulted in the accident. “The CM’s allegation about conspiracy is not yet proved, but the preliminary report suggests she was partially right,” said a source. The report, according to officials, states hundreds of villagers had started following the chief minister soon after she finished visiting a temple near Birulia market, climbed down four steps of the temple and walked down around 15 feet to get into her car. Mamata boarded her Scorpio without hassle and just as the car started making its way towards her rented accommodation at Reyapara, a huge wave of people kept trailing the car forcing the driver to steer his way very slowly down a 12 feet wide road, said the sources aware of the report. Enthused by the excitement of the swarming mass on either side of the road, the chief minister, seated in the front seat beside the driver, opened the door and kept waving at her followers. At a distance of about 20 feet from where the Scorpio was making its way among the crowd stood a four feet high concrete pole. Villagers have told the police that it was set up to prevent heavy vehicles from entering the road. Some people in the crowd that was running along with the convoy hit the concrete pole having missed it apparently in the darkness of the evening. “A few of them tripped and fell on the door that was left partly open by the chief minister, who was about to step down and had even put her left leg forward. The door hit her left ankle leaving her in excruciating pain. The chief minister had even screamed in pain, which a few shop owners near the site have heard,” the report states. Sources said the top brass of the government would wait for the final report from the district authorities. Ahead of sending a detailed report, the district police have initiated a probe into the incident after drawing up a specific case at Nandigram police station. The police said the detailed probe would try to answer some questions like why there was inadequate police deployment along the VIP’s line of route at Nandigram, why enough civic volunteers weren’t deployed to hold ropes that would keep masses at a bay, how thousands of villagers arrived in front of the convoy when Mamata Banerjee is a Z-category protectee. “There was a clear failure on the part of the local police in handling the crowd and the chief minister could have suffered an even bigger accident,” said an officer of the home department. The Election Commission sought a report from the chief secretary and two special observers deployed in the state on the “incident of attack” on the chief minister by 5pm on Friday. “We didn’t send any report to the EC today (Thursday). But we will definitely send it within the given timeframe,” a senior official said. The chief electoral officer of Bengal and the additional director general of police (law and order) held a video conference with all district magistrates and police superintendents and sent an instruction to tighten security of VVIPs like Prime Minister and the chief minister during their district visits ahead of the polls. The special police observer, Vivek Dube, is scheduled to visit East Midnapore on Friday. “He would hold meetings with the district officials but it has no connection with the inquiry into the incident in which the chief minister was seriously injured,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: EC’s hands-off claim comes under strain||The Election Commission on Thursday sought to deflect blame from the Trinamul Congress on the injuries to Mamata Banerjee by denying that the panel had taken over the law and order machinery in poll-bound Bengal. But the commission’s assertion was challenged by former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Quraishi who pointed out that the “state government has no control over the police once elections are announced”. Trinamul on Thursday wrote to the Election Commission, accusing the poll panel of acting at the behest of the BJP and pointing out that an “attack on the life” of the chief minister had taken place within 24 hours of the Bengal police chief being shifted by the EC. “We told the EC that as soon as they took responsibility, changed the additional director-general (law and order), then the director-general (of state police), unilaterally. Within 24 hours of the DG being changed, an attempt was made on the life of the chief minister,” said Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee, summarising the content of the letter from the party to the commission. “Deliberate transfers at the top echelons of the police administration on the instruction and at the behest of the BJP have been leaving a serious destabilising impact on the state administration,” he added. The Election Commission’s response to the Trinamul letter was scathing, saying it was “full of insinuations and averments” and it would be “undignified” to react to the ruling party’s allegations. “…it is rather unfortunate that the Memorandum (the Trinamul letter) in question is full of insinuations and averments, which in fact questions the very basis of creation and functioning of the Election Commission,” read Nirvachan Sadan’s letter, signed by Rakesh Kumar, a secretary, and sent to Trinamul. “It is completely incorrect to suggest that the commission has taken over the law and order machinery in the state in the name of conducting elections and appropriated the whole governance structure,” the commission said. “This virtually tantamounts to undermining the very foundation and fabric of the Constitution of India, the most sacrosanct document in any democratic polity,” the poll panel said. The commission does not appropriate or take over the day-to-day governance of any state, including West Bengal, which keeps on functioning, it noted. “It looks undignified even to respond to the allegations of all this being done on the behest of a particular political party, etc,” the commission added. However, Quraishi, the former poll panel chief, tweeted later: “State government has no control over the police once elections are announced. Every policeman from DGP to the last constable stands transferred to EC. EC transfers/suspends all those against whom there are complaints of corruption or partisanship.” The Election Commission added in its letter:  “The life and security of person of Hon’ble CM and home minister, West Bengal, needs to be duly protected by all tasked with the maintenance of law and order machinery of West Bengal.” Several seniors in Trinamul said the party would formally issue its response on Friday, after a delegation of six MPs meet the top brass of the commission at the Nirvachan Sadan in New Delhi. “But the wording of the commission’s letter is most unfortunate. It seems like it was drafted by a political party. We have been dealing with the EC for decades. It did not come across as so heavily compromised till 2019,” said a senior Trinamul MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: two Left allies break away in Malda||Two Left Front constituents — the RSP and All India Forward Bloc — in Malda have decided to walk out of the Congress-Left Front-ISF alliance and field candidates in nine Assembly seats of the district left for the Congress. The CPM will contest three of 12 Assembly seats in the district — Englishbazar, Habibpur and Gazole — and the Congress nine, a decision that angered the two Left Front allies which asked for but did not get seats. Srimanta Mitra, Malda Forward Bloc secretary, said: “In 2016, we fought against the Congress in Harischandrapur, a seat we had till 2011. We were ready to give up our claim to Harischandrapur, but wanted another seat from Congress. We were overlooked. Party workers want to teach the Congress a lesson by contesting in four seats.” The RSP said they would field candidates in five seats with Congress nominees in the fray. The RSP sought one seat but was denied, said its district secretary Sarbananda Pande. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the party had won a seat in the district. “It is disappointing that neither the state Left Front not the Congress agreed to it (the demand for one Assembly seat). There might be an alliance in the state level but in Malda we will field our candidates against Congress in five seats,” said Sarbananda Pande, the district RSP secretary of Malda. Such a stance by allies has left the district CPM and Congress leaders perplexed. Ambar Mitra, the district CPM secretary, said they would hold talks with the disgruntled allies while Congress leaders said the matter has to be settled within the Left Front. “We no comments,” said Kalisadhan Roy, a district Congress leader. The decision, observers said, can help Mamata Banerjee’s party in the district. In Malda, they said, the saffron camp is trying to polarise votes in around five Assembly seats. “In the remaining seven seats of the district where there is high concentration of minorities, the BJP lacks major support base. In these seats, a split of votes among the Left and Congress can help Trinamul,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Injured Mamata lands BJP in quandary ||BJP’s Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari was busy in his constituency on Thursday hopping from one place of worship to another, but he was conspicuous in his silence over his rival and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s injury suffered during a public outreach programme at Birulia Bazar in the constituency on Wednesday evening. The silence of Suvendu, who had been otherwise consistent in his attack on Mamata at all his public programmes, was eloquent and a section in the BJP linked it to the diktat from the party’s central leadership on how to respond to the incident. “Suvenduda went to the Tilakeswar temple in Sonachura and Mahadev temple in Parulbari, beside a few other temples in Nandigram. Journalists present on these sites asked him about Mamata’s injury multiple times, but all he said was ‘Om Shanti’,” a source close to the BJP leader said. The source also added that Suvendu’s silence was a deliberate strategy. “He has been in an all-out attacking mood. He has gone after Mamata and mocked her on every occasion. If he reacted in a similar manner after her accident, it wouldn’t have gone down well with the electorate,” the close aide to Suvendu added. Throughout the day, the former member of Mamata’s cabinet did not hold political programmes and kept himself busy with religious events related to Mahashivratri event, which was celebrated on Thursday. Suvendu’s silence, a source close to him said, was because of a dilemma on whether attacking Mamata would result in generating sympathy for her and that’s why he chose to follow the Delhi diktat for the time being. The fact that the saffron camp is in two minds on what the right way to handle the issue of Mamata’s injury should be was evident in the statements made by state BJP leaders in Calcutta as well. While a section of the leaders attacked Mamata for “enacting a drama to gain sympathy before the polls”, another section clearly steered clear of politicising the issue. A source in the BJP said Union home minister Amit Shah had asked state party leaders to refrain from making derogatory comments on the incident. However, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh appeared to be unaware of Shah’s instructions. “She had no way to return from Nandigram. That is why she created this drama…She will lose Nandigram and lose all of Bengal,” Ghosh told journalists. Ghosh went on to say Mamata had been instigating her supporters against the BJP by making false claims. “We don’t want to politicise the issue either. But, if she is telling lies and playing political games from one side, why won’t the others play politics too?” Ghosh added. Seven posts related to the incident have been made on the official Twitter handles of Bengal BJP since Thursday night. Most of the posts carry videos where eyewitnesses have claimed that no one pushed Mamata intentionally and what happened was at best “an accident” and not a conspiracy. Invoking politics, all these posts suggested that Mamata had blamed the people of Nandigram and brought disrepute upon them. BJP’s IT cell chief and co-minder for Bengal Amit Malviya tweeted a video that shows two statements from Mamata — one on Wednesday just after the accident when she had said there was a conspiracy behind the incident and another which she had issued from the hospital on Thursday, where she didn’t talk about any plot — and pointed out her alleged contradiction. “We wish Pishi a fast recovery. But it is amusing to see her contradict her own ‘attack’ theory and attribute the injury to a mishap, while campaigning, in less than 24 hours!” he tweeted. Another Trinamul turncoat and BJP MP Arjun Singh had said Mamata was trying to gain sympathy through her drama. Sources in the saffron camp said the BJP’s dilemma on how to handle the issue became evident when chief spokesperson for the party, Samik Bhattacharya, along with party colleague Tathagata Roy, visited SSKM Hospital in Calcutta on Thursday. The leaders, who were greeted with “go back” slogan by Trinamul workers present there, had to return without meeting Mamata as minister Arup Biswas told them that doctors had advised her total rest. Later in the day, BJP MP Locket Chatterjee went to the hospital but had to return without meeting the injured chief minister. “We wish her a speedy recovery and want the matter to be investigated. We will not politicise the issue and this is the party’s official stand,” said Samik when asked why leaders from his party were reacting differently to Wednesday’s incident. He added that a BJP team met the chief electoral officer (CEO) on Thursday seeking an investigation into the incident. “We have also written to the CEO and urged him to order a detailed inquiry into the matter. We have also said that the video footage of the incident must be made available in the public domain,” Bhattacharya added questioning how the incident might have taken place when the director and additional director, security, were both present at the site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||CM injury fallout: Trinamul, BJP clash in Nandigram||Political tension returned in Nandigram, the hotbed of land agitations from 2007 to 2010, after more than a decade on Thursday, with Trinamul and BJP workers scuffling at Birulia Bazar, the site where chief minister Mamata Banerjee was injured on Wednesday evening. A group of BJP workers led by party’s district vice-president Pralay Pal reached Birulia Bazar on Thursday around 10am to protest Mamata’s claim that she was “attacked” as part of a conspiracy. Pal said: “The chief minister had been injured when the door of her car (SUV) hit an iron pillar installed to stop large vehicles from plying in the locality. But she is crying conspiracy to play the victim card.” A preliminary police report on the incident did not cite any such structure, but instead the presence of a concrete pole on the road because of which some men supposedly tripped and fell on the door of the chief minister’s SUV, which flung back to injure Mamata. While Pal was speaking to his supporters, Trinamul leader Prabhakar Bera reached the venue with around 500 party workers and sloganeered against the BJP, accusing the saffron camp of being involved in the attack on Mamata. “As the two sides raised slogans against each other, the situation went beyond control and the political rivals started scuffling,” said a villager present at Birulia Bazar. The police were outnumbered by angry political workers. BJP workers asked the police to come out with the “truth” and their Trinamul counterparts demanded the arrest of those who had slammed the door of Mamata’s SUV. Sources said agitations and roadblocks by the BJP and Trinamul were reported from at least a dozen points, including Sonachura and Gokulnagar, the site of the death of 14 persons in police firing in 2007. Reyapara and Tengua also erupted in protests with BJP and Trinamul processions. Trinamul leaders in Reyapara, where Mamata has rented a house for her stay during the poll campaign, took out a protest rally accusing the BJP of injuring their leader. “It was a planned move to stop Mamata from campaigning as the BJP knows that they will lose the polls,” said Abu Taher, deputy chief of Nandigram-I panchayat samity. Taher said it was tough to identify the culprits of Wednesday’s “attack”. “Many Trinamul workers have switched sides and are working for BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. Tough to say who were involved in the attack on Didi.” Some villagers present at Birulia Bazar on Wednesday, said on Thursday that it was tough to make out what happened as it was dark and crowded. Sporadic clashes on Thursday reminded violence-wary villagers of Nandigram about their tryst with land protests. Veterans in Nandigram said apart from stray clashes, Nandigram has been peaceful since Mamata took over as chief minister in 2011. Farmer Rabin Pradhan, 61, said they’d seen how violence can destroy a region. “Let votes and not clashes decide who wins the polls.” Fourteen people had died on March 14, 2007, when police had opened fire on villagers protesting against the acquisition of land by the then Left Front government to set up a chemical hub in Nandigram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Job focus in ‘inclusive’ Left draft manifesto||The Left Front on Thursday released a draft election manifesto with the aim to reach out to young voters with promises of extensively dealing with their demands of jobs. It is for the first time the Left Front released a draft manifesto for public circulation. “We want all stakeholders and the common man to share their views on the manifesto. We will scrutinise and try to accommodate these opinions in the final manifesto without harming the spirit of the Left Front,” CPM politburo member Md Salim said. The draft has been shared with allies Congress and Indian Secular Front in the Sanjukta Morcha. “They may have their own manifestos. We want commonality in all three documents. The Sanjukta Morcha will later issue a joint appeal,” Salim added. Learning a lesson from the harrowing experiences of migrant workers during last year’s lockdown, the draft promises a separate department to deal with expatriate and migrant workers. “...Our entire campaign and outreach programmes have been woven around the issue of unemployment. This includes (issues such as) lack of appointments by state and union governments, non-creation of jobs and privatisation of public entities that led to job loss,” said Salim. The draft says the Left Front-led government will complete appointments in vacant government and semi-government posts, including those in educational institutes, within a year. It also speaks of easy loans to rejuvenate micro, small and medium industries. The document specifies that if it comes to power  in Bengal it will neither allow the implementation of Centre’s three farm bills nor the CAA. It says the APMC Act passed by the incumbent state government will be dismissed, since it is allegedly in line with the Centre’s farm bills. The draft is cautious in its land acquisition policy, indicating that it has the Singur and Nandigram movements in mind. “Land will be acquired after creating consensus...and keeping in mind environmental aspects. The land-giver families will be given profitable payment...At least one member of the family will have to be trained and employed in such cases,” the manifesto reads. The Left Front promises to guarantee 150 days of employment in the rural sector in place of the current 100 days. It assures a hike in minimum wage from Rs 400 to Rs 700 a day or Rs 21,000 a month. Workers of shut factories will get a monthly stipend of Rs 2,500 and affordable ration. The draft promises rice at Rs 2 a kilo or 35kg a month for every poor family. The Left promises to spend 20 per cent of the state budget on education and make government healthcare free. In a first of its kind, the Left Front manifesto speaks of the welfare of the LGBTQA+ community. The physically impaired will get a monthly stipend hike — from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000. The Centre will be asked to share half of its total earnings in terms of taxes and clear GST arrears, it adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Learning setback for individuals with special needs||The 11-month stay at home owning to the pandemic has made many children and individuals with special needs more “dependent” on people around them and in some cases their “learning” has suffered, said psychologists and special educators. Some of the centres are reopening for shorter hours and for individualised therapies and the discomfort of children settled in the home environment is apparent. “In school or centres, children or individuals with special needs are under constant guidance. We feel that we are now having to restart again because a lot of unlearning of life skills have taken place during this period,” said Sudeshna Chowdhury, principal of Bhabna Child Development Centre that caters to individuals with autism and intellectual disabilities. Chowdhury said that there has been a change in toilet training, sitting and eating habits. “Those who are non-verbal would show through signs that they need to to go the washroom but now they need support. Also, since their sitting habits have suffered it is becoming difficult to do activity-based therapy,” she said. Parents also said many individuals with special needs did not want to go to centres. “My son has to go for two hours in the afternoon...but he has been resisting going to the centre,” said a father whose son is autistic. Psychologists have not just noticed changes in individual habits but also in attitudes. “We are noticing that individuals have become more dependent on their parents or guardians and they are unable to think on their own. There is a lack of drive,” said Ishita Sanyal, psychologist and founder of NGO Turning Point. Sanyal said ever since they have reopened for reduced hours parents prefer to wait and take the individuals back with them. “While we are doing activities with them we see many are looking at their parents’ who are waiting in the balcony for help or prompting even for simple activities,” said Sanyal. Not all schools or centres have reopened yet. Some of them that have opened are providing individual therapies or at the request of parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Taming hill firefighting minus water||Around a hundred youths from Purulia have come together to douse fire raging on Ayodhya hills “without water” since the past few days after the district administration and forest department officials last week admitted the proposition to control the flames was difficult in the absence of enough water. Social media platforms have been been flooded with pictures of Ayodhya hills, which is a popular tourist and trekking destination in Purulia, burning for the past seven days. A group of district administrative officials and police officers who responded with a visit to the site last week, spoke about the difficulties of bringing the situation under control. “We visited the spot but could do little to douse the flames because Purulia is a water-scarce district and we don’t have adequate water up there (in the hills),” a police officer said. After this, a group of youths — including teachers, students, social workers, and environment lovers — formed a WhatsApp group “Save Ajodhya Hills” last Sunday to gather volunteers and tackle the fire. Their method is based on common sense — clearing as much as possible the dry leaves and branches that serve to fuel the existing fire. “We first visited the spots and found we couldn’t put off the fire because of lack of water in the hills. So, we made a passage and cleared dry leaves and branches from burning trees. We know it is tough but we have been successful in dousing the fire in at least five points. Our volunteers are moving to various spots to contain the spread of fire without using water,” said Durgadas Mahanty, one of organisers of the group and a high school teacher from Purulia’s Balarampur. The group also consists of students like Tarun Mahato, who is studying at Sidho Kanhu University, Ajay Bhagat, cyclist and nature lover, and many villagers who reside near Ayodhya hills. Sources said the effort of the group and several others, including members of the CPM’s youth wing DYFI, have helped to contain the intensity of the fire. “Though there are places where the fire is still raging the intensity is far less than what it was seven days ago. Ayodhya hills is not a dense forest like those in Uttarakhand. Therefore, the ploy to clear dry leaves from near the burning trees worked to contain and eventually douse the fire at many spots,” said a DYFI member who also acknowledged a few forest department workers who had joined them in their effort. “We have tried our best to contain the fire in some areas but it needs larger effort from the administration to completely douse the flames,” said Shyamal Mahato , DYFI secretary in Purulia. Forest department officials said that it was impossible for them to douse a forest fire without proper infrastructure. “Our teams did try, but taming a forest fire needs a larger effort such as using helicopters to spray water on flames,” said a forest official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Seven dead in 2 mishaps on NH12||Seven persons, including two schoolboys, were killed in two separate road accidents on NH12 in Murshidabad’s Suti and Beldanga on Thursday. In the first accident, where five persons killed, an SUV (a Scorpio) overturned and was hurtled across the four-lane NH12 in Suti’s Dhalla More around 1pm on Thursday when its right wheel came off, and the SUV careened diagonally to ram into an e-rickshaw with 10 occupants, the passengers all migrant workers on their way home to Malda from Baishnabnagar. Both the occupants of the SUV, including the driver, were reportedly killed on the spot along with three occupants of the e-rickshaw. The deceased were identified as SUV driver Azfarul Sheikh, 25, and his friend Feroze Sheikh, both from Suti, e-rickshaw passengers Nikhil Mondal, 50, Nirvan Mondal, 35, and Subodh Mandal, 40. Sources said the group of nine labourers had reserved the Toto to go home after a month of heavy labour in Baishnabnagar. Seven others in the e-rickshaw were admitted to Jangipur subdivisional hospital with serious injuries. “An unnatural death case has been started and we are awaiting post-mortem results,” said Jangipur superintendent of police Y. Raghuvamshi. In Thursday’s other accident, a goods truck toppled over when it tried to avoid a speeding motorbike that had rushed past it in Beldanga's Mirzapur village. The toppled truck landed on a tea stall, killing two of the four schoolboys who had been playing beside it. The truck, which was headed towards Behrampore, was travelling on NH12. The truck driver fled. Sources said the deceased were identified as Selim Sheikh, 12, a Class VII student at Mirzapur High School, and Iraq Hossain, 8, a Class II student at Mirzapur primary school. Two other children and the biker were rushed to Murshidabad Medical College for treatment. The toppled truck blocked one of the flanks of NH12 for at least two hours creating a huge traffic snarl on the highway. Superintendent of police of Murshidabad K. Sabari Rajkumar said a case of unnatural death had been started and the truck impounded. “We will find the truck driver soon,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul worker shot at in Malda, blame on BJP||A Trinamul Congress worker was shot at by a group of miscreants at Alampur under Gazole police station in Malda district on Wednesday night. Bifal Mandal has suffered an injury to the right leg and is under treatment at the Malda Medical College and Hospital. Trinamul leaders accused the BJP of attacking Mandal, who hails from Raniganj in Gazole. He had been to Alampur on a personal errand. Local BJP leaders were mounting pressure on the injured worker to join their party in the past few days and attacked him for rejecting the proposal, Trinamul alleged. While returning home, Mandal was intercepted by a group of armed youths, who, according to him, had asked him to quit Trinamul and start working for the BJP. “As I refused to give in, the miscreants, who were on two-wheelers, opened fire at me. They fired at least five rounds and a bullet hit my right leg. Some locals, who heard the firing, came out. I also shouted for help. Then, the assailants fled,” said the injured Trinamul worker. “We want immediate arrest of all those who were involved in the attack. That the BJP is desperate to win the elections by any means is evident from the incident,” said Dulal Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader in Malda. The saffron camp, however, rejected the charges. Kajal Kundu, a BJP leader based in Gazole, said the incident was the fallout of the factionalism in Trinamul. “Some Trinamul leaders are trying to save their face by blaming us,” he said. Mandal was initially taken to a local health centre and later to the Malda Medical College and Hospital. Doctors said he was in a stable condition and was under observation. Acting on a tip off, Bansihari police in South Dinajpur have arrested seven persons who are suspected to be members of a gang that had planned a robbery on Wednesday night. Monojit Sarkar, the inspector-in-charge, said the gang members had assembled near a petrol pump in Narayanpur area. The police team went there and nabbed them. An improvised firearm, one round of live cartridge and some sharp weapons have been recovered from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||West Bengal||BSF seizes 1kg gold from Kaijuri, one held ||BSF jawans nabbed a civic police volunteer from Kaijuri in North 24-Parganas on Thursday for allegedly smuggling gold into Bangladesh. The Border Security Force seized around 1kg (998 grams) of gold from the accused civic police volunteer, Mofijur Rehman, 32, who is attached to Swarupnagar police station in North 24-Parganas. A BSF spokesperson for south Bengal frontier in Calcutta put the approximate market value of the seized gold at around Rs 47.10 lakh. Mofijur, a resident of Chithuri-Balti village in Swarupnagar, was handed over to customs authorities at Tentulia and later to police who registered his arrest and began a probe. BSF sources said after receiving a tip-off from the intelligence wing of the border force, a surveillance team of the 153 battalion intercepted Mofijur as he was approaching the Bangladesh border near Kaijuri riding a motorcycle. “During frisking, our personnel found a solid piece of gold in a pocket of his trouser. During the preliminary interrogation, he revealed his identity and confessed that he was scheduled to hand over the gold to a person in Basirhat,” a BSF spokesperson said. In another development, the BSF handed over two minor boys to the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) authorities. The two boys had allegedly sneaked into the Indian territory to collect wheat bran. The BSF authorities said the boys, both aged 12 and residents of Damarhuda in Bangladesh, had been engaged by a person to collect the wheat bran but were caught by a surveillance team of the force at Rangiapota in Nadia’s Chapra on Wednesday afternoon. “We were approached by the BGB authorities after their parents appealed for help. We considered their request and handed over the two minor boys to them but at the same time, insisted that they take action against the persons who had engaged the boys to collect wheat bran sneaking into the Indian territory,” a BSF spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||North East||Congress flags off '5 guarantee' Yatra in Assam||The Congress on Thursday launched a state-wide campaign to generate awareness about the five guarantees it had promised to the people of Assam if voted back to power in the three-phase polls starting March 27. The “Congress’ 5 guarantee” Yatra was flagged off by Jitendra Singh, AICC general secretary in charge of Assam, along with Congress campaign committee chairman Pradyut Bordoloi and manifesto committee chairman Gaurav Gogoi from Jagiraod with a bike rally to Morigaon in central Assam’s Morigaon district. AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi had on March 2 announced the five guarantees at a poll rally in Tezpur in an attempt to reach out to voters of all sections, especially the youth, women and tea garden workers. The guarantees included a legislation that curbs the operation of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, generation of five lakh government jobs; raising tea workers’ daily wage to Rs 365, free electricity up to 200 units per household, and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives. The five-guarantee yatra is the Congress’s second state-wide rally after its Come, Save Assam Yatra. On Friday, Gogoi will flag off the guarantee rally from Tezpur while All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev will do it from Silchar. Bordoloi told the participants of the rally that they were not making promises but were offering guarantees to fulfil the commitments they had announced after carefully studying the financial and economic health of the state. The Congress is contesting the polls in alliance with seven parties, including the All India United Democratic Front and the Bodoland People’s Front. The ruling BJP, too, has scaled up its campaign. On Wednesday evening, it launched its campaign songs, videos, plays, posters and banners that will be used across the state to woo voters. The launch was attended by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, Union minister of state (independent charge) development of north eastern region Jitendra Singh and BJP’s former Delhi unit president and singer Manoj Tiwari. A total of 281 candidates have filed their nominations for the first phase of election on March 27 covering 47 of the 126 Assembly seats in the state. The second and third phases will be held on April 1 and 6, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
12-03-2021||Opinion||Clear it up: reservations in India||The issue of reservations has long lost its clearer contours, although the 1992 Indra Sawhney versus Union of India case, known as the Mandal judgment, had endowed it with some. The Supreme Court’s reported question, whether another look at the 1992 ruling may have become necessary because of Constitutional amendments, court judgments and changed social dynamics, itemizes some of the factors that have resulted in the uneven history of quotas in India. It is a history of confusing, sometimes apparently contradictory, precedents, tussles among different groups and their political manipulation for votes, of the ‘creamy layer’, of the place of merit and of the ever-expanding sphere of quotas, from education to jobs to promotions. This time the Supreme Court was sitting on the issue of reservations for Marathas in Maharashtra in education and jobs that would breach the 50 per cent cap on reservations laid down in the Indra Sawhney case, with exceptions for extraordinary circumstances. Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Telangana have crossed 50 per cent already — Tamil Nadu’s case is awaiting judgment. Reservations were introduced as a kind of affirmative action for those historically oppressed and made outcasts, and they undoubtedly have had visibly positive results in many cases. But politicization has eroded the best effects. Instead of time-bound, carefully monitored reservations for each group, especially so that the most underprivileged in each group can access quota benefits, reservations have kept on growing in scope and sphere so that politicians can satisfy specific constituencies. The courts, too, have not been consistent in their rulings on the numerous issues that have sprung up since 1992. It has to be asked if there is more discontent, more caste consciousness, more sense of deprivation on one side and dependence on quota benefits on the other than a gradual levelling of educational and employment fields and erasure of social differences resulting from the political misuse of reservations. Revisiting the 1992 judgment to reconsider the ceiling and exceptional circumstances can be fruitful and just, but only if the data on benefits, achievements and deprivations are laid out, and the administration of quotas — giving them a time-frame with scheduled reviews, for example — is considered. The messiness surrounding the quota question suits all politicians. It is urgent to clear it up, so that the reservations policy has its intended effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
12-03-2021||Opinion||Slip shows: India now an 'electoral autocracy'||Democracy is supposedly the very antithesis of autocracy. Ideally, what distinguishes democracy from a totalitarian polity is free and fair elections. In a worrying development, the traits that distinguish free societies from those in shackles seem to be merging. Thus, distinctly authoritarian regimes that impose restrictions on fundamental freedoms are borrowing the fig leaf of unfettered polls to keep up with the charade of democracy. India’s anointment as an ‘electoral autocracy’ by the Varieties of Democracy Institute, which assesses democratic conditions on the basis of a wide range of parameters, is indicative of this global regression. India registered a precipitous decline — by as much as 23 percentage points — between 2013 and 2020, to be bracketed, along with Hungary, Brazil and Turkey, as an ‘autocratizing’ nation. The largest ‘democracy’ in the world has, according to this report, accomplished several other feats: in matters of censorship, India, to cite one example, performed as ruthlessly as Pakistan, something that Narendra Modi’s muscular government would perhaps contemplate on. V-Dem’s findings are consistent with other contemporary international inferences on the quality of democracy prevailing in India: Freedom House designated India to be ‘partially free’ recently. The erosion of freedoms in India seems to be consistent with the retreat of liberal democracies around the world. Mr Modi’s government, unsurprisingly, has contested such reports repeatedly. But it cannot deny that the signs of authoritarianism are too stark to be wished away. The Indian media are facing an unprecedented crisis with large segments of the fourth estate having turned into cheerleaders of the government. The handful of independent voices that remain in this fraternity are being silenced with the help of legal instruments such as sedition and defamation. Civil society members, those who have the courage to speak truth to power, are being incarcerated. False narratives curated by the powers that be, polarization of the citizenry, the weakening of the secular ethic and targeted discrimination of minorities — some of the other facets of an emerging autocracy — are at play as well. Institutions that serve as the bulwark of democracy must regain their spirit and purpose for India to arrest its slide. But such an awakening looks unlikely unless citizens themselves take up the cudgel for the sake of democracy. Otherwise, India’s claim of being a democratic entity would soon be taken with a generous pinch of salt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
12-03-2021||Opinion||Hit the brakes: election-oriented budget||In her budget speech, the Union finance minister talked about highway projects in the election-bound states of West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu for which Rs 25,000 crore, 65,000 crore and 1,03,000 crore, respectively have been announced. Taken together, these projects are worth Rs 1,90,000 crore. In comparison the budget allocation for the entire ministry of road transport and highways is just Rs 1,18,101 crore in 2021-22. Similarly, the Bengal government has also announced many huge flyovers all over Calcutta and a large network of roads and bridges all across the state. But the total allocation for the next financial year is only about Rs 3,000 crore. It is anybody’s guess how long it will take to complete all these projects. The Union budget has also announced construction of three new dedicated freight corridor projects — for two of these work was initiated some 15 years back but only 50-60 per cent of it has been completed. The budget speech also indicates that work on the third has not yet started. This is not just a current trend. A government announces projects to suit its political priorities, but when the government changes, new projects are announced and old projects get little attention, but still some money is spent to keep those projects alive. Interestingly, in the railways sector, the oldest pending project is in West Bengal — the 109 km-long line between Howrah and Furfura Sharif announced in the rail budget of 1974-75. According to the ministry of statistics and programme implementation, on December 31, 2020, there were 1,695 ongoing Central government projects costing Rs 150 crore or more. While more than Rs 12,00,000 crore has already been spent on them, more than 13,00,000 crore is needed to complete these provided there is no further cost escalation, which is unlikely. Before making new announcements, the government should have considered these funding commitments too. Railways and roads are the two sectors that have seen maximum delays and cost overruns as these sectors are also most affected by political populism. Essentially, governments launch too many infrastructure projects without considering cost and time. Construction of many projects simultaneously involves substantial direct and indirect costs and reduced returns and life of these projects. Compare two scenarios — the government announces 15 projects in a year and takes 15 years to complete all of them. Alternatively, the government can announce one project a year and complete all of them in 15 years. The second scenario is much more beneficial. Now imagine a project of metro railways constructed on an elevated corridor. If the life of such a corridor is 50 years, and if such a railway takes 15 years to build, then the stretch that has been constructed in the first year will become unusable after 35 years after the project is completed. So the effective life of the project will become just 35 years instead of 50 years had the entire project been built in one year. Moreover, repairs will be needed even before the project is completed. This is one of the reasons why delayed projects experience cost escalations. Another adverse consequence of starting too many projects at a time and delayed projects is that quality control suffers. Most such projects are constructed by private contractors under the supervision of some government department or agency, which have limited human resources for supervising a large number of construction activities spread over the whole country or state. The collapses of under-construction flyovers or newly constructed bridges are examples of such deficiency in supervision. One can see long stretches of metro tracks under construction in several parts of Calcutta. None knows when these will be completed. While the delay is partly due to difficulty in getting land, it is also owing to poor allocation of funds. But these constructions are causing great inconvenience in terms of traffic congestion, higher transport costs, longer time taken to travel, more pollution as well as a negative impact on economic activities. There is a strong case for putting a brake on announcements of such projects which should be launched only after proper planning and not owing to political exigencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
12-03-2021||Opinion||Moving forward||Coincidentally, I wrote in these pages last month on the forthcoming 20th anniversary of the Agra summit. The February 25 joint announcement of the Indian and Pakistan militaries on an agreement to enforce the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control was certainly as much of a surprise as the invitation from the then prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, to General Pervez Musharraf to visit India for a summit meeting two decades earlier had been. Much like the situation before the Agra summit, the current agreement comes at the end of a long and particularly tense period. Major terrorist attacks (Uri, Pulwama) and strong Indian military responses (surgical strikes, Balakot) were one aspect of the period from 2016 to 2020. Alongside, the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories and legislative changes with regard to Article 370 led to a super-charged public opinion and a diplomatic storm in Pakistan. The net result — and even before the pandemic had consolidated its hold in South Asia — was a closure of trade and cross-border movement of people, a virtual freeze of cultural contacts, and a substantive reduction in the level and size of the respective diplomatic representation in either country, along with a host of other negatives. There were, alongside, regular exchanges of fire, often fierce with high-calibre weapons, along the LoC. The ceasefire of 2003 seemed buried pretty comprehensively. In the India-Pakistan context, diametrically opposed and entrenched positions are hardly new. Even so, the position by the end of 2020 seemed especially chronic. Pakistan’s stance was one of ‘nothing doing’ until the restoration of Article 370 as well as a rolling back of the legislative changes of August 2019. In India, the government and a significant section of the public seemed to have firmly coalesced to the position that ‘terror and talks cannot go together’. Démarches and polemics constantly ricocheted off each other in what now appeared to be — some feared, others hoped — a new normal in India-Pakistan relations. So when the joint announcement of February 25 came, the bemusement among many was inevitable. Diehards on both sides married to the elusive grail of consistency pointed to the abandonment of principle and a maverick approach. Thus, some in India wonder if the latest step forward is a harbinger of other initiatives and, if so, what happens to the principled position on the cessation of terror before diplomatic engagement? In Pakistan, similarly, some ask that if a broader engagement is to also follow, where does this leave Pakistan’s demand that the August 2019 ‘annexation of J&K’ be reversed first? Alongside its numerous negatives, the history of India-Pakistan engagement has also, however, a characteristic redeeming feature: naysayers are unable to hold up agreements to move forward. This is so notwithstanding the generally accepted notion that chances of success in such engagement are low and numerous trip wires exist to derail an incipient process. The impulse to break the mould of hostility and strategic mistrust has coexisted, even if uneasily, along with the numerous divisive issues of the India-Pakistan portfolio. Thus even as the negative milestones of the  post-2016 downturn are listed, major initiatives, such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unannounced visit to Lahore in December 2015 or the opening of the Kartarpur visa corridor, also stand out as contrarian events that buck the general trend. There is the inevitable speculation about what precisely led to this announcement of adhering to a ceasefire agreement otherwise in tatters. Some explanations point to the need of both India and Pakistan to better position themselves vis-à-vis the new administration in the United States of America. Others have suggested India’s mounting concern over a real two-front conflict — with China and Pakistan — actually materializing and, therefore, the necessity to seek some easing of tensions on both fronts. Conversely, Pakistan, now that an India-China softening is underway, would certainly not like to be left alone with a ‘hot’ LoC. Alongside these speculations, there are others — military hardware on both sides, on account of the wear and tear, requires respite; the economic challenges that loom ahead for both countries; the quiet role of the Gulf states and so on. The search for such explanations is itself based on the premise that something very unusual has happened for which there has to be some direct and objective reason. What this approach overlooks, of course, is that crests and troughs comprise the natural rhythm of the India-Pakistan history. These cycles, in fact, have overridden ideological, political and institutional divides in both countries. For example, over the past quarter-century, virtually the entire political spectrum of both countries has either been in government or been the supporter of the government of the day in one way or the other. All the principal actors of the present and past have thus been participants in the crests and troughs of India-Pakistan relations. In India, the election to power of the current government was seen by many as the harbinger of a new and muscular approach on all matters concerning Pakistan. While this may well have happened, what is overlooked are the efforts, often in parallel, to reach out to strike a positive balance, beginning with the invitation to the then prime minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, to attend its first swearing-in. Similarly, there is a view both in India and in Pakistan that military interventions in Pakistan’s polity act as a setback to any India-Pakistan stabilization. There is a kernel of truth in this, but the fact is that the Pakistan military has also been an entity with which progress has been made by Indian interlocutors. The current initiative regarding the ceasefire thus cannot be easily explained by the view that post Nawaz Sharif no major step forward was to be expected given the fact that the army was effectively back at the helm in Pakistan. The point, perhaps, is also that in so heavily securitized a relationship, there is a natural cynicism built into the positions on both sides. This cynicism naturally breeds a fundamental conservatism in approaching the bilateral relationship. Political initiatives then remain the major way by which logjams are broken. These initiatives are moulded not by considerations of bureaucratic precedent or of being consistent with earlier positions, but through larger assessments of national and political interest. The present agreement with regard to enforcing the ceasefire has to be seen in this context — possibly both sides came to the conclusion that the status quo, with a high level of military and political tension, was no longer in their interest and had, in fact, become counterproductive. What lies ahead? The India-Pakistan landscape is littered with failed initiatives. The dangers that exist are well known — whether from political turbulence or terrorist attacks. The differences in the respective positions of both sides are as stark as ever. Perhaps the public health crisis that engulfs us will, in fact, provide elements for a more stable platform to be constructed. But, in sum, if diplomacy is again going to be the platform for future dealings, that is a positive development and must be supported and nurtured. If it can ease the intensity of future crests and troughs, that itself will be no small achievement. The author is a former High Commissioner to Pakistan and is currently Director General, Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad residents suffer from garbage management problems||Even after almost two years of the launch of the door-to-door garbage collection campaign, the recycling plant of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is yet to be established. As a result of this, garbage collected from houses has been lying all over the district. The civic body is also yet to carry out segregation of dry and wet waste, while majority of the houses in 55 wards have not received garbage bins as promised under the integrated solid waste management programme of the DMC. The project, worth Rs 274 crore, was launched by the DMC on June 27, 2019, in association with Hyderabad-based agency Ramky Enviro Engineers. “The town lacks sufficient primary garbage transfer stations. Consequently, garbage compactors stations situated in densely populated areas generate foul smell posing the risk of outbreaks of epidemics,” Bartand Chamber of Commerce Kumar Madhurendra Singh complained. “We can’t sleep during the night due to the humming sounds of the number of mosquitoes as well as the foul smell coming out of the unattended garbage,” he added. Prem Bachhan Das, a resident of Jharia alleged that all the garbage is dumped in the open by the authorities. The DMC has identified 17 acres of land of the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority in the Aamjhar area of Baliapur block for lease to establish the plant. However, the JMADA has not yet given its consent to the civic body. “The soil testing work for the land identified at Aamjhar is being conducted by the concessionaire for the solid waste management project, Ramky Enviro Engineers. After the completion of work we will approach the district administration for the transfer of the land,” Anand Raj, City Manager (Sanitation) of the DMC, said. Sources in Ramky Enviro Engineers however confirmed that they have not been given any intimation with regard to soil testing work at Aamjhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant flags off state edition of ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’||Chief minister Hemant Soren joined around 100 other young cyclists to pedal through a short stretch of street in Kanke road on Friday to mark the start of the state-leg of ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ on Friday. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally inaugurated the mega campaign nationally by flagging off a ‘Padyatra’ from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Gujarat to mark 75 years of India’s Independence. The Mahotsav, which began 75 weeks prior to this year’s Independence Day will witness a series of events across the country till August 15, 2023. Jharkhand, too, will be holding an array of activities encompassing different sectors including  sports, art and culture, elocution and seminars in memory of freedom fighters and to relive India’s journey towards independence, said officials in the state government. While flagging off the cycle rally from his official residence in Kanke Road, which was organised by the state sports department, Hemant appealed to young people to play a constructive role towards nation-building. Participants at the rally included representatives from NSS, colleges, sports associations among others. The rally began from the CM’s house and traversed through Morabadi, and Bariatu road to culminate at Audrey House, covering a distance of about three kilometers. Besides Hemant, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, sports secretary Pooja Singhal and other senior bureaucrats were present during the flag-off ceremony. “I am glad to be part of the 75 years celebration of our country’s Independence. The country that we live in today is a gift given to us by scores of freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for their future generations. We shall always remain indebted to the legendary nation builders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, father of constitution—Dr Bheemrao Ambedkar and the likes,” Hemant said. “Sons of this soil too like Bhagwan Birsa Munda, Sidho-Kanho, Veer Budhu Bhagat played a huge role in the freedom movement. I bow down to them and appeal to the younger generations to seek inspiration from them to contribute towards nation building,” he added. On the occasion, the state art and culture department also held a painting competition for school children at Audrey House and began a photo exhibition themed on Jharkhand’s freedom fighters. An official of the state art and culture department at Audrey House said that they are planning more activities in the coming months. “Today’s events were just the start of nearly a year-long celebration. We are drawing up different plans for celebrations across all the districts,” he said. Meanwhile, governor Droupadi Murmu too visited Khunti’s Town Hall to inaugurate a five-day photo exhibition centered around the freedom movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host first debate on sustainability on Sunday||XLRI in association with PEACE -- a student group responsible for promoting sustainable and environmental conservation practices -- is set to host the first sustainability and ethics themed debate, Fr. McGrath Memorial Debate, on Sunday virtually. The debate has been named after Fr. Edward Hugh  McGrath, one of the founding fathers of XLRI, who passed away in the year 2017. The theme for the competition, an initiative of the batch of 1985-87, is ‘Be a responsible leader for a greater good’. The debate will provide a platform to future leaders to showcase awareness and leadership prowess to the masters-of-business across industries. It will also  provide an opportunity to learn from industry leading CXOs ( chief experience officers ) and imbibe the greatness of sustainable leadership. With the best talent picked from across 14 colleges across the country, the top 16 teams would be seen competing in the semi-finals round. From this pool, four winning teams would compete in the final adjudicated by industry stalwarts and previous debaters from XLRI batch of 1985-87  and professors in the field of business ethics and sustainability. C K Venkataraman, managing director of  Titan Limited will grace the event as the keynote speaker, who will address young leaders, highlighting the importance of responsible leadership in business. Venkataraman, a postgraduate diploma holder in management from IIM-Ahmedabad, joined Titan Company Limited in 1990. After multiple stints, he took charge of the jewellery division in 2005 and held the position of Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Jewellery till September 30, 2019. Subsequently, he assumed office as managing director of the company from October 1, 2019. "In the light of short-term orientation and intense competition, ethics and sustainability often take a backseat. In order to expose young leaders and youth to ethics and sustainability aspects of the business, XLRI is organising the debate, " said a member of PEACE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||IIM Ranchi announces successful completion of summer placements||Uncertainties posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and staggering economy notwithstanding, the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ranchi announced on Friday the successful completion of its summer placement process for the batch of 2020-22. The batch comprises 329 students with 256 and 73 in MBA and MBA-HR programmes respectively. As many as 134 companies including 93 first time recruiters participated in the summer placements. “All the students have secured summer-internship assignments through campus recruitment programme except two, who had secured off-campus internship offers and chose to opt-out from the programme,” IIM said in a statement. The average stipend for the MBA batch saw an increment of approximately 02 per cent over the previous year and stands at Rs 97,502. The average stipend for the MBA-HR batch is Rs 1,00,694, which is also higher than the last year, said IIM. Internships cover the functional areas of sales and marketing, finance, operations and general management, IT and analytics, strategy and consulting, and human resource management. “Of these, the students of MBA have been offered diverse roles in business development and strategy, campaign management, equity research, corporate finance, supply chain management, operations analytics, strategic sourcing, product analyst and business analyst, among many others,” IIM said. “For the MBA-HR batch, internships are in the domains of industrial relations, HR consultancy, HR analytics, talent acquisition, and HR generalist,” it added. Recruiters including Aditya Birla Capital, Asian Paints, Britannia, Capgemini, Cognizant, Cummins, DE Shaw, Deloitte, Emami Agrotech, Flipkart, Google, ICICI Bank, JP Morgan & Chase, L&T, Latent View Analytics, ICICI Lombard, Samsung, SIDBI, Tata Steel, Titan, Ultra Tech, Volvo, Wipro CCL, Yes Bank among others participated in the programme. Of the total recruiters, 93 were first-timers some of which included Aviva India, BPCL, Cisco, IMF Sureti, Jio Saavn, Pahal Financial Services, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Five steel city children scale Kedarkantha summit in Uttarakhand ||Five young adventure enthusiasts from the steel city have conquered the famous Kedarkantha of Uttarakhand in an expedition from March 1 to 5. These children, along with the trekking team from the city, displayed great climbing skills while stamping their authority and scaled the peak of 12,500 ft high. The team included Yashika Agarwal, Navya Budhia, Jaywardhan Agarwal, Suchita Agarwal and Nitya Budhia braved the chill and the difficult terrain. Kedarkantha is a mountain peak of the Himalayas in Uttarakhand. Kedarkantha is located within Govind Wildlife Sanctuary in the Uttarkashi district. The climb to the peak of Kedarkantha starts from a small village called Sankri. Kedarkantha is famous for being a winter trek. The expedition was conducted in chilly conditions. Waking up in the wee hours, putting on the head torches before proceeding to the mountains proved to be a heady engagement but the kids negotiated the bends and slippery uphill journey with strength and finally made it to the summit. Kedarkantha trek difficulty level is easy to moderate, with gradual ascends and descends. Only the uphill climb from the base camp can be a little strenuous. Needless to say, all the children were greenhorns when it came to climbing mountains. "It was a difficult trek but the children enjoyed the thrill to the fullest. It was an unforgettable trip for them," said Rakesh Kumar, a member of the expedition team, adding that the children have surely become confident of participating in more expeditions. According to him, it was a learning experience for children in challenging conditions. Another member of the expedition team said that the children showed great determination when it came to reaching the top. "We were worried at the beginning of the expedition but were gradually relieved to see them progressing well. It was a challenging climb which taught the children a lot," he added. Expeditions are usually organised by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation but there are other groups that also arrange treks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Commentary stint for Akashvani's senior announcer ||Akashvani Jamshedpur senior announcer Shahid Anwar will be on duty as a Hindi commentator during the third T20I match between India and England,  which is scheduled at Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad on March 16. Anwar, who is working with Akashvani for several years now, has prior experience withf sports commentary.  Besides commentating in two matches of the 2019 cricket World Cup, he also did commentory during the Ranji Trophy final between Bengal and Saurashtra held in Rajkot in March last year. "I have a fair bit of experience as a sports commentator. I have done duty in the same capacity in 20 international events involving India. I am excited and looking forward to yet another opportunity in the T20I tie in Ahmedabad," said Anwar, a resident of Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan. Akashvani Jamshedpur chief DC Hembrom, programme chief Atmeshwar Jha and other officials have congratulated and extended their best wishes to Anwar. Anwar is an avid sports lover and is often seen conducting interviews of sports personalities and officials in the steel city. He also conducts Khel Kheladi, a sports programme on radio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||JMM not contesting Bengal polls, will back TMC, confirms Hemant||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which is running a coalition government in the state with Congress and RJD, will extend its support to the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the coming Assembly elections in Bengal, the party making a formal announcement on Friday to confirm what was apparent after it chose not to field any candidate for the first phase of voting on March 27. Speaking with reporters here Hemant said, “JMM has decided to support Didi (Mamata Banerjee). The decision was taken following a request from her a few days back. She had phoned me, and had also written to me personally to seek our support. Her request was placed before our party supremo Shibu Soren, who only advised us to take the logical decision of stopping communal forces in Bengal. Hence, we are now behind TMC.” The Telegraph Online had in a March 9 report indicated JMM’s poll position which the party's working president and chief minister Hemant confirmed. Elections in Bengal will be held in eight phases.  JMM had contested 22 Assembly seats in the 2016 polls in West Bengal. After its emphatic victory in the 2019 Assembly polls in Jharkhand, it began spreading its wings to the neighbouring state with more intensity by contesting on about 25-30 seats. In January, Hemant held a rally in Jhargram bordering Jharkhand as a precursor to mosre such rallis during election time. Two months down the line, the party has changed its decision. Hemant said that more than contesting the elections, it was important for all like-minded parties to come together in the interest of the nation. “Going by the current political situation in the country, it was very important to stop the communal forces. By contesting elections, we don’t want to be directly or indirectly part of such forces that help in expansion of communal forces. Therefore, in the interest of the country, and state (Bengal), we are pulling out,” he said. Hemant added that he was in touch with Mamata Banerjee and has assured her the JMM's full support. Party sources said that Hemant would also campaign for Mamata in the coming days, a schedule for which is being worked out. Mamata is currently recuperating at a hospital in Calcutta after sustaining a hair-line fracture in her leg following an alleged attack on her while campaigning in Nandigram on Wednesday. Hemant has wished her a speedy recovery and demanded a high-level investigation in the purported attack on the Bengal chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||State inoculates less than 10,000 residents in a day despite Centre's nudge||Less than 10,000 Jharkhand residents were administered the first jab of the Covishield vaccine in the state on Thursday despite Centre's nudge at the slow pace of vaccination at hospitals in the tribal state and direction to the authorities to intensify the campaign. The state achieved only 6 per cent of its target for vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers on the day, revealed data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). As many as 9896 Jharkhand residents, including 5996 senior citizens and 2251 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the first dose of the vaccine, an NHM report stated. The state managed to administer the first dose of the vaccine to only 1649 of the over 27,000 registered healthcare and frontline workers on the day. Over 2000 residents were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Bokaro, while more than 1600 Ranchi residents got the first jab of the vaccine on Thursday. Bokaro also administered the vaccine jab to 1350 senior citizens – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The state also performed poorly in administering the second dose of the vaccine to the beneficiaries. On Thursday, only 6443 healthcare and frontline workers, around 12 per cent of the registered 55,173 beneficiaries, were administered the second dose of the vaccine in the state. Jharkhand has so far achieved 83 per cent of its target for the first dose of vaccination and 70 per cent of its target for the second dose. As per government data, as many as 4,01,639 Jharkhand residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine so far, and at least 1,13,001 of them have also received the second dose. As many as 48,617 Ranchi residents have received the first dose of the vaccine so far, while over 29,835 East Singhbhum residents have got the first jab, reveals data compiled by the NHM. At least 29,461 Bokaro residents have got the first jab, 29,402 Dhanbad residents have been inoculated. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on Thursday, bringing the count of active cases down to 511, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. However, the number of active cases rose slightly in Ranchi on the day as it reported 25 cases against 22 recoveries. As many as 31 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on the day, while 40 Covid patients recovered. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of more than 11,000 people and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 1.20 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid infection in the state was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Toxic fumes from well kill 3 in Latehar ||Three members of a family died after supposedly inhaling a poisonous gas inside a well in a village in Balumath block of Latehar district on Thursday afternoon. The incident took place at Palhi Tola village in Balu panchayat of Balumath block where villager Simon Toppo, 45, was using a pump to draw water from a well to irrigate his field. “According to the villagers, Simon had placed the pump deep inside the well because the level of the water was low. All of a sudden, he spotted smoke belching from the pump, which runs on diesel. Simon tried to go inside the well to bring out the pump and get it repaired but lost consciousness and fell inside the well,” Balumath thana OC Rana Bhanu Pratap Singh. In a bid to rescue his father, Simon’s son Ashish, 12, rushed into the well and lost consciousness as well, Singh said. “Ashish was followed by Simon’s nephew Anup, 26, who too lost consciousness. The villagers claim that the trio died by inhaling a poisonous gas coming out from the pump. They were rushed to the Latehar Sadar Hospital where they were declared brought dead. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem,” the OC added. Anup was the son of Simon’s brother Patrus Toppo. According to Dr Purushottam Kumar who had examined the deceased at the Latehar Sadar Hospital, inhalation of carbon monoxide could have caused the deaths. “The diesel water pumps do give out carbon monoxide. As the well outlet was narrow, it is possible that they might have inhaled the poisonous gas and died,” Dr Kumar said. Balumath block development officer Manish Kumar, who rushed to the spot after receiving the information, said the administration would help the poor family. “Simon’s and Anup’s families would be paid Rs 20,000 each and Rs 10,000 for conducting the last rites as part of the state government family benefit schemes,” the BDO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Municipal Corporation to start no-car Saturdays||The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) along with the Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited (RSCCL) will be starting a campaign #shanivarnocar (Saturdaynocar) campaign from March 13. RMC has already held extensive meetings with NGOs, traders outfit including Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) and other civic outfits to support the drive in a massive way on March 13. While RSCCL (the special project vehicle incorporated for execution of Ranchi Smart Project, which is India’s first greenfield smart city) will be using docking stations of its eco-friendly app-based bicycle sharing system for the users. “The decision was taken as part of our effort to reduce traffic volume based on study of vehicles load on the roads and make the traffic more pedestrian friendly. We had hired consultants to study mode of transport. After studying all these we have decided to introduce this #shanivarnocar campaign in which we are advising all government staff, private workers and officials to use cycles to reach their workplace and destination, if it is not too far and they do not have any health issues. This would be done every Saturday,” said RMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar. The RMC has gone for extensive campaigning in terms of placing posters and hoardings at major points of the capital city informing people about the campaign. “It is our effort to promote eco-friendly cycling as a mode of transport. It would not only save fuel and reduce expenses incurred on it but also improve health of individuals along with curbing environment pollution. We have launched advertisements through social media and also on major city roads to inform the public about parking places of cycles and docking stations. Based on their feedback we will be finalising more sites for parking of cycles and drawing up routes for dedicated cycle tracks and lanes in future. We have directed the parking vendors to assist people using bicycles in parking on Saturday,” added Mukesh Kumar. People are also encouraged to upload their photographs with bicycles which they use on Facebook and twitter using the hashtag #shanivarnocar. According to RSCCL officials, the official launch of the campaign would take place on Saturday from Morabadi while people can use bicycles from their respective houses. According to a survey, on a day nearly 20,000 cars ply on the roads of Ranchi, as on 2020, there were nearly 2,06,766 four wheelers registeredalong with 8,18,274 two wheelers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand bans use of boards on private vehicles||The Jharkhand government issued a notification on Wednesday banning use of different types of boards in private and commercial vehicles. “It was clear from field visits, media reports and other sources that many private and commercial vehicles were moving with different types of boards fixed on those, creating confusion if those were special vehicles,” observed the notification, signed by state’s transport secretary K. Ravikumar, adding effective implementation of the restrictions was required for ensuring unhindered transport system and road safety. The notification, prompted by an order of the Jharkhand High Court in a public interest litigation related to the issue, also listed which particular vehicles could use such boards. While no vehicles would be allowed to fix any such boards on their windscreen, those used by designated persons were allowed to use such boards measuring 18 inches by 6 inches provided those do not obstruct registration plates. The vehicles entitled for fixing such boards would be those used by the governor, chief minister, ministers, Assembly Speaker, chief justice and other High Court judges, advocate general and chairperson of human rights commission, the notification mentioned. Among others, chief secretary and secretaries to the government, deputy commissioners and superintendents of police were also entitled to use such boards in their official vehicles as were some central government officials such as accountant general, postmaster general, chief commissioner of income tax and divisional railway managers, it added. While such boards will be of green, red and blue colours as specified, the letters used in those could be either made of brass or written in white colour, the notification further said. “When the designated persons would not occupy the vehicles, the drivers would ensure that the boards are covered with black covers,” the notification specified, adding the drivers would otherwise be penalised. “While no other government vehicles would be using such boards, writing of words like Court, Army, Police, Press, Government and Administration on any vehicle would be prohibited,” the notification mentioned clearly. “It’s a welcome decision and should be strictly enforced,” opined a media person, adding vehicles with such boards were often seen on the roads. Otherwise, let alone functionaries of political parties and social outfits, any relative of a media person or an advocate or a policeman and even owners of printing presses could otherwise use family cars with such words prominently on those, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Actor Sonu Sood gifts rifle to struggling Jharkhand shooter||Actor Sonu Sood has pitched in to help a Jharkhand based woman shooter with an imported rifle to pursue her dream of winning medals in the national arena. The actor who shot into fame for helping migrants during the pandemic got to know about the plight of the shooter Konica Layak hailing from Dhanbad who despite qualifying for nationals on two occasions (2016 and 2017) is still relying on rifles from her coach and friends to  practice. “I had tweeted to Sonu Sood sir about the plight of the shooter who despite having potential could not succeed due to lack of rifle and we are glad that the Sonu Sood Foundation pitched in with the required funds for Konica to buy the rifle,” said Ankit Rajgarhia, a Dhanbad based social worker. Speaking to The Telegraph, Konica Layak, 26, said that for all these years she had to depend on the rifle of her coach Rajendra Singh and friends to practice at the shooting range in the ISM Dhanbad. “I cannot have my own rifle as it costs nearly Rs 3 lakh. I had to depend on my coach rifle or on my friend. I had arranged Rs 80,000 from my friends and taken Rs 1 lakh as loan for the rifle and fortunately Sonu Sood Foundation arranged the remaining funds for the rifle and I have already placed the order. The Germany made rifle would be reaching me in two and half months,” Konica said. She has qualified at the National Shooting Championship at Pune in 2016 and national competition in Kerala in 2017. But could not win any medals. She had been regularly winning medals at state meets in 2015, 2016 and 2021 in the 10 meters and 50 meters distances. “With the rifle I can practice in my own time and also get admission in the Joydeep Karmakar Shooting Academy at Calcutta in order to hone my skills and stay in medal hunts at national and international competitions,” said Konica, who is pursuing PG in commerce and whose father Partha Pratim Layak works in a private firm earning a meagre monthly income of Rs 10,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
