13-03-2021||Calcutta||Senior Ramakrishna Mission monk passes away||Swami Vagishananda, the senior most vice-president of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, passed away at Ramakrishna Seva Pratishthan on Friday evening. He was 91. He suffered a heart attack around 7.10pm. Swami Vagishananda was elected vice-president of the order in June 2014, three years after he was authorised to give mantra diksha (spiritual initiation) to devotees. “A loving spiritual guide, his understanding, affection and sympathy will remain an invaluable asset to devotees,” said a senior monk of the order on Friday night. Swami Vagishananda's mortal remains will be kept at Cossipore Math till 8.30am on Saturday and in Belur Math from 9am to 8pm. The cremation would take place at 9.30pm on Saturday. Swami Vagishananda was born in Chittagong in Bangladesh on January 12, 1930. An initiated disciple of Swami Shankarananda, he joined the order at Saradapith centre in 1954 and had taken sanyasa from Swami Vishuddhananda in 1962. Swami Vagishananda served as assistant secretary of the Institute of Culture, Gol Park, for several years and headed the Morabadi centre in Ranchi for four years. He was also the head of Malda, Kamarpukur, Mumbai and Cossipore centres. In March 1990, Swami Vagishananda was appointed trustee of Ramakrishna Math, Belur, and a member of the governing body of the Ramakrishna Mission. He had visited several countries, including Bangladesh, Nepal, Mauritius and Japan with the message of the Math and Mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
13-03-2021||Calcutta||Khardah nursing home to pay Rs 5 lakh to patient for ‘curative surgery’||A nursing home in Khardah will have to pay Rs 5 lakh that a patient had to spend for a “curative surgery” and treatment in another hospital, the chairperson of West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission said on Friday. Keshab Chandra Das, 45, of North 24-Parganas, was admitted to Green View Nursing Home in Khardah in February 2019 because of abdomen pain. “He was to undergo an appendix operation but the operation could not be done and during the process it resulted in a perforation in the colon. After two days, the patient was moved to a higher set up and another surgery had to be done,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. Das was treated in Charnock Hospital where he had to spend Rs 5 lakh. “We asked for the medical documents from Charnock Hospital, which was a prolonged treatment. During the course of the hearing both the surgeon and owner of Green View Nursing Home was present and they offered to pay the amount that the patient had to spend later for treatment. The patient left it on us to take a decision so we settled the matter,” said Banerjee. He said the nursing home authorities would pay the amount in six instalments starting from April. “It will be Rs 80,000 in the first five instalments and Rs 1 lakh in the last instalment,” said Banerjee. In another case, in Tehatta Nursing Home in Nadia they have to pay Rs 50,000 because of negligence in treatment. A pregnant women was admitted in the nursing home for which they took Rs 10,000 and according to the patient’s family, the doctor at the nursing home had told them that she was fine, Banerjee said. But the next morning they shifted her to another place. Though the mother is fine the child was pronounced dead at the other place, said Banerjee. “The patient’s family had alleged that the nursing home denied taking Rs 10,000 and if the patient’s condition was not fine then why was she kept in the hospital,” he said. “The nursing home’s version is that the patient was admitted and the doctor had seen her. She was critical so they recommended her to a higher set up but the patient party did not take her and so they had to keep her for the night. Next morning the nursing home arranged for an ambulance and sent her to another place,” said Banerjee. “But we found negligence on part of the nursing home authorities and have told them to return Rs 10,000 and also give Rs 40,000 as compensation  because they themselves admitted that there was no treatment during the night. Also, during the hearing they said the nursing home has shut down. So, we took a note of it and told them that it should be kept shut,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
13-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Clutter’ in front of elevators of New Koilaghat building||The corridor outside the elevators on the 13th floor of New Koilaghat building was cluttered with wooden partitions and had a false ceiling, which could have aggravated the fire, a probe by the fire services department has suggested, sources said on Friday. This could have intensified the fire outside the elevators and burned seven men the moment they had reached the floor using one of the elevators on Monday night, the probe suggested. The fire on Monday night that claimed nine lives is being investigated by police while the fire services department is also carrying out an inquiry. A detailed assessment of areas where the building lacks fire-fighting systems has been shared with the investigating agency as a part of the ongoing probe into the cause of fire in the building and the circumstances that led to the death of nine persons, police sources said. “The passage outside elevators and the staircases should be kept clean in any highrise building to allow free movement. But in this building, even the common area outside the elevators has been turned into cubicles using plywood partitions. There is a false ceiling which is also inflammable,” said a senior officer of the fire services department. Seven men, including four fire-fighters, one assistant sub-inspector of Calcutta police and two RPF personnel, were charred to death just outside the elevator on the 13th floor of the building on Monday night. An officer, who was part of the fire fighting operation and was one among the first to have spotted the bodies on the 13th floor, said the bodies were lying on the floor covered with charred plywood planks and broken chunks of the false ceiling. “Some of them had blood oozing out of their bodies, apparently hit by chunks of false ceiling falling on them. The area was cluttered with plywood and wooden office stationery,” said the police officer. Police probe found that the places where the bodies were spotted made it apparent that all seven died in the common area just outside the elevator before they could reach  the pockets from where the fire originated. “Fire fighters have the experience of handling flames in corridors and passages but possibly they could not gauge that the common area was already cluttered with combustible substances which was burning right in front of the elevator,” said a fire department official. Metro had reported earlier this week that the 14-storied building does not have a fire certificate and that the building authorities have allegedly not complied with the recommendations made by the fire department in 2015. Following the incident the Eastern Railway has asked the fire and emergency services department to again share the recommendations that were purportedly shared earlier in 2015. “Any highrise building which is 14.5 metre or beyond and does not have a fire certificate is technically unauthorised...,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
13-03-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur alumni fund eight scholarships||Eight former students of IIT Kharagpur have raised a corpus of around Rs 2.25 crore to support students in need. IIT Kharagpur has instituted eight new student grants for the ensuing autumn semester scheduled to begin in August this year, following the generous contribution from the former students and their families. An official of the institute said that over Rs 65 lakh has been allocated exclusively for undergraduate girl students for 15 years. A virtual MoU was signed with the eight alumni and their families for instituting the student grants at a recent event that was attended by IIT director V.K. Tewari. Factors like annual income (Rs 6 lakh a year) and academic performance (cumulative grade point average in a semester) will be taken into consideration to determine who will get the scholarships, said an IIT official. Debashis Chakraborty, an alumnus of the 1981 batch from the chemical engineering department, has set up the late Smt. Gopa Chakraborty Scholarship for female students in the fond memory of his late wife. “The scholarship amount will be increased after every four years to cope up with the inflation rate,” said an official. Chandrasen Gajria, an alumnus of the 1970 batch from the chemistry department, has set up a Sobhraj and Krishna Gajria Scholarship, which will provide annual support to students of the chemistry department. A teacher of the institute said the scholarships would help students with financial constraints to pay hostel fees and to meet study expenses. “Those who come from weak financial backgrounds must be facing steep hardship because of the Covid induced shutdown in economic activities. For them, the launch of fresh scholarships would be a boon,” he said. V. K. Tewari, the director of IIT Kharagpur, appreciated the donors for their generous contributions and for keeping welfare of the institute in their hearts. Dean, alumni affairs, Subrata Chattopadhyay said: “Now that IIT Khargapur is an Institute of Eminence and guided by the New Education Policy, we are committed to bringing up the ratio of our girl students further. We have the mandate to cross the 20 per cent threshold at the earliest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||The significance of CAA protests||The youth and women at the helm of the protests against the citizenship thrust last year brought in a rare phenomenon in India’s political space, something that was last seen a century ago, a literary scholar and cultural activist said at a virtual session on Sunday. “What is of utmost significance is the emergence of youth and women at the forefront of an important national debate. It is equally significant that they are espousing values of the Constitution and humanism and articulating with an unprecedented precision a politics that is non-sectarian, non-divisive and non-abrasive,” said Ganesh Devy, 70, who writes in Marathi, Gujarati and English. “Such a fundamental political change had occurred once in the times of freedom struggle of Mahatma Gandhi, precisely in the third decade of the 20th century. Probably a century later, in the third decade of the 21st century, this epistemic shift is showing signs of coming into being,” Devy said at one of the sessions of the third edition of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, partnered by The Telegraph, hosted by the Kolkata Centre for Creativity. Devy, one of the first to return a Sahitya Akademi Award — he won the prize in 1992 for his book After Amnesia — to protest the attack on writers in 2015, was the plenary speaker of a session titled “Protest against discriminatory oppression”. Shwetal A Patel, the co-curator of the two-day programme that ended on Sunday, set the context at the start of the session. “In the background of the protests against the discriminatory CAA and NRC laws in India, the coronavirus broke out. The movement was unique in its expression as it took various artistic actions to convey its political agenda…. Likewise, the Black Lives Matter movement in the US also used different artistic approaches, including the use of performance, music and social media to promote its viewpoint.” The session, Patel said, would re-stoke the age-old debate about the “purpose and efficacy of art in achieving political aims” and delve into issues like the “significance of the arts in bringing expression to activism”. Devy gave a detailed critique of the Citizenship Amendment Act, the National Register of Citizens and National Population Register before hailing the protests against the troika. The idea of politics as a “divide and rouse game” has dominated the discourse of the country for the past several decades, he said. “The non-violent and spontaneous anti-CAA protests… the emergent tone and the uniqueness of the protests do indicate that we are beginning to enter a new political era. Not the one proposed by the forces of Hindutva but the one that is heading towards a greater humanism and empathy…. Protests against discriminatory oppression is not new in India. But at this juncture, it is acquiring new use, befitting the needs, urges and aspirations of a new century’s new decade,” said Devy. Art curator Myna Mukherjee, who moderated the session, asked Devy how important he thought the “cultural part of activism” was. Devy equated culture with an “idiom” in a sentence. “In communication, we use sentences with subject, object and verb but we also use idioms. Similarly, in social practice, action is like sentences but culture is like an idiom. It has an ability to express a lot more for its own time, as well as beyond its time, for its own space, as well as beyond its space. Therefore, culture is far more poignant than communication through statements, slogans, political marches, demonstrations, dharnas and so on. A Charlie Chaplin is as effective in the times of Hitler as in the times of Trump,” he said. Cynthia Stephens, Dalit activist and writer, Andraz Szanto, a New York-based museums expert and Dakxin Chhara, artistic director of Budhan Theatre, were speakers at the session. Budhan Theatre, named after a man from the denotified Sabar tribe in Bengal who was killed in police custody in 1994, was established in 1998 by Mahasweta Devi and Devy. The group comprises members of Ahmedabad’s Chhara community, one of several denotified tribes in India — groups who were formally classified as criminal tribes during the British rule in the late 19th century. Members of these communities, many of them nomadic, were considered criminals by birth. It was not before 1952 that these tribes were delisted as criminal. But till date, they are subjected to discrimination by the state and society. On Sunday, Dakxin shared some “success stories of art, protest and activism”. The stage of one of them was Maninagar in Ahmedabad, Narendra Modi’s former Assembly seat. A lot of tribal families living in Maninagar had their hutments razed by the civic body multiple times, said Dakxin. His theatre group tried to mediate with the civic body that called the tribal families “encroachers”. The matter eventually went to the high court which ruled in favour of the tribals. “The civic body challenged us in the Supreme Court. We did not have money. But we came up with a play called Bulldozer. It was 2007-2008…. In 2012, we won the case in the Supreme Court also and all this happened because of theatre…. In 2017, the Gujarat government implemented the order. After a long legal wait, because of theatre, because of activism, 112 families live right under the nose of Modi. They have been allotted houses,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||An exhibition on 200 years of Indian banknotes||The first banknotes of India would be cut in half and sent separately by post for security reasons. The recipient would paste them together and present them at the bank for encashment. An exhibition on 200 years of Indian banknotes, from Bank of Bengal to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), is under way at the RBI Museum in Council House Street, Dalhousie Square. Organised jointly by The Numismatic Society of Calcutta and the RBI, it showcases some of India’s earliest banknotes. The notes have a corner cut off and a cancelled mark is stamped on each. “These were sicca rupee notes, which were used more like hundis, and could be encashed at the bank that issued them against the number of siccas, or silver coins, that their denomination suggested. Once encashed, they were cancelled this way,” explained Ravi Shankar Sharma, general secretary of the society, who is one of the nine collectors whose collections make up the exhibition. According to Mahesh Kalra, curator of the museum, the exhibition was on the evolution of the banking system in India. “Many private banks went bust as they were not supported by the government. In the early 19th century, presidency banks came into being, starting with Bank of Calcutta in 1806, which was renamed Bank of Bengal in 1809 by an East India Company charter. They brought out India’s first government currency, starting with notes in 1812,” he said. While the four earliest specimens on display are unifaced, the next lot has Commerce, the figure of a lady sitting on a chest of money. “Even the Confederate states in America used this figure,” Kalra pointed out. The first one-rupee notes, issued during George V in 1917,  came in booklets of 35 and had perforations at a side where they were torn off. Then there are notes issued during the eras of Victoria, Edward VII and George V and the early issues of the RBI from 1938 to 1947. These have portraits of King George VI from 1938, signed by the second RBI Governor, J.B. Taylor and the third governor, C.D. Deshmukh, the first Indian governor of the RBI. Another interesting group of exhibits is the Persian Gulf rupee notes. “These notes were used between 1959 and 1966 in the British protectorates of the Arabian peninsula surrounding the Persian Gulf. These areas today form the countries of Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman, and the United Arab Emirates,” Sharma said. The notes, he pointed out, were in designs very similar to the standard Indian notes but printed in different colours. While the one-rupee and 10-rupee notes were printed in red, the five-rupee notes were in orange and 100-rupee notes in green. The serial numbers issued in all denominations were prefixed by the letter Z. The exhibition is on till Sunday and is open from 11am to 5pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||JEE off Jadavpur University evening engineering entry test ||The state JEE board has decided against conducting entrance test for admission to the five-year evening engineering course at Jadavpur University owing to poor turnout of candidates for a programme that did not find enough takers last year. An official of the joint entrance examination board said that making arrangements for conducting a test that attracts a poor volume of aspirants is not justifiable and therefore from 2021 onwards, the board will not conduct the test. A notice signed by Malayendu Saha, the chairman of the board reads: “....the board will not conduct common entrance test or counseling for JEEDEC (the name of the test) in the year 2021 and onward’’. The evening engineering course is usually pursued by the working professionals. Last year, for 50 seats each in the evening courses of electrical and mechanical engineering and civil engineering, 350 odd candidates had taken the test. The test last year was conducted by the university because of the pandemic. The number of aspirants has been depleting over the years, a JEE board official said. “It’s a waste of resources and manpower if we hold the test for such a small number of candidates,’’ the official said. Will JU then be holding the test henceforth? “We have not taken any decision on this as yet. The university will decide in due course of time,’’ said JU pro vice-chancellor Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, who is also a member of the board. Pointing to lack of demand, an official of the university said after the university conducted counselling independently in December, of the 50 seats each in the electrical engineering and mechanical engineering, 33 and 34 seats had remained vacant, respectively. The university had to hold a fresh round of counseling in January and despite that around 25 per cent seats remained vacant. He said that five-year degree is losing its sheen possibly because the hope that the degree will bring promotions has faded among potential applicants. AICTE, the apex regulatory board in engineering education, stresses on four-year BTech degree. Will the university then discontinue the course? “The course will die a natural death as has happened to the three-year BTech course of Calcutta University. We don’t have to do anything,” said a JU official. The evening engineering programme at JU was introduced in the early 1980s. The state JEE board had begun holding the entrance test from 2015. Till 2014 the entrance used to be conducted by the university itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court directs schools to not expel students for unpaid fees||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday issued an interim order directing school authorities not to expel any student from school for non-payment of fees without permission from the court. The order by Justice I P Mukerji and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya read: “We make it absolutely clear and direct that not a single student of any of the 145 schools involved in these litigations, will be expelled on the ground of non-payment or short payment of fees or facility charges without the express leave of this court, until further orders.” The 145 private schools are those who were made respondents in the original petition. In May last year, PILs were filed before Calcutta High Court alleging that private schools were not allowing students in online classes or to appear for online exams for failure of guardians to pay the fees. The high court will hear the case on April 16. The bench comprising Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya postponed the hearing because a petition by the schools against an earlier high court order of fee waiver and a fee dispute redressal mechanism is pending before the Supreme Court. The apex court will hear the case on April 5. As a precaution against Covid-19 on-campus classes in schools had to remain suspended and schools were taking online exams and classes. The high court on October 13 ordered private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees of students. The bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya also restrained the schools from charging fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extra curricular activities or the like...” “Non-essential charges for use of facilities not availed of will not be permissible,” the order said. The order for concession will not apply to any school “where the average monthly fee (calculated on an annual basis over the year from April 2020 to March 2021) is less than Rs 800. However, such schools may voluntarily offer discounts as they deem fit, the order had said. After the order some schools moved Supreme Court seeking quashing of the order of the high court. On October 28, the Supreme Court declined to immediately interfere with Calcutta High Court’s directions to private schools in Bengal to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fee and completely waive the fees charged for services the students did not avail themselves of because of the pandemic. But the apex court stayed portions of the judgment that asked schools to consider individual applications from parents for further waiver and allowed parents to approach a committee formed by the high court if they did not get redress from the schools. Appearing for Assembly of God Church , advocate Amrita Pandey claimed that Supreme Court, while hearing a case moved by a Rajasthan school had ordered that guardians would have pay the school fees. But the division bench on Friday decided to take the matter for hearing only after verifying the apex court's decision and fixed the matter for hearing on April 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||At mahapanchayat in Calcutta, a postgraduate student articulates fears swirling around her father’s farm  ||Mahuya Chowdhury’s father had a low but secure income from farming but the postgraduate student of English cannot tell how long that will prevail if the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, and opposed by hundreds of farmer unions, are implemented. Mahuya’s father’s income from the farmlands bore the cost of her education. Mahuya has a younger sister who is in Class IV and whose education is a priority for the family. On Friday, Mahuya was at the Ramlila Park in Moulali to lend support to the farmers’ movement when several farmer leaders from Punjab who had been camping at Delhi’s borders demanding the repeal of three laws came there to address a mahapanchayat. “My father had to sell one quintal rice for Rs 1,200 a couple of months ago. The farmers never got a good price. But they enjoyed the independence to grow the crop of their choice. They could plan how to run the family. It is from my father’s income that the cost of my education was borne,” said the student of West Bengal State University. “If the new laws are implemented, the farmers will be dictated by a few corporate oligarchs. Farmers will not get the real value. There will be a few corporates as buyers and they will shoot down the prices. Farmers will be destroyed,” Mahuya, a resident of North 24-Parganas’ Bagda, said. Mahuya apprehended that the government will reduce procurement from farmers and make mandis non-functional with time, effectively leaving farmers with no choice other than selling to a few corporate oligarchs who will then determine the prices of produce. Mahuya’s friend Sanjukta Datta, a BSc student at the West Bengal State University, was also present at the Ramlila Park on Friday. Sanjukta’s family is not engaged in farming but she did not think that was necessary to feel for or support the farmers’ movement. Sanjukta was concerned that the government was going to put food security in the hands of some private corporations. “If the prices of food go beyond the ability of the poor they will die of hunger. The most basic demand of humans, food security, will be at stake if these laws are passed. One need not be from a farmer family to support the farmers movement,” said Sanjukta. The participants of the mahapanchayat were from all walks of life. There were farmers like Nani Das from Kirtipur gram panchayat in the Sashan police station area who had come to protest against the attempt to abolish minimum support price. Instead of expanding it, the government was eroding whatever security it gave to farmers, he said. Professors, students, business owners and homemakers were also in the crowd. Paramita Das, who teaches mathematics at a central government-run institute, said she would have gone to Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — the sites on Delhi’s borders where the farmers are protesting — if she had time after work. “Often, I felt like leaving everything and going to Delhi. Since I could not go there, I thought I should not miss this mahapanchayat,” said Das. Among the speakers at the mahapanchayat were Balbir Singh Rajewal and Hannan Mollah, leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of several farmer unions that is spearheading the protests against the farm laws. Rajewal addressed the audience: “My brothers and sisters in Bengal... We have come here to appeal to our brothers and sisters to not vote for the BJP. Please ensure that Modi does not get votes from here”. “Today we are here to launch a new kind of campaign for the Bengal elections,” Rajewal added. Yogendra Yadav, a farm union leader and leader of Swaraj India, was among the speakers. Calls of Kisan Ekta Zindabad from the dais were echoed loudly from all corners of the ground. The front half of the ground, closer to the dais, was packed and there were people interspersed in the other half. Many had come with their families, including kids. “Attending rallies is not in our culture. We are not from a political family but the farm laws have brought us here. My uncle still manages our family land back in Punjab and we get our share of income. Hurting farmers’ interest is like hurting my forefathers,” said Harprit Singh, a resident of Bhowanipore. The audience had a large number of women. Lovedeep Kaur, an entrepreneur, had come with her mother. Lovedeep’s father, a farmer, divides his time between Calcutta and Punjab. “My father is in Punjab now. He was at the Singhu border for many days. He is now in Gurdaspur to look after the fields,” said Lovedeep, a resident of Garcha. She has watched the leaders address gatherings through Facebook or Instagram live. On Friday,  she wanted to hear them in person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Business||Pause on pay rule to limit H1-B visas||The Biden administration on Friday issued a formal notification to delay the implementation of the previous Trump regime’s controversial rule to raise the mandatory minimum pay for foreign workers on the H-1B visa, the most sought after among Indian IT professionals. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries such as India and China. The Department of Labour in its federal notification published on Friday said that it is considering whether to propose a further delay of the final rule's effective date and accompanying implementation periods that are currently scheduled to take effect on May 14, 2021, and July 1, 2021, respectively. Before further delaying the effective date and implementation periods, the department will provide the public an opportunity to comment, it said. On February 1, the Department of Labour proposed to delay the effective date of the final rule entitled “Strengthening Wage Protections for the Temporary and Permanent Employment of Certain Aliens in the United States”, published in the Federal Register on January 14, 2021, for a period of 60 days. The department proposed to delay the effective date of the final rule until May 14, 2021, in accordance with the presidential directive as expressed in the memorandum of January 20, 2021, from the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff, entitled “Regulatory Freeze Pending Review”. As stated in the proposal, the 60-day delay would allow agency officials the opportunity to review any questions of fact, law, or policy. The department invited written comments from the public for 15 days on the proposed delay of effective date. All comments had to be received by February 16, 2021. The department received 57 comments from the stakeholder community. It has reviewed the comments received in response to the proposal and will delay the effective date of the final rule for a period of 60 days, said the notification. According to Mercury News, major Silicon Valley technology companies, which employ H-1B workers directly and via staffing firms, rely heavily on the visa and push to increase the annual 85,000 cap on new visas, claiming that they need more of them to secure the world's top talent. “Critics point to abuses and allege that the visa is used by outsourcers and staffing companies, as well as by tech giants, to replace US workers with cheaper foreign labour, drive down wages and facilitate outsourcing,” it said. The rule is a carry-over from the administration of former President Donald Trump, which proposed revisions to proposed mandatory salaries after losing a court battle to organisations including the Bay Area Council over an initial version. If imposed, workers on the H-1B at the lowest wage level would have to receive at least the 35th percentile of the prevailing wage for their job type and location, compared with the 45th percentile in the initial version. Workers at the highest wage level would have to receive the 90th percentile, compared with the 95th percentile, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Tata group to acquire online grocer BigBasket||The Tata group is acquiring online grocer BigBasket as it creates a super-app that will offer a wide range of products under one roof. Tata Digital (TDL), a subsidiary of Tata Sons, has filed an application with the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to acquire a 64.3 per cent stake in BigBasket. In its filing, the Tata group said TDL is engaged in the business of providing technology services related to identity & access management, loyalty programmes, offers and payments. The proposed transaction involves an acquisition by TDL of up to 64.3 per cent of the total share capital of Supermarket Grocery Supplies (SGS) through a combination of primary and secondary (when an existing shareholder sells shares) buyouts. Subsequently, through a separate transaction, SGS may acquire sole control over Innovative Retail Concepts Pvt Ltd (IRC). Through the deal, TDL will gain a majority stake of and control over SGS. SGS is engaged in online B2B (business to business) sales of various products in India while IRC is engaged in online B2C (business to consumer) sales of various products in India and operates the BigBasket website. It further pointed out that the proposed transaction will not lead to any change in the competitive landscape or cause any appreciable adverse effect on competition in India, irrespective of the manner in which the `relevant markets’ are defined. While the deal has been talked about since last year, it may see the exit of Alibaba and some of the other investors from BigBasket. Earlier reports had put the valuation at around Rs 14,500 crore. The entry of the Tata group could further increase competition in India’s online grocery segment now dotted by players like Flipkart, Amazon’s Fresh and Reliance Retail among others.  The Tata group is set to broaden its e-commcerce presence in the days ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Small finance banks gear up for listing||Small finance banks are making a beeline for the capital market to comply with the regulatory requirements of listing on the stock exchanges. The RBI in September 2015 had granted an in-principle approval to 10 small finance banks. One of the licence conditions was mandatory listing of the bank within three years of reaching a net worth of Rs 500 crore. At present, there are three small finance banks that are listed on the stock exchanges — Ujjivan Small Finance Bank, AU Small Finance Bank and Equitas Small Finance Bank. Two more small finance banks are looking at an initial public offer — Suryoday Small Finance Bank and Utkarsh Small Finance Bank. According to merchant bankers, a few more small finance banks are expected to file their prospectus with the capital market regulator within a few months as their listing deadline nears. Suryoday Small Finance Bank, which began its operations in January 2017, is going for a public issue comprising issue of fresh shares and offer for sale with a price band of Rs 303-305 per equity share. The size of the public issue at the upper price band is Rs 582 crore. The issue opens on March 17 and closes on March 19. The bank had earlier undertaken a pre-IPO placement with SBI Life Insurance, Axis Asset Management and a few others aggregating to Rs 152 crore. Suryoday Small Finance Bank officials on Friday said that the bank’s current promoter holding will come down from around 29 per cent to around 27 per cent post the public offer. The officials said that the decision to go for the public offer will help the bank to have a diversified shareholder base from a compliance and transparency point of view and also offer an avenue of capital support for future growth. Uttar Pradesh based Utkarsh Small Finance Bank has also filed its prospectus looking to raise an aggregate of Rs 1350 crore through fresh issue and offer for sale by Utkarsh Coreinvest Ltd. The proceeds would be utilised to augment the tier-1 capital base to meet future capital requirement. Utkarsh is also planning a Rs 250 crore pre-IPO placement in consultation with the appointed lead managers of the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Enforcement Directorate asks Amazon for information related to its India operations||The Enforcement Directorate has recently asked Amazon for information related to its operations in the country as the agency continues to investigate the US e-commerce giant, a senior agency source said on Friday. Last month, the source had said the directorate will examine the findings in a recent Reuters special report which revealed that Amazon has for years given preferential treatment to a small group of sellers on its India platform and used them to circumvent the country’s foreign investment rules. Amazon has for several years been under investigation by the agency for possible violation of foreign investment rules. Such probes typically take years in India, and in most cases details are not made public. The Reuters special report was based on internal Amazon documents dated between 2012 and 2019. It provided an inside look at the cat-and-mouse game Amazon has played with the Indian government, adjusting its corporate structures each time the government imposed new restrictions aimed at protecting small traders. On Friday, the senior enforcement directorate source told Reuters “obviously we have sought information” from Amazon. Indian retailers, which are a crucial part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support base, have long alleged that e-commerce giants such as Amazon and Walmart’s Flipkart flout federal regulations and that their business practices hurt small traders. The companies deny the allegations. The documents reviewed by Reuters showed that Amazon helped a small number of sellers prosper on its India platform, giving them discounted fees and helping one cut special deals with big tech manufacturers such as Apple Inc. Rs 225cr infusion Amazon has infused over Rs 225 crore into its payments unit in India, Amazon Pay, according to regulatory documents. The fresh infusion is expected to help the company compete more aggressively against rivals like PhonePe, Google Pay and Paytm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Industrial output contracted 1.6 per cent in January||Industrial output contracted 1.6 per cent in January, a month after it entered the positive zone, as manufacturing and mining activities slumped, according to the data released by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation (MoSPI). The country’s industrial output contracted 12.2 per cent in the April-January period of the current fiscal, the data showed. Industrial production was hit hard by the nationwide lockdown imposed to spread the curb of infections. IIP declined for five consecutive months from April to August in 2021-22, before returning to positive territory in September and October. While IIP rose 4.5 per cent in October 2020 (final revised figure), it grew 1.6 per cent in December (first revised). Industrial output had contracted 2.1 per cent in November 2020. In January 2020, it grew 2.2 per cent, the ministry said. Fuel demand drops India’s fuel consumption fell for the second month in a row in February to its lowest since September as record-high prices hindered demand recovery. Petroleum product consumption fell 4.9 per cent to 17.21 million tonnes in February as demand for both petrol and diesel fell. Diesel, the most used fuel in the country, fell 8.5 per cent to 6.55 million tonnes, while petrol consumption was down 6.5 per cent to 2.4 million tonnes. Aditi Nayar, principal  economist of Icra, said: “After the rapid recovery seen till October 2020, the trend in the IIP has turned volatile in the last three months, suggesting that the economy has entered into a consolidation phase with an underlying momentum that is relatively subdued.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “Going ahead, we do expect growth to be negative in February but it will turn positive in March as growth last year was down 18 per cent. Hence there will be a statistical push in March.” In February 2021, deterioration in the performance of merchandise exports, the output of Coal India Limited and electricity generation has been offset by a sharp improvement in the pace of expansion of auto output, albeit on a very low base. Based on the available trends, we expect the IIP may well continue to contract in February 2021.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said “going ahead we do expect growth to be negative in Feb but would turn positive in March as growth last year was down by 18%. Hence there will be a statistical push in March.” "The data trend of past few months therefore reinforces the view that the uptick witnessed in the month of September and October was more due to a combination of festive and pent demand and we are still far from witnessing a sustained  recovery.  This also means  government and RBI will have to continue to support the ongoing recovery least it fizzles out," Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings and Research said. The output of the manufacturing sector -- which constitutes 77.6 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) -- shrank by 2 per cent in January, as against a growth of 1.8 per cent during the same month last fiscal, data showed. The worst performance was witnessed by the capital goods sector, which recorded a contraction of 9.6 per cent during the month under review, compared to a 4.4 per cent decline a year ago. M Govinda Rao, Chief Economic Adviser, Brickwork Ratings, said the contraction in IIP numbers for January comes as a bit of surprise after turning positive in December. "The manufacturing sector continues to contract at 2 per cent shows that we still have some distance to cover before the economy recovers," he said. A contraction of 3.7 per cent was registered in the mining sector in January, against a positive growth of 4.4 per cent in the year-ago period. As per the data, there was a contraction of 0.2 per cent in the consumer durables segment and 6.8 per cent in the consumer non-durable section. These two segments were in contraction during January 2020 also. The second advance estimates have pegged economic contraction at 8 per cent in the current fiscal. Economic growth is expected to bounce back sharply in the next fiscal on the back of resurgence in economic activity as well as low base effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Retail inflation accelerated to three-month high of 5.03 per cent||Retail inflation accelerated to a three-month high of 5.03 per cent in February amid a spike in fuel and food prices, raising concerns of inflationary pressure adding to fragile economic growth. Retail inflation rose to 5.03 per cent in February mainly on account of higher food prices, government data showed on Friday. The consumer price index (CPI) based retail inflation was at 4.06 per cent in January. The rate of price rise in the food basket accelerated to 3.87 per cent in February against 1.89 per cent in the preceding month, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Within the food items, the rate of fall in vegetables prices was at 6.27 per cent in February against 15.84 per cent in the previous month. Inflation in the fuel and light category remained elevated at 3.53 per cent during the month vis-a-vis 3.87 per cent in January. The main cause of this inflation is on the core inflation side with personal products, health, and recreation registering very high inflation rates. The higher fuel prices have been passed through as seen in the 11.4 per cent increase in the transport and communications segment. Higher transport costs have also affected food prices, which have increased 4.25 per cent. “As far as personal products are concerned the higher inflation can be attributed to higher rates being charged by the industry post pandemic where several sectors have raised prices to cover for loss of sales in the first and second quarters,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said. Inflation will continue to be high in March where fuel prices have peaked. The base effect would also be getting further diluted. In this situation the MPC will definitely pause any rate action "Inflation to remain sticky and unlikely to come lower than 4% before 3QFY22. With crude prices increasing, all eyes are on government’s taxation policy, which will have implications not only on inflation, but also on fiscal deficit and current account. In view of the growth inflation dynamics and the guidance given by the RBI,  India Ratings and Research believes that the RBI will continue with its accommodative policy and keep the policy rates in a pause mode over the next 6-9 months," Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings and Research said. The Reserve Bank mainly factors in the retail inflation while arriving at its monetary policy. This is the last set of retail inflation data before the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the finance ministry announce a fresh inflation targeting framework. The RBI has supported maintaining the existing inflation target of 4% within a band of 2 percentage points. “The RBI’s inflation target is due to be re-issued by the government by the end of this month. The government is considering relaxing the framework, while the RBI appears to want to leave unchanged the current headline inflation target of 4%, with a “tolerance band” of 2-6%. Either way, the current rate of inflation should be within the tolerance band. Today’s CPI release will be the last before the next upcoming MPC meeting, which is scheduled to conclude on 7th April,” Darren Aw, Asia Economist, Capital Economics said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||India confident of getting included in a global bond index by October||India is confident of getting included in a global bond index by October but it will not be able to raise funds in the coming financial year as the actual listing could take around 12 months after its inclusion, said two senior sources aware of the discussions. Since 2019, India has been working towards getting included in global bond indices as rising government borrowing has necessitated opening the largely domestic bond market to a broader investor base. India was hopeful of completing the listing in the upcoming fiscal, starting on April 1, as it would help bring down borrowing costs, which have been rising because of a lack of appetite amid high supply. The government plans to issue bonds worth $165.24 billion to fund its spending programme in the upcoming fiscal year to revive the pandemic-hit economy from a slump. “The indices will be reviewed in September. We have dealt with most of their concerns, we should be able to resolve the other issues too,” said one of the sources. “We expect to be included in at least one of the two major indices in September or October,” he said. However, he said the actual listing could take longer and would not be concluded before the end of the fiscal. The finance ministry and the central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Centre orders Sebi to withdraw parts of order on perpetual bonds issued by banks||The Centre has ordered Sebi to withdraw parts of a controversial circular that the market watchdog issued on Wednesday that sought to treat perpetual bonds issued by banks as instruments with a 100-year tenure. The move had sent shock waves through the bond market as it raised the prospect of massive mark-to-market losses for investors. The department of financial services (DFS) issued a letter to Sebi asking it to rescind the 100-year valuation rule as it could disrupt the bond market and undermine the efforts of banks to raise additional funds through additional Tier-1 bonds (AT-1 bonds) to beef up their capital base. AT-1 bonds are considered to be issued in perpetuity, similar to equity shares as per the Basel III guidelines on capital adequacy. They form part of tier 1 capital of banks. The Sebi circular, which was due to come into effect from April 1, also imposed prudential limits on mutual fund  investments in these bonds which will remain. The new limits will constrain the ability of mutual funds to load up on AT-1 bonds and will lead to a rise in coupon rates, the DFS said in its office memorandum issued to the Sebi chairman and the economic affairs secretary in the finance ministry. “Considering the capital needs of banks going forward and the need to source the same from the capital markets, it is requested that the revised valuation norms to treat all perpetual bonds as 100 year tenor be withdrawn,” the memorandum said. North Block, however, said  instructions that reduce concentration risk of such instruments in MF portfolios can be retained as fund houses have adequate headroom even within the 10 per cent ceiling, Mutual funds have bought Rs 35,000 crore worth of AT-1 bonds out of the Rs 90,000 crore issued by banks, almost 40 per cent of the issuances. They  would suffer massive mark-to-market losses if this guideline was implemented. “The clause on valuation is disruptive,” a note written by DFS to Sebi on Wednesday said. It argued that there is no benchmark for 100-year bonds in India. AT-1 bonds are popular with debt mutual funds because of their high interest rates. But they run the risk of getting converted to ordinary shares or even be written-down if a bank’s common equity Tier-1 (CET1) ratio falls below a certain threshold. Banks can also skip coupon payments. Investors, in fact, had a harrowing experience with the paper when Yes Bank wrote down such bonds worth Rs 8,415 crore. But it was the capital market regulator’s move to treat the bonds as 100-year paper for valuation purposes that rankled the government, mutual fund players and banks. Since these instruments are perpetual bonds, debt mutual funds value them to the call option date. For instance, if a bank issues a perpetual bond, the call option may be exercised after 10 years. Sebi’s current rules on valuation of such securities that have a call date say they should be done “at the lower of the value as obtained by valuing the security to final maturity and valuing the security to call option’’. Sebi’s latest directive meant they will have to be valued at 100-year maturity. Mutual fund circles say this will directly mean a lower valuation of these bonds. Banks would also see the yields inching up and raising their cost of mobilisation. As per the current RBI rules, banks can raise 1.5 per cent of their risk weighted assets (loans) through such  bonds. “The Sebi circular (if it comes into effect) will make the valuation of such a perpetual instrument (quasi- equity in nature) to go haywire as the tenor of such bonds, instead of being perpetual, will be 100 years,” according to Uttara Kolhatkar, partner, J Sagar Associates. “This directive would have had a cascading effect on the bond market and increase volatility. Potential redemptions on account of this new rule would lead to mutual fund houses engaging in panic selling of the bonds in the secondary market leading to widening of yields.” Sebi had also fixed certain holding limits: no mutual fund can hold more than 10 per cent of such instruments issued by a single entity across all its schemes. An MF scheme shall not invest more than 10 per cent of the net asset value (NAV) of its debt portfolio in such instruments. Besides, an MF scheme should not invest more than 5 per cent of the NAV of its debt portfolio in a single issue. Deepak Shenoy, founder of Capitalmind, said in a blog post the AT1 market will not see that much enthusiasm from mutual funds. He said the limits on percentage owned and the rules against holding them in term based funds such as low duration funds or ultra short-term funds will lead to lower demand. This, he added, should hurt the price in the market for AT1 bonds. The circular may have begun showing its impact on some of these perpetual bonds. For instance, yields on SBI’s 7.73 per cent bond were trading at 7.53 per cent  against 7.28 per cent on Tuesday. The Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) said it was in discussion with Sebi to make sure there is a smooth implementation of the circular and it fully supports the “need and spirit” of the circular in capping exposure to perpetual bonds. Most of the mutual fund schemes are well below the cap specified in the circular. In few of the schemes where perpetual bond exposure is higher than the Sebi prescribed cap, grandfathering is kindly permitted by Sebi to ensure that there is no unnecessary market disruption,” it said. Funds to banks The finance ministry is likely to infuse Rs 14,500 crore mainly in the banks that are under the RBI’s prompt corrective action framework in the next few days to improve their financial health. Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank of India and Uco Bank are under this framework that puts several restrictions on them, including on lending, management compensation and directors' fees. The ministry has almost finalised the names for capital infusion, sources said. The infusion will be made in the next few days, the sources said, adding the biggest beneficiary of this round of capital infusion would be the banks that are under the prompt corrective action (PCA). The capital infusion will help these banks to come out of the Reserve Bank of India's enhanced regulatory supervision or PCA framework. Most of the large state-owned lenders -- including State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank, Union Bank of India, and Indian Bank -- have already raised money from various market sources, including share sale on a private placement basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||India||SC left with one woman judge is ‘deeply worrying’: Justice D Y Chandrachud||Apex court judge, Justice D Y Chandrachud, on Saturday expressed call for prompt serious introspection with the Supreme Court being left with only one woman judge. He even termed it “deeply worrying”. Justice Chandrachud was speaking at a farewell ceremony organised by the Supreme Court Young Lawyers Forum to honour Justice Indu Malhotra, who was the first woman lawyer to be appointed directly as a judge of the Supreme Court, retires from the apex court on Saturday. “Justice Malhotra’s retirement means that the SC now has only one female judge on the Bench. As an institution, I find that this is a deeply worrying fact and must promptly receive serious introspection,” Justice Chandrachud said. He said that “as an institution whose decision shape and impact lives of everyday Indian, we must do better”. “We must ensure the diversity of our country find reflection in making up of our court. Intrinsically having a more diverse judiciary is an end, a goal in itself and worth pursuing in its own sake. “Instrumentally, having a more diverse judiciary, ensured diversity of perspectives is fairly considered, instills high degree of public confidence,” he said. He maintianed that it was required that stories such as Justice Malhotra become more common place. “As members of legal fraternity we do our bit to ensure that it doesn't remain as hard as it was for Justice Malhotra for women to climb upper echelons of our profession,” he said. Speaking at the occasion, Justice Malhotra said that for a lawyer it was important to conduct yourself with high degree of professionalism. “You must be properly attired, professionally at all times and be punctual in your engagements. One issue I flagged when I was called by women lawyers to Bar room after becoming a judge, I said please don't wear fashionable clothes, which you must keep for the evening and not while you are at work. “You must be professionally dressed as that's how you will be perceived by your clients, your colleagues, and the Bench. Second, you must learn to draft in clear and concise manner,” she said. In her farewell speech on Wednesday, she said that the verdict delivered by the apex court decriminalising consensual gay sex was the “most moving moment” as the emotions that swept the courtroom at that time was quite overwhelming. Justice Malhotra, who took office on April 27, 2018, penned several important verdicts, including her dissenting judgement in the historic Sabarimala Temple case in which she had said judicial review of religious practices should not be done as courts cannot impose their morality or rationality on the form of worship of a deity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||State election commissioners should be independent, says SC||State election commissioners have to be "independent persons" not occupying a post under the Centre or state governments, the Supreme Court has ruled, terming the Goa government's move to give its law secretary the additional charge of the SEC a "mockery" of constitutional mandate. In a significant verdict, the top court also directed if there were any such persons holding the post of SEC in any other state, "such persons must be asked forthwith to step down from such office and the State Government concerned be bound to fulfil the constitutional mandate of Article 243K by appointing only independent persons to this high constitutional office". A three-judge bench, headed by Justice R F Nariman, issued the direction to all states and Union territories while taking recourse of its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution that empowers it to pass any order in the interest of justice. The directions were issued to ensure that the constitutional mandate of an independent State Election Commission to conduct elections is "strictly followed in the future", said the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy. The observations and directions were given in the 96-page judgement, penned by Justice Nariman, on a batch of pleas relating to the urban local body polls in Goa. The judgment, uploaded on the apex court's website on Saturday, has upheld the Bombay High Court's verdict of setting aside an order of the municipal administrator on February 4 on granting quota to women and OBC candidates in local urban body polls in five municipal councils in the state. The bench directed the Goa SEC to issue the notification for the urban body polls within 10 days from Friday and complete the poll process by April 30. Justice Nariman extensively dealt with the constitutional scheme pertaining to elections and the SECs. "It is also made clear that henceforth, all State Election Commissioners appointed under Article 243K in the length and breadth of India have to be independent persons who cannot be persons who are occupying a post or office under the Central or any State Government," it held. "The most disturbing feature of these cases is the subversion of the constitutional mandate contained in Article 243K of the Constitution of India. "The State Election Commissioner has to be a person who is independent of the State Government as he is an important constitutional functionary who is to oversee the entire election process in the state qua panchayats and municipalities," Justice Nariman, who wrote the judgement for the bench, said. The importance given to the independence of a SEC is explicit from the provision for his removal from his office which equal to a judge of the high court. "Giving an additional charge of such an important and independent constitutional office to an officer who is directly under the control of the State Government is, in our view, a mockery of the constitutional mandate," the verdict said. It declared that the additional charge given to a law secretary flouted the constitutional mandate and asked the Goa government to "remedy this position by appointing an independent person to be the State Election Commissioner at the earliest". Petitions were filed in the Bombay High Court relating to the elections to 11 municipal councils where terms had expired on November 4 last year and the SEC had fixed polls in April, 2021. The law secretary, who was given additional charge of the SEC on November 3, had postponed the polls due to the pandemic. Pleas were filed in the high court against a change in the Goa Municipalities Act, by which the time frame for issuance of a notification for reservation of wards was stated as being "at least seven days" before the notification for schedule of dates and events of the elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||Six more vaccines coming up in India, says health minister||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday announced that more than six coronavirus vaccines will come up in India. He also said that 1.84 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to people so far, while 23 crore tests have been conducted. "India has developed two vaccines, which have been given to 71 countries. Many more nations are seeking the vaccines, and these are not little-known nations...Canada, Brazil and other developed countries are using Indian vaccines with a great zeal," he said. "More than half a dozen vaccines are going to come up," he said. "Till Saturday morning, 1.84 crore vaccine shots have been given in the country and 20 lakh people were inoculated yesterday," the minister added. He was speaking while inaugurating the new green campus of the National Institute of Research in Environmental Health near Bhopal. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to create a new India to turn it into a 'vishwa guru' (world leader),” he added. "Respect science. There is a need to end politics over it (vaccine) given that it is a scientific fight not a political one. That is why we should work unitedly," Vardhan said. “The efforts of our scientists are praiseworthy as due to their labour we have achieved all this. Year 2020, apart from being a Covid-19 year, will be remembered as the year of science and scientists,” he added. He said that initially there was only one laboratory in India for Covid-19 testing. "But we have 2,412 testing facilities now," he added. "We were the first in the world to isolate the coronavirus. We isolated its mutation. And our scientists helped the ICMR in making the vaccine. People have praised it (vaccine). Some people tried to create confusion, but truth is unbeatable," he said. Talking about the rising infection cases, the minister said this "disturbing trend" was due to the carelessness and misunderstanding. "People think that as the vaccine has come and all is well now," he said, while urging them to follow the Covid-19 rules for protection against the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||Deboard passengers not wearing masks properly, DGCA tells airlines||Seeking to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols by air travellers, aviation regulator DGCA on Saturday asked airlines to deboard passengers who do not wear their mask "properly" despite repeated warnings. Also, the watchdog has directed airlines to treat a passenger as "unruly" in case the person violates the protocols. The latest directives come against the backdrop of a rising number of coronavirus cases in certain parts of the country even as domestic air traffic is improving. In a circular issued on Saturday, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), has also directed the airport operators to ensure that the passengers wear their mask and maintain social distancing norms at all times during the air travel. The DGCA said it has been noticed that some travellers undertaking air journey do not adhere to "Covid-19 protocols", which essentially involve wearing masks properly -- not below the nose, right from entering the departing airport to exiting from the arriving airport. Observing that some passengers after entering the airport do not wear their mask properly and maintain social distance while being in the airport, the regulator said that some passengers have been noticed not wearing their masks properly while on board the aircraft. "On board the aircraft, in case any passenger does not adhere to wearing a mask properly even after repeated warnings, he/she should be de-boarded, if need be, before departure," the circular said. "In the case of any passenger on board an aircraft refusing to wear a mask or violates the 'Covid-19 Protocol for passengers' even after repeated warnings, during the course of the flight, such passengers may be treated as 'Unruly' passengers, as per the DGCA. The procedure in respect of handling such unruly passengers will be followed by the airline concerned as per the Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR), it added. The circular said that the passengers will wear masks and maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel, adding the mask shall not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances. Directing the CISF/ police personnel deployed at the entrance of the airport to ensure that no one is allowed to enter the airport without wearing a mask, it said that the chief airport security officer and other supervising officers must ensure this personally. In case any passenger found violating Covid-19 protocols at the airport, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings, the directive said. "If required, they may be dealt as per law," the circular added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||Cut in fuel prices, other benefits feature in DMK poll manifesto||The opposition DMK in Tamil Nadu on Saturday released its party's manifesto for the April 6 Assembly elections in the state, making a slew of promises including free computer tablets with data cards for students and a law to provide 75 percent of jobs in the state to locals. Financial assistance of Rs 25,000 to one lakh persons going on pilgrimage to major Hindu temples, increase in maternity leave period and assistance, cut in fuel prices and steps to ban NEET were the various promises made by the Dravidian party. Releasing the manifesto, DMK President Stalin said if his party was voted to power, first generation graduates will be given preference in government jobs, reservation in private sector will also be insisted and promised subsidies for small farmers. "Tablets with free data will be provided to government school and college students," Stalin told a press conference at party headquarters Anna Arivalayam. If voted, the party will reduce the rates of petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 4 per litre, he said in an apparent reference to tax cuts. Also, a subsidy of Rs 100 towards LPG cylinder will be provided. Steps will be taken to expedite the submission of a committee (Arumughasamy Committee) report formed to probe the circumstances leading to the death of Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2016, he said. Further, a law to set aside 75 percent of jobs in industrial houses for locals will be passed if the DMK was voted to power, he added. Promising an allocation of Rs 1000 crore towards renovation and consecration of Hindu temples, Stalin assured to provide Rs 200 crore for churches and mosques. Better water management, supply of clean drinking water, increase in women's reservation in government jobs, hiking old age pension and establishment of 'Kalaignar Unavagam' eateries as part of hunger eradication were the other assurances provided by the DMK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||20 lakh vaccines administered on Friday, highest so far says Centre||The Health Ministry said on Saturday that more than 20 lakh vaccine doses against the coronavirus were administered across the country the previous day, the highest single-day count so far. As many as 16,39,663 beneficiaries -- healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) -- were vaccinated for the first dose and 4,13,874 such people received the second shot. "India recorded a significant milestone in its countrywide Covid19 vaccination drive which started on January 16. More than 20 lakh (20,53,537) vaccine doses were given on Day-56 of the vaccination drive (March 12) through 30,561 sessions," the ministry said in a statement. This is the highest single-day vaccine administration so far, it said. A total of more than 2.82 crore (2,82,18,457) vaccine doses have been administered through 4,86,314 sessions, as per the provisional report. "These include 72,93,575 HCWs (1st dose), 41,94,030 HCWs (2nd dose), 72,35,745 FLWs (1st dose) and 9,48,923 FLWs (2nd dose), 12,54,468 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 72,91,716 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years," it said. Eight states constituted 74 per cent of the 20.54 lakh doses administered in the past 24 hours, with Uttar Pradesh topping the list with more than 3.3 lakh vaccine doses. Ten states account for 69 per cent of the second dose vaccinations in India and Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 9.71 per cent -- 4,99,242 -- of the total second dose vaccinations in the country, the ministry said. It added that Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh reported 87.72 per cent of the new cases in the last 24 hours, with Maharashtra accounting for 63.57 per cent of India's total active cases. Twenty states and Union territories have less than 1,000 active cases, the ministry said, and 18 of states/Union territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
13-03-2021||India||Covid: over 24,000 cases, highest spike this year||India on Saturday recorded 24,882 fresh Covid-19 infections, the highest so far this year, which took the caseload to 1,13,33,728, according to Union health ministry data. This is also the highest daily rise in the last 83 days. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded on December 20. The death toll climbed to 1,58,446 with 140 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's active caseload increased to 2,02,022, which constitutes 1.74 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate dropped to 96.82 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,73,260. The case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 22,58,39,273 samples had been tested until March 12 including 8,40,635 on Friday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Flag signboards for Jammu and Kashmir schools||The Jammu and Kashmir government has directed the heads of schools run by it to install signboards with the Tricolour in the background, appearing to set up a patriot test for educational institutions in the region. The order issued last month by Gopal Sharma, joint director (planning) at the civil secretariat in the school education department, has designated a junior in his department as the nodal officer to monitor the progress of the initiative. Along with the directive to install signboards, where the details of the schools are to be mentioned, the order seeks to establish a uniform colour scheme for all government school buildings. Progress reports have been sought from all districts on the implementation of the colour code. “Deputy Director Planning, School Education Department, J&K, is designated as nodal officer to monitor adoption of colour shade of grey and white and installation of signboard of standard design in every J&K UT government school with the Tricolour of the national flag in the background,” the order says. Sharma confirmed to The Telegraph that such an order has been released and added that he was yet to receive progress reports from the districts. Valley schools have no tradition of singing the national anthem or hoisting the Tricolour. Jammu and Kashmir had its own constitution, flag and penal code, which were scrapped when its special status was cancelled in 2019. The flag was later removed from the civil secretariat offices in Srinagar and Jammu. The central government had claimed these measures had been undertaken for the full integration of Jammu and Kashmir with India. The fresh directive seems to be a part of that campaign. There is a blanket ban on student activism in Kashmir to prevent pro-azadi sentiments from getting a vent. Kashmir Private Schools Association chairman Ghulam Nabi Var said Jammu and Kashmir was perhaps the first region in the country to ask schools to use the Tricolour as a background for signboards. “I have not heard about any such initiative outside,” Var told this newspaper. “There are already a lot of things happening, like the new education policy that is being implemented (by the Centre). Earlier the purpose of education was to teach students about how to think. Now they are taught what to think.” Var said education should be “politics-neutral”.He said associations representing schools from different parts of the country had assembled this week in Punjab’s Ferozpur to discuss how “to save education”. The Jammu and Kashmir government order has asked schools to give details of the “progress on this activity” on a weekly basis and a deadline of April 30 has been set for the completion of the tasks. “Weekly progress on the said activity must reach the CEO (chief education office) by each Sunday without fail,” reads an official communication issued by a district CEO to the heads of schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Gujarat IPS duo lead CBI director race||Controversial IPS officer Rakesh Asthana and National Investigation Agency chief Y.C. Modi, both considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, are among the front-runners for the post of the next CBI director, government sources have told The Telegraph. The country’s premier investigative agency is now headed by interim director Praveen Sinha, a Gujarat-cadre IPS officer like Asthana, after regular director Rishi Kumar Shukla demitted office on February 2 on the expiry of his two-year tenure. The Supreme Court is hearing a writ petition filed by the NGO Common Cause seeking the appointment of a regular CBI director through the high-powered selection committee having the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India and the leader of the largest Opposition party or his representative. The petition, filed last week, had pointed out that instead of making a regular appointment to the top CBI post, the Centre had appointed Sinha as an interim director. The court on Friday issued notice to the Centre and posted the matter for hearing after two weeks. The sources said the process to select a new director had started and the department of personnel and training (DoPT) had sought the names of eligible IPS officers belonging to the 1984, 1985 and 1986 batches from the Amit Shah-helmed Union home ministry. Y.C. Modi, a 1984-batch Assam-and-Meghalaya-cadre IPS officer, was part of the Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) that probed the 2002 Gujarat riots when Narendra Modi was chief minister. The SIT had given the future Prime Minister a clean chit in the Gulbarg Society massacre in which 69 people had been killed. Asthana, also a 1984-batch IPS officer, had as inspector-general overseen the initial probe into the Godhra train burning that culminated in the riots. Last year the CBI had given a clean chit to Asthana, a former CBI special director, in connection with a bribery scandal in 2018. The case had triggered an unprecedented public feud between Asthana and then CBI director Alok Verma. Both had been benched by the Centre after an unusual midnight raid. Asthana is presently the director-general of the Border Security Force (BSF). A DoPT official said the stakes were high in the race for the CBI top post and lobbying had started. Besides Y.C. Modi and Asthana, the other officers in the fray include Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Keshav Kumar and interim CBI director Sinha. The sources said political considerations were important in the appointment of the CBI director. Candidates for CBI director are shortlisted by the DoPT, which has administrative control over the investigative agency and reports to the Prime Minister’s Office. The names are then sent to the Central Vigilance Commission for clearance. Once approved, the names are sent to the high-powered selection committee. The committee discusses the names and recommends its choice, though the final decision is taken by the Prime Minister-headed appointments committee of the cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Supreme Court of India to scan worship law||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the constitutional validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, which bars litigation on any place of worship for change of its character as it existed on August 15, 1947. Only the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi case, on which the top court ruled in 2019, was exempt from the law. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justice A.S. Bopanna issued notice to the Centre on a petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay challenging the validity of the act, which according to him not only offend Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination), 21 (life and personal liberty), 25, 26 and 29 (freedom of religion) of the Constitution but also violates the principles of secularism. Senior advocates Vikas Singh and Gopal Sankarnarayan appeared for the petitioner. According to the petition, the legislation that came into force on July 11, 1991, has created an arbitrary and irrational retrospective cutoff date by declaring that changes to the character of places of worship or pilgrimage before the cut-off date of August 15, 1947, cannot be challenged. “No suit or proceeding shall lie in court on disputes against encroachment done by fundamentalist barbaric invaders and law breakers (before the cut-off date),” the petition said. “Thus, the Centre has barred the remedies against illegal encroachment on the places of worship and pilgrimages and now Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs cannot file suit or approach a high court…,” it said. “Therefore, they won’t be able to restore their places of worship and pilgrimage, including temples’ endowments,… and illegal barbarian acts of invaders will continue in perpetuity,” the petition claimed. “The injury caused to Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs is extremely large because Sections 2, 3, 4 of the Act have taken away the right to approach the court and thus the right to judicial remedy has been closed,” it added. The petition argued that the government cannot take away the right of people to seek legal remedy, nor can it stop courts from issuing writs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Modi must clear air on bribery scandal: Congress||The Centre’s inaction so far on a bribery scandal in spite of an admission by a Swedish bus maker of “misconduct” in India has brought into the spotlight the purported proximity between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and an Indian firm. The Congress on Friday formally said the Prime Minister should clear the air on his links with Siddhi Vinayak Logistics Ltd, a key Indian client and ally of Swedish bus and truck maker Scania that belongs to the Volkswagen stable. Earlier this week, Swedish news channel SVT and two other media outlets had reported after an investigation that Scania had paid bribes to win bus contracts in India in seven states between 2013 and 2016. A Scania spokesperson had revealed that an investigation started by the company in 2017 had shown serious shortcomings by employees, including senior management. “This misconduct included alleged bribery, bribery through business partners and misrepresentation,” the spokesperson told Reuters. Some media reports have suggested a possible link to Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari. The minister’s office has denied the charge but the Centre has not ordered any probe despite Scania admitting what it described as “misconduct”. So far, the name of the Gujarat-based Siddhi Vinayak Logistics, which had placed a large order for buses with Scania in 2013, has not been mentioned in connection with the bribery scandal. But Siddhi Vinayak Logistics has been probed by the CBI in connection with bank loans. “The Prime Minister should come clean on his links with Siddhi Vinayak Logistics,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said on Friday. “SVVL (Siddhi Vinayak Logistics Ltd) is run by a Surat-based businessman, Rup Chand Baid. This company supplied the customised luxury buses for Modi’s seven-star campaign in 2014,” Khera told a news conference. “SVLL announced a partnership with Scania in 2014. This year was significant for SVLL — it saw Narendra Modi becoming Prime Minister and the company’s worth grew with an annual turnover of Rs 1,500 crore, an annual growth of 80 per cent.” Khera said that when the Bank of Maharashtra asked SVLL to repay its loan in 2014, Baid wrote to the assistant general manager of the bank’s Deccan Gymkhana Branch in Pune, saying: “The undersigned was busy with preparation of very specialised vehicles for 3D campaigning by Honourable Shri Narendrabhai Modi & his team. It took about two months (February & March). During this period, I couldn’t attend business work.” Neither the Centre nor the promoters of Siddhi Vinayak Logistics had responded to the allegations levelled by the Congress till Friday night. This newspaper will publish their versions when they are issued. Khera said: “In a February 2015 report, it was highlighted that SVLL was the Bank of Maharashtra’s largest defaulter. Despite being a defaulter, the fact that the company had friends at the highest echelons of power meant that neither were the loan accounts tagged as NPAs nor were they classified as wilful defaulters. “Yet again, in a letter dated September 16, 2014, Baid showed his proximity with the Prime Minister by forwarding the copy of a letter his company had received from Modi congratulating his company on the observance of ‘Drivers Day’. The company’s website also used to have a photograph of Baid and Modi, which has been taken down as the company was served a liquidation notice on November 19, 2018.” Khera said that SVLL had started a “Chalak se malak” scheme in 2012 under which it sold used trucks to drivers. The Bank of Maharashtra provided loans for this scheme. The bank had a direct exposure of Rs 259 crore to SVLL in addition to an indirect exposure in the form of “small road transport operator finances” of Rs 645 crore. Pre-empting the BJP’s stand that the loan was sanctioned in 2012 before Modi became Prime Minister, Khera said: “An internal probe by the Bank of Maharashtra made this observation, ‘The huge exposure taken by the zonal authorities (Ahmedabad and Surat branches) were without express consent by head office, violating its own credit policy about the exposure to the group defined under credit policy approved by the board. In fact, the finance(s) were made without considering the basic principles of lending, flouting RBI guidelines and credit policy of the bank.’ Also, in 2012, SVLL was not a defaulter and there was no scam.” Khera said the key player in the disbursement of these loans was a general manager of the Bank of Maharashtra. He said the bank official had been suspended for a while before being reinstated because of his links with the RSS. The official is now retired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Industrial output contracts by 1.6% and retail inflation spirals to 5.03%||The Narendra Modi government suffered a double blow on Friday with industrial output contracting by 1.6 per cent and retail inflation spiralling to a three-month high of 5.03 per cent in February on the back of rising food and fuel prices. Industrial output had risen by 1.6 per cent in December, according to revised estimates. The double whammy meant that the government’s recent assertion of a broad-based economic recovery — bolstered by an unexpected 0.4 per cent growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) in the third quarter (October-December 2020) — has come under strain. The big worry is that the manufacturing sector, which has an over 77 per cent weightage in the index of industrial production (IIP), has contracted again by 2 per cent. Manufacturing had flickered to life in December last year by recording a 2.1 per cent growth. This is actually a revised number that was put out on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Vaccine diplomacy at Quad meet||The first ever summit meeting of the Quad leadership on Friday announced a “Vaccine Initiative” that will pool the individual capacities of the four member countries to expedite global vaccine delivery in an unstated but apparent bid to counter China’s vaccine diplomacy. Addressing the meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said: “We are united by our democratic values... Our agenda today — covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies — makes the Quad a force for global good... Today’s summit meeting shows that Quad has come of age. It will now remain an important pillar of stability in the region.” Describing the Quad summit as the launch of a joint partnership that is going to boost vaccine manufacturing for global benefit, US President Joe Biden said: “We are renewing our commitment to ensure that our region is governed by international law committed to all the international values and free from coercion... Quad is going to be a vital arena for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.” Briefing the media after the meeting initiated by Biden was wrapped up with the first joint statement after a Quad meeting, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the Vaccine Initiative entailed a vaccine developed in the US to be manufactured in India with the financial support of Japan and the US. The fourth member country, Australia, will chip in with the last-mile operation and delivery. It will help recipient countries, especially in South East Asia, to administer the vaccines and develop cold chain facilities. While the Vaccine Initiative is the first major deliverable of the Quad, the four leaders, according to Shringla, will also focus on addressing climate change. Asked if the situation along the Line of Actual Control between India and China was discussed during the virtual meeting, Shringla did not respond. India is seeing the Vaccine Initiative as a great opportunity as it would see additional capacity being added to manufacturing with the US and Japanese funding. Also, according to Shringla, it is a recognition of India’s manufacturing capacity in vaccines. China, according to its foreign ministry, has 17 vaccines in clinical trials. China has donated or is donating Covid vaccines to 69 countries and exporting to 43 countries. India has sent the two vaccines manufactured in the country to around 70 countries as part of its Vaccine Maitri project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Congress hits streets with jobs cry||The Congress party’s students’ wing NSUI on Friday launched a “Naukri Do Ya Degree Wapas Lo” (Give jobs or take back degrees) campaign, questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi about his tempting promise of creating two-crore jobs every year at a time unemployment has acquired dangerous dimensions. The NSUI (National Students’ Union of India) took out a “Chhatra Adhikar March” in Delhi to mark the occasion where senior leaders of the Congress highlighted the curse of unemployment, describing the Modi government’s failure as a shocking betrayal. The police lathicharged thousands of students from across the country who wanted to gherao Parliament, prompting Rahul Gandhi to tweet: “Students want jobs. But the government is giving police batons, water guns, anti-national tag and unemployment.” While the students, along with NSUI president Neeraj Kundan, were taken into preventive custody, the party claimed a large number of boys and girls were injured in the unprovoked and brutal lathicharge. The party also ran a social media campaign under the hashtag #StudentsWantJobs, which trended throughout the day with lakhs of tweets. The NSUI has asked the students from across the country to join the campaign by giving a missed call to a particular number. The speakers at the protest recalled how the Modi government refused to even accept the gravity of the situation and never demonstrated any concern for the sufferings of youth, caused by an all-time high unemployment rate, scams and delays in exams and non-recruitment after selection. The government’s decision for lateral entry into the system was described as a sinister conspiracy against lakhs of students preparing for civil services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Supreme Court plea for boards for rape abortions||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the Centre’s response on setting up special medical boards in all district headquarters to deal with cases relating to abortion on rape victims. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justice A.S. Bopanna said: “A girl who has been impregnated because of rape, she should know her legal rights and the options that she has. There should be some mechanism for that. We will issue notice.” The court posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. The bench passed the directions after advocate V.K. Biju, appearing for a 14-year-old rape victim from Haryana, urged the court to form medical boards for dealing with pleas for abortion from rape victims in view of the restrictions imposed by the Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT) Act, 1971. During the hearing the counsel sought permission to withdraw the petition filed by the minor as the report submitted in the court by a medical board of the central government had disapproved the plea for abortion of the 26-week foetus. The girl had been raped allegedly by one of her father’s cousins. Biju pleaded that in view of the rising number of such instances being brought before the court, it was necessary that the apex court direct the government to constitute district-level boards with gynaecologists and paediatricians. In September 2017 the top court had permitted two minor rape victims, both aged around 15, to undergo abortion of their 26-week-old foetus, which had crossed the statutory ceiling of 20 weeks, as it posed a grave threat to the victims’ lives. The law prohibits medical termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks as per Section 3 of the PNDT Act, 1971. Section 5 of the Act provides for an exception to the 20-week cut-off if there is a danger to the mother’s life. However, doctors in India are reluctant to take risks, fearing legal hassles, prompting victims to move court. Additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, told the court that she intends to place before the bench an affidavit to explain the amendment carried out to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020, under which the 20-week period has been enhanced to 25 weeks. The bill has been passed by the Lok Sabha and is awaiting the assent of the Rajya Sabha, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Hospital scam stink in Uttar Pradesh||A hundred 42-inch colour television sets that cost Rs 52,096 apiece were shown as bought at Rs 1.2 lakh each. 200 beds that have a market price of Rs 40,415 each were shown as purchased at Rs 2 lakh apiece. 15 diesel generators priced at Rs 65.74 lakh per set were shown as procured at Rs 89.39 lakh each. 15 units of indoor-outdoor light fixtures with a market price of Rs 18.4 crore were shown as bought at Rs 38.30 crore. The alleged anomalies in the purchase of items for the fledgling Super Speciality Cancer Institute and Hospital in Lucknow had been pointed out by the Uttar Pradesh principal accountant-general in a report to the government on February 17 this year. Within two days, the probe into the alleged irregularities was handed over to the same public works department whose agency has been accused of making the purchases at bloated rates. The hospital spread over 77 acres was conceived in 2014 when the Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav was chief minister and inaugurated on October 20, 2020, by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh. The questionable purchases totalling Rs 56.9 crore were made between 2016 and 2020. The Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited (UPRNNL), a wing of the PWD that had been assigned to build and set up the hospital, had made the purchases and is to buy 600 more TV sets and more beds. However, after principal accountant-general Jayant Sinha submitted the report to the government on February 17, the investigation was handed over to the PWD, against whose agency the allegation of irregularities has been made. While notifying the inquiry on February 19, Chandra Bhushan, special secretary of the state PWD, set up a probe committee with three officials — the chief engineer (development, UPRNNL), chief architect (PWD) and the finance controller (PWD). “The committee is directed to make available the inquiry report to the government within 15 days,” the notification said. Sources in the PWD said the report was yet to be filed. The Telegraph could not contact Sinha, the principal accountant-general. An email sent to Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari by this newspaper on Friday for his comment on the alleged scam did not elicit an answer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
13-03-2021||India||Justice Indu Malhotra on LGBT bench retires ||Justice Indu Malhotra, part of the Supreme Court bench that in 2018 upheld the LGBT community’s unfettered fundamental right to sexual preference, retired on Friday. Justice Malhotra was part of the five-judge bench that had unanimously on September 6, 2018, passed the 495-page judgment upholding the rights of the LGBT community that had challenged IPC Section 377 as being unconstitutional. The section prohibited “sex against the order of nature”. Justice Malhotra had observed that “history owed an apology to these members and their families”. Justice Malhotra had been the sole dissenting judge on a five-judge constitution that had in September 2018 quashed as unconstitutional the centuries-old practice of banning the entry of women of child-bearing age into the Sabarimala temple in Kerala. Justice Malhotra was the first woman advocate to be appointed directly as a Supreme Court judge on April 27, 2018. Speaking at her farewell, Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde said: “…I have seen Justice Indu Malhotra appearing before me as a lawyer. She would not stop the arguing. I asked my colleague why didn’t she stop arguing. I was told she prepares so well, she cannot resist to argue everything about the case….” Justice Malhotra said: “…My thanks to all, I think I have been very blessed to serve on the bench of the Supreme Court and… to have contributed to the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Do not vote for BJP, says Tikait at Nandigram||Farmers in Bengal held mahapanchayats on Saturday in the city and at Nandigram, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in the fray, at the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and urged voters not to vote for the BJP in the coming West Bengal Assembly poll. Farmer leader and Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Rakesh Tikait, one of those spearheading the four-month-old farmers’ stir against the Centre’s farm laws, reached the state during the day to be part of the Mahapanchayat. Tikait, who was received at the airport by TMC MP Dola Sen, later addressed gatherings of farmers in the city and at Nandigram in East Midnapore district along with social activist Medha Patkar. Patkar and Yogendra Yadav, had reached Calcutta on Friday to address a mahapanchayat at Ramlila grounds, which was followed by an intellectual meet. Alleging that the BJP-led government at the Centre is intent on breaking the backbone of the farmers and their movement, Tikait said it is “anti-people”. “Don’t vote for BJP. If voted to power they will give away your land to big corporates and industries and make you landless. They will hand over the country to big industrialist groups putting your livelihood at stake and in danger,”he said. Calling BJP “a party of cheats” which hides its sympathy for the rich, Tikait said “We will be on the side of those who oppose BJP, those who will stand by the farmers and the poor.” Clarifying that the Krishak Mahapanchayat in Bengal is not meant to pledge support to any particular non-BJP party in the state, the Bharatiya Kisan Union chief said “I am not here to seek votes for a particular party. We are here to issue an emphatic appeal to start the battle against BJP on behalf of the farmers in Bengal.” Referring to Nandigram, he said the land of farmers’ agitation will give new direction to the movement against the farm bills. On the ongoing farmers’ stir in Delhi, he said the protestors are ready to continue their agitation for a long period as their morale is high. Tikait is also expected to visit Singur, one of the epicentres of anti-farm land acquisition agitation in 2006-07. Patkar warned against the “sinister design” of the Narendra Modi government to rob small and marginal farmers of their right over their small plots of land. Also it does not allow farmers to decide the remunerative price of their agri produce. The people of Nandigram must show the way by giving the lead against the BJP's objective to thrust the farm laws, she said. The social activist also urged the people to exercise their franchise cautiously. “This is the land of Rabindranath Tagore, this is the land of so many luminaries. Bengal’s soil will not allow the divisive forces to get a toehold here, its farmers will not allow a rerun of forces like the (British) East India Company to usurp power,” she said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmers’ unions, had on Friday urged ploughmen and other people of West Bengal not to vote for BJP arguing that electoral defeat will force the BJP-led government at the Centre to repeal the three farm laws. Patkar had on Friday condemned the Centre for allegedly insulting the farmers’ stir and had said even the British occupiers had not resorted to acts which the present government is indulging in. She had welcomed the passage of a resolution against the farm laws in the West Bengal assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government’s report on Mamata incident sketchy, says EC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has found the report submitted by the West Bengal government on the alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram on March 10 as "sketchy" and asked Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to elaborate it, a poll official said on Saturday. The chief secretary has been asked to furnish details like how the incident took place and who could be behind it by Saturday, he said. "The report submitted by the West Bengal government appeared to be quite sketchy and without any details of the incident like how it happened or who could be behind it. We have asked the state administration to furnish more details," the official told PTI. The state government's report submitted to the ECI on Friday evening referred to the presence of a huge crowd at the spot but has no mention of the "4-5 people", who Banerjee alleged had attacked her, he said. It said there was no clear video footage of the alleged attack that took place in Birulia Bazar of Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district on Wednesday evening. After the incident, the ECI sought a report from the state government and appointed two poll observers for the state. The chief minister has left her Bhawanipur constituency in Calcutta to fight former aide and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, where an anti-land acquisition movement catapulted her party to power in 2011. Elections to the 294-member assembly will be held from March 27 to April 29. Results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Yashwant Sinha joins TMC, says it is the call of the hour||Former Union minister Yashwant Sinha, a bitter critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi regime, joined Trinamul Congress on Saturday, days ahead of the high-octane West Bengal Assembly polls. Sinha, a senior BJP leader during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government's rule, told reporters it was call of the hour to ensure TMC wins the Assembly elections with a thumping majority which would herald the defeat of Modi government in 2024 Lok Sabha polls and save the country. "The tipping point was the attack (in Nandigram) on Mamata Banerjee. When I spoke to her today, she described the incident to me." he said, adding that he had .had 45-minute conversation with her before joining her party. "This government can do anything to win the election. The attack on Mamata Ji made me decide that I want to work with her," he said about the March 10 incident. Sinha, who served in the cabinet of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had quit the saffron party in 2018 after having serious differences with the present party leadership. His son Jayant Sinha is the BJP MP from Hazaribagh in Jharkhand. The octagenarian leader had campaigned for TMC in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Speaking after joining TMC at its office here, the bureaucrat-turned-politician, made a scathing attack on Modi and Union Home minister Amit Shah, observing that democracy in the country was under threat under them. "The strength of the democracy lies in the robustness of its institutions, and all the institutions have been weakened systematically," Sinha said. "The country is faced with strange situation. The values and principles we gave so much importance, the founding principles of our Republic are not being followed. The farmers of the country are sitting near Delhi for months but the government doesn't care. The ruling party has only one objective - win elections by any means," he said. The senior politician pledged support to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in her fight against the BJP. "TMC will win the polls by thumping majority. But, we have to increase the victory to another level. "(Gopal Krishna) Gokhale had famously said, 'What Bengal thinks today India thinks tomorrow'. Bengal should herald changes. The win of TMC in West Bengal Assembly polls will ring in changes in 2024 general elections and defeat them (Modi-Shah) led BJP," Sinha said. Observing that the BJP led by Atal Behari Vajpayee was vastly different from the saffron party today, Sinha said, "Atal ji believed in consensus. Now Modi and Shah believe in crushing opposite opinion. Atal ji believed in taking people along, but the present BJP regime believes in conquering people. "Atal ji believed in coalition, now coalition partners are leaving BJP one after another."  Sinha said migrant labourers were forced to come back home by foot during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown while education, healthcare are also going through a rough phase but the government does not seem to be bothered. The veteran politician observed it is a serious fight today, not merely to win elections but to save the Republic Sinha recalled during Kandahar hijack of Air India plane, when TMC was the coalition partner of the Vajpayee government, Banerjee had volunteered at the cabinet meeting to go and meet the hijackers to secure release of hostages "as she is not afraid of her life." Sinha's joining Trinamul Congress might not help it win votes, but his utterances against the BJP could lend weight to TMC's offensive against the saffron party in the high- voltage Bengal polls. "We welcome Yashwant Sinha to our party. His participation would strengthen our fight against the BJP in the coming elections," TMC Lok Sabha party leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said earlier. Sinha was two-time finance minister, once in the Chandra Sekhar cabinet in 1990 and then again in the Vajpayee cabinet. He also held the portfolio of the external affairs ministry in the Vajpayee cabinet. He served as the Principal Secretary to then Bihar Chief Minister Karpoori Thakur in 1977. Influenced by Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan, Sinha, had resigned from the IAS in 1984 and plunged into politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court upholds EC’s candidate decision||Trinamul suffered a blow on Friday with a Calcutta High Court division bench upholding the Election Commission’s decision to cancel the candidature of Ujjwal Kumar, the party’s nominee from Purulia’s Joypur Assembly seat, on technical grounds. The returning officer of the Election Commission had on Wednesday rejected Kumar’s nomination because of incomplete information in his papers. Kumar had challenged the decision and moved high court on Thursday. Then, a single bench of Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya quashed the EC’s decision and directed the returning officer to accept Kumar’s nomination. The EC thereupon challenged the order before a division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan. The high court’s division bench set aside the order passed by the single bench and upheld EC’s rejection of Kumar’s candidature. It observed that with the start of the poll process, the court had no jurisdiction to interfere with the EC’s decision. General secretary of Trinamul Purulia district unit, Nadendu Mahali, said Friday’s HC decision was a setback and added that they were mulling to support Independent candidate Dibyajyoti Singh Deo. “He is a youth leader of the party and had filed nomination as he was denied a ticket.” In another order, a division bench of Calcutta High Court, headed by Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan, on Friday refused to pass any order on a plea moved by former BJP leader of East Midnapore Anisur Rahman, who had challenged the legality of the high court order on March 2 that overturned a Tamluk court verdict acquitting him in a 2019 murder case. Following the order on Friday, Anisur will remain in jail for now. Anisur was re-arrested within hours of his release on March 2 when the single bench of Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya set aside the Tamluk court order. Anisur, who before joining the BJP in 2018 had been with Trinamul as well, had been arrested in October 2019 on charges of murdering Trinamul Congress leader Kurban Shah. After Suvendu Adhikari left Trinamul to join the BJP, the state government decided to withdraw murder charges against Anisur. Trinamul had planned to use Anisur’s popularity in the party’s fight against Adhikari in the Nandigram election. Anisur had recently announced his decision to quit the BJP and ally with the Trinamul again. A magistrate in Tamluk earlier this month allowed the state government to withdraw the case against Anisur, but a resident of East Midnapore challenged the Tamluk court’s order in high court. Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya struck down the Tamluk magistrate’s order, leading to the re-arrest of Anisur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee discharged from SSKM Hospital after 46 hours||A wheelchair-bound Mamata Banerjee emerged from SSKM Hospital on Friday evening after about 46 hours under medical supervision, the sight perking up her party which had been battling nerves since her injury on Wednesday. As the chief minister’s personal security guards lifted her to the front seat of a hatchback, and the car set off for her Harish Chatterjee Street home, Trinamul leaders’ relief was palpable. “Didi’s injury had halted all our political activities. Now that she is out of hospital, everything will pick up pace,” a source close to the chief minister said. Although Mamata has termed it a “soft and smiley election”, Trinamul knows it faces the fight of its life, pitted against the might of the Centre and its multiple agencies, with its 66-year-old leader its sole beacon of hope. So, when Mamata had to withdraw herself from campaigning after injuring her left foot, left arm and head during an outreach programme in Nandigram on Wednesday, a pall had descended on Bengal’s ruling party. Trinamul leaders feared it meant the end of their plan to answer the BJP’s campaign blitzkrieg — to be led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and a battery of other Union ministers — with 200-plus rallies by Mamata. On Friday evening, the mood seemed to be lifting as word spread that Mamata, her left foot in a plaster cast, would resume electioneering from Sunday. “We are all waiting for Didi’s campaign to pick up. The moment it gathers momentum in south Bengal, we’ll start reaping the benefit in north Bengal too,” a senior Trinamul leader from north Bengal, who had come to Calcutta for a day to meet Mamata, said. He couldn’t meet the chief minister. But as he left SSKM Hospital to catch his train back home, the knowledge that his leader would be discharged in the evening had put a smile on his face. Sources close to Mamata said that all through her time at her Woodburn Ward cabin, she had been acutely conscious that her party was holding its breath, waiting to hear when she might be able to hit the campaign trail again. So, she overruled the doctors when they advised at least another 48 hours’ stay, and got herself discharged by promising not to exert her injured leg. As Mamata left the hospital, hands folded, she appeared frail and in pain. For once, she didn’t wave to the assembled journalists as her car drove away, with her nephew and MP Abhishek Banerjee and party colleague Firhad Hakim in the back seat. She hadn’t lost her feistiness, though. A source close to her said Mamata had swatted away the suggestion that she return home in an ambulance. “I can’t,” she apparently said, implying she couldn’t be seen in an ambulance in the countdown to such a crucial election. She hasn’t any time to lose, with the BJP set to up the ante with Shah’s arrival on Sunday, followed by three visits by Modi next week. Sources said Mamata had been on the job even when she lay in her hospital bed, working through the pain. It was from the hospital that she decided to reschedule the release of the party’s poll manifesto on Sunday, coinciding with Nandigram Dibas, the day 14 people died in police firing in 2007 — one of the key events that catapulted her to power in 2011. The originally planned release on Thursday had to be put off because of her injury. “She is the candidate from Nandigram, and so releasing the manifesto on March 14 is significant,” a party source said. “The manifesto will contain a separate set of promises for Nandigram, which will define her development narrative against BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari.” A source said Mamata was itching to get cracking and would be campaigning at full throttle from next week. “This weekend’s programmes in Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram had to be postponed because of her injury. She will hold all the programmes as planned from Monday. The district leaders have been informed,” he said. Bengal will, however, see a different Mamata on the campaign trail — one confined to a wheelchair instead of rushing to meet the crowds or pacing up and down the dais with a cordless mike. Trinamul leaders hope that the visuals of an injured Mamata would benefit the party at the booths. “A wounded tigress is at her most dangerous. Wait for the results,” a party insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||As many as 700 companies of central forces for first phase||A total of about 700 companies of central forces will be deployed in the first phase of Assembly polls in Bengal. According to sources, officials of the districts where the first phase would be held on March 27, have submitted a requirement of 732 companies of central forces. “It appears the requirement would be met as the Union home ministry has promised to send central forces as per the requirement to ensure incident-free polls,”  said a senior government official. “So, the state is likely to get a total of 700-odd companies of central forces in the first phase, which could go up in the next few phases.” In the first phase, polls would be held in 30 Assembly segments spread over districts like East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Purulia and Bankura. As per the plan, central forces would guard all the booths and the paramilitary forces would be deployed in quick response teams and also to be deployed in the sector offices and the strong rooms. Senior officials said that the deployment plan was unprecedented as such a huge number of central forces were never deployed in the state during the polls. Till now, 295 companies of central forces have already been deployed in the state for carrying out route marches to build confidence among the voters. "More forces will be sent to the state by March 24 so that they can be deployed in the poll-bound districts to meet the demand of the authorities," a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari mum on injured Mamata Banerjee||Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, now the BJP’s candidate from Nandigram, on Friday declined to comment on the injured Mamata Banerjee. Adhikari, who usually peppers his speeches and media interactions with attacks against his former party supremo Mamata — now his poll rival in Nandigram — has been conspicuous in his silence on Wednesday’s incident that injured and left her hospitalised. On Friday, the 50-year-old former minister responded to questions on Mamata from the media with “leave it” or refused to answer “apolitical questions”. The two central ministers Smriti Irani and Dharmendra Pradhan, who shared the dais with him on Friday at Durgachowk before he filed his nomination papers in Haldia, remained mum on the injuries the chief minister sustained during an outreach in Birulia Bazar of Nandigram. While Trinamul has been alleging it was an attempt on Mamata’s life, the BJP is trying to suggest it was an accident. “We haven’t had a word out of him on Didi’s injuries. Suvendu is a seasoned leader from the grassroots. He understood attacking his former mentor now will annoy people,” said a Trinamul leader, adding no protest to counter Trinamul’s narrative on Wednesday’s incident was seen on Friday. In his speech, the Trinamul turncoat focused on the contribution of Nandigram in overthrowing the Left rule and tried to explain how many like him were forced to leave Trinamul for the BJP. “Nandigram is not just an Assembly constituency. It played a role in bringing change from the Left rule in Bengal through the historic movement against land acquisition....It was a second fight for freedom, for the state, led by Nandigram,” he said. “People here brought in change with many dreams, which were not fulfilled. Today, many like me have quit Trinamul and joined the BJP, as it (Trinamul) turned into a private company,” he said. Later, asked by journalists on the conspiracy theory regarding Mamata’s injuries, Adhikari discontinued many television interviews midway. “I will not comment on that issue. Senior leaders like general-secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya will tell you about this,” said a visibly uncomfortable Adhikari to one of the journalists in Hindi. BJP leaders in Adhikari’s entourage said this reticence was probably was a directive from BJP’s top leadership. “Suvendu (Adhikari) saying something harsh right now, from Nandigram could prove to be counterproductive, coming from someone who had been her close aide for so many years,” said a BJP leader. Irani, the Union textile minister, attacked Mamata for her slogan Khela Hobe (A game is afoot) and the decision to “flee” from the Bhowanipore Assembly seat. Adhikari, for a change, was silent on that and he did not take Mamata’s name. “The BJP understood that attacking our injured chief minister was wrong. However, their senior leaders are continuously attacking her from Calcutta and Delhi. We know Didi will return to Nandigram soon and will hand a huge defeat to the BJP,” said Abu Taher, a Trinamul leader from Nandigram. Pralay Pal, a BJP vice-president in Tamluk, said the party was busy with Adhikari’s nomination on Friday but would be firm in countering the issue, if Mamata’s party used it as a poll plank. “Trinamul is trying to create pressure on the poll panel. They are distorting facts related to the Nandigram incident and trying to gain sympathy, which is condemnable,” said Samik Bhattacharya, state BJP’s chief spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Farmers led by Rakesh Tikait will travel to Bengal on tractors on 5th April  ||If Prime Minister Narendra Modi looks down from his helicopter on the campaign trail in Bengal next month, chances are he might spot what he is refusing to see from Delhi: tractors. Farmers led by Rakesh Tikait will travel to Bengal on tractors on April 5 and stay on in an attempt to ensure the defeat of the BJP. “Woh toh helicopter mein chalega, hum peechhe peechhe tractor mein chalenge (Modi will travel in a helicopter, we will follow him in tractors),” Tikait, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), told The Telegraph from Jodhpur on Friday. A mahapanchayat was held in Calcutta on Friday. “The fight against the BJP is now going on in Bengal. The need for us is to stay there. I will reach Bengal with tractors on April 5 to ensure the defeat of the BJP for inflicting pain on peasants,” he added. The BKU is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is leading the fight against the contentious farm laws of the Centre. The Morcha held a rally in Calcutta on Friday. It has appealed to farmers to defeat the BJP in the upcoming elections in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry but made it clear it would not campaign for any particular party. Tikait said it was necessary to expose the “company raj” that the BJP government at the Centre planned to impose on the farmers and people at large. Tikait became a symbol of the resistance against the three farm laws when his emotional speech in the face of an eviction order and massive force deployment on January 28 at the Ghazipur border led to a spontaneous mobilisation of people from several hundred miles away through the night. “Since then, Tikait, along with other leaders of the Morcha, has been holding hugely attended kisan mahapanchayats to tell the people about the danger that farmers and ordinary people face from the BJP,” said a senior leader of the Morcha who will take part in a rally along with the BKU leader in Nandigram on Saturday. Invited by a group of Sikh sympathisers of the farm protest, Morcha leaders will address two rallies in Calcutta and one in Nandigram on Saturday to tell the people not to vote for the BJP. On March 14, the leaders, barring Tikait who will leave the city on Sunday, will travel to Singur and Asansol to urge people to vote against the BJP. “We will ask them to vote for any party they like but not the BJP. Voting for the BJP is detrimental to the national interest,” Tikait said before signing off to board a train to Jaipur, from where he will fly to Calcutta on Saturday morning. In its appeal to farmers in the election-bound states, the Morcha urged farmers to teach the “power-hungry, anti-farmer BJP” that it is not wise to pit itself against peasants, hoping that its demands would be met if the “arrogance of the party can be broken”. “We have understood that the Modi government does not understand the language of truth, of goodness, of justice, of constitutional values, etc. However, it understands the language of votes, seats and power. You now have the power of denting their quest for votes, seats and power.” The Morcha said in the letter: “The SKM... is only asking you not to vote for the BJP. We are not advocating for any particular party. We have only one appeal — do not vote even by mistake to the lotus symbol.” About their specific demand for the repeal of the three contentious farm laws, the SKM pointed out that the BJP dispensation had brought these legislation to “dismantle any meagre protection from the government for poor farmers and consumers, and instead facilitate the expansion of private corporations and big capital”. It added that the laws had been enacted without any consultation with farmers. “These are laws that will destroy our future as well as our future generations.” The SKM also said the BJP government had “discredited and maligned farmers” who were protesting against the new laws, called them names and “insulted them continuously”. About the 12 meetings with the Centre that failed to break the impasse, the SKM said the “BJP government’s ministers pretended to hold multiple rounds of consultations with farmer leaders but in reality, did not even listen carefully to what the farmers had to say”. Stating that the BJP was keen on making inroads in the southern states, the SKM noted that this was the time when farmers in Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Bengal and Assam could teach a lesson to the “power-hungry, anti-farmer BJP”. “The BJP should learn a lesson that it is not wise to pit itself against the farmers of India. If you manage to teach them this lesson, the arrogance of the party can be broken, and we can get the demands of the ongoing farmers’ movement fulfilled,” the SKM said. At a news conference in Calcutta, farm leaders iterated that they would visit all the poll-bound states and ask people “to not vote for the BJP”. “We have come to Bengal now. But our plan is to visit all five states where Assembly elections will happen. We will tell the people in these states to not vote for the BJP. We will tell the people that the policies of the Modi government will destroy the peasantry and our country,” said SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. The leaders said they had decided to go to all 29 states and explain the anti-farmer laws to farmers. “We have a mahapanchayat in Bhubaneswar on March 20 and in Bangalore on March 22,” Hannan Mollah, another SKM leader, said. The SKM will circulate the letter written to the farmers in all 294 Assembly constituencies of the state. “The Modi government does not understand the difference between good and bad. It only understands votes, seats and satta (power). We have to hurt them through votes,” said farm union leader Yogendra Yadav. Additional reporting by our Delhi and Calcutta bureaus||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||CPM’s Singur face, Srijan Bhattacharya, revisits past||Srijan Bhattacharya, the CPM’s young bet for the Singur Assembly constituency, has reached out to Manoranjan Malik, the father of Tapasi Malik whose murder was one of the factors that changed the complexion of the antiland acquisition movement in 2006 during Left rule. Srijan, campaigning near the Singur railway station on Thursday, was told by a party colleague that Manoranjan runs a small store selling cosmetics and accessories nearby. The 28-year-old candidate went up to Manoranjan’s shop. “I introduced myself and told him we are speaking for youths and industrialisation in Singur. Our vision for Singur remains the same. I sought his blessings and support,” Srijan told The Telegraph. “Tomake shubhechha (good wishes to you),” Srijan quoted Manoranjan as telling him. Contacted on Friday, Manoranjan said: “It was not only me (that Srijan met). He came to the market near the Singur railway station where I have a small shop. He met all the shopowners there and he met me too.” Tapasi’s charred body was found in December 2006 on the land given to Tata Motors in Singur. CPM leaders Suhrid Dutta and Debu Mallick, out on bail since February 2009, had been accused of rap¬ing and setting fire to Tapasi. “I was about 14 then,” said Srijan. “Tapasi Malik’s death had hurt me too. However, despite all my sympathies for Manoranjanbabu, I want to remind people that none of the CPM leaders who had been accused killing Tapasi was found guilty.” Given a chance, he would ensure proper investigation into Tapasi’s death, he added. The CPM leadership now acknowledges that “some mistakes” were made during Left rule in the industrialisation drive spearheaded by then chief minister, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. “The party in its internal assessment has later accepted that though our intention was right, the implementation could have been done in a better manner,” a CPM state committee member said. “However, we still believe that there is no alternative to industrialisation for Bengal’s growth and we want the people of Singur with us to realise this vision.” Srijan’s first social media post on March 10 evening after his candidature was announced read: “Krishi Amader Bhitti, Shilpo Amader Bhobisyot (agriculture is our foundation, industry is our future). This was the motto of the Left in 2006.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata injury fallout: TMC cites PM and Dilip barbs as proof ||The Trinamul Congress on Friday launched a full-scale political battle over the injury to Mamata Banerjee, listing before the Election Commission a series of events to back up the claim of conspiracy and forcing the BJP to literally follow in the footsteps of its rival in Bengal. Hours before the Bengal chief minister was released in a wheelchair, a six-MP Trinamul delegation met the poll panel top  brass at Nirvachan Sadan, calling the Nandigram incident of Wednesday evening “BJP’s conspiracy” and alleging it was “premeditated”. In an eight-page memorandum, Trinamul quoted several BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to suggest they had dropped dark hints presaging the injury to Mamata. “An attempt was made on the life of our chairperson Ms. Mamata Banerjee… though the perpetrators failed in their vicious attempt,” read the memorandum from the delegation, led by Dum Dum MP and Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy and the party’s leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien. “The events/actions leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was premeditated and part of a deep-rooted conspiracy…,” it added. Among the instances the memorandum cited was a quote from the Prime Minister’s March 7 address at the Brigade Parade Grounds, where he had said: “Lekin jab scooty ney Nandigram mein girna taye kiya hai toh hum kya kare (If the scooter has decided to fall in Nandigram, what can we do)?” The instances included a social media post by BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, with a caricature of Mamata, depicting that “she would be hit” at Nandigram, the numerous complaints from the BJP seeking the immediate removal of Virendra as director-general of police (which the poll panel carried out a day before the Nandigram incident) and a social media response by BJP youth wing state chief Saumitra Khan tagging Trinamul minister Bratya Basu and stating: “Kal thekey bujhtey parbey. Bikel panchta’r por (You will come to know from tomorrow. After 5pm).” The memorandum pointed out  the district police chief and the local police were “suspiciously absent” after 5pm on March 10, ahead of the “attack” that took place at 6.15pm. It alleged Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, two of the witnesses who claimed it was an accident, not an attack, and were cited by a TV channel, are “associates” of Nandigram’s BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari. “… there is a clear nexus between post by Dilip Ghosh on Facebook, multiple complaints by BJP seeking removal of DGP, the unilateral decision of the ECI to remove the erstwhile DGP, the plan revealed by Saumitra Khan on Twitter, BJP’s request to suspend/remove security personnel of Ms. Banerjee, the resultant attempt on the life of Ms. Banerjee and the cover up of the same by Adhikari,” wrote Trinamul in its memorandum. On Thursday, the commission had taken exception to the party’s “insinuations and averments”, and that it found it “undignified” even to respond to the allegations of acting at the behest of the BJP. Several seniors in Trinamul have been saying the wording of the commission’s letter made it look like it was “drafted by a political party”. On Friday evening, Trinamul’s concerns regarding the poll panel found an echo in social activist Medha Patkar, who paid a visit to SSKM. Patkar, an ally of Mamata during her days in the Opposition, endorsed the Trinamul allegations and accused the commission of having been compromised in the saffron regime. The BJP, apparently unsure of how the Nandigram incident might impact voter psyche, sent an eight-member delegation, led by its national general-secretary Bhupender Yadav and Union railway minister Piyush Goyal, to the commission in the evening. “We requested the commission to conduct a thorough and impartial probe into the incident. We also requested a special observer to monitor polls in Nandigram alone because it is a sensitive constituency,” Yadav said after meeting the commission officials. “The BJP has requested the commission to release raw footage of Mamata Banerjee’s accident to dispel rumours being spread by Trinamul leaders. We also seek action against Trinamul leaders for spreading misinformation in violation of the model code of conduct,” he added. In Bengal, Trinamul conducted silent marches in condemnation of the Nandigram incident in every block. “Nandigram is suddenly at the centre stage. She was already taking on her former Nandigram aide (Adhikari) in the constituency. Now, there was an attempt on her life…. Nandigram could once again prove to be a watershed at this crucial juncture for not only her political career but also Bengal’s future,” said a Trinamul MP. Anti-land acquisition movements in Singur and Nandigram, between 2006 and 2008, had played a pivotal role in Mamata’s political career and had propelled her to power in 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Prime Minister Modi plans three rallies this month in Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Bengal to hold three public meetings in a span of four days this month. Modi will hold rallies in Purulia’s Bhangra, East Midnapore’s Contai and Bankura’s Ranibandh on March 18, 20 and 21, respectively. On March 27, which is the first day of polls in Bengal, seven Assembly seats of Purulia Lok Sabha constituency, six under Contai Lok Sabha seat and five of Bankura Lok Sabha constituency will go to the polls. “For us, Modiji is the mascot for Bengal polls. The more the number of rallies led by him, the better,” a BJP source said. “We are planning at least 20 such rallies to be addressed by Modiji in the run up to the Assembly polls,” this person added. On March 14, Union home minister Amit Shah will address a rally at Jhargram district. The party has planned an equal number of public meetings for Shah as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul star nominees visit party old-timers||Trinamul candidates have their task cut out during their campaign trail — seek the blessings of party old-timers try and prevent resentment or internal feud. Working towards this, Tollywood star Sayantika Bandopadhyay, who is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s choice for the Bankura seat, rolled out her campaign on Tuesday with visits to the homes of three old-timers. After visiting an old temple, she visited the house of Minati Mishra, a former MLA and wife of Kashinath Mishra, a five-term MLA from Bankura who died in an accident in 2013. Sayantika touched Minati’s feet and paid floral tribute to a picture of Kashinath. She spent around 30 minutes with the family before leaving the Mishra household to call on the family members of two party veterans Shanti Singh and Tara Kundu who had passed away a few years ago. The effort to involve “party elders and their families” in the campaign was not restricted to Bankura. Trinamul’s star candidate June Maliah for Midnapore visited the house of Mrigendra Nath Maiti, the MLA who died recently of Covid. Trinamul sources said nominees, particularly Tollywood or sports stars, have been asked to visit homes of the party’s old-timers to offset “feelings of neglect”. “We have realised in the past that candidates who make it to the list from outside do trigger feelings of being ignored among old timers. To ensure a smooth and united fight in the polls, we have asked party candidates to call on old-timers and recognise their contribution,” said a senior Trinamul leader, pointing out that “Kashinathda helped build the organisation in Jungle Mahal districts”. Trinamul leaders said the gesture to show respect to old timers made poll sense. “These leaders still have large following in their areas. This show of respect to old timers or their families will touch a large section of voters,” a Trinamul leader said. “Kashinath babu and two other leaders, who have passed away, were pillars of strength for the party. So it the duty for newcomers to visit their homes and seek their blessings,” said Dilip Agrawal, the Trinamul spokesperson in Bankura. The initiative gained urgency as Trinamul nominee and panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee had lagged behind BJP’s Subhas Sarkar by over 46,000 votes in the Bankura Assembly constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The gesture is paying dividends and local residents are welcoming the move. “In the past we have seen a film star win polls from here but ignore leaders like Kashibabu and Tarababu who have built the party in the region. We are pleased that Sayantika called on the families of these leaders to seek their blessings,” said Prabir Ghosh, a close aide Kashinath. Sources said at many places like Nadia, the initiative has been adopted as a strategy to avoid factional feud. Trinamul in Nadia is a largely divided house and Mamata has fielded Tollywood star Koushani Mukherjee for the prestigious Krishnagar North constituency. Trinamul insiders said Koushani had been told to reach out to old-timers and bring all factions under one umbrella. “There are many people who toiled hard to raise the party and develop a support base in the district. I will go to their doorsteps and seek their blessings,” Koushani told the media. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chowdhury||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases rise after 136 days in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged a rise in its total of active Covid-19 cases, by 23 to 3,133, for the first time since October 26, Vijaya Dashami, after an unbroken 136-day fall. The state reported 253 recoveries, 277 new infections and one death in the city. Before Friday’s rise, the total of active cases had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 last year to 3,110 on Thursday. A minister said a “trend of rise (in Covid infections)” is being witnessed “nationally over the past few days”. “Before Friday, the state had been able to buck that trend. We are sad that the remarkable 136-day streak snapped on Friday. But we hope it is an aberration and not the start of a new trend of deterioration,” he said. Bengal now has 1.57 per cent of India’s total active cases, bettering the 7 per cent at the start of 2020. The state is now ninth among states with the most active cases, having improved from third spot a couple of months ago. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.68 per cent, ahead of the national average of 96.8. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.57 per cent, having fallen steadily for 113 days. On Friday, the state reported 19,376 tests, taking the total past 87.87 lakh, at 97,644 tests per million people. “There are enough positives still, no need to start worrying immediately,” said the minister. Bengal has over 5.77 lakh cases, including over 5.64 lakh recoveries and 10,287 deaths. Of the toll, 8,640 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate was 1.78, while the national rate is 1.39 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang camp to focus on personal touch||In a major shift in their poll strategy, the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided against holding mega rallies during their Assembly election campaign and instead concentrate on booth-level meetings. During the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly bypoll and Lok Sabha elections, the Tamang camp had concentrated on major rallies in an effort to show their strength, which they felt would send a positive image to the voters, but this had not yielded results. BJP’s Raju Bista defeated Trinamul’s Amar Singh Rai, which the Morcha had backed, by a margin of 4.13 lakh votes. Tamang  lost the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll to BJP-GNLF candidate Neeraj Zimba by more than 46,000 votes. “We will not hold any major rallies this time. We realised that attendance in rallies tend to be misleading and that does not translate into votes,” said a senior Morcha leader of the Tamang camp. The only major rally that this faction has lined up is while announcing their candidates, which is likely to be done in a week’s time. “Even that rally will not be not be big. We are looking at bringing only 10 vehicles from each constituency,” the leader said. There are 45 Gorkhaland Territorial Administration constituencies in the hills. Instead of rallies, the Morcha will concentrate on holding booth-level meetings. “We will hold small booth-level meetings this time around. We want to reach out to voters on a personal level,” the leader said. Tamang faction leaders maintain that apart from booth-level meetings the party would also focus on smart social media campaigns. “No party can afford to neglect social media campaigns nowadays. We have already set up our social media team specifically for this election,” a Morcha insider said. The Bengal Assembly election has gained prominence in Darjeeling hills, unlike previous years, because of the recent change in the political contours of the hills. With the hills electing only three legislators to the Bengal house of 294, the state polls were considered a routine exercise which would be swept by the party in power in the hills, which basically meant the GTA or Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council prior to 2012. However, this time around the election is seen as a platform for three major hill parties, GNLF, the GJM (Bimal Gurung faction) and GJM (Binay Tamang faction) to prove their mandate. Both the Morcha factions are allies of Trinamul but bitter rivals of each other. “This time no one knows which party has the mandate. The results would bear testimony to whether the decade old party (Gorkha Janmukti Morcha) is still acceptable in the hills,” said Amar Lama, a lawyer, speaking as an independent observer. The Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha admitted the importance of the results of the three hill seats. “In the past, Assembly elections were not taken seriously by hill parties but this time it is important as we have shown that it is necessary for the hills to work with the government in power at Calcutta,” said spokesman Keshav Raj Pokhrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar bank staff held over fraud||Four persons, including three employees of a private bank, have been arrested at Dinhata in Cooch Behar district for allegedly withdrawing cash using the credit cards issued to at least two account holders without their knowledge. Police suspect a racket was behind the fraud and more people were involved in it. Sources have said Anup Saha, a trader at Sahebganj Road in Dinhata, has an account at the bank. Around three weeks ago, he got a phone call from the bank and was told that he had withdrawn Rs 4 lakh through his credit card and he should repay the amount. “The trader was surprised as he does not use a credit card of the bank. He filed complaints with us and the bank,” said a police officer. The investigators found out that another accountholder had lodged a similar complaint with the bank. Someone had obtained a credit card in his name and withdrawn Rs 48,000. “We suspect an organised racket is involved in the case and there is a chance that some employees of the bank are also with them. We could arrest four persons. They had filed fake applications for credit cards on behalf of the account holders, collected the same and used those for different purposes. The account holders, on the other hand, had no inkling of the fraud,” the officer said. The four arrested persons were Mehboob Rehman, a credit card agent, Biplab Majumdar, Nisith Singha and Koushik Chakraborty, all employees of the bank. Police arrested two men with an improvised firearm and seven rounds of live cartridges at Sitai in Cooch Behar district on Thursday night. Both are residents of Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district and the arrests were made by Sitai police. The police intercepted the duo while they were riding a motorcycle without number plate. The law enforcers searched both and seized the firearm and the live cartridges. A North Dinajpur district BJP leader was assaulted by a group of miscreants in Raiganj on Thursday night. Bhakta Roy, who is the former district president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, has been admitted to the Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. The BJP accused a former Trinamul councillor and his son, who is also a youth leader of the ruling party, of assaulting Roy. District Trinamul leaders denied the charges. “None of us was involved in the attack. The BJP is unnecessarily trying to play politics over the issue,” said a party leader. BJP workers held demonstrations in Raiganj and different parts of the district, demanding the immediate arrests of the attackers. They also held a road blockade in Raiganj.  Additional reporting by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal tourism sector pleads for peaceful polls||Stakeholders of tourism industry in north Bengal have urged political parties to ensure that the Assembly elections are held peacefully, pointing out that any incident of violence in the poll season might deter tourists from visiting the region over the next few weeks. In Bengal, elections will be held in eight phases from — March 27 to April 29 — followed by counting and declaration of results on May 2. In north Bengal districts, polling will start from April 10 and be held in various constituencies of the region till April 29, that is, the last phase. Stakeholders have said that the tourism industry had taken a beating during the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in 2020. “It is only during past three months that tourists have started moving into the region," said Raj Basu, a veteran in tourism industry of the region. “We are expecting a good summer this year (related to tourist inflow). Any incident of violence during elections can have a negative impact on the tourism sector and people may cancel their trips. That is why we would like to urge political parties to see to it that elections are held peacefully. The administration also has a role to play here,” Basu added. In earlier elections, north Bengal has witnessed inter-party clashes, attacks on political workers and leaders of various parties in a number of districts. Also, during the past few weeks, a number of sporadic incidents of violence have been reported in the region. Jayanta Majumdar, a transporter in Siliguri, said such incidents leave tourists apprehensive and they want to avoid visiting places where elections are due. “We don’t want any unwanted tension to prevail in the region because of the elections. Also, another problem that the industry might face is the paucity of vehicles during the next few weeks as hundreds of vehicles which normally ferry tourists are now being requisitioned for elections. We are keeping fingers crossed and hope the tourism industry does not suffer in the coming weeks of polls,” said Majumdar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
13-03-2021||West Bengal||CBI, ED glare on Trinamul biggies||Two central investigating agencies — the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) — have sent separate notices to Trinamul leaders, including Partha Chatterjee and former transport minister Madan Mitra, in connection with ongoing probes into deposit mobilising companies such as Saradha and others. Chatterjee, Trinamul’s nominee for Assembly polls from Calcutta’s Behala West, has been asked to appear for a round of questioning on March 15 for his alleged involvement with I-Core group, a deposit mobilising company that the CBI claims allegedly raised around Rs 3,000 crore from people by offering high returns on investment in violation of norms. Chatterjee, the CBI claimed, had apparently attended one of the functions of the I-Core group where he reportedly promised government support. The agency wants to know if there was any monetary transaction between him and the Group, whose director Anukul Maity died in November. Maity was in CBI custody since 2017. Chatterjee said he was ready to face questions but before that wanted to go through the letter minutely. Earlier on Wednesday, the CBI had sent a letter to Trinamul’s Manas Bhuiyan in connection with its probe into the I-Core Group case. The ED summoned Mitra, who is contesting on behalf of Trinamul from Kamarhati Assembly seat this time, to appear for a round of questioning on March 18 in connection with agency's probe on Saradha deposit mobilising case. Mitra, arrested in December 2014 and released on bail in September 2016, has been asked to turn up with few documents, the summons coming about a week after his candidature was declared by the party supremo Mamata Banerjee. Mitra has been summoned along with another industrialist from Bengal, senior officials in the ED said. In a separate move, the CBI on Friday summoned to two family members of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir — husband Ankush Arora and father-in-law Pawan Arora — on March 15 in connection with the multi-crore coal pilferage case. The Trinamul leadership termed the move by the two agencies as motivated action to create a flutter ahead of the Assembly elections. “The BJP has two allies now, the CBI and ED, which are being used to pressurise and intimidate Trinamul leaders. But it will boomerang," said Trinamul leader Saugata Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Left leader and Asok Bhattacharya aide joins BJP||Shankar Ghosh, a prominent face of the CPM in Siliguri, joined the BJP here on Friday. A couple of days back, Ghosh had resigned from the party and also from the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). Ghosh, a former member of the mayor-in-council at the civic body and a district secretariat member of CPM’s Darjeeling district committee, was also known to be a confidant of Siliguri MLA and veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya. At an event hosted by the BJP here, Ghosh was inducted into the party by BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya in the presence of Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, among others. “I was was cornered in the CPM for the past couple of years,” said the CPM turncoat who is in his mid-40s. “Some party leaders did not allow the younger generation to work and speak. This made me quit the party and join the BJP. I intend to work under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Ghosh, in his mid-40s now and associated with the Left Front’s student wing SFI since his college days, said. Asked on the defection, Asok Bhattacharya said: “It is a closed chapter.” Sources in the CPM said the party has not faced such an act by any of its leaders recently. “He was associated with the CPM for some 30 years...it is unexpected on his part to join the BJP that functions with a completely different ideology,” said a CPM leader. A party insider said Ghosh’s decision drew flak from Netizens across north Bengal, many saying he “surrendered his ideology”. However, it raised some uncomfortable questions within the CPM. “Many have asked if some senior CPM leaders here want to develop a second line of leadership by bringing in young  faces.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Nandigram's heavyweight and newbie||BJP’s neo-convert Suvendu Adhikari and CPM’s young turk Minakshi Mukherjee filed their nomination papers for East Midnapore’s Nandigram Assembly seat on Friday, completing the nomination filing process for the high-profile constituency, where the two are locked in an electoral battle with Trinamul candidate and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The BJP made Adhikari’s nomination filing a high-profile event by deputing central ministers Smriti Irani and Dharmendra Pradhan to accompany him from Nandigram for the paperwork at the Haldia SDO’s office. “The BJP will form the government in Bengal. Mamata Banerjee must take her leave on May 2,” petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the crowd at Durgachowk in Haldia shortly before Adhikari filed the papers. Before heading for Haldia to file the papers, Adhikari continued the tradition started by Mamata of paying obeisance at local temples. Around 9am, Adhikari’s contingent visited temples in Sonachura and in Nandigram before heading for Haldia. Adhikari also offered a few words of encouragement to supporters before entering the SDO office. Adhikari’s name, much like Mamata’s, was proposed by members of a family that lost a member to alleged political murder. Manasi Mondal, the widow of Nishikanta Mondal who was the Sonachura panchayat pradhan when he was allegedly killed in 2009 by alleged political opponents, proposed Adhikari’s name. “Suvendu da has been the backbone of Nandigram’s liberation. I am not denying the chief minister’s part, but I would never put her in place of Suvendu da, in terms of what has been done for Nandigram,” said Manasi’s son, Satyajit Mondal, referring to their roles in the Nandigram land agitation during the Left rule. Mamata and Adhikari had been colleagues then. At Durgachowk, Adhikari also brought up the 2007 land agitations, saying: “2007 was the forerunner to 2011's paribartan (change). Now we have to fight for independence a second time (in the polls).” Somewhat ironically, Adhikari blamed the Trinamul government for the rise in unemployment in the state, oblivious to the fact that he had been a key member of Mamata’s cabinet till December 2020, when he joined the BJP. He claimed Opposition members of the Assembly had been kept out of government meetings for the last 10 years. “Former CPM MLA Tapasi Mondal was always stymied whenever she tried to do any work. She will bring a huge change to Haldia, May onwards,” he added, before exhorting supporters of the need to have the same party at the state and central for there to be “real change”. CPM turncoat Mondal is now the BJP’s candidate for the Haldia Assembly seat. CPI(M) candidate Mukherjee arrived in a procession of party workers to file her papers for the Nandigram seat at the SDO’s office in Haldia a couple of hours before Adhikari. Asked about the battle ahead, Minakshi said: “Our two opponents (Mamata and Adhikari) are heavyweights indeed, but heavyweights of corruption. The people of Nandigram have learned (that) and will defeat them. They will vote for the Left, the secular and democratic alternative that we are offering.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
13-03-2021||North East||Smriti Irani calls Congress the most corrupt party in Assam poll rally||Union Textiles Minister Smriti Zubin Irani on Saturday described Congress as the "most corrupt party" and appealed to the people to vote for the BJP to continue to avail benefits of various central and state schemes. Addressing her maiden election campaign rally in Assam, she said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal have rolled out a number of schemes, benefiting the poor people of the state. "...there is no one more corrupt than Congress. Only BJP is the party, which works for the benefit of the poors. "The BJP government has worked tirelessly for the people in tea gardens across the state," said Irani, also the Minister of Women and Child Development. Irani had defeated Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in his family seat of Amethi in Uttar Pradesh in the 2019 general election. Listing out a series of schemes launched by the central and state governments, she said the Congress government never worked for the poor people and appealed to the people to vote for the BJP in the assembly polls. Without naming former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who was a Rajya Sabha MP from Assam, Irani said "There are some tall leaders of Congress from Assam who even became PM. But, AIIMS came to Assam only during Narendra Modi's tenure." She was in Mariani to campaign for BJP candidate Ramani Tanti, who is facing a direct contest with the sitting three- time heavyweight Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi. Mariani constituency will go to polls in the first phase on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
13-03-2021||North East||One-day Twitter ban for posting ‘fake’ Ajmal video||The two Twitter accounts that were suspended by the social networking platform on Thursday following the uproar over the doctored video of AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal “asserting” that the Congress-AIUDF alliance would turn India into an Islamic nation were back in action on Friday. Twitter India had promptly suspended the accounts of Legal Rights Observatory, a legal rights organisation allegedly linked to the RSS, and Voice of Axom soon after Assam Police reported the matter about the manipulated video that went viral after it was posted by these two handles on Tuesday. Both the accounts had the following message on Thursday: Account Suspended. Twitter suspends accounts which violate Twitter rules. On Friday, both the accounts were back into operation with the LRO posting a news report on the AIUDF and sending a message to those “running” the Voice of Axom handle to contact it with a mobile number. A senior police official had told The Telegraph on Thursday that they had already acted on the doctored video by taking up the matter after a case was registered with the CID, which is handling two cases related to the video. Another case was registered with the Crime Branch at Panbazar by the AIUDF on Thursday. On Friday, the official said they were investigating the case and would not be able to throw light on why the suspension was withdrawn. Alt News, a non-profit fact-checking website, had found that the video clip doing the rounds of the social media on Tuesday was “doctored”. The website, which has been in operation since 2017 to detect and curb fake news, on Wednesday afternoon carried a report that also said the clipped video was “made” viral by “regional news and Right-wing influencers”. The accounts were suspended around the time AIUDF vice-president Awal Mazid approached both Assam chief electoral officer Nitin Khade and Assam Police, seeking action against those behind the doctored video and its circulation on social media. Mazid, who had thanked both the police and Twitter for their prompt action on Thursday, told The Telegraph that they would discuss their future course of action, including meeting Khade once again. “We feel the such accounts should remain suspended till the elections are over,” Mazid said on Friday. The AIUDF chief had on Wednesday called a hurried media conference to dismiss the video clip as “100 per cent fake and adulterated” and circulated to “create” communal divisions. Ajmal and the AIUDF also released the original clip of the speech delivered in Barpeta before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In the original speech, Ajmal had said that the Mughals did not dare to turn India into an Islamic state and asks Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to dream about a Hindu rashtra. The AIUDF is part of the 10-party alliance led by the Congress that is taking on the BJP-led alliance in the three-phase Assam assembly polls starting March 27. Besides lodging a complaint with the state chief electoral officer on Thursday, the AIUDF, through Mazid, filed an FIR with the Crime Branch at Panbazar here with the request to register a case, investigate the matter and take appropriate action against the perpetrator of the offence. Mazid has enclosed the video clip of Ajmal’s original speech made in 2019 and the clip of the doctored video circulated through Twitter handle @Legal Rights Observatory (LRO). He said the statements being attributed to Ajmal in the doctored clip had severely damaged the reputation and goodwill of both Ajmal and the AIUDF. Sitting Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan tweeted, “Only suspension of Twitter handle is not enough. Action should be taken against everyone behind this evil propaganda which could disturb the communal harmony in the state leading to uncontrollable situation. @assampolice@AssamCid@ECISVEEP@DGPAssamPolice” The LRO and Voice of Axom have over 28,000 and 31,000 followers on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
13-03-2021||North East||Congress Assam alliance grows to 10 with the inclusion of two community-based parties||The number of constituents in the Congress-led grand alliance in Assam has grown to 10 with the inclusion of two community-based parties. Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party (JDPP), which represents the Deori community influential in about 18 seats in Upper Assam, and the Adivasi National Party (ANP), influential in about 32 seats in Upper Assam, are the latest to join the alliance, which was formally announced here on January 19 with six parties. The six parties were Congress, The All India United Democratic Front, CPM, CPI, CPI(ML) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha. Subsequently, the Bodoland People’s Party (BPF) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) joined. “Few days ago, the JDPP and ANP joined. They are only supporting the alliance but not contesting the three-phase polls from March 27,” a party insider said. The Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party was formed in 2015 and had contested the 2016 Deori Council polls winning six seats. The Adivasi National Party was formed in 2018 and had contested four seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. JDPP leader Mohesh Deuri said they were supporting the alliance and in return would need its support in the next Deori council polls. ANP president Bijay Tiru said they would want the alliance's support in the next panchayat polls. Congress (20) and the AIUDF (14) are the only parties with legislators in the 126-member House. Congress had been working on stitching up alliances after assessing that it won’t be able to challenge the well-entrenched BJP on its own. The BJP-AGP-BPF alliance in 2016 Assembly polls had a vote share of 41.9 per cent while the Congress and AIUDF had a 31 and 13 per cent vote share contesting separately. The Left has no MLAs, but it has its pocket of influence, which could prove vital in a tight contest. The Opposition party, which had on Thursday launched the state-wide “Congress 5 guarantee” rally, on Friday said its job-guarantee commitment to the unemployed youth had received a huge response. “We have received 70,000 registrations in just a few days on the party’s campaign website: www.Congressor5Guarantee.in. The party has guaranteed one lakh government jobs annually once voted back to power in the upcoming polls. “People have accepted our vision of progress if we go by the number of applications secured for guaranteed government employment,” Bobbeeta Sharma, media department chairperson, said. Congress’s five guarantees include a legislation that curbs the operation of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, generation of five lakh government jobs; raising tea workers’ daily wage to Rs 365; free electricity up to 200 units per household; and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
13-03-2021||North East||Discovery’s Baghjan blowout series ||Discovery, India’s first and leading aggregated real-life entertainment network, has shot an “investigative documentary” on last year’s Baghjan gas blowout in upper Assam, narrating the story of an “unbelievable” catastrophe in the energy sector amid the pandemic so that it could shape and influence course correction to avoid a repeat. The two-part documentary — Inside the Burning — will be premiering on Discovery Channel and the discovery+ streaming platform on Saturday and Sunday at 7:30PM. Senior OIL official Tridiv Hazarika told the Telegraph on Friday that the documentary on the “unfortunate once-in-a lifetime” incident has generated a lot of interest globally in the energy sector because this was the “only film” ever made on a gas well blowout with live footage. “It is an important case study for the energy sector. Such incidents have to be documented so others can understand and prepare for such an eventuality. As a company we wanted to be transparent and share the key moments of the capping operation, the challenges, our perseverance, how other agencies helped and the impact on local communities...,” Hazarika said. The gas well blowout on May 27, 2020, and the subsequent well head fire on June 9 had affected about 8,000 residents around the well site and the local ecology. The gas well was finally killed through snubbing after 172 days on November 15 and was finally abandoned on December 3. Snubbing is a process through which pipes are inserted to the bottom of the well and through which chemical mud is injected to kill the well.  Snubbing equipments were flown in from Canada to Calcutta last month and these reached Baghjan in Tinsukia district, about 530 km east of Guwahati, on November 4. OIL had two choices before it: restore the well and produce or abandon the well. Based on the health of the well and safety issues, OIL decided to abandon the productive well for all times to come. A gas well of say average 3000 metre depth can take around two to three months to drill under normal circumstances and can cost around Rs 100 crores. The killed well has a depth of about 3600 m, Hazarika said. “From loss of life, to environmental and wildlife damage, ‘Inside the Burning’ is an investigative documentary that narrates the story of an unbelievable catastrophe ... The two-part documentary showcases the stories of the brave firefighters, engineers and technicians who worked round the clock, putting their lives on the line to curb certain irreparable damage and highlights OIL’s (Oil India Limited) crucial role to the rescue operations,” Discovery said on Friday. Using graphical illustrations to simulate the inner working of well no. 05, the documentary gives audiences an x-ray view into the technical conditions that led to the leak and the consequential explosion on June 9, the Channel said. There were two Discovery crews, about eight personnel shooting for almost two months till the operation was over on December 3, focussing on how the blowout was controlled technically. “Unless you see the images you will not be able to understand the challenges confronting us. It was an unfortunate incident. “We lost three of our people but there was no civilian casualty and there were no registered Covid-19 cases despite thousands living in relief camps. We hope the docuseries will further help improve safety protocols and response to future mishaps,” Hazarika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
13-03-2021||Opinion||Those lucky women||Celebrating men is undoubtedly a laudable programme. History may not have done enough for them — and society, especially Indian society, seems to have run out of ways to accommodate their importance. A special day may be needed. So on International Women’s Day, Sonal Mansingh, a Bharatiya Janata Party member of parliament for the Rajya Sabha, demanded in the upper House that an International Men’s Day be celebrated too. Since the BJP MP mentioned equality as the reason behind her demand, she obviously feels that men are hard done by. It takes a courageous lady to put this out in these days of women’s assertiveness. Perhaps the BJP MP feels that the hullabaloo about rape, female foeticide and infanticide, domestic violence, trafficking, exploitative domestic labour, discrimination in the workplace, especially in the informal sector, the overall insecurity of women in every sphere and other such phenomena is a fuss over quite natural events — why should society be different? Confusingly, she also read from her own work to the effect that women still do not have enough rights. The whole exercise showed that she is a model representative of her party — ‘demanding’ a man’s special day for the sake of ‘equality’ and paying lip service to women’s lack of rights. The ‘demand’ may have been pushing a point about excessive female ranting over men’s violence and oppression — irritating for the ruling regime — because Ms Mansingh’s apparent ignorance about International Men’s Day on November 19 celebrated in many countries is odd. Besides acknowledging men’s achievements, the day focuses on issues such as the health of men and boys — they can be prey to sexual violence too — or even the effects of toxic masculinity, for ‘being a man’ can be a painful burden for many. It is not a competition with women for a special day based on some silly idea of equality that can make a men’s day meaningful, but renewed attention for those human beings whose deeper problems are concealed behind a traditional veneer — and expectation — of strength and domination. In India, however, sexual crimes against women, political and social attitudes to and interventions in these, threats and violence against complainants and witnesses, the astonishingly poor conviction rate, caste and class equations affecting perceptions and outcome as well as other factors suggest that an International Men’s Day here, whatever its theme, would be perceived less as being concerned with men’s problems and more with their glorification. Ms Mansingh’s demand refers to equality, presumably with women who have their own ‘day’, but it is doubtful that Indian men would enjoy being equal with women on their special ‘day’ even for the sake of merry-making. A men’s day in this country should be dedicated to ways in which men’s training and values can be changed to create a less sexually oppressive and violent society. That would be unlikely to please Ms Mansingh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
13-03-2021||Opinion||Picture imperfect: EC asks to remove Modi photos from vaccine certificates||Sir — The Election Commission was right to ask the Union health ministry to follow the model code of conduct in letter and spirit by removing the picture of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, from the Covid-19 vaccine certificates in the poll-bound states (“EC axe on PM photo on vaccine cards”, March 7). One wonders why a particular health measure should be used to advertise or promote a person occupying the top position in our country. Such gimmicks do not suit the office of the prime minister. It is beneath the prime minister to resort to such cheap publicity tactics to garner people’s attention just so that his party can easily win the forthcoming assembly elections in a number of states. Modi’s photo should not only be removed from the vaccine cards in the poll-bound states; it should be removed from the vaccine certificates in all Indian states. The complaint of the Trinamul Congress to the EC is a valid one, and the EC’s decision to ask the health ministry to comply with its instruction is also laudable. Until the polls in all the states concerned are over, any such measure to promote the cause of a particular political party must be strictly prevented by the EC. This is in the best interest of the people of our state. The health and hygiene of citizens is of utmost importance, especially at the time of a global pandemic; as such, no undue favours should be granted to individuals or political parties who aim to use these very real concerns to enhance their own gains. The people of West Bengal only want to see a free and fair election. They should analyse the administrative policies and developmental work of each party contesting the polls before casting their precious votes. They should not listen to rumours propagated by politicians of any party who have a self-serving agenda. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Sir — It was distasteful to see Narendra Modi’s picture on vaccine cards. The prime minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party will stop at nothing to promote themselves, even when it involves the health of citizens. Mercifully, the EC ordered the removal of Modi’s photo from the certificates. Shayan Das,Calcutta Speak up Sir — Meghan Markle has been in the news for her interview with the talk show host, Oprah Winfrey. But earlier, in another striking departure from the silence usually maintained by the British royals on important subjects, she had written a personal essay about losing her second child in a miscarriage. She expressed grief and the hope that, during hard times, more people would check in with and care for one another. Her sentiments highlighted a problem not often talked about: that a significant number of pregnancies end this way. Some women have multiple miscarriages; yet, few people talk about it. The tragedy is seen as a private failure, and the anguish is borne in silence. Much like the taboo surrounding menstruation, this aversion to talking openly about miscarriages is rooted in a culture of toxic masculinity. As such, more disclosures from prominent figures about their trials can help other bereaved women deal with their isolation. It would remind people that this can happen to any pregnant woman, and the least we can do is be compassionate. Moreover, describing one’s ordeals as a woman, instead of following what patriarchal practices deem to be worthy of conversation, is a freeing experience. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta  Home is gone Sir — It was distressing to read that five people were injured in an attack when a leopard strayed into a residential area in Indore this week. Indore is an urban hub; that a wild animal ventured into a residential area only highlights the fact that environmental conservation is in the doldrums. While the incident must have been terrifying for the residents, it must be remembered that the wild animal is not at fault; it strayed into a human settlement because its own habitat is being systematically destroyed. It is heartening, however, that the leopard was tranquillized and not harmed. Sulagna Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
13-03-2021||Opinion||Stand tall: Women’s History Month||March is Women’s History Month — a month-long celebration and acknowledgement of the achievements of women throughout history who have had to overcome unique barriers. It started off as International Women’s Day, still celebrated on March 8, and expanded into a week-long celebration until it was recognized as Women’s History Month. In New York, State Street Global Advisors installed shards of broken glass, symbolizing the metaphorical broken glass ceiling, around the statue of the Fearless Girl on Wall Street. A nearby plaque reads: “Today’s broken glass ceilings are tomorrow’s stepping stones.” The Fearless Girl statue was installed in front of the New York Stock Exchange in 2017 right before International Women’s Day. Apple is amplifying women’s voices through its music, podcasts, books and more by featuring content created by women. Apple Maps will allow users to discover statues of famous women, restaurants of Michelin-starred female chefs, must-visit businesses in Los Angeles and street art by women artists in New York. The theme for 2021 is ‘Choose to Challenge’. It encourages people from all gender identities to stand up for what they believe in and show solidarity. Covid-19 has shed light on the extent of gender disparity that exists in society given that women are paid less than men, comprise the majority of single-parent households or live close to poverty. The United Nations Foundation summarized in a recent report the disproportionate impact of the coronavirus on women and girls. Bright idea The pandemic has decreased the number of visitors to traditional indoor museums, galleries and exhibitions, but there is a new art display in town that you can enjoy just by walking through the city of New York. The LA-based Ethiopian American artist, Awol Erizku, is displaying a series of photographs at about 200 bus shelters across the city through June 20. The show is curated by the Public Art Fund. The subject of photography ranges from gender and race to religion and spirituality. Erizku uses African symbolic art and depicts the Islamic religion in his photos. These can be seen at bus stops in all five boroughs, with a concentration in the Bronx, Erizku’s hometown. They are also on display in Chicago. The Public Art Fund website has city maps of Chicago and New York, each with pin drops showing the location of every photograph. The exhibition, New Visions for Iris, is dedicated to his one-year-old daughter, Iris. In a similar tone, the Metro Transit agency in Minneapolis commissioned five local artists to create colourful artwork with positive messages to be displayed, to spread some positivity and joy amidst last summer’s civil unrest and the ongoing pandemic. Metro Transit will place the artists’ images inside 15 bus shelters and on the exterior of 30 buses that will travel through south Minneapolis and the east metro. Images will also be featured in ad spaces inside many Metro Transit buses. The plot thickens Last month, Netflix released a new true crime docuseries, Crime Scene: The Vanishing at the Cecil Hotel, that explores an unsolved murder of a college student and hotel guest that took place in a seedy downtown Los Angeles hotel in 2013. The show beat another series that had spent seven consecutive days at the number one spot on Netflix. While the murder remains unsolved, the show dives into various conspiracy theories into what may have happened. In fact, a few days after it started streaming, the Los Angeles Police Department phone lines were ringing off the hook with tips. The 21-year-old victim, Elisa Lam, had gone missing until she was found several weeks later drowned in the water tank on the hotel rooftop. The LAPD told TMZ that a majority of the ‘tips’ were coming from couch detectives and people riveted by the case doing some internet digging. Since long before the case, the Cecil Hotel has had a dark history and is featured as a popular spot during city-wide tours in LA. It has housed serial killers, it has had several guests jump to their deaths from their hotel rooms in the 50s and 60s and served mainly as a transient hotel while more upscale hotels were cropping up in the neighbourhood. The establishment shut its doors in 2017 after a failed attempt to rebrand itself as a low-budget hostel called ‘Stay on Main’. If you are in LA, you can still see the ‘Stay on Main’ sign on the 1920s architecture. If you peer in you can view the lavish lobby and marble flooring. Raise a toast It has been almost a year since the United States of America went into lockdown owing to the pandemic. Last year, around this time governors were still on the fence about which public events to proceed with and which to cancel in the spirit of public safety. One of the celebrations that ultimately got cancelled across the country was St Patrick’s Day. Unfortunately, 2021 is not looking to be much different, except many of the celebrations are going virtual on March 17. In Jersey Shore, a large parade was being planned on March 13. But a St Patrick’s Day Observance Mass will take place instead. The group said the Catholic church in Wildwood — the largest in New Jersey — can accommodate 2,000 people, but under coronavirus restrictions, about 1,000 socially-distanced seats will be available on a first-come, first-serve basis. NYC has also cancelled its parade but has planned to have a virtual event to honour front-line workers. It launched a campaign encouraging people to send a message of support to essential workers, family and friends as part of the ‘New York City St Patrick’s Day Parade Gallery of Greetings’. Officials from the NYC St Patrick’s Day Parade still plan to hold a “very small” parade through Manhattan to keep the 260-year-old tradition alive. In Chicago, the Liquor Control Commissioner sent a certified letter to the thousands of liquor licence holders reminding them of their responsibility to uphold safety guidelines. There will be a virtual parade, featuring scenes from past parades and the annual dyeing of the Chicago River. Footnote While Joe Biden is settling into his new role at the White House, his two rescue dogs, Major and Champ, are also enjoying the spotlight: the ‘First Dogs’ have the ‘Oval Pawffice’ page on Twitter. Donald Trump was the first president in a century to not have a pet. Recently, the pro-Trump conservative network, Newsmax, criticized one of the dogs, and immediately invited criticism. “He’s in better shape than any of you — and smarter than all of you combined,” tweeted the journalist, Keith Olbermann.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
13-03-2021||Opinion||Twain doth meet||I have been reading the memoirs of Dora Russell, a pioneering British feminist and educationist. These were published in three volumes, of which I have just finished the first. This covers her upbringing in Edwardian England, her education at Cambridge, the development of her views on gender equality, an experimental school she established, and the years of her marriage to the brilliant and controversial philosopher, Bertrand Russell. Like others of her generation, Dora Russell was profoundly influenced by the Bolshevik Revolution, which occurred when she was in her early twenties. Shortly after the Revolution broke out, she travelled through Russia to study its impact first-hand. Speaking to ardent Bolsheviks in Russia in 1918-19, Dora was reminded of medieval Christian theologians who had dreamt of the Perfect Universe that they hoped god would create. Like those religious utopians, “these men [in Russia] were emulating the Great Clockmaker, the Architect of the Universe, and, just as He had set the planets in perpetual motion, so they would make a blueprint of the new society, based on industrial mechanism, in which each man or woman would find a place to work and contribute to the whole. Once set in motion, this new rational social system would carry on of its own momentum.” In her conversations in Soviet Russia, Dora Russell was both impressed and somewhat disturbed by the fierce dogmatism of the Bolsheviks. As she wrote at the time, “the teaching of communism, however necessary it may appear for the building of the communist state of the future, does seem to me to be an evil in that it is done emotionally and fanatically, with an appeal to hate and militant ardour rather than to constructive reason. It binds the free intellect and destroys initiative.” A decade after Dora Russell, the poet, Rabindranath Tagore, visited Soviet Russia. Tagore spent two weeks in the country, going to schools and factories, and speaking to a wide cross-section of the citizenry. Shortly before he left, Tagore gave an interview to the Party newspaper, Izvestia. He praised the “amazing intensity” with which the Soviets had spread education, then added these caveats: “I must ask you: Are you doing your ideal a service by arousing in the minds of those under your training, anger, class hatred and revengefulness against those not sharing your ideals, against those whom you consider to be your enemies? True, you have to fight against obstacles, you have to overcome ignorance and lack of sympathy, even persistently antagonism. But your mission is not restricted to your own nation or own party, it is for the betterment of humanity according to your light. But does not humanity include those who do not agree with your aim?” In Tagore’s opinion, a mature political system would permit “disagreement where minds are allowed to be free”. For “it would not only be an uninteresting but a sterile world of mechanical regularity if all our opinions were forcibly made alike. If you have a mission which includes all humanity, acknowledge the existence of differences of opinion. Opinions are constantly changed and rechanged only through the free circulation of intellectual forces and moral persuasion. Violence begets violence and blind stupidity. Freedom of mind is needed for the reception of truth; terror hopelessly kills it.” Tagore’s remarks are quoted in a book published the same year by Visva-Bharati. The book was put together by the scientist, P.C. Mahalanobis, who accompanied the poet on his travels. It is unlikely, however, that Izvestia reproduced the interview in its entirety. As a Party newspaper, it could not print criticism of the Soviet State. Fortunately, however, Tagore’s strictures on the vengefulness and the hatred that were (and still are) so characteristic of Communist ideology were taken down for posterity by Mahalanobis. To return, once more, to Dora Russell. A couple of years after her travels through Soviet Russia, she visited China, and spoke to the activists of the fledgling Communist Party there. Their dogmatism and ardour, if anything, exceeded that of their Russian comrades. In a letter written to a friend from Beijing in January 1921, Dora remarked that while ideologues “can have visions of an immediate reign of communism it can be no more than a religion both in China and Russia yet... As a religion it may have the advantages that religions do have for states in the making, that of binding people into a community and giving them an expression of herd feeling. It is amusing to see the West supplying the East with a religion for a change.” Later, in the same letter, she remarks that “the tyranny of a doctrinaire may be far worse than that of fat capitalist... I get absolutely crazy at the lack of understanding of the scientific outlook in all these people who talk so proudly of science.” Notably — as the contemporary history of our own country shows — the radical Right shares many attributes with the radical Left. They believe that the ends justify the means, that politicians in power must control the bureaucracy and the judiciary, that the State and the ruling party must have the powers to control and direct how novels are written, how songs are sung, which slogans are encouraged and which prohibited. The radical Right also disregards the scientific outlook and is guided by the mystical, irrational elements of its own faith. The parallels between right-wing and left-wing absolutism were brilliantly sketched by the French historian, François Furet, in his book, The Passing of an Illusion. Here, Furet writes: “Just as there was a Soviet people, so there was a National Socialist people: anyone outside it was an antisocial individual. Unity was constantly celebrated and reaffirmed publicly, above all in ideological pronouncements. Its supreme form was the cult of the leader, the Führer. The masses were thus in compulsory and permanent communion with the party-state. Beyond that, there were only enemies of the people — a category both elastic and repetitive at the disposition of the Führer; for Lenin, this meant the bourgeois; for Hitler, the Jews. The existence of a plot had to be emphasized at all times in order for the people to remain vigilant and the regime eternal.” Furet further notes that for Fascism as for Communism, the most violent and immoral means were acceptable if they would lead to political domination. Thus, for Lenin and for Hitler, “you could kill your fellow citizens like enemies in a war. They need only belong to the wrong class or to an opposing party. The denunciation of legality as a ‘formal’ lie led to the ‘real’ exercise of arbitrary power and of terror.” Furet’s book deals with inter-war Europe; hence the juxtaposition of Lenin and Hitler. A future historian of postwar Asia might see a similar parallel between the rise of Communism in China and the rise of Hindutva authoritarianism in India, and especially between the cult of Mao and the cult of Modi. Indeed, although Furet never visited India and probably had read little about the history of this country, the passage I have quoted is eerily prescient about India today. Like the Chinese Communists under Mao, the Bharatiya Janata Party under Narendra Modi wishes to build a ‘party-State’. It has assiduously created a cult of the Great and Flawless Leader; it demonizes opponents and critics as anti-national; at periodic intervals, it claims that there are assassination plots against the prime minister and, most worryingly, it demonizes Indian Muslims just as the Communists have demonized non-Han communities in China. Although neither side likes to acknowledge it, the hard Left and the hard Right have always had a great deal in common. Consider afresh this quote from Dora Russell: “The teaching of communism, however necessary it may appear for the building of the communist state of the future, does seem to me to be an evil in that it is done emotionally and fanatically, with an appeal to hate and militant ardour rather than to constructive reason. It binds the free intellect and destroys initiative.” Substitute ‘Hindutva’ for ‘Communism’, and this would be a piercingly accurate description of what the RSS and the BJP are seeking to do in India today. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant takes stock of Birsa Smriti Park, spends over two hours ||Residents of Ranchi will have to wait for another six months at least to visit the new Birsa Munda Smriti Park and Birsa Munda museum that are coming up at the old Birsa jail premises in the heart of the city, officials in the state urban development department said on Saturday. Chief minister Hemant Soren, along with state urban development department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey and a battery of officials, inspected the construction site to take stock of the ambitious project worth around Rs 106.9 crore. This was Hemant’s first extensive visit to the premises after assuming charge in December 2019. He spent around two hours from noon, with officials taking him through every aspect of the project. During his visit, Hemant raised objections over the use of poor quality tiles in some places and directed authorities to ensure that highest standards of quality were maintained, as per a brief statement from IPRD. “The department shouldn’t take the handover of the project unless it is fully satisfied with the quality of work. The government won’t compromise with the quality as it is about freedom fighters and their dignity,” he said. Urban development department secretary Choubey said they were keeping track of the project. “Multiple agencies have been engaged for various project components. We are asking them to finish the work at the earliest. If all goes well, it will take another six months for the entire project to be completed,” he said. Spread over 28 acres, the 180-year-old jail is where Jharkhand’s legendary freedom fighter Bhagwan Birsa Munda had died after being held captive by the British. The cell, where he breathed his last, is being converted into a museum. Also, statues of 11 freedom fighters of the state are being put up across the jail premises. The foundation stone of the project was laid by former chief minister Raghubar Das in 2017. The project was to be ready 2019 but has been delayed. It is being funded by the Union ministry of tribal affairs and is being executed by the Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company (Juidco), an arm of the state urban development department. Besides museum, the project components include renovation of the cell where Birsa lived, installation of infrastructure for light-and-sound and laser shows on Birsa’s life and other freedom fighters, a cafeteria, fountains, manicured park and a watch tower. To provide the visitors a glimpse of various tribes and their lifestyle, there is a plan to set up several "tribal bhawans". “More than 70 per cent of the work is over. These include a park, parking area, setting up of the museum, renovation etc.  Work on the watch tower, statues, amusement options are under progress,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP blames Cong leader for ‘misbehaving’ with women’s wing chief||Ranchi MLA C.P. Singh accused Congress leaders of disrespecting women and treating them like “bonded labourers” on Saturday, referring to the alleged misbehavior of a Congress spokesperson with BJP leader Arti Kujur recently. Addressing the media at state BJP state headquarters in Ranchi, Singh, a former minister, said the Congress party should apologise to Kujur, the president of the state BJP women’s wing, for the alleged misbehavior of their leader Alok Dubey during a demonstration outside Congress Bhawan here. Members of the BJP women’s wing staged a protest outside Congress Bhawan in Ranchi on Thursday against Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s alleged ill-treatment of women on International Women’s Day. The leaders alleged that Hooda made women pull tractors on March 8, which was demeaning and uncalled for. “Congress leader Alok Dubey tried to silence our leader Arti Kujur by placing his hand on her mouth. Our party will not tolerate such disrespect of women,” Singh said on Saturday. The Congress leader’s actions, Singh said, not only showed that the party treated women poorly, but also highlighted how the Congress party was trying to suppress the voice of citizens.  “Trying to cover a woman’s mouth with your hand to silence her voice is not healthy politics. It is not something we have learnt in years of politics in India. The Congress party must change their approach towards women and treat them with respect,” Singh said. Later in the day, Dubey retaliated by taking jibes at some BJP leaders who were facing charges of crimes against women. Dubey, in a press communiqué, stated that the BJP had stooped to a level where it was practicing “issue-less” politics. “They do not have concrete issues to target other parties, so they have started practicing issue-less politics,” said Dubey, adding that the Congress party does not need to learn how to respect women from the BJP. Dubey said that the BJP has started the trend of staging protests outside offices of political parties, and it may have to get a taste of its own medicine soon. “At a time when farmers are protesting for over 100 days and inflation is burning a hole in the pocket of commoners, the BJP is busy finding issues that can divert people’s attention from the real problems,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Nor’wester triggers rain, thunderstorm across Jharkhand||Several districts across Jharkhand experienced light to moderate rain, thunderstorm, lightning and strong winds since Friday evening resulting in a drop in temperatures. The India Meteorological Department's Ranchi centre said lower temperatures were likely to persist for the next 24 hours after which the mercury will witness a gradual rise. Deputy director of Ranchi Met centre Abhishek Anand said the rain and thunder was due to the impact of Nor'wester activity triggered by an induced cyclonic circulation. " A cyclonic circulation has formed over Odisha and southern Chhattisgarh due to the impact of a western disturbance passing through north-west India. This has helped in triggerring Nor'wester activity in isolated pockets of Jharkhand since Thursday, " he said. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas witnessed gusty winds accompanied by showers since Friday evening. The intensity of rain increased on Saturday morning. Dark convective clouds formed over southern and central Jharkhand. Visibility was reduced to as low as 200 metre at 8am in the steel city and its adjoining areas on Saturday. Street lights had to be switched on. Vehicles also used headlights in the morning. Weathermen confirmed that visibility also became poor in several other parts of Jharkhand, including Ranchi and Bokaro. Chatra topped the rain chart with 45mm while Jamshedpur recorded around 45 mm. The IMD weather station at Jamshedpur recorded around 30 mm of rain. Simdega and Kharsawan witnessed over 25 mm of rain. Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharswan and and Khunti experienced around 20 mm of rain. The IMD observatory in Ranchi recorded around 12 mm of rain. As many as 10 IMD observatories including ones in Chandil, Latehar, Hazaribagh, Gumla and Bokaro recorded around 10mm of rain. Met scientists at IMD's Patna office said the rain was the result of the western disturbance passing over the north-west region. "The weather condition would improve in most parts of Jharkhand from Sunday. Satellite pictures suggested formation of a fresh western disturbance which is likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of north west India from March 16," said a climate analyst at the IMD's Patna office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Chatra Police nab 3 PLFI extremists including an area commander||The Chatra Police arrested three PLFI extremists, including a wanted area commander, acting on a tip off that revealed that they were about to commit some big crime, SP Rishav Kumar Jha said on Saturday. The three, identified as Ashish a.k.a Ritesh Tiger, Ajay Yadav and Ashish Yadav, were arrested after a team of the Chatra Police led by Avinash Kumar raided  Mayapur Mor in Jajlo bazar under the Huntergunj Police Station. The police are interrogating the accused about their activities as well as involvement in various Cases. They have recovered one pistol, 12 live bullets,one magazine, a bike, seven sim cards and four mobile phones from their possession. Kumar said that the accused had created a reign of terror in the area and had been threatening businessmen, demanding money from them. The team of police that nabbed the extremists was constructed by Jha. It comprises Kumar, Huntergunj officer-in-charge Rajeev Ranjan, and other officials including Nandan Kumar Singh, Rohit Sahu, Vinod Kumar, Sunil Dubey and others from the Huntergunj Police Station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Forest fires spotted in Dalma elephant sanctuary||Forest fires are raging across some pockets of the sprawling Dalma wildlife sanctuary but foresters are trying their best to prevent the flames from spreading across the jumbo abode. Assistant conservator of forest R.P. Singh said they were very concerned. "A fires inside the sanctuary is a matter of concern for us. We are trying our best and also spreading awareness among the villagers to protect the forests from fire. Forest belongs to everybody and it is our responsibility to protect it," he added. Sources said fire was first spotted in the sanctuary near Dimna lake four days back. It was tamed in no time. However, fires occurred in other pockets in a big way, especially in forests near some villages downhill. The season has compounded problems with dry leaves and tree branches spread across the 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. Foresters have spotted flames mostly in the eastern range of the sanctuary. Smoke can be seen billowing from NH-33. Fires are raging in areas within the jungles near Bodam and Chimti villages as well as some hamlets. Eighty villages and hamlets dot the sanctuary known for Asiatic elephants. Foresters fear animals would venture into villages if the fire spreads, putting their life in danger. Elephants are still in the fringe pockets of the sanctuary while some are anchored downhill. Foresters blamed villagers for the incidents of fire. "Villagers venture into forest to collect wood. Most of the villagers smoke bidis and show utter carelessness by throwing them here and there. The embers fall on dry leaves and causes fire. We have time and again asked villagers to not throw lit bidis inside the sanctuary. But they don't pay any heed," one of the foresters said. According to him, youths from Jamshedpur and elsewhere were also to be blamed for the fire menace. Some youths not only smoke cigarettes but also use the forests as a getaway place to smoke ganja. The sanctuary seems to have become the safest place  for this. Smoking should be banned inside the sanctuary," he added. Dalma authorities spread awareness about the dangers of forest fires during World Wildlife Day on March 3 as well on March 10 and 11 when the faithful climbed the hills on the occasion of Shivaratri. Members of the eco development committee also chip to spread awareness. Forest guards and trackers douse fires by tapping the lit leaves with sticks. It's a Herculean task and consumes time and labour while dousing the flames in a large area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Youth held for raping minor while she was answering nature's call  ||A 22-year-old youth was arrested from Parsudih on Saturday for allegedly raping a minor girl behind a bush near Sadar Hospital at Khaasmahal while she had gone their answer nature's call. Police believe the accused, Sikandar Hussain, a resident of Makdampur, about 2km from Khaasmahal, had been stalking the girl for long. According to an FIR lodged by the victim's parents with police at Parsudih, the girl, a resident of Jharkhand Bustee behind the Sadar Hospital, had gone to relieve herself near a bush at about 6pm on Friday. The accused accosted her then. He used one of his hands to  gag her and then raped her. According to the FIR, soon after returning home, the victim narrated the incident to her parents, who then approach the Parsudih police station. Police swung into action and conducted raids through Friday night. Finally, police were able to nab the culprit at his house in Makdampur on Saturday morning. OC of Parsudih thana Rajendra Prasad Das said the victim who was 14 years-old had confronted the accused on an earlier occasion too, and had revealed this to her parents. "The accused had attempted to outrage the modesty of the minor earlier also. The victim's parents had then scolded him," he said The OC said the victim had been sent to  MGM Medical College and Hospital for examination. The accused, Sikandar Hussain, was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after he was produced before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Special train services extended till June||Here's some good news for this with travel plans: South Eastern Railway has decided to continue running several special trains introduced after lockdown curbs were eased gradually. The office of chief passenger transportation manager (CPTM) issued a list on Saturday. Accordingly, the 02812 Hatia-LTT Special leaving Hatia every Friday has been extended to run upto June 25 while the  02811 LTT-Hatia Special leaving LTT every Sunday has been extended to run upto June 27. The  08626 Hatia-Purnia Court Special leaving Hatia daily has been extended to run upto June 29. The 08625 Purnia Court-Hatia Special leaving Purnia Court daily would also run upto  June 29. The  02829 Howrah-Tatanagar Special leaving Howrah daily has been extended to run till  June 30.The return train, 02830 Tatanagar-Howrah Special, leaving Tatanagar daily would also run till June 30. The 08624 Hatia-Islampur Special leaving Hatia daily has been extended to run upto June 30 while the 08623 Islampur-Hatia Special leaving Islampur daily will run till July 3. The  02803 Ranchi-Howrah Special leaving Ranchi daily has been extended till June 30 . The train in the opposite direction, 02804 Howrah-Ranchi Special, leaving Howrah daily would also run till June 30. The 08181 Tatanagar-Chhapra Special leaving Tatanagar every Monday,Tuesday, Thursday and Friday will run till June 28. The 08182 Chhapra-Tatanagar Special leaving Chhapra every Wednesday,Thursday,Saturday and Sunday has been extended to run till  June 30. The 02817 Santragachi-Pune Special leaving Santragachi every Saturday has been extended to run till June 26 while the 02818 Pune-Santragachi Special leaving Pune every Monday has been extended to run till June 28. Both the Up and Dn trains run via Tatanagar railway station. The  08183 Tatanagar-Danapur Special leaving Tatanagar daily has been extended to run till June 29 while the 08184 Danapur-Tatanagar Special leaving Danapur daily has been extended till June 30. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said the special trains have been extended for the convenience of passengers. "The extension of the services of special trains would also help in taking care of the summer rush witnessed during May, " he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP women rally outside Ranchi Congress Bhavan||A precedent has been set in Jharkhand on Thursday when members of the BJP’s women’s wing demonstrated in front of the Congress headquarters in Ranchi. Though political parties often resort to protests and demonstration against government policies and actions, they are normally seen doing the same at public places and not in front of offices of other political parties. But, breaking the norm, about 20-odd members of state BJP’s women’s wing demonstrated in front of Congress Bhavan in Ranchi and shouted slogans for a couple of minutes on Thursday. “When the world hailed women on the International Women’s Day on March 8, former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda rode a tractor that was pulled by women,” Arti Kujur, state president of BJP’s women’s wing, said about the reason behind their protest, adding Hooda’s action reflected how the Congress treated women. To protest against the rising prices of fuel, Hooda rode a tractor towards Haryana Assembly on Monday that was pulled with rope by some Congress leaders, including a few women. Those present at the Congress Bhavan at that time, however, put a brave front. “We tried to welcome the women from the BJP with roses and even offered them tea and biscuits but they didn’t accept those,” said Congress state spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey. “Dissent and protest are parts of democracy but we never saw the members of a political party demonstrating in front the office of another party, not at least in Jharkhand,” he wondered, adding the BJP women’s wing made a beginning in that direction. “Our party also have various wings, including women’s wing and they may also now plan to demonstrate in front of the BJP office on some issues some day,” the Congress spokesperson further said, adding he hoped the BJP members would also accept it in the same way as they did on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
