14-03-2021||Calcutta||Study UK Student Connect to help prospective students have personalised discussions with universities: British Council head||The British Council is hosting Study UK Student Connect for Indians looking to study at the undergraduate or postgraduate level in the UK in 2021. The event is on till March 19. Debanjan Chakrabarti, director, east and north-east, British Council, spoke to ABP Education about the virtual event. The UK has been a coveted destination for Indian students. How many Indian students went to the UK in 2020 for higher studies? The number of Indian students studying in the UK has been consistently very high. This is because of the high academic standards of the UK universities. Though we are yet to get the data of how many Indian students were granted student visa in 2020, Indian students going to the UK for higher studies hit a record high in 2019 with 49,844 choosing to study there. Of all the student visas given to international students, around 17% are issued to students from India. Is Study UK Student Connect a completely online event or is it being held in blended mode? Since March 2020, things have moved entirely online at the British Council. Study UK Student Connect is a completely online event this year. In the current format, the event has two options — generic webinars from March 8 to March 14 and more in-depth webinars and interactions with prospective students from March 15 to March 19. This is quite different from the face-to-face format that we were used to before the pandemic. But I would say, the current format would help students and parents have a more intimate and personalised discussion with the participating universities from the UK. With students preparing to move amidst the pandemic, what should they expect once they land in the UK? Will a pre-departure COVID-19 vaccination be mandatory? There is a very clear protocol in place for all international students. Once students arrive in the UK, they will be considered for vaccination as per the policy of the government of the UK. They do not need to take the vaccine before departure. On arrival, they are expected to be in quarantine and have two COVID-19 tests. There will be regular testing for asymptomatic students on campus. Will classes be conducted online for 2021? Or will it be in blended manner? There are courses where 100% online classes will not be possible, like the lab-based subjects and those where practice and face-to-face interaction are necessary. For them, classes have started from March 8. For the rest, classes may happen online and may be in a blended format, depending on the situation. And for the benefit of the students, the new Graduate Route will open for applications on July 1, 2021, for international students who successfully complete a degree at the undergraduate level or above in the UK. (The Department for Education announced this new immigration route in 2019 for students who have completed an eligible course by a UK higher education provider. Students on the Graduate Route will be able to work or look for work after their studies for a maximum period of two years; doctoral students have three years.)  What are the scholarships that the students can consider applying while planning to study in the UK? There are a range of scholarships open to Indian students. In 2018-19 alone, the UK government offered 480 scholarships, worth approximately £4.675m, to Indian students. As of now, there are 3 scholarships open for Indian students —British Council Scholarships for Women in STEM, which includes a scholarship programme in partnership with 19 UK universities aimed at benefiting women from India and other countries in South Asia, South East Asia and the Americas; GREAT Scholarships 2021 and Chevening Scholarships. The GREAT Scholarships, jointly funded by the UK government’s GREAT Britain Campaign and the British Council with participating UK higher education institutions, offer 60 scholarships from UK universities, across a variety of subjects for students from India. Each scholarship provides financial support to the tune of GBP 10,000 (minimum) towards tuition fees for a one-year postgraduate course. Chevening Scholarships offer full financial support for one year to candidates applying for a master’s degree at any UK university — covering nearly 12,000 courses from more than 150 universities — and professional development and networking opportunities for mid-career professionals to pursue an 8-12-week course in journalism, science and innovation, cyber security and leadership & excellence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Tikait tells Bengal farmers what to say when BJP seeks a fistful of rice||Rakesh Tikait, one of the leaders of the farmers’ movement, on Saturday urged Bengal’s farmers to demand a law on the minimum support price when BJP representatives come to them seeking a fistful of rice. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader was referring to the BJP’s farmer outreach programme in Bengal, “Ek mutthi chawal sangrah (Collection of a fistful of rice)”, which party president J.P. Nadda had launched in January. Tikait told a kisan mahapanchayat in Nandigram on Saturday afternoon that BJP representatives were coming to canvass votes on the pretext of seeking a fistful of rice, and the farmers should ask them: “Where is the law on the MSP?” “I told the farmers in Nandigram they should ask anyone who comes for a fistful of rice to their doors: Where is the law on the MSP?” Tikait told this newspaper over the phone. “They are coming not to seek a fistful of rice but to seek votes. Make the (MSP) law and we farmers will give you one quintal of rice.” One of the points on which the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — an umbrella body leading the farmers’ protest — is agitating is the absence of a law guaranteeing the MSP to farmers, apart from its demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws. Tikait said one reason he addressed the meeting was Nandigram’s place in the history of farmers’ struggle. An anti-land-acquisition movement in Nandigram had helped end the Left’s 34-year rule in Bengal and lifted Mamata Banerjee to power in 2011. Tikait had earlier made a similar appeal at another kisan mahapanchayat in Calcutta after arriving in the city on Saturday morning. He explained why SKM leaders had fanned out across the country to urge people to oppose the BJP. “The government has not met us since January 22. We waited thinking they would meet but they didn’t. So we thought we’d go to the nation,” he said. Tikait took a dig at the Centre, which has pushed virtually all its heavyweight ministers into the poll campaign in Bengal. “The government did not meet us but all the leaders are here. So we thought we would go to Bengal to meet the leaders. We are here today,” he said. The crowd at the Calcutta mahapanchayat, held on open ground beside the Gandhi statue at the intersection of Mayo Road and Dufferin Road, included many women and young people. Tikait took off the green scarf from around his neck and urged the gathering to repeat his act. He then twirled the scarf in the air and members of the crowd followed him. “Green is the colour of agriculture. Tikait said we should keep the BJP away from us this way,” a man in the crowd said. Several of those who attended the meeting in Calcutta later headed to Nandigram in buses and cars arranged for them. Vote appeal At the Gandhi statue in Calcutta, another farmer leader urged the Bengal voter to vote for the candidate with the best chance of defeating the BJP in their constituency. Gurnam Singh Chaduni said Bengal’s voters could save the nation by just pressing the right button on polling day. “Vote for a strong candidate. If the strong candidate is from the Left, vote in their favour; if there’s an Independent candidate who is strong, vote for them” he said. “If Mamata’s candidates are strong, vote in their favour. Vote for anyone who is strong but do not vote for the BJP. My Bengali brothers and sisters, a lot is at stake. You can save the country by pressing the right button.” All the farmer leaders have repeatedly said they are not asking people to vote for any particular political party. Chaduni was scathing about the politicians who have defected to the BJP ahead of the polls. “They did not get tickets (from their previous parties). These people are hungry for power. Drive them out of your villages. They have no desire to work for the people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Arrest in actor Ankush Hazra’s PA suicide case||A man has been arrested in Rajasthan for his alleged involvement in blackmailing and threatening Pintu Dey, the personal assistant of Tollywood actor Ankush Hazra, who had committed suicide at his aunt’s home earlier this month. Ayub Khan, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, was arrested early on Thursday was being brought to Calcutta on transit remand. Khan has been charged with abetment to suicide, attempt to extort money, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Dey, also known as Bappa, was found hanging from the grille of the washroom in his aunt’s Narkeldanga house on March 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||One killed, 4 injured in Vidyasagar Setu vehicle pile-up||A family’s vacation trip to Bankura’s Bishnupur turned into a nightmare when a pile-up on the Vidyasagar Setu while waiting in a queue at the toll plaza killed one of them in the car and left four others injured early on Saturday. The pile-up involving five vehicles was triggered by a container-laden truck that first hit a lorry and then another container truck, forcing the latter to hit an app cab that was hired by the family. The cab, a Maruti Suzuki Ertiga, in turn, rammed into a Force Traveller, critically injuring one of the occupants of the cab, who later died in hospital. All the vehicles were heading towards Howrah and were waiting for their turn to pay the toll when the accident happened around 5.20am. Police said Harisadhan Kar, 64, a retired government employee and a resident of Sree Colony in Netaji Nagar, was going to Bankura with his wife Rupali, 50, daughter Swarna Mali, 21, brother-in-law Mani Mohan Roy, 57, and his wife Radha Rani, 50, in the hired cab. All of them were taken to SSKM hospital where Kar was declared dead. The others were treated and discharged. The app cab driver was treated and discharged from a private hospital in Beleghata. “The deceased person had undergone a heart surgery three months ago. There were no external injury marks on him,” said a traffic officer. There were no occupants in the Force Traveller or more people could have been injured, the police said. The driver of the first container-laden truck has been arrested and charged with causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving, mischief and causing grievous hurt to others by a rash and negligent act endangering safety of human life. An officer of the traffic department said the driver of the offending vehicle has claimed that the truck’s brake had failed and that it was not his fault but a mechanical error that triggered the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Knife misses lungs by half inch||A 49-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital with a kitchen knife stuck in his back, was discharged on Saturday afternoon. The knife had but missed the lungs by “less than half an inch”. “The Garia resident was admitted around 11pm on March 10 (Wednesday). The knife was stuck next to his right shoulder blade but it missed the lungs by less than half an inch. The knife fractured a rib, which preven-ted the blade from going deeper and damaging the lungs,” said an official of the hospital. The man is said to have told police that he slipped back first and fell on the knife, said an official of the hospital. He was operated upon the same night. A CT  scan was done before the surgery. “He was lucky that the knife did not touch the lungs,” said Soham Majumdar, critical care physician at AMRI Dhakuria, where the surgery took place. “The rib cage around the lungs has been damaged. One bone has had multiple fractures. But that will heal over time. The challenge was to gauge the extent of the injury and respond quickly, which we did,” Majumdar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Two wild dog babies join Alipore Zoo family||Two dhole (also called Asiatic wild dog) puppies, born at Alipore Zoo on December 22 last year, were displayed for the first time on Saturday. The dhole (Cuon alpinus) is an average sized canine found throughout the forest tracts of India. Two pairs of dholes were brought to the zoo from Visakhapatnam in 2019. One of the females gave birth to a litter of four puppies. But two of the puppies did not survive. The remaining two, a male and a female, were weak and shifted to the zoo hospital. “They have recovered and are stable now,” said a zoo official. “This is the first time in 50 years that we have had wild dog babies in the zoo.” The pups at the zoo are being fondled by the keepers who are feeding them milk and chicken. A pack of dholes in the wild, however, are feared by animals much bigger their size. Dholes are omnivores. Apart from rodents, they regularly hunt wild pigs, deer, hares and wild goats. “Two to three dholes can kill a 50kg deer in less than two minutes and they begin to feed on it before it is dead. The larger prey rarely die from the attack itself, but from blood loss and shock as their intestines, heart, liver, and eyes are feasted upon,” says Animal Diversity Web, an online database at the University of Michigan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Two die in truck accidents on EM Bypass, BT Road||Two women died in two accidents in different parts of the city early on Saturday. One of them was riding pillion on a scooter when the two-wheeler was hit by an LPG cylinder-laden truck on EM Bypass. She fell and came under the wheels of the truck. The other accident happened when a pedestrian was hit by a truck on BT Road near Dum Dum Chiriamore. In both accidents, the offending vehicles fled, leaving the victims to bleed to death. Monika Sarkar, 45, a resident of Mukundapur, was riding pillion with Dipankar Halder, 26, on the latter’s scooter, when the accident happened around 3.30am on the Bypass near the Mandirpara crossing. The two are flower vendors and were going to the Howrah flower market. “The scooter was first hit by an LPG cylinder-carrying truck while taking a U-turn on the Bypass as a result of which the woman fell off the vehicle. Before she could recover or be rescued, she came under the rear wheels of the truck,” said an officer of Garfa police station. Sarkar was declared dead at SSKM hospital. Halder, who was riding the two-wheeler, was treated and discharged from the hospital. The offending vehicle fled, police said. The other accident happened around 5.30am when Shanta Das, a resident of north Calcutta, was hit by a truck on BT Road. Officers of Cossipore said they used CCTV footage to identify the truck. The driver has been arrested. BT Road, which is a corridor for movement of heavy goods vehicles, is prone to rash and negligent driving by the truck and lorry drivers that often culminate in fatal accidents. According to records in Lalbazar, trucks and lorries are one of the major contributors in causing road accidents in Calcutta over the past few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College holds convocation||St Xavier’s College aims to form men and women who will “walk with the poor, the marginalised and outcast” following the lessons of the Jesuits, principal Father Dominic Savio said during the annual convocation held on Saturday. The college held the ceremony on the Park Street campus ground on a limited scale because of the pandemic. “As Jesuits, our vision will require us to be instruments that show others the way to God. We will covenant to walk with the poor, the marginalised, the outcasts, to provide reconciliation and justice,” Father Savio said in his address to the graduating students. The principal later told The Telegraph the aim is “to form men and women who will imbibe this lesson and walk with the poor, the marginalised and outcast”. “The poor have remained poor. The marginalised have remained marginalised. So, there is a need to walk with them and help them,” said Father Savio. He said in his address that the college has removed the “elitist tag” to integrate itself into the mainstream of public consciousness. “We have removed the elitist tag, that, for reasons unknown, was attached to the college. We have integrated ourselves into the mainstream of public consciousness. We are no longer content to stand quietly apart.” As many as 2,250 students, undergraduate, postgraduate and BEd put together, received degrees at the convocation. From every department, the first 20 students, based on the marks secured, were invited to attend the convocation to avoid assembly as much as possible. The rest will receive the certificates sent through post to their residential address. Swami Atmapriyananda, pro vice-chancellor, Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute, Belur, was the chief guest at the convocation. Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee, the vice-chancellor of Calcutta University, delivered the convocation address. Father Savio thanked the VC of Calcutta University for approving the introduction of PhD programme in computer science. “The college will soon be applying for PhD in English and Bengali. The college is also planning to begin masters course in data science, history and education,’’ he said. Author Mani Shankar Mukherjee, 87, a chronicler of Calcutta and better known as Shankar, has won this year’s Sahitya Akademi award for his memoir Eka Eka Ekasi. Published at Calcutta Book fair in February 2015, the book traces the author’s life from his birth in Bongaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Parents are ‘less prompt’ with tasks in junior online classes||Parents of children in junior classes have become “lethargic” and “less prompt” about helping their wards complete or submit the work assigned by the school on time, said both parents and teachers. Children in the pre-primary and also in primary section have to be monitored by the parents. They cannot do the work on their own but the school work has been piling up, several mothers said. This is not the case when physical school was on, said a mother. Several parents said when there was physical school there was an urgency in them to finish the work, but the motivation is lacking for the online lessons. Priyanka Kar, a working mother of a Class III student, said her son’s assignments “pile up”, which didn’t happen during on-campus classes. “Earlier, when the school was on at least the classwork was taken care by the teacher. Now, whether it is classwork or homework, I have to be constantly on my toes. The work piles up because I have to go out for work everyday and my tours have also started,” said Kar, who works in a private firm. “I still try to complete the piled up academic work but it’s difficult to find time for art and craft,” she said. Teachers said almost a year into online lessons they have noticed there are “waves of periods” of interest and disinterest from parents. “There are about 20 per cent parents who could not complete assignments on time as against five per cent when there were on-campus classes,” said Minnie Sengupta, the principal of Birla High School, Mukundapur. “We counsel parents that once normal on-campus classes start children will have to follow a routine and hence, they need to have the right work habit,” said Sengupta. A year back, a mother said, she would sit down regularly with her son because she would have to know what he did in school but now on many occasions other work takes priority. “It would be simple colouring activity that he would have to do and I would sit with him because the teacher would write ‘work not done’, but now there is no such urgency and I take it easy and procrastinate,” said the mother, whose son is in nursery. The procrastination also happens because teachers understand that parents would not be summoned to school and at the most there will be an online meeting with parents that can be avoided because of technical glitches. “Some parents have become more relaxed in getting their child’s work submitted. Earlier, if there was a delay in work it would go to the coordinators, a note in the diary and it could end up with parents’ call,” said Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. But teachers also feel it is difficult to keep the interest sustained in online classes and it is natural for parents to feel stressed out. “Earlier, children would spend three to four hours in school but now they are constantly at home. We have reduced the homework and have asked teachers to concentrate on classwork during online lessons but not all children have the same pace, so naturally it has to be later done with mothers at home,” said Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Kak said in school children are in a “healthy competition” and find a motivation but the same activity takes more time at home. The school conducted counselling sessions for parents for the entire academic year and will do so again next session. “There were mothers of children in junior school who wanted help because the child was throwing tantrums,” said Kak. Work pressure does build up at home, said a mother who is a school teacher. “There are days when I have to go to school, my daughter has online class and there is nobody else at home. Ultimately, I have to make adjustments because my husband usually has meetings which he has to attend,” said Barnali Das, whose daughter is five. The absence of children from classes on most occasions is not because of them but because of adults at home, schools say. “There are days when children are absent from online class and it is because parents are unable to find  time...,” said Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Business||Union govt to offload entire stake in Tata Communications||The Union government is offloading its entire stake in Tata Communications. It currently holds a 26.12 per cent stake (7,44,46,885 shares) in Tata Communications, which will fetch almost Rs 9,602 crore based on the closing price of the Tata group firm on Friday. Of this around 16.12 per cent will be sold through an offer for sale (OFS) while the rest will go to Panatone Finvest, an investment arm of Tata Sons. It may be recalled that VSNL was privatised in 2002 by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government when it divested a 25 per cent shareholding along with transfer of management control to Panatone Finvest Ltd, the strategic partner. Subsequent to the strategic divestment, the name of the company was changed to Tata Communications Ltd. During the selloff, VSNL’s 773.13-acre of surplus land in four cities, including Pune, Calcutta, New Delhi and Chennai, was kept out of the divestment process. These land parcels were then transferred to a company called Hemisphere Properties India Ltd for which it had got an approval from the National Company Law Tribunal and others. Hemisphere Properties is a listed entity in which the Tata group holds a 22.65 per cent stake (and the government has 51 per cent) according to shareholding data for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. At its annual shareholders meeting held in December 2020, the company’s top management had indicated that the value of the land parcels that can be monetised is around Rs 19,000 crore. In a regulatory filing, Tata Communications said: “Tata Communications has today (Friday) signed an amendment agreement between the President of India, Panatone Finvest, Tata Sons and the company for sale of the entire shareholding in the company by the government.” As an initial step, the government will sell up to 4,59,46,885 equity shares, forming a 16.12 per cent holding in the company through an offer-for-sale (OFS) through the stock exchange mechanism. Immediately after the OFS, the Centre will sell the remaining equity shares (2,85,00,000 or 10 per cent) to Panatone Finvest. At present, Panatone Finvest holds 34.8 per cent and Tata Sons has a stake of 14.07 per cent — a total of 48.87 per cent — in the firm. “Upon completion of these transactions, the government will cease to be a shareholder of the company,” it said. The government, Panatone, Tata Sons and Tata Communications have entered into an understanding with regard to amending the shareholders’ agreement dated February 13, 2002. The 2002 pact was formed to record the terms and conditions for transfer of the percentage of shares of Tata Commmunications held by the Centre to Panatone. For the December quarter of 2020, Tata Communications earned revenues of Rs 4,223 crore even as profits grew to Rs 309 crore. Net debt stood at Rs 7,972 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
14-03-2021||Business||High yarn prices hit hosiery firms||Hosiery makers have been caught on the wrong foot with the sudden rise in prices of cotton yarn, which have hit a lifetime high because of short supply and rising global demand. While the price of raw cotton has risen by 30-35 per cent, driven by an increase in minimum support price by the government, the surge in cotton yarn rates was more than 50 per cent. The situation has resulted in severe cash flow problems for smaller hosiery makers, who are mostly concentrated in Tirupur, Tamil Nadu and Bengal. A token strike has been called by all associations of the garment makers in Tirupur on Monday. “We have written to the finance minister and Union textile minister to look into the steep rise in cotton yarn prices which is impacting most of the MSMEs,” Vinod Kumar Gupta, managing director of Dollar Industries, said. The hosiery industry is estimated to be Rs 30,000 crore a year. Only a third of the players are in the organised sector. Udit Todi, director of Lux Industries, said there is a shortage in supply of cotton yarn in the domestic market due to export demand. “It is a seller’s market. Sometimes it is not possible to get the desired quantity and quality despite paying high prices,” he said. Companies have already raised prices by 4-5 per cent. The prices of synthetic yarn — spandex — has also gone up substantially in the last one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
14-03-2021||Business||No renewal for 15-year-old govt vehicles: Union ministry||In a move to implement the ambitious voluntary vehicle scrappage policy, the Union road transport and highways ministry has issued a draft notification that states that registration would not be renewed for government vehicles that are 15-years-old on April 1, 2022. This will apply to all vehicles owned by the Centre, the states, Union Territories, public sector undertakings, municipal bodies and autonomous bodies. It has sought stakeholders’ comments to amend the related rules in this regard issuing a notification. “From April 1, 2022, government departments will not be able to renew the certificate of registration of their vehicles after 15 years. This will apply to all government — central, state, UT, PSUs, municipal bodies and autonomous bodies,” the ministry of road, transport and highways said in a tweet. The development comes close on the heels of the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union budget on February 1 for 2021-22 which provides for fitness tests after 20 years for personal vehicles while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years. A notification on the draft rules has been issued to this effect on March 12 by the ministry, seeking comments, objections and suggestions from the stakeholders within 30 days. The certificate of registration shall not be renewed after the lapse of 15 years for government vehicles, it said. In January, the road transport and highways ministry had proposed a clutch of measures to ensure that vehicles  which are over 15-years-old  stay off the road. This included a steep increase in fee for the renewal of fitness certificate for old commercial vehicles, increasing the fee for the renewal of registration of private vehicles that are over 20-years-old and imposing a hefty green tax on old polluting vehicles. The ministry has proposed to increase the renewal fee for fitness certificate for commercial vehicles from the current Rs 200 to Rs 7,500. At present, it is mandatory for commercial vehicles, which are over eight years old, to renew their fitness certificate annually. Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 in Parliament, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 had announced the vehicle scrapping policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
14-03-2021||Business||E-commerce policy push  for equality for sellers||E-commerce firms will have to treat all sellers and vendors equally on their platforms and ensure transparency, according to a draft national e-commerce policy . The draft said online retailers must refrain from adopting algorithms that result in prioritising a select few vendors on their platforms. Further, they will have to put out transparent policies on discounts, spelling out the basis of the discount rates for different products and suppliers. The government would also put in place adequate safeguards to prevent the misuse and access of data by unauthorised persons. “In the interest of the Indian consumer, and the local start-up ecosystem, the government will aim to ensure that there are more service providers available, and that network effects do not lead to the creation of digital monopolies misusing their dominant market position,” the draft policy said. An inter-ministerial meeting, under the chairmanship of a top official of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), was held on Saturday to deliberate on this draft. Officials said the draft would be finalised after a few more meetings and, thereafter, the department will seek the Union cabinet’s approval. The meeting was chaired by DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra. Officials from the government’s policy think-tank Niti Aayog and the ministries of finance, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), electronics and information technology (MeitY) were also present at the meeting. To ensure that e-commerce is not used to defraud customers, registration with an authority identified by the government will be mandatory. “The government shall collect information from e-commerce platforms to aid it in making necessary decisions,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
14-03-2021||India||Corporates running Union government, claims Tikait||Rakesh Singh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, on Sunday stated the Union government was being run by businessman who were cashing in on hunger by snatching away land. He was addressing a farmers’ rally in Rewa against the Centre’s three agri marketing laws. “A new business to cash in on hunger has started. Humans get hungry two times a day, 700 times a year. When the food grains will be in their control, they will start the hunger business,” Tikait said. He said in places in Rajasthan and Haryana, land was being bought by businessmen for paltry sums, and massive godowns, with storage capacities of 14 lakh metric tons, had come up, after which the Centre’s new farm laws came in. “This means this government at the Centre is not run by a party, but by businessmen. It is not only farmers who are in trouble, the railways are being sold, but the opposition is weak, and young people who should have opposed such moves are sleeping,” Tikait claimed. He asked people to come out and protest at the district level to get the new laws repealed, adding that farmers must sit at the collectorate and ensure their wheat is sold at Rs 1,975 per quintal. Tikait is scheduled to address a farmers’ rally in Jabalpur on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: BJP fields Babul from Tollygunge, Locket in Chunchura ||The BJP on Sunday announced its star-studded list of candidates, which included a Union Minister and several MPs, for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam. The party released names of 112 candidates for Kerala, where it will be contesting in 115 out of 140 Assembly seats, 17 names for Assam and 63 candidates for the third and fourth phase of elections in West Bengal. In West Bengal, the BJP has fielded former chief economic adviser to the government Ashok Lahiri from the Alipurduar seat, Union Minister Babul Supriyo from Tollygunge, and Swapan Dasgupta from the Tarakeswar Assembly segment. Actor-turned-politician and sitting MP Locket Chatterjee has been fielded from Chunchura and another MP Nishit Parmanik from Dinhata. Also, a number of film personalities have been nominated as candidates in the high-stakes battle for West Bengal. A similar trend was visible in Kerala, where the BJP fielded 'metroman' E Sreedharan from Palakkad and former Union Minister KJ Alphons from the Kanjirappally assembly seat. For Tamil Nadu, it announced actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar as its candidate from the Thousand Lights Assembly seat. The BJP's women cell chief Vanathi Srinivasan has been fielded against noted film star Kamal Haasan from Coimbatore South seat. In Assam, Hasinara Khatun has been fielded from Baghbar and Suman Haripriya from Hajo Assembly constituency. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters the party general secretary Arun Singh announced the names of candidates and said in all the poll-bound states the environment is in favour of the BJP. The BJP on Sunday announced its star-studded list of candidates, which included a Union Minister and several MPs, for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam. The party released names of 112 candidates for Kerala, where it will be contesting in 115 out of 140 Assembly seats, 17 names for Assam and 63 candidates for the third and fourth phase of elections in West Bengal. In West Bengal, the BJP has fielded former chief economic adviser to the government Ashok Lahiri from the Alipurduar seat, Union Minister Babul Supriyo from Tollygunge, and Swapan Dasgupta from the Tarakeswar Assembly segment. Actor-turned-politician and sitting MP Locket Chatterjee has been fielded from Chunchura and another MP Nishit Parmanik from Dinhata. Also, a number of film personalities have been nominated as candidates in the high-stakes battle for West Bengal. A similar trend was visible in Kerala, where the BJP fielded 'metroman' E Sreedharan from Palakkad and former Union Minister KJ Alphons from the Kanjirappally assembly seat. For Tamil Nadu, it announced actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar as its candidate from the Thousand Lights Assembly seat. The BJP's women cell chief Vanathi Srinivasan has been fielded against noted film star Kamal Haasan from Coimbatore South seat. In Assam, Hasinara Khatun has been fielded from Baghbar and Suman Haripriya from Hajo Assembly constituency. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters the party general secretary Arun Singh announced the names of candidates and said in all the poll-bound states the environment is in favour of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
14-03-2021||India||Quad leaders Modi, Biden, Morrison, Suga join hands to pen down opinion piece||The leaders of the four-nation Quad have reaffirmed that they are striving to ensure that the Indo-Pacific is accessible, dynamic and governed by international law and bedrock principles such as freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes, and free from coercion, sending a clear message to China which is flexing its muscles in the region and beyond. In an opinion piece in The Washington Post after holding the first Leaders' Summit of Quadrilateral alliance on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US President Joe Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga asserted that all countries should be able to make their own political choices, free from coercion. They said the governments of India, Japan, US and Australia have worked closely for years, and Friday, for the first time in Quad history, they convened as leaders to advance meaningful cooperation at the highest level. "To strengthen our quest for a region that is open and free, we have agreed to partner to address the challenges presented by new technologies and collaborate to set the norms and standards that govern the innovations of the future," the leaders said. The Quad leaders in the summit on Friday vowed to strive for a "free, open and inclusive" region unconstrained by "coercion . The virtual Quad summit took place as China and India are involved in a military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since May last year. China is also engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. In the East China Sea, Japan has maritime disputes with China. In the opinion piece after the summit, the leaders said the cooperation, known as the Quad, was born in crisis. It became a diplomatic dialogue in 2007 and was reborn in 2017. "In December 2004, the continental shelf off the coast of Indonesia shifted two metres, creating one of the largest tidal waves in modern history and a nearly unprecedented humanitarian crisis around the Indian Ocean. With millions displaced and hundreds of thousands killed, the Indo-Pacific region sounded a clarion call for help. Together, our four countries answered it," they wrote. Australia, India, Japan and the US, a group of democratic nations dedicated to delivering results through practical cooperation coordinated rapid humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to people in need, they wrote. "Now, in this new age of interconnection and opportunity throughout the Indo-Pacific, we are again summoned to act together in support of a region in need," they said. Since the tsunami, climate change has grown more perilous, new technologies have revolutionised our daily lives, geopolitics have become ever more complex, and a pandemic has devastated the world. "Against this backdrop, we are recommitting to a shared vision for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, resilient and inclusive. We are striving to ensure that the Indo-Pacific is accessible and dynamic, governed by international law and bedrock principles such as freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes, and that all countries are able to make their own political choices, free from coercion," they wrote. The four leaders asserted that in recent years, that vision has increasingly been tested and those trials have only strengthened their resolve to reckon with the most urgent of global challenges together. "It is clear that climate change is both a strategic priority and an urgent global challenge, including for the Indo-Pacific region. That's why we will work together and with others to strengthen the Paris agreement, and enhance the climate actions of all nations." On their commitment to fight against the coronavirus pandemic, they said, it is among the greatest risks to health and economic stability in recent history, and the Quad nations must work in partnership to stop it in its tracks. "With an unwavering commitment to the health and safety of our people, we are determined to end the Covid-19 pandemic because no country will be safe so long as the pandemic continues," the four leaders wrote. "Now, we are launching an ambitious effort to help end Covid-19. Together, we pledge to expand and accelerate production in India of safe, accessible and effective vaccines. We will partner at each stage to ensure that vaccines are administered throughout the Indo-Pacific region into 2022." The Quad on Friday finalised a landmark initiative under which huge investments will be made in India to create additional production capacities to roll out a billion coronavirus vaccine doses by 2022 for exports to the Indo-Pacific region, seen as a significant step to counter China's expanding vaccine diplomacy. "We will combine our scientific ingenuity, financing, formidable productive capacity and long history of global-health partnership to surge the supply of life-saving vaccines, in close collaboration with multilateral organizations including the WHO and Covax Facility," they wrote. Emphasising that the Quad nations' foundations of democracy and a commitment to engagement unite them, the four leaders concluded saying, "We know we can?provide for the safety and prosperity of our people at home by confronting global crises together, with purpose?and resolve. We summon from tragedy the strength and resilience to unify and overcome. And we recommit ourselves, once again, to an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, secure and prosperous."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Take strict action against fake complaints: BJP’s Kapil Mishra to SC||A BJP leader has moved the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre for framing guidelines to ensure strict action against fake complainants in criminal cases and for compensating victims of such wrongful prosecutions. The PIL has been filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra in the backdrop of a sensational case in which the Allahabad High Court, on January 28, declared rape convict Vishnu Tiwari innocent, observing that the motive behind the FIR was related to a land dispute. Tiwari was arrested on September 16, 2000 after being booked for rape and atrocities under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and was in jail for 20 years. The PIL, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, has also sought "adequate compensation" for Tiwari for his wrongful conviction and life imprisonment in the fake case. "Direct the Centre to fame guidelines and to make a mechanism to take strict action and to prosecute fake complainants as well as to frame guidelines to pay adequate compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and implement the recommendations of law commission Report ...on miscarriage of justice," the plea said. The BJP leader has made union ministries of Home Affairs and Law and Justice, the Uttar Pradesh government and the Law Commission as parties to his PIL. It has also sought direct for setting up of a mechanism for speedy disposal of cases pertaining to undertrial prisoners prosecuted in special Acts and to frame guidelines for undertrial prisoners to decide their cases in a time bound manner. "Direct the respondents (Centre and others) to frame rules to release poor persons who are victims of malicious and vague prosecution who are facing jail in the absence of not furnishing the adequate sureties/bonds," it said. Mishra, in his PIL, submitted that the SC/ST law is being misused and abused by filing false and malicious complaints and no action is taken against the culprit in the absence of an effective statutory/legal scheme. "False cases lead to suicides of innocents who are victims of police and prosecutorial misconduct, who lose hope and lives of their families destroyed after years of delayed trials due to the non-effective machinery..., the plea said. The PIL has made the Union ministries of Home Affairs, Law and Justice, the Law Commission and state of Uttar Pradesh as parties.On March 11, a similar plea was filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay seeking a direction to the Centre, all states and Union territories (UTs) to frame and implement guidelines to compensate victims of "wrongful prosecution" through government machineries. Upadhyay urged the apex court to "use its plenary constitutional power to frame guidelines for compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and direct the Centre and states to implement them till recommendations of the Law Commission on miscarriage of justice are implemented religiously".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||With over 25,000 Covid-19 cases, India reports highest daily rise in 84 days||India on Sunday recorded 25,320 Covid-19 infections, the highest daily rise in 84 days, taking the case tally to 1,13,59,048, according to Union health ministry data. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded on December 20. The death toll increased to 1,58,607 on Sunday with 161 new fatalities, the highest in 44 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's active caseload increased to 2,10,544 and constitutes 1.85 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate dropped to 96.75 per cent from 96.82 per cent on Saturday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,89,897, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 22,67,03,641 samples had been tested up to March 13 with 8,64,368 being tested on Saturday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||NIA arrests Mumbai cop for involvement in Ambani bomb scare case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze Saturday night after questioning him for 12 hours over the recovery of an explosive-laden vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, an agency spokesperson said. Waze was summoned at the agency's Mumbai office at Cumballa Hill in south Mumbai around 11.30 am to record his statement. There was no official update on him throughout the day. The NIA spokesperson came out with a brief statement late Saturday night that he had been "arrested at 23.50 hrs in NIA Case" related to the recovery of gelatin sticks in a vehicle parked near Ambani's house on Carmichael Road on February 25. A threat letter was found as well. The NIA spokesperson said Waze has been arrested allegedly "for his role and involvement in placing an explosives-laden vehicle near Carmichael road" on February 25. The case was handed over to the NIA after the mysterious death of a Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed that the vehicle had been stolen a week earlier. His body was found in a creek at Thane on March 5. This case is being probed by the Anti-Terror Squad of the Maharashtra Police, but the NIA is likely to take over the case as the agency is mandated by the section 8 of the NIA Act to take over investigation in connected matters. Hiran's wife had claimed that her husband had given the SUV to Waze in November, which the officer returned in the first week of February. During his questioning by the ATS, Waze had denied using the SUV that was in possession of Hiran. Waze had on Friday filed an application seeking pre-arrest bail. His lawyer A M Kalekar had requested the court to grant Waze interim protection from arrest on the ground that he was cooperating in the investigation. Additional public prosecutor Vivek Kadu, however, opposed this and argued that the probe in the case was at a crucial stage. The court, while refusing interim bail, noted that the charges in the case include section 302 (murder), section 201 (destruction of evidence) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC which are serious offences. Waze, accused by Hiran's wife of involvement in her husband's suspicious death, was shunted out of the Mumbai crime branch on Wednesday. Waze, who was the crime branch's Assistant Police Inspector, has been transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) unit of Mumbai police. On February 25, a Scorpio was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai with explosives and a threat letter inside. While recording Waze's statement on Saturday, the NIA called crime branch ACP Nitin Alaknure and ATS' ACP Shripad Kale to share information about the investigation done so far in the cases of recovery of the SUV and the alleged murder of Hiran. Both the officers left after four hours. Waze is also facing a trial on multiple charges, including murder and destruction of evidence, for the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus in the year 2003.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Congress suffers setback in Kerala||The Congress’s hunt for a strong candidate to wrest the lone Assembly seat represented by the BJP in Kerala appeared to suffer a setback on Saturday with Oommen Chandy declaring he would not be deserting his traditional seat of Puthupally. The former chief minister, however, did not clarify whether he might contest also from Nemom, the seat in Thiruvananthapuram that the BJP’s O. Rajagopal won in 2016. Earlier, several thousand party workers and local people had besieged Chandy’s home in Puthupally, Kottayam, opposing any move to shift him. They chanted slogans such as “We won’t let Oommen Chandy go” as state and district unit leaders huddled inside the house with Chandy. State Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash, one of Chandy’s diehard supporters, had arrived early to persuade him to stick to Puthupally. A few hours later, Chandy emerged amid the din and declared, amid loud cheers: “The high command yesterday cleared my name for Puthupally.” On whether he might be fielded from Nemom too, he said: “I cannot give a final word on this.” Chandy insisted that neither the high command nor the state leadership had asked him to contest from Nemom. “The uproar witnessed here today was based on a misunderstanding. Nemom has been a subject of serious discussion for several days. There have been reports about who would contest and who wouldn’t,” he said. However, media reports had earlier quoted state leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala as saying Chandy could be fielded from Nemom since the party needed a senior candidate to wrest the seat. Congress sources on Saturday suggested Chandy may have put his foot down. The Congress’s candidate list for the April 6 Assembly polls is likely to be released on Sunday. After several rounds of meetings in Thiruvananthapuram, Chandy and other state leaders had moved to Delhi for discussions with the high command but returned to Kerala on Saturday morning without finalising the full list. Apart from Chandy, those who had been tipped to be fielded from Nemom were party general secretary K.C. Venugopal, Chennithala, and Lok Sabha members Shashi Tharoor and K. Muraleedharan. The constituency is set for a triangular contest. While the CPM has re-nominated the defeated 2016 candidate, V. Sivankutty, the BJP is considering fielding former state president Kummanam Rajasekharan or film actor Suresh Gopi from Nemom. The nonagenarian Rajagopal has opted not to contest polls. Chennithala told reporters: “You won’t be disappointed once the names are announced.” Muraleedharan said: “I’ve not been asked to contest from Nemom (but) will take up any responsibility the high command entrusts to me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Caretaker of popular temple in Uttar Pradesh asaults Muslim boy for drinking water at the shrine||Man in blue T-shirt in video clip: Kya naam hai tera? With a trace of a smile, little boy gives a Muslim name. Man in T-shirt: Baap ka naam? Boy gives a Muslim name Man in T-shirt: Mandir mein kya kar raha hai? Unsuspecting boy happily replies: Mandir mein paani peene aaye the. Man in T-shirt rains blows and expletives on the stunned boy who falls to the ground. The assailant then kicks him repeatedly. A caretaker of a temple managed by an erstwhile engineer whose acolytes include a “Hindutva” rabble-rouser allegedly slapped and kicked the boy for drinking water at the shrine, while his fellow caretaker purportedly filmed the assault. Both caretakers, identified by the police as Shringi Nandan Yadav and Swami, were arrested on Friday evening for the atrocity earlier in the day at the popular Dasna Devi Mandir in Dasna, Uttar Pradesh, 50km east of Delhi. In the video posted on a now deleted Instagram handle @hinduektasanghh, the man in the blue T-shirt asks the boy —who police say is aged between 12 and 14 — his name and that of his father. Before that, a voice says: “Badhiya se dono ka chehra aana chahiye (Both the faces should appear clearly).” The child gives the names, both Muslim names. The questioner (identified as Yadav) then asks why the boy has come to the temple. When the boy replies he came to drink water, the man begins to slap him, then twists his arm and pushes him to the ground. He stamps on the child’s face and upper thigh repeatedly as the boy tries to block kicks to his groin with his palm. The man says, as he hits the boy: “(Expletive), paani peene aaya... (another expletive).” As he is beaten, the boy is heard saying again: “I came to drink water, uncle.” Drinking water is offered freely at most places of worship in these parts of north India, irrespective of the faith of the recipient. While many social media users condemned the assault and the bigotry, many others expressed support for the accused and reviled the critics. The temple’s mahant, Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, is a Moscow-educated engineer who faces a police case for allegedly saying last year that India “will be clean of Islam”. In response to questions from The Telegraph, Narsinghanand said on Saturday night: “The drinking water tap is outside the temple, and no one needs to enter inside to drink water. We have a sign outside that says the entry of Muslims is prohibited…. This boy entered the temple and spat on the idol and urinated on our wall. That is why our people caught him.” But in the clip that was uploaded, the assailant makes none of these charges. In fact, from the manner of the interrogation, it is clear that the attacker wanted to establish the boy’s religion first before beating him up. No mention is made of any desecration which, even if it took place, does not empower anyone to assault another person. The followers of Narsinghanand are said to impart arms training to Hindu youth, and his devotees include Ragini Tiwari who had released inflammatory videos during last year’s communal violence in Delhi. “Two people have been arrested. One who was making the video (identified as Swami) and one who assaulted (the boy). They are in judicial custody,” Ghaziabad superintendent of police (rural areas) Iraj Raja told this newspaper. “Charges of criminal assault, other sections (of the Indian Penal Code) as well as the Information Technology Act, as the video was circulated online, have been invoked.” Raja said the incident took place on Friday afternoon and confirmed the accused were “caretakers of the temple”. He said Yadav lived near the temple. “The boy and his family have not approached the police. They are untraceable,” he added. Fact-checking website AltNews’s co-founder, Mohammed Zubair, tweeted screenshots of the deleted Instagram page that celebrated the assault for making “a terrorist Muslim impotent”. Another post from the @hinduektasanghh sought funds for Yadav to fight the case. Zubair tweeted: “A look at his (Yadav’s) Facebook profile shows he is inspired by hate speeches of Dasna Mandir Mahant Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati.” He shared a video of Yadav where Narsinghanand is seen in the background, as well as videos showing inflammatory speeches by the mahant. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh tweeted: “A Muslim boy who drank water in the temple was beaten badly. Which Ramayana or knowledge of the Geeta or Vedas is this? Which Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam?” “Vasudhaiva kutumbakam” is an old Sanskrit saying meaning “the whole world is kin”. Lawyer and activist Dushyant tweeted: “Looked hard for Hindu names under this thread condemning the incident. Found a few. A few.” He added: “The child is shocked. He happily shares he went to drink water. He can’t believe he is being beaten for just drinking water. Haven’t his parents told him he is a Muslim living in India? How dare he think that a house of ‘god’ will permit everyone to drink water.” Twitter user Intekhab Alam posted: “During school days used to drink cold water from nearby Mandir and sometimes Parsad too In new India you get this.” He immediately received a reply from a handle named “The Good Brigadier” about an alleged child rape by a Muslim in Mainpuri, Uttar Pradesh. The support for the Dasna atrocity and the bid to raise funds for the accused resemble the aftermath of the lynching of a Malda native, Afrazul Khan, in Udaipur in 2017. Shambhulal Regar, who is still awaiting trial, is accused of hacking Khan to death and burning his body on camera as retaliation for alleged “love jihad”. Regar later uploaded videos from inside the Jodhpur central jail that showed him delivering inflammatory speeches. Regar’s wife received several lakhs in donations, and Regar’s supporters stormed an Udaipur court and hoisted a saffron flag on it to protest his arrest. Regar has allegedly confessed to police that the killing resulted from a case of mistaken identity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Wear mask properly or don’t fly: DGCA||The civil aviation regulator on Saturday asked airlines and airport operators to ensure passengers wear masks properly, covering their nose and mouth, and follow other Covid protocol. Before departure, a passenger who does not wear the mask properly despite warnings should be deboarded, it said. A passenger refusing to do so on a flight should be treated as “unruly”. According to the rules, “unruly” passengers can be barred from flying for a period from three months to two years. The DGCA circular said the mask should not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances. Any passenger found violating Covid protocol at the airport should be handed over to security agencies after proper warning, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Toolkit case: I was held guilty by TRP seekers, says Disha Ravi||Climate activist Disha Ravi, whose arrest in the toolkit sedition case had been criticised by a Delhi court as being based on “scanty and sketchy evidence”, has said she was pronounced guilty by “seekers of TRPs”. “It’s no surprise that in the days that followed (my arrest), my autonomy was violated; my photographs were splashed all over the news; my actions were pronounced guilty — not by the court of law, but on flat screens by seekers of TRPs. I sat there unaware of the many abstractions made of me in order to satiate their idea of me,” Disha, 22, tweeted on Saturday in her first public comments after being released on bail on February 23. Delhi police officers had whisked away Disha from her home in Bangalore on February 13 without a transit warrant from a local court. She was charged with sedition for editing and sharing a social media toolkit on mobilising support for the farmers’ strike. The controversy around the toolkit, shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, had been exploited to the hilt by sections of the media and politicians such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi who portrayed it as an international conspiracy to destabilise India. Disha, one of the founding members of the Karnataka chapter of Fridays For Future, originally launched by Thunberg, wrote in the post: “All that is real feels too unreal; Delhi’s famous smog; the cyber police station; Deen Dayal Hospital; Patiala House Court and Tihar Jail. In all the years that someone had asked me where I see myself in 5 years, I would have never answered ‘jail’, but here I was. “I kept asking myself what it felt like to be there at that particular moment of time, but I came back with no answers. I had coerced myself into believing that the only way I would be able to live through this was by tricking myself into thinking that this wasn’t happening to me — the police did not knock on my door on 13 February, 2021, they did not take my phone and laptop, and arrest me, they did not present me at Patiala House Court, the media personnel were not trying to find a place inside the room. “As I stood in that courtroom desperately searching for my lawyers, I came to terms with the fact that I would have to defend myself. I had no idea whether there was legal assistance available; so when the judge asked me if I have anything to say, I decided to speak my mind. Before I knew it, I was sent to 5 days in police custody.” She said she was not provided access to a lawyer when she was produced in court. “At the end of five days (February 19) I was shifted to judicial custody for 3 days. In Tihar, I was aware of every second of every minute of every hour of every day. Locked in my cell, I wondered when it became a crime to think the most basic elements of sustenance on this planet were as mine as theirs,” she said. “I also realised, during my time in custody, that most people knew little or nothing about climate activism or climate justice. My grandparents, who are farmers, indirectly birthed my climate activism. I had to bear witness to how water crisis affected them, but my work was reduced to tree plantation drives and clean-ups — which are important but not the same as struggling for survival. “Climate justice is about intersectional equity. It is about being radically inclusive of all groups of people, so that everyone has access to clean air, food and water. As a dear friend always says, ‘Climate justice isn’t just for the rich and the white.’ It is a fight alongside those who are displaced, whose rivers have been poisoned, whose lands were stolen, who watch their houses get washed away every other season, and those who fight tirelessly for what are basic human rights.” While she thanked everyone who had stood by her, Disha preferred to describe herself as “privileged” since there were those with no legal assistance in seeking bail. “The past few days have been beyond painful, yet I know that I am one of the privileged. I was lucky enough to have excellent pro bono legal assistance but what of all those who do not? What of all those still in jail whose stories are not marketable? What of the marginalised that are not worthy of your screen time? What of those who face the world’s brazen indifference?” she asked, signing off by iterating: “Still fighting for climate justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Congress releases letters of dead MP seeking help from PM Modi||The Congress on Saturday suggested that Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar could have been saved had Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah responded to his desperate pleas for help and the parliamentary committee for privileges had taken his suicide threat seriously. Delkar, an Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli serving his seventh term, was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel last month. A purported suicide note had accused top administrative officials in Dadra and Nagar Haveli of harassment. Declaring its resolve not to allow the suicide by a sitting MP be hushed up, the Congress also released copies of letters Delkar had purportedly written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla before taking the drastic step. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant told The Telegraph over the phone from Mumbai: “It is sad that an elected representative could not be saved although he had approached the highest authorities with his tale of woes. We want to know from the Parliament privileges committee whether Delkar had told them that he had only two options — either resign from the Lok Sabha or commit suicide.” Asked if he was suggesting the Prime Minister and the home minister had not acted on purpose, Sawant said: “We want to know what action they took following the letters from the distressed MP. It is clear that an elected representative could not be saved even though his plight was known to the top functionaries of the country. “The Modi government and the BJP have to answer questions. The BJP in Maharashtra hasn’t even expressed condolences over his death. Are all their sympathies reserved for Sushant Singh Rajput? The death of an MP after torture by the administration doesn’t matter to them?” According to the Congress, Delkar had written to Prime Minister Modi first on December 18, 2020, and again on January 31, 2021. He had also written to home minister Shah on December 18 and January 12, apart from sending three letters to Birla on December 18, January 12 and January 21. Delkar committed suicide on February 22. In between, he had also appeared before the parliamentary privileges committee after the Lok Sabha Speaker had forwarded his complaint to them. According to the communications released by the Congress, Delkar had in his first letter to the Prime Minister and the home minister explained how the protocol of informing the local MP was not followed by the Dadra and Nagar Haveli administration during the visit of minister of state for home Nityanand Rai who had inaugurated several important projects. Delkar had purportedly said he was being deliberately kept away from visits of dignitaries and at times his presence was being falsely recorded. He had said his absence at such events had become a topic of discussion among the people and had caused “huge embarrassment and humiliation” to him. Delkar had purportedly requested both the Prime Minister and the home minister to take these incidents seriously and initiate action. In the subsequent letters, Delkar is said to have alleged that the vindictive attitude of the administration had intensified and he had suffered more humiliation after complaining to the central authorities. He wrote to the Prime Minister, according to one of the letters released by the Congress: “I have come to know that they are planning to slap false cases on me and my family members. We are going through extreme mental torture. Kindly understand the gravity of the situation and intervene immediately. Give directions to the local authorities and, if possible, time to meet so that I can narrate my miseries to you.” Describing the developments as a great tragedy, Sawant said at a media conference in Mumbai: “Delkar was persecuted and insulted by BJP leader Praful Khoda Patel and several central administrative officers. He had complained that they were trying to entangle him in crimes that he had no connection with. “Those cases in which chargesheet also had been filed were being reopened. He was threatened with dire consequences and was told that his family would be put in jail. “On February 12, the privileges committee of Parliament heard Delkar’s complaints. Before this committee, Delkar had talked about the kind of pressure he was under. It is learnt that he had even said that he had two options before him: either to resign from Parliament or commit suicide. We demand an explanation from the privileges committee, whether Delkar said so just 10 days before he committed suicide.” Sawant added: “The BJP government in Gujarat could not find out who killed their home minister Haren Pandya and could not punish the culprits but the MVA government (in Maharashtra) would definitely bring all those responsible for the suicide of Mohan Delkar to book and won’t let the situation become similar to Haren Pandya’s.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Jharkhand migrant worker walks 7 months to get home ||Of the tens of thousands of hapless migrant workers who had set out to walk hundreds of miles home after the lockdown was announced, one reached his village on Saturday. Berjom Bamda Pahadiya arrived home at Amarbitha in Sahebganj district of Jharkhand on March 13 after a seven-month trudge from Delhi, 1,200km away, showing remarkable resilience for a 54-year-old in surviving odds that had felled many a younger man. He had not a paisa on him — his labour contractor in Delhi had not only withheld his entire pay, he had snatched all his money, Pahadiya says. He walked along the railway tracks in his torn rubber slippers, asking his way home — not too successfully perhaps, for he speaks no Hindi and only Santhali, which may partly explain why it took him so long. He had to beg for food and water at villages on the way, again the language barrier coming in the way. He had not eaten for a fortnight, he says, when an NGO worker spotted him at a railway crossing in Dhanbad district on March 11, about 240km from his home. Pahadiya had started his journey late, in August — far later than his peers who had left Delhi on foot in April or on Shramik Special trains in May-June. With the help of an interpreter, he explained to this newspaper that after being robbed and kicked out by his labour contractor, he had spent months on Delhi’s pavements, surviving on food supplied at NGOs’ camps and oblivious that the government was running trains for migrants. He hadn’t the money to pay for a ticket, anyway. Pahadiya had started off for Delhi late, too, for 54 is no age to begin a career as migrant labourer. It was the tall promises made by the “middlemen” —local agents of metro-based labour contractors — that had persuaded this part-time farm labourer to try his luck in Delhi. It was in February last year that Pahadiya left for Delhi on a train with about 10 others from his village. He had been offered “a good salary” —he couldn’t recall exactly how much but a neighbour said it was between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a month. “I worked for 20-25 days before the lockdown but the middleman paid me nothing. He just arranged two meals a day and a place for me to stay,” Pahadiya said. “After the lockdown in March, he snatched all the money I had brought from home, about Rs 7,000, as well as my belongings and Aadhaar card.” Thus began his life of a pavement dweller till, one day in August, he decided to set off for home. “I knew no one. I approached some people for help but was refused. So I started walking in August, begging for food and water on the way. I don’t know how many days passed,” Pahadiya said. On March 11, a member of the NGO Roti Bank spotted him at the Mucharaidih railway crossing in Mahuda, Dhanbad district. “One of our members informed us about a poor, hungry man who had walked all the way from Delhi. A few of our members rushed to the spot and gave him food and water,” said Suraj Kumar of Roti Bank, which provides food to the poor by raising money from donors in Dhanbad. “We phoned the local (Mahuda) police station, but the officer-in-charge refused help.” The NGO members decided to pool the money themselves to buy a train or bus ticket for Pahadiya to Sahebganj. They arranged a room for him to spend the rest of the day and the night. “Some of our members uploaded his pictures on social media with an account of his ordeal. A contractor who was about to leave for Sahebganj contacted us and offered to take him to his village,” Kumar said. “We used the money we had raised to give Pahadiya a new pair of trousers and shirt and food.” A member of the NGO accompanied Pahadiya in the contractor’s SUV, which left Mahuda on Friday night and reached Amarbitha on Saturday morning. Sahebganj deputy commissioner Ram Niwas Yadav promised help for Pahadiya and action against the middlemen who dupe villagers. “I shall send a probe team and, if possible, arrest the middlemen,” he said. “I shall also provide government assistance for the duped tribal workers and strengthen the mechanism to ensure middlemen don’t lure villagers to big cities with false promises.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
14-03-2021||India||Odisha govt to promote students till Class VIII without exams||The Odisha government has decided to promote students from Class I to Class VIII to the next class without conducting examinations as their studies were hampered due to the corona pandemic which led to the suspension of classes almost throughout the academic year. Minister, school and mass education, Samir Ranjan Dash on Saturday said: “All students from Class I to Class VIII will be declared as having passed. Due to the Covid-19 situation, they will be given promotion without appearing for the examination. It’s not possible to hold an examination as there were no regular classes during the whole year because of the Covid-19.” Dash said last year, too, the students had been declared as passed and the practice will continue this year. “However, our teachers are taking online classes and ensuring that their studies are not affected,” Dash said. However, examinations for the students of Class IX will be conducted offline this year. “Our teachers are taking the offline classes for students of Class IX, Class X, XI and XII. All of them will appear for the examination off line,” the minister said. In view of the Covid situation, the state government has decided not to reopen schools from April. “All decisions with regard to opening of schools will be taken after June,” Dash said. Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 3,38,121 in Odisha with surfacing of 65 new cases. The number of active cases in the state stands at 651 while 3,35,499 patients have recovered from the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
14-03-2021||India||Uproar in Odisha Assembly over BJP MLA ‘suicide attempt’||The Odisha Assembly on Saturday witnessed an uproar over the alleged suicide attempt by a BJP legislator in the House on Friday. Deogarh BJP lawmaker Subhash Chandra Panigrahi on Friday had tried to consume a bottle of sanitiser in a bid to commit suicide when food supplies, consumer welfare and cooperation minister Ranedra Pratap Swain was giving a reply on non-procurement of paddy of farmers from the mandis (wholesale market yards) in the afternoon. The BJP legislators accused the Odisha government of neglecting the problems of farmers. As soon as the Assembly proceedings commenced on Saturday, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) raised the issue and accused the BJP of lowering the dignity of the House. “The BJP MLA (Panigrahi) has lowered the dignity of the House by threatening to commit suicide. Here the MLAs come to raise issues affecting the common man and not to threaten to kill themselves. We want to know whether it’s his stand or the party’s stand. It should be clarified. We will not let the House run unless and until MLA Panigrahi apologises,” said government chief whip Pramila Mallick. The ruling party MLAs also trooped into the well of the House demanding an apology from Panigrahi. Though the Congress condemned the alleged suicide bid, it protested against BJD ministers and MLAs rushing into the well “Its unfortunate that three ministers trooped into the well of the House and created an uproar. Let the ruling party apologise for its conduct. Until and unless they do so we will not allow the House to run,” said Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. The BJP legislators too demanded apology from the BJD  for rushing into the well. Normally ruling party members don’t troop into the well of the House. This is an act resorted to by Opposition MLAs to draw attention to major issues or to voice their protest against them. As the MLAs from the BJD, the BJP and the Congress created a hullabaloo in the House demanding an apology from each other, the Speaker adjourned the proceedings till Monday. Panigrahi told The Telegraph: “I will not apologise. Let the Odisha government lift all paddy from the mandis.” On the other hand, the Odisha unit of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Friday launched the Kishan Adhikar Yatra from Bhubaneswar condemning the Centre’s refusal to repeal its controversial farm laws. “We don’t encourage things like committing suicide. Its all dramabazi (stunt). If the BJP MLAs are so concerned about the plights of farmers, why are they not putting pressure on the Centre to withdraw its anti-farmer laws?” asked AIKSCC state convener Suresh Panigrahi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
14-03-2021||India||Kashmir BJP leader asks ‘Iran’ to ‘arrest’ UP waqf ex-chief , becomes butt of social media ridicule||Kashmir BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur on Saturday became a butt of social media ridicule after he asked the Iranian government to “arrest” a Shia leader from Uttar Pradesh over his “blasphemous remarks”. Thakur later blamed the blooper on a “typing error” and said his intention was to urge the Indian government to act against Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Shia waqf board. Social media poured scorn on Thakur. “Ha ha ha ha ha ha. He must be from B J P — Bharatia Jokers Party,” wrote actor poet Bashir Dada. A journalist taunted Thakur, saying he had “dropped a bombshell” by asking “Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps intervention in Uttar Pradesh!” Shia and Sunni groups in Kashmir had on Saturday united to condemn Rizvi, who has filed a public interest plea in the Supreme Court seeking the removal of 26 verses from the Quran that he claims preach terrorism. Kashmir’s Grand Mufti, Nasir-ul Islam, has asked the Centre to arrest Rizvi for “hurting the sentiments of millions of Muslims across the world”. He said the Quran preaches peace, not violence. Senior Shia leaders have accused Rizvi of being an RSS agent bent on dividing Muslims and said he should be ignored. “I don’t believe in takfir (declaring others as infidels) but this person, Wasim (not) Rizvi has brazenly let his belief known and his belief is absolutely not that of a Muslim. He is a known servant of the Sangh and I suggest he should be left alone,” Ruhullah Mehdi, a former minister, tweeted. Amid the outrage against Rizvi, Thakur had emailed a media statement saying: “Rizvi’s remarks are unacceptable and that Quran teaches love, brotherhood and peace, not violence.” He added: “Iran government must act quickly against Rizvi and arrest him for his blasphemous remarks and hurting the religious sentiments of billions of Muslims across the globe. “I demand that he should be taken to task and reprimanded by Iran government. There is no place for people like Rizvi in Islam.” He later regretted the “inconvenience” and “typing error”, but did not explain why the same typo had occurred twice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
14-03-2021||India||Quad summit discusses India-China standoff||US national security adviser Jack Sullivan has said the situation along the Line of Actual Control between India and China was discussed at the first Quad summit, hinting that it could also come up during his meeting next week with the Chinese at Anchorage, Alaska. Asked if US tariffs and export controls targeting China will be part of the talks, Sullivan said the meeting “is our effort to communicate clearly to the Chinese government how the United States intends to proceed at a strategic level, what we believe our fundamental interests and values are, and what our concerns with their activities are — whether it’s on Hong Kong, or Xinjiang, or in the Taiwan Strait — or, frankly, the issues that we heard today from our Quad partners: their coercion of Australia, …their aggression on the border with India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
14-03-2021||West Bengal||EC orders suspension of Mamata security in-charge||The Election Commission Sunday concurred with its two poll observers that there was no pre-meditated attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram during her poll campaign, and that her injuries were the result of a security lapse. Taking stern action over the "slack" bandobast arrangements, the commission ordered immediate suspension of IPS officer Vivek Sahay, who was in-charge of the CM's security, and Purba Medinipur SP Praween Prakash. It also transferred Purba Medinipur district magistrate. "Charges must be framed against him (Vivek Sahay) within a week for grossly failing in discharge of his primary duty as Director, Security, to protect the Z+ protectee," the EC said in a statement. It said the state chief secretary, in consultation with the DGP, is authorised to post a suitable director of security immediately. The poll panel also decided that a committee comprising the chief secretary and the DGP will "identify within next three days the other proximate security personnel below Director Security who failed in their duties to prevent the incident and protect the Z+ protectee, and take suitable action for their failure..." The EC also transferred Purba Medinipur district magistrate Vibhu Goel to a non-election post, replacing him with IAS officer Smita Pandey as the DM and district election officer, the statement said. The poll panel also ordered immediate suspension of Purba Medinipur SP Praween Prakash and directed framing of charges against him for a "major failure" of bandobast. He has been replaced by Sunil Kumar Yadav. The decisions were taken by the EC after reviewing reports sent by its special poll observers, Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube, and the state government. Based on the reports, the EC concluded that CM Banerjee sustained the injuries prima facie due to a lapse on the part of her security in-charge, sources had earlier said. The TMC chief had sustained injuries on left leg and waist after she fell down while campaigning in Nandigram Wednesday evening post filing nomination from the constituency. There were allegations she was pushed by unidentified people. Sources said in his report to the poll panel, the chief secretary has said, "It is evident that the presence of police force at the said spot to protect the Z+ protectee, specially during the election time, was not adequate and deployment of additional police personnel at the spot could have averted the incident." His report also mentions that "the local police arrangements at the spot of the incident were not commensurate with and adequate for the stature of the protectee." "The local police preparedness was not sufficient for dealing with the crowd at the spot. The overall synergy which is required to be established between the Directorate of Security and local or district police was not there," he wrote, according to sources. Special Observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube in their joint report have observed that the district administration has the overall responsibility in their jurisdiction for arranging fool-proof security arrangements for a chief minister's visit. The district police is required to provide strong route bandobast for the travel of the VVIP. "In fact, when it was expected that the CM might visit a temple situated close to the scene of incident and a separate contingent of police officers and men were deployed at the temple, it begs the question as to why a strong route-bandobast was not provided to stop the crowd from coming close to the CM's vehicle," the report observed, according to sources. "Obviously, the bandobast arrangements were slack and it led to the unsavory incident," it pointed out. Citing the report of the DM and the SP, the observers said there were several and frequent changes in the tour programme of the CM and therefore they had to take recourse to what they call a "floating security arrangement". "This we find to be bizzare and is definitely not in consonance with the security protocols prescribed for high dignitaries such as the CM of West Bengal. The joint report of DM and SP also includes a report from Kishore Kumar Biswas, the Returning Officer (RO) of Nandigram assembly seat, where he mentions that there was no scheduled event at BiruliaBazar, Gholpukhuria under Nandigram-I Dev block where the incident happened. "The flippant attitude towards the security of the CM exhibited by Vivek Sahay, Director Security, is evident by the fact that he was sitting in the bullet proof (BP) car meant for the VVIP," the observers noted. "It is nobody's case," their report said, "that the CM is known to prefer using normal vehicle rather than the BP vehicle which is sine qua non for the protection of the VVIP. If the VVIP choose to flout the prescribed security norms/protocols as they seem to consider these to be a hindrance in connecting with their adoring masses, it is incumbent upon the security detail to prevail in such matters lest it should lead to tragic consequences," Nayak's and Dube's report said. Based on the inputs and the incident, the Commission has now directed that since the security of star campaigners becomes far more sensitive during the election period, established SoPs, including advance detailed programme, necessary permissions to hold rallies or road shows, should be followed scrupulously. "Any deviation from approved programme should only be permitted after necessary approval," it said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP govt will be successful in bringing 'asli parivartan', says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday promised that after coming to power, the BJP will be successful in ushering in “true change” in West Bengal and turn the state into "Sonar Bangla" (Golden Bengal) again. The senior BJP leader held a colourful roadshow at Kharagpur town in Paschim Medinipur district in support of BJP candidates contesting the West Bengal assembly election. Shah claimed that the huge turnout in the roadshow underscored that people want change in the state under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "I promise that the BJP government will be successful in bringing 'asli parivartan' (true change) and 'Sonar Bangla' will be created again," Shah said in a brief speech at the end of the roadshow. The roadshow, held between the local BJP office 'Premhari Bhavan' and Malancha petrol pump, took over an hour to cover the less than one kilometre stretch, as the huge gathering made it almost impossible for the motorcade to move ahead. Shah was accompanied by BJP national general secretary in-charge of West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and the party's state president Dilip Ghosh. Thousands of people took part in the roadshow, which began after sundown, while people also gathered on rooftops and balconies in buildings on both sides of the road to watch it. Shah waved at the spectators and threw rose petals at the participants of the roadshow, with BJP candidate for the Kharagpur Sadar constituency, Hiran Chatterjee, an actor, by his side. Visibly pleased at the huge turnout, a smiling Shah showed the victory sign at the participants and spectators. The turnout proved that Chatterjee will surely be elected to the assembly, the Union minister said. As the wave of people moved forward slowly, the air reverberated with a newly coined slogan, "Ebar BJP" (BJP this time). The slogan was also written on the decorated truck on which Shah was standing, and in festoons and posters. Security personnel had a tough time managing the crowd as the number of people continued to rise while the cavalcade proceeded in a very slow pace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: TMC disagrees with EC’s “no attack” on Mamata observation||The TMC on Sunday stated that it disagrees with the Election Commission’s observation that there was no pre-meditated attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram and demanded a high- level probe into the incident. The party insisted that the inquiry by election observers lacks credibility. However, party spokesperson Sougata Roy expressed satisfaction over the fact that the EC agreed that there were security lapses and took action against some officials. Earlier Sunday, the EC concurred with the reports sent by its two special poll observers and the state government that there was no pre-meditated attack on TMC supremo on Wednesday in Nandigram. Thereby, indicating that her injuries were the result of a security lapse. The poll panel ordered the removal of Director (Security) Vivek Sahay, an IPS officer and the Superintendent of Police of Purba Medinipur Pravin Prakash. Both were suspended while District Magistrate Vibhu Goel was transferred. “We disagree with the EC’s observation based on the report of special election observers that there was no attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The report of the election observers lacks credibility and fails to inspire confidence. We reiterate our demand for a high-level probe into the incident,” Roy said. Reacting to the removal of officials by the EC over security lapses, Roy said, “It is good that at least they have accepted that there were security lapses.” “It is a welcome move that the EC has removed the officials over security lapses. At least they have taken some action. We had raised this question as to how there were lapses in the security of the chief minister,” he said. After reviewing the reports sent by its two special poll observers--Ajay Naik and Vivek Dube-- and the state government, the EC concluded that Banerjee sustained injuries prima facie due to a lapse on the part of her security in- charge, sources in the poll panel said. While Banerjee was using an ordinary vehicle, her director of security Vivek Sahay was in a bulletproof car when the incident took place. Also, no approval was taken from the returning officer of the area where the incident took place, the sources said. Due to this, poll officials could not deploy videographers or flying squads, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
14-03-2021||West Bengal||EC says injuries sustained by Mamata not result of attack, orders suspension of director of security||The Election Commission on Sunday concurred with reports from its two poll observers that there was no pre-meditated attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, indicating that her injuries were the result of a security lapse.  Taking stern action, the commission ordered that Director, Security, Vivek Sahay, an IPS officer, "be removed" from his post and placed under suspension immediately.  "Charges must be framed against him within a week for grossly failing in discharge of his primary duty as Director, Security, to protect the Z+ protectee," a statement from the Election Commission (EC) said.  It said the state chief secretary, in consultation with the DGP, is authorised to post a suitable director of security immediately.  The poll panel also decided that a committee comprising the chief secretary and the DGP will "identify within next three days the other proximate security personnel below Director Security who failed in their duties to prevent the incident and protect the Z+ protectee, and take suitable action for their failure..."  The statement said Smita Pandey, an IAS officer, shall be posted immediately as district magistrate and district election officer of Purba Medinipur in place of Vibhu Goel, "who shall be transferred to a non-election post".  The poll panel also ordered that Pravin Prakash, Superintendent of Police (SP) of Purba Medinipur, be placed under suspension immediately and charges framed against him for major failure of "bandobast".  Sunil Kumar Yadav will now be posted as the SP of Purba Medinipur in place of Prakash, it said.  The decisions were taken by the EC after reviewing reports sent by its special poll observers, Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube, and the state government.  Based on the reports, the EC concluded that Banerjee sustained the injuries prima facie due to a lapse on the part of her security in-charge, sources had earlier said.  The Trinamool Congress supremo fell down and sustained injuries on her left leg and waist while she was campaigning in the Nandigram assembly segment on Wednesday evening after filing her nomination from the constituency. There were allegations that she was pushed by unidentified people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Days after sustaining injuries, Mamata back with wheelchair roadshow||True to her street fighter image, Mamata Banerjee was back on the roads of Calcutta on Sunday, four days after being injured at the hustings in Nandigram, leading a TMC march on a wheelchair and declaring an injured tiger is far more dangerous. Accompanied by senior TMC leaders, Banerjee was seen greeting the crowd with folded hands, with security personnel pushing her wheelchair. Banerjee joined the five km road show from Mayo Road to Hazra More as part of observation of Nandigram Diwas to commemorate the killing of 14 villagers in police firing during the anti-land acquisition protest in 2007. Banerjee is contesting the high-profile Nandigram seat for the first time against former confidante-turned- adversary Suvendu Adhikari. Addressing the gathering after the hour-long march, Banerjee said attempts to incapacitate her to stop her from campaigning have failed, and asserted she will canvass for TMC candidates across the state on wheelchair. "I have faced a lot of attacks in my life but I have never surrendered before anyone. I will never bow my head. An injured tiger gets more dangerous," she asserted. Banerjee was injured in her left leg, head and chest while campaigning in Nandigram on March 10 after filing her nomination, an incident the ruling TMC claimed was a "BJP conspiracy to take her life". The Election Commission, however, ruled out that there was any attack on the West Bengal chief minister and the ruling Trinamool Congress leader after reviewing the reports sent by its two special poll observers and the state government. The Commission concluded that Banerjee sustained injuries due to lapse on part of her security in charge. "Doctors advised me against going out for campaign today. But I felt that I should participate in today's rally as we have already lost a few days due to my injury. "My pain is not greater than the suffering of people as democracy is being trampled through dictatorship," she said. Banerjee said she will leave for Durgapur Sunday evening and address two rallies on Monday. Carrying posters and placards hailing Banerjee as the "daughter of Bengal", TMC supporters raised slogans against the BJP and called for "defeating the outsiders" in the assembly elections. The TMC activists also chanted the slogan "Bhanga Paye Khela Hobe!" (Will play with broken leg), a reference to Banerjees leg injury. "We will continue to fight boldly! Im still in a lot of pain, but I feel the pain of my people even more. In this fight to protect our revered land, we have suffered a lot and will suffer more but we will NEVER bow down to COWARDICE," Banerjee had earlier tweeted minutes before arriving for the march.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC promoted cops involved in Nandigram firing, alleges Suvendu||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday lashed out at the ruling TMC, saying that the "opportunists" who have given promotions to the officers responsible for the 2007 Nandigram police firing have no right to seek votes from the people of the area as they have insulted the sacrifices made by the agitators. Without naming his mentor-turned-adversary Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Adhikari said those who had forgotten Nandigram for 12 years are now coming here to seek votes. Banerjee has left her Bhawanipur constituency in Calcutta to fight her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Adhikari in Nandigram, where an anti-land acquisition movement catapulted her party to power in 2011. "Fourteen people were martyred in police firing in 2007. I have been coming here every year since 2008 to pay tribute to the sacrifices made by the people of Nandigram. "Whether it is an election season or not, it hardly matters to me, unlike the opportunists who are now coming to this place," Adhikari said here. "It is ironic that those who have given promotions to police officers responsible for the Nandigram massacre are now celebrating Nandigram Divas. The TMC has also inducted some of these police officers into their party after their retirement. Don't cast a single vote in their favour who have betrayed and insulted you all," he said. Lauding the BJP's role in the Nandigram movement, he said had the saffron party not raised the issue in the Parliament, it would have never grabbed the nation's attention. "The Nandigram movement would have never gained national importance had the BJP not raised it in the Parliament. The TMC managed to enter Nandigram during those days because the then leader of opposition in Lok Sabha, Lal Krishna Advani first entered the area after breaking through the barricades erected by the CPI (M)," he said. "Some people may be ungrateful but I am not," Adhikari, who joined the BJP during a rally of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Medinipur in December last year, said. The TMC observes March 14 as 'Nandigram Divas' to pay respect to the 14 people who were killed in police firing on this day during an anti-land acquisition stir in 2007.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Chose to fight anti-Bengal forces in Nandigram to pay respect to martyrs, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday paid tributes to the agitators who were killed in police firing in Nandigram in 2007 and said she has chosen to fight "anti-Bengal forces" in the constituency as a mark of respect to the martyrs. Banerjee, who is pitted against former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat, said that farmers are the pride of Bengal and the state government is working tirelessly for their development. "On this day, in 2007, innocent villagers were killed in firing at #Nandigram. Many bodies could not be found. It was a dark chapter in the history of the state. Heartfelt tribute to all those who lost their lives," Banerjee tweeted. The TMC observes March 14 as 'Nandigram Divas' to pay respect to the 14 people who were killed in police firing on this day during an anti-land acquisition stir in 2007. The incident had sparked a national outrage and the Calcutta High Court had suo motu ordered a CBI probe. "In memory of those who lost their lives in #Nandigram, we observe March 14 as #KrishakDibas every year and give away the #KrishakRatna awards. Farmers are our pride and our government is working for their all-round development," she said in another Twitter post. Banerjee said it is an honour for her to work along with the martyrs' families in Nandigram. "As a mark of respect and encouraged by my brothers and sisters of Nandigram, I am contesting #BengalElections2021 as @AITCofficial candidate from this historic place. It is my great honour to be here and work along with members of Shaheed families against anti-Bengal forces," she said. Banerjee, then the opposition TMC leader, had spearheaded a movement against the Left Front government's acquisition of arable land in Nandigram and Singur for industrialisation. Her party reaped rich dividends from the agitations, winning 50 per cent of the panchayat seats in 2008, bagging 19 Lok Sabha seats in 2009 and ending the 34-year-long Left Front rule in the state in 2011. Elections to the 294-member assembly will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||GNLF seeks all 3 hill seats from ally BJP||The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), an ally of the BJP, wants the saffron party to give it all the three hill seats in the Bengal Assembly polls in an effort to strengthen “regionalism” which they fear might be invaded otherwise. Mamata Banerjee’s decision to leave the hill seats to her “friends” — the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha factions — seems to have provided traction to the GNLF. A senior GNLF leader involved in the negotiations with BJP told The Telegraph that the party has demanded the hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. However, sources said that the BJP is keen to repeat its 2019 experiment of giving a BJP ticket to a leader from a hill party in at least one seat. “We want all three hill seats as we are the (BJP’s) strongest ally in the hills. We supported the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls and it is only fair that the BJP is accommodating (to the GNLF) this time,” the leader said. Many in the GNLF believe that it is foolhardy for national parties to think that they would become vanguards of the hill people. “Our demands and issues can only be taken up by regional parties. Efforts to weaken regionalism is neither smart nor will it succeed,” the leader said. After GNLF came to power in the hills in 1988 no national or plain centric party has been able to hold sway over the hills. The leader drew parallels with Trinamul’s hill graph. “They tried their best to expand their party and field their own candidates but they were never successful. Even when we were with Trinamul we had specifically pointed out the importance of regional parties to their leadership,” a GNLF leader said. Trinamul has never won Darjeeling Lok Sabha or Assembly seats. During the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll in 2019, the BJP offered its ticket and thus the symbol to GNLF Leader Neeraj Zimba, who defeated Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang. This time many in GNLF are not comfortable with such an arrangement. “A section in the party wants to fight the election with our symbol, with support from the BJP,” a party source said. Ajoy Edwards, GNLF Darjeeling branch committee president, however, said that for the party the most important factor was to solve the hill issues. “Who gets the ticket from where is a secondary issue for the party. The primary issue is to solve hill issues,” said Edwards. The BJP in its 2019 election manifesto had promised tribal status to 11 hill communities and “permanent political solution.” Kalyan Dewan, president, BJP (hills) also said that longterm coalition interest should be of importance. “I cannot comment on what the GNLF thinks but elections come and go. We need to keep in mind the interest of coalition for the longterm benefit of the hill people,” said Dewan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Malda varsity registrar removed||Biplab Giri, the registrar in additional charge of Gour Banga University, Malda, was “relieved” of his responsibilities on Saturday amid murmurs that the varsity was going slow on his removal despite a recommendation from a state committee. A university source said: “Biplab Giri was relieved of his responsibilities on Saturday and the inspector of colleges Apurba Chakraborty has been asked to assume charge till a new registrar is appointed.” Giri, a faculty member of the physiology department of the varsity, became registrar in December 2018 but allegations of his highhandedness and failure to stick to varsity rules soon started surfacing. Following many such complaints, the state higher education department formed a threemember inquiry committee headed by Debkumar Mukherjee, the vicechancellor of Panchanan Barma University, Cooch Behar. The committee that started its probe in December 2020, handed its report to the state government in two weeks, recommending Giri's removal, sources in the higher education department said. A senior varsity teacher alleged that some officials were delaying in complying with the higher education department’s directive as they possibly wanted the registrar to continue in office. But after the state government recently appointed Shanti Chhetri as Gour Banga University vicechancellor, the new VC decided to remove the registrar. Giri, however, will continue teaching in his department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Asok Bhattacharya slams ‘selfinterest’ in politics||Veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, a fivetime Siliguri MLA who was considered by many to be a “mentor” to CPM leader Shankar Ghosh who defected to BJP on Friday, seemed to break his silence on his protégé on Saturday, alluding to Ghosh as a “disgrace to politics” without taking names. On Friday, a visibly upset Bhattacharya had refused to comment on Ghosh’s decision, calling it a “closed chapter”. A day later, the veteran leader from Siliguri came all guns blazing. “People who surrender their ideology for selfinterest are a disgrace to politics,” Bhattacharya said. “Politics is a serious business and there is hardly any place for people who compromise on ideology and worst of all, surrender to corporate capitalism,” said Bhattacharya speaking to the media during his campaign at the Bidhan Market area in Siliguri. Many considered Ghosh a promising leader of the CPM in his mid40s, but his decision to swing from the Left to Rightwing ideology seems to have rattled his former party colleagues. Speculations are rife that Ghosh might be a serious contender for the BJP ticket from either Siliguri or DabgramFulbari constituency. Bhattacharya is the sitting MLA of Siliguri and Trinamul heavyweight and state tourism minister Gautam Deb the DabgramFulbari MLA. “If Ghosh bags the BJP ticket he might take a chunk of CPM votes with him. In such a scenario, the Siliguri contest will be very competitive,” said an observer who, however, cautioned that the oldversusnew squabbling could not be ruled out. Trinamul has fielded Omprakash Mishra from Siliguri, a known face in the political arena of Bengal. Both Bhattacharya and Mishra have started their election campaign in full throttle. Bhattacharya, who is also the incumbent mayor of Siliguri, however, sounded unperturbed on the possibility of Ghosh bagging the BJP ticket from the city. “Any X, Y, Z can contest against me, we are not worried,” said Bhattacharya. The CPM leader said that the party had long chalked out their Assembly poll plans and has been campaigning for the past one month. “There are 33 wards in Siliguri and over 100 slum areas and I have already covered many of these areas,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||CID arrests businessman for coal smuggling||The CID on Friday night arrested businessman Randhir Singh from his home in West Burdwan’s Andal for his alleged involvement in a coal smuggling case. Sources said Singh, the first such catch since the state agency began to probe coal smuggling complaints lodged by Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) with the police, would run an unauthorised opencast coal mine within the leasehold area of ECL in Andal. The ECL had lodged a complaint against him with Andal police last year. A CID team led by DSP Kaushik Ghosh raided his residence on Friday night and arrested Singh. The additional chief judicial magistrate court in Durgapur on Saturday remanded Singh in CID’s custody for 10 days. The CID took him to Calcutta for further interrogations. “We will interrogate him in our custody and arrest other members of the coal syndicate. He used to operate an unauthorised opencast mine within the ECL jurisdiction and a case against him has been pending since last year,” said a CID officer. Sources said Singh was also a part of the coal smuggling syndicate allegedly run by Anup Majhi a.k.a Lala who is absconding after the CBI started a case against him last November and followed it up with raids at his homes and offices in Purulia, Durgapur and Calcutta. However, the CBI is yet to arrest anyone. The CID also raided three flats of Joydeb Khan, a businessman facing coal smuggling charges, in Durgapur’s Bidhannagar area on Saturday. Khan, who recently joined the BJP in Calcutta, was not present. The coal smuggling issue has become a political tool for both the BJP and the Trinamul to blame each other this poll season. “The CID has raided the flats of a coal smuggler who is now in BJP's shelter. People are watching everything and will defeat the BJP for their role in coal smuggling,” said Uttam Mukherjee, Trinamul leader in Durgapur. West Burdwan BJP president Lakshman Ghorui said once the CBI nabs Anup Majhi, the alleged kingpin of the coal smuggling syndicate, the “truth will come out”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul suspends 10 ‘Adhikari aides’ ||Ten district-level Trinamul leaders, including a panchayat samiti chief and two panchayat pradhans from the Shahid Matangini block in East Midnapore, were suspended for three years by the ruling party’s district core committee for “anti-party activities” after a meeting at the Tamluk party office on Saturday. The suspensions came in the wake of reports that they were acting against party interest by virtue of being allied to turncoat Suvendu Adhikari. Among those are block panchayat samiti sabhapati Dibakar Jana, his wife Tanusree, panchayat pradhan Shiladitya Adak and panchayat pradhan Minati Pattanaik. Trinamul district party president and water resources minister Saumen Mahapatra said on Saturday that another list of “possible or likely” party workers considered close to “a leader of our party who joined the BJP” (read Adhikari) had been drawn up in 25 blocks in the district. “The list has at least 150 names...We have many leaders in the Trinamul in name only but who actually work for a leader of our party who joined the BJP. They need to be identified immediately, and we hope the steps taken in Shahid Matangini block will send a strong message to all,” he said. Hooghly BJP MP Locket Chatterjee called on Adhikari’s father and Trinamul MP Sisir Adhikari and his son Dibyendu at their Contai home on Saturday afternoon, with sources saying Sisir received a formal invitation to the PM’s rally in Contai on March 24. “Locket Chatterjee stayed for over half an hour and had lunch with them,” said a source. Asked about the development, district president Mahapatra said the party was “taking note”. "Who is going where and talking to whom is all in our knowledge. The state-level leaders are being informed as well," he said. "Sisir and Dibyendu have been inactive for all pre-election activities and are being reported for the same," the minister added. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is slated to be back in Nandigram on March 19, at a two-delay from her earlier schedule owing to the injury she suffered in Nandigram on March 10. She will address rallies at Egra, Potashpur and Mechheda. "Security will be much enhanced this time around," said a police source, adding that district administration was looking into the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP asked to read Nandigram pulse on CM||The top BJP leadership on Saturday asked their party’s Bengal leaders to gauge the pulse of the people in Nandigram in the wake of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s injury, insiders have said. The meeting was held in Delhi at the official residence of BJP national president J.P. Nadda and attended by Union home minister Amit Shah. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, present at the meeting, said: “The leaders asked us about the incident. They wanted to know what were the repercussions of the chief minister’s injury in Nandigram.” “They have seen the video footage of the (Nandigram) incident and asked us about what people are saying about it,” Ghosh said. Ghosh and other BJP leaders like Rahul Sinha, Shivprakash, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Amitava Chakraborty, Mukul Roy, Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee met Nadda and Shah on Saturday to discuss candidates for the second and third phases of polls in Bengal. According to a source at the meeting, Nadda had brought up the issue of Mamata’s injury. Mamata hurt her left leg, chest and head in Nandigram during an outreach on March 10, and rushed to SSKM hospital in Calcutta. The BJP has so far been in two minds about how to react to the incident. While some like Ghosh blamed Mamata for “creating drama for sympathy”, others like Trinamul turncoat Adhikari — the BJP candidate from Nandigram against Mamata — stayed silent. A BJP old-timer said that no matter the changed equations between Adhikari and the CM, “she holds a special place in the hearts of people in Nandigram”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Door ajar on Mamata appearance at Hazra crossing ||Mamata Banerjee is likely to speak at a Trinamul event at Hazra crossing on Sunday, which will mark her first public appearance since Wednesday’s Nandigram incident that injured her, sources said. The Trinamul chief, who is using a  wheelchair now, will not be part of the rally from the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road to the Hazra crossing to be led by Abhishek Banerjee but is likely to join at the end and deliver an address. “The rally is by Abhishek, mainly in condemnation of the heinous attack on our supreme leader at Nandigram.... The chief minister has indicated she will join us at the end in Hazra,” said a party leader, adding she was yearning to be back in action despite doctors advising rest. Many Trinamul leaders said that if Mamata does show up at Hazra on Sunday, there would be pan-India attention on what she has to say. A Trinamul MP said Mamata might leave via chopper for Durgapur. She has campaigns lined up in Jungle Mahal next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Yashwant lambasts Centre’s ‘puppet’ EC||Former member of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet Yashwant Sinha, who joined Trinamul on Saturday, lambasted the Election Commission (EC) as the Centre’s “puppet” and its alleged bias against Mamata Banerjee. Sinha accused the EC of having yielded to the control of the BJP-led Centre and the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly. “...the way the government of India, especially Modi-Shah,  has grabbed control of other democratic institutions… even the judiciary…the Election Commission too has succumbed to that control,” he said. Responding to Wednesday’s incident at Nandigram that left Mamata, Sinha said the EC was in no place to ascertain if it was an accident or attack. “The victim (Mamata) is saying how it happened. Who can narrate it better than that? It (the EC) is a puppet in the hands of the Centre.” “That is why there is no faith left in the Election Commission,” he added. “The victim, what she is saying, that is most important….” “I say this with a great deal of regret, that the Election Commission no longer remains an autonomous body…. Mind you, it was not like this before,” said Sinha. Sinha cited an instance from his career as an IAS to substantiate his argument. He said in the run-up to the 1980 Lok Sabha polls, when the late Ram Sundar Das was the chief minister of Bihar and Sinha was his principal secretary, the state government decided to change the DGP and chief secretary, after the polls had been notified. “The Election Commission objected, and sent a letter, saying it could not be done. Then we, on behalf of the Bihar government, sent a stinging response to the Election Commission...with every relevant provision in the Constitution. The commission was told that the likes of the chief secretary or DGP do not directly handle elections…and the commission was asked what objection they could possibly have.” “The Election Commission stayed quiet,” he said. “The laws of the land that are there today were in place even in 1980.” He explained how things were different. “Now, such a system has been put in place gradually that there is this creeping acquisition (of near-total control) when the commission notifies the polls.” According to Sinha, there are no constitutional provisions for the commission to exercise the kind of control it exerts nowadays, and that according to the Constitution, the EC controls only the machinery directly involved in the conduct of elections. “...Who will be the chief secretary, the commission will decide. Who will be the director-general of police, the commission will decide…. Where did the Election Commission get this authority?” he asked. Sinha also lambasted the EC for planning an eight-phase election in Bengal. “On what basis? ...I had tweeted, why not 294 phases, one for each seat? Keep conducting elections, and your authority will continue. Is there any meaning to this?” he asked. “The strangest thing is that districts have been split into multiple phases. These decisions have been taken in the control of Modi-Shah, and taken to give the BJP the advantage. I strongly oppose this,” he added. BJP’s state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya feigned shock at Sinha’s views. “Even he (Sinha) has started saying this? Already? Well, it is the beauty of Trinamul, that it can teach its language so quickly to those it touches.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Yashwant Sinha recalls Didi’s hostage offer||Yashwant Sinha, who headed key ministries when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in power but was sidelined by the Narendra Modi dispensation, on Saturday joined the Trinamul Congress. Sinha hailed Mamata Banerjee for having “forever been a fighter”. The former Union minister’s surprise induction into the party took place after a 45-minute meeting with Mamata at her residence on Saturday morning. Sinha, 83, shared with journalists an anecdote on the fighting spirit he saw and admired in the Bengal chief minister. He brought up the December 1999 hijacking of Indian Airlines Flight 814, which was taken to Kandahar in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan while on its way from Kathmandu to New Delhi. Sinha, then the Union finance minister, said on Saturday that at a meeting of the Union cabinet helmed by Vajpayee, Mamata, then the Union railways minister, made a selfless offer. “Mamataji readily offered herself as a hostage, in exchange of all the hostages… she said she would gladly give herself up to the terrorists, in exchange of the hostages. She said whatever sacrifice was necessary, she would happily make one  for the nation,” said Sinha, an Officier de la Legion d’Honneur, the highest civilian distinction of France. “These are the kind of powers that need to come together today in this fight….This pan-India fight is not just about elections or politics, it’s about protecting the asmita (pride) of the nation and its democracy,” he added. The acknowledgement as a relentless fighter has come at a time Mamata is fighting one of the most crucial battles of her political career. Sinha, who was an IAS officer for 24 years before stepping down from the service for a career in politics, held key positions in the Janata Party and the Janata Dal, before a long stint in the BJP. He and Mamata have been close for decades, and he was seen at various Trinamul events after he quit the BJP in 2018. The octogenarian attributed the formal plunge to the “tipping point” of the Wednesday evening incident at Nandigram. “The tipping point actually was the attack on Mamataji in Nandigram,” said Sinha. “Now that I met her today, and she described the (Wednesday evening) incident to me, it became clear to me that the forces the Trinamul Congress and the people of Bengal are today up against, and they can go to any extent. They can get people murdered, they can get them attacked, get them immobilised… any extent, to win an election,” he added. Sinha, who has been bitterly critical in public for years of the way Modi and Shah have been running his former party and the country, said they have pushed the country into a “very strange situation”. “Very strange, because the values we used to attach a great deal of importance to, and used to think that everybody would accord due importance to them in our democracy… those values are in danger today. They are not being complied with. We are all familiar with the concept that the strength of a democracy lies in the strength of the institutions of democracy,” he said. “Today, almost every institution of democracy has weakened. I, with a great deal of regret, have to say that the judiciary too is included in that. There is none that survives with the ability to rein in the government’s arbitrariness. For our nation, this is the greatest danger,” he said, that democracy does not only mean allowing the conduct of elections every five years. “This ruling party (the BJP) has just one objective. To win elections…wherever they take place, at whichever level.” Sinha said people were free to ask him why he was this critical of the BJP now, after being part of it for so long. “The party of Atalji’s time and the party now, there is aasmaan zameen ka antar (difference akin to that of the sky and the soil). Atalji used to believe in consensus. The current government believes in crushing. Atalji used to co-opt people. Now, they want to conquer people,” he said. Sinha recounted how Vajpayee’s NDA was “truly” a national coalition, with prominent representation from every state. “It was never Atalji’s intention to ruin them, to suppress them, so that the space they vacate will be for his party to grasp. The current BJP, who does it have left with it, Except Nitishji’s JDU in Bihar?” asked Sinha. Sources in Trinamul said Sinha would be sent “right away” to the Rajya Sabha, to fill the vacancy created by Dinesh Trivedi’s departure for the BJP. They said Sinha would be used extensively as a national spokesperson to counter everything Modi and Shah have to throw at Trinamul this campaign season. Sinha said it was now his duty to make the “foregone conclusion” of Trinamul’s victory in the Assembly elections more “thumping”. “Bengal has to send a message to the entire nation, that the nation will no longer tolerate this, whatever Modi and Shah have been carrying out from Delhi,” he said. “I have no doubt that this election is extremely important for Bengal’s future, but also for that of the nation’s future. The parivartan (change) of 2024 (the next Lok Sabha polls) in Delhi, the road to that would be paved from Bengal,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Newlyweds campaign against voting for BJP||The spirit of the farmers’ movement on Delhi borders permeated a wedding over a thousand kilometres away in Galsi, East Burdwan, where a newly married couple decided to urge their 400-odd guests not to vote for the BJP. The groom, Sheikh Mohammed Hafijur, 32, a college teacher who comes from a family of farmers in East Burdwan, reminded his guests on March 11 about the uprising of the peasantry against the BJP on the borders of Delhi and their demand to repeal the three farm laws. The appeal, a guest said, had struck a chord with those invited to the wedding reception. The couple, who recited the Preamble of the Constitution at the reception too, gave guests placards with the message — BJP ke ektio vote noy (Not a single vote to BJP). Hafijur, who has done his PhD in Persian from Visva-Bharati, is an assistant professor at a college in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. He married Aziza Khatun, 24, from Birbhum’s Tarapith on March 10. “As polls are round the corner, I wanted to use our reception to campaign against the BJP,” Hafijur said, and added that they left the choice of whom to vote for with the invitees. Was it tough for him to convince his bride and family to agree to this anti-BJP campaign? Hafijur, whose family owns some 20 acres of land in Galsi, said it wasn’t. “The farmers’ movement is important to all of us,” he said, adding that he appealed to invitees to paste the placards in their respective areas. “Many guests were surprised to see my wife and I holding placards. When they asked us the reason, we told them about the farm laws. Later, many asked us for extra placards to use them in their campaign,” Hafijur added. Aziza, studying her bachelor’s in education from the University of Burdwan, said she was “overwhelmed” when her husband told her about his plan. She also asked women invitees to highlight how women are unsafe in BJP-ruled states. Manisha Banerjee, headmistress of Labhpur SNSN Girls’ High School in Birbhum, and one of the invitees at Hafijur’s reception, said she was surprised by the “bold initiative” taken by the young couple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Who is this Man?||I head out for Furfura Sharif in Hooghly district, 44 kilometres northwest of Calcutta, one early March morning. Hooghly is the potato bowl of Bengal. As the car speeds down the Durgapur Expressway, I notice freshly harvested potatoes in pink sacks dotting bare fields. I don’t have to ask for directions to the village centred around a 14th century mosque; it is all too well known. Furfura Sharif, according to one of several theories, derives its name from the Farsi word farre farrah, meaning glory and happiness. As my car veers off the expressway, I spot huge flex banners welcoming pilgrims to the upcoming Esaal-e-Sawab, an occasion where people congregate to pray for the deceased. The three-day-long gathering held every spring attracts over a million Muslim men from eastern India and Bangladesh. At the centre of the celebrations is a light green structure with golden domes — the mazar or tomb of Pir Hazrat Abu Baqr Siddique. The pir, known locally as Dada Huzur, was a 19th century Sufi saint, educationist and social reformer. He had founded charitable organisations, orphanages, madrasas and health centres. To date, large sections of Muslims from Howrah, Hooghly, South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and Dinajpur districts of Bengal visit Furfura Sharif to pay obeisance to him. The area covers at least 90 Assembly constituencies in a state in which Muslims constitute about 27 per cent of the population. In the past, come election time, politicians would come here to offer prayers and meet the pirzadas, or direct descendants of Pir Hazrat, and seek their blessings and support. This year, Furfura Sharif is in the news for a different reason. For the first time, a pirzada will be contesting elections. Abbas Siddiqui, the 35-year-old who has floated the Indian Secular Front (ISF), a formation suddenly embraced by the Left Front — and to an uncertain degree, the Congress — ahead of the Bengal polls, is the great-grandson of the pir. The place is milling with representatives of political parties, reporters and television crews. At the centre of it all is a freshly painted pink mansion, about 300 metres from the mazar. It is the office-cum-residence of Abbas and his family. As I step into the courtyard, I find Abbas surrounded by TV crews of five different national channels. Before I can introduce myself, he signals as if to say I should get in the queue with the rest of the journalists. As I wait, I watch the man in white kurta-pyjama, waistcoat and skullcap. He is almost six feet tall, clearly in love with the TV camera. His voice is hoarse, possibly from all those recent campaigns. Some men are at work erecting pandals for Esaal-e-Sawab. Young madrasa students in long robes and skull caps are scurrying around running errands. A couple of passers-by are gawking at the TV crews. A TV reporter, who is also waiting, is live-streaming all of this. Abbas shot to fame overnight, after Left Front leaders introduced him at the rally at Calcutta’s Brigade Parade Ground on February 28. His freshly minted party was introduced as the third component of the United Front of the Left and the Congress. The unsaid expectation — ISF would help them eat into the Muslim vote bank of their arch enemy, the Trinamul Congress (TMC). Before joining the coalition, Abbas had been in talks with the Hyderabad-based AIMIM, headed by Asaduddin Owaisi. At the Brigade Parade Ground, Abbas delivered a high-decibel speech calling for “the uprooting of Mamata, leader of the BJP’s B-team”. The Left Front-Congress combine has been repeatedly saying the ISF includes people from backward Hindu classes and Adivasis. The president of the ISF, Simal Soren, is also a member of the tribal community. But when I browse videos of Abbas’s past speeches at Islamic jalsas organised across Bengal, there is little doubt that he is conservative and fundamentalist to the core. Among his most controversial and incendiary speeches is the one in which he lashes out at the TMC MP Nusrat Jahan. In the 2020 speech at a jalsa in Sasan in the South 24-Parganas, he thunders “Jara deho bikkiri kore tara desh bikkiri korbe na ki maane aachhe... those who sell their own body can some day sell their own country”; Abbas also said he would ensure Nusrat is tied to a tree and beaten up. On other occasions, he called Calcutta’s mayor Firhad Hakim “a kafir”, “beimaan” and “namak haram” for organising Durga Puja. He even attacked Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for wearing the hijab and reciting Islamic verses, “to fool Muslims”. Ever since he expressed his intention to form a party to “expose the TMC’s appeasement politics”, Abbas has not tired of accusing the TMC and the state police of hounding his supporters. Apparently, these Muslim youths between 18 and 35 have been framed for possession of fire arms and narcotics, threatened and beaten up on their way to his jalsas, while he himself has been accused of spreading “terrorist ideology”. Biswanath Chakraborty, a political commentator and professor at Calcutta’s Rabindra Bharati University, has been following the rise of Abbas. He says, “Abbas wouldn’t have risen had his followers not been harassed and heckled by the TMC.” Chakraborty and his students conducted a survey among Muslim youth — educated and unemployed — which revealed their animosity towards successive governments. Says Chakraborty, “They feel the so-called secular parties have been playing with them. They think it is time to create their own political space.” Chakraborty says that, though late, the Left Front in Bengal has realised the ground reality of identity politics. He has no doubts about Abbas’s huge support base among the Muslim youth, but is not sure if he will be able to get the votes of Dalit Hindus and Adivasis. Justifying the Left Front’s move, Shamik Lahiri, a senior leader of the CPI(M), says, “Those belonging to scheduled castes, tribes and minority religions, and Adivasis are sick and tired of the TMC’s treachery and the BJP’s increasing atrocities. These people are now uniting as different organisations. The ISF is one such outfit.” And what does the Left have to say to the charge of aligning with a communal force? The CPI(M)’s politburo member Mohammed Salim says vehemently, “Defaming the ISF is part of a well-planned conspiracy being played out by the RSS and its associates...” The RSS-BJP may have been shrill in its criticism of the new front for bringing “Muslim fundamentalist politics” into mainstream politics, but BJP MP Swapan Dasgupta, also a columnist with The Telegraph, offers a more balanced analysis. Says Dasgupta, “A significant chunk of the Muslim vote plus the transferable vote of the CPI(M) would make the third formation more winnable and catapult the ISF to a position where it could claim to be the foremost representative of Muslims in the state... Abbas would become the Bengal counterpart of Assam’s Badruddin Ajmal.” In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP benefitted as the Left and the Congress votes fell into its kitty. The ISF can hope to harvest some of these votes for the United Front. Alternatively, if Hindu voters of the two old parties perceive the ISF as an aggressive communal force, they may turn to the BJP. The TMC’s top leaders, however, have decided to ignore Abbas. Saugata Ray, senior leader of the TMC, says, “Not only will I not say anything (about Abbas or the ISF), I won’t even utter the name.” Even within Furfura Sharif, Abbas doesn’t seem to have the support of all sections. Buzurgs, or elders, such as his uncle Pirzada Tawha Siddiqui stand firmly with the TMC. I spoke to Narul Islam, who works with a charitable outfit there. He says, “Dada Huzur had laid down a guideline for his descendants. Following that no pirzada directly joined politics in these 82 years after his demise. Abbas is an exceptional character and a controversial one too.” According to Dipankar Bhattacharya, general secretary of the CPI-ML (Liberation), Abbas’s rise is proof that a political vacuum has been created in Bengal due to increasing Hindu supremacist aggression. He says, “Abbas is trying to get into this. But the question is — has he got that leadership quality?” Bhattacharya is apprehensive that by yielding such a wide berth to the ISF, the Left Front-Congress alliance might help the BJP sharpen communal polarisation. Bhattacharya adds, “Hoping the anti-BJP voters are mature enough to avoid the BJP trap.” Why did you defy family diktat and join politics? The situation was never so bad. Never before have Muslims, Dalits or minorities faced such atrocities like the NRC or the CAA. Never before were Indian citizens driven into detention camps or threatened with deportation. The situation forced me. Even Babasaheb Ambedkar has said, “We will no longer beg for our rights but grab them.” Then why not fight the polls alone? Electorally we are not that strong yet. But we do have supporters in several districts. So, we decided to build an alliance… If we get the rights in this jot we will continue. I’d like to quote Kanshi Ramji, founder of the Bahujan Samaj Party, who said: “Hamein majboot sarkar nahi, majboor sarkar chahiye.” If a party gets over 200 seats, it will browbeat others. However, such dadagiri is not possible in an alliance. Why did you choose the Left and the Congress and not the AIMIM? Our talks with the AIMIM didn’t progress. We chose the Left Front and the Congress as they have a proven track record. The Left had done a remarkable job of distributing land to poor Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis. There was little corruption and the unemployment situation was not so bad during their regime. The Congress gave the country so many institutions, dams, power plants, railway networks. Was there an effort to tie up with the TMC? No. They’ve stamped us as “communal”. Some believe you will split the minority votes and help the BJP. What will happen if Muslim votes get split? Do you think this will help the BJP polarise all Hindu votes? Do you seriously believe all Hindus in Bengal want the BJP to come to power? Your past comments about Nusrat and Firhad Hakim had raised a storm. Those comments were put out of context. My point is you have to state your religion clearly and follow its basic tenets. If you are a true Muslim, you can’t worship an idol. Similarly, if you are a Hindu you cannot don a hijab and recite Islamic prayers. You can’t join an iftar if you haven’t done proper ritual fasting during Ramzan. You don’t have the right to insult either Hinduism or Islam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Polls: A People’s Puja||You know it is poll season, when even the lover’s red, red serenade does not escape the hawk eye of political campaigners. Tumpa Sona, a new musical release about romantic and class aspirations of a young man, had barely become the most-hummed tune in these parts this spring when, spotting a winner, Red cadres made it their anthem. On February 28, supporters of the Left-Congress coalition pranced their way into Calcutta’s Brigade Parade Ground to the accompaniment of the “inspired” number. It went, “Tumpa/ Toke niye Brigade jabo/Tumpa/Chain flag-e math sajabo/Tumpa/Athashe tulbo awaj/Tumpa/Modi Didi sob bhoge jak...” CPI(M) supporter Udit Sengupta, who is the creator of the new song, tells The Telegraph, “It is a way of communicating with the masses. My group will soon be coming up with another number in which we will talk about our Nabanna abhijaan (expedition) and the death of Maidul Islam Middya.” Nabanna is the name for the state secretariat; Middya was the unit secretary of the CPI(M)-backed Democratic Youth Federation of India who died in early February allegedly from wounds sustained in a police-protester clash. In the 1980s, RSP leader Jatin Chakraborty, who was the PWD minister in Jyoti Basu’s ministry, had termed Usha Uthup’s music “apasanskriti”, or decadence. Now, going against the party line about avoiding all things with a whiff of apasanskriti about them — senior CPI(M) leaders such as Sujan Chakraborty and Surjya Kanta Mishra shared videos of Tumpa Sona on their respective Facebook pages. Said a senior party member who did not want to be identified, “They have understood that there are certain things that have to be sacrificed for the greater cause. It is important to speak to the masses and they understand this language better than shuddha Bangla...” The other language that the masses are conversant in is that of sweets, which is why come any big event from Fifa to Covid-19, city confectioners get cracking to make the menu topical. This time round, Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick Sweets has come up with sandesh with party symbols on them. Sudip Mullick, director and owner of the mishti chain says, “We have also made sweets with the faces of Mamata Banerjee and Narendra Modi.” Only the two of them? He replies, “There are no other faces in this election.” These sweets, available in two flavours — vanilla and nolen gur — are not delectables the common man will buy. But yes, there will be conversations around them. And, according to Mullick, people who are involved in the business of politics will order these in the run-up to the elections. Once results are announced, there are sure to be bulk orders for gifting purposes. A cake themed on akal bodhon, which is basically an invocation of Durga by Ram in order to vanquish Ravana, is in the offing too. Speaking of Ma Durga, poll puja too shares its trappings with any other puja in these parts. And what is a puja without a pandal. North Calcutta’s Dompara is home to those artisans who make the kathamo or bamboo framework for idols. Bultu Malik is a resident of Dompara. According to him, till about 10 years ago, work for elections would begin months ahead and it would involve making bamboo frames for flexes, banners and other decorative elements on the elaborate puja tableau. “But that work has long stopped with the advent of digitisation and social media. Nowadays, there are no takers for raths made of bamboo either,” he adds. If you enter Dompara, you will find artisans frenetically making sticks — some as long as seven feet. Says Malik, “Each and every political party is ordering 8,000 to 9,000 sticks every day. The numbers will increase as each party will fix the party flags along roads, at street corners, and use them to adorn the stage at rallies.” If the city is all dressed up for elections, its denizens cannot be far behind. The pavements of Gariahat, New Market and Hatibagan are milling with hawkers selling saris and kurtas with party symbols embossed on them. And this great big electoral carnival comes with its own music. Yes, political parties are releasing music videos. The trend started with the release of a video titled Poriborton, a soft and rhythmic number by the BJP. It has been playing on YouTube and social media sites. Then the BJP MP Babul Supriyo came up with the number Phutbe ebar padma phool. Former MLA of the TMC, Madan Mitra, also launched a music video, one that showed him pumpkin in hand mocking Amit Shah, Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi and TMC turncoats who have crossed over to the BJP. Other numbers such as Bangla-e Shudu Dangabaji followed suit. To counter the political message, Debangshu Bhattacharya, the TMC spokesperson from North Bengal, has uploaded a poem on his social media timeline with the punchline “Khela khela khela hobe” — yes, yes, yes, the game is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: ACF warns against victimisation of people by declaration of CAA||The Assam Christian Forum (ACF) on Saturday appealed to the people to vote for candidates who would work for an inclusive and secular society and uphold the Constitution in letter and spirit. The forum, which represents all denominations of the Church in Assam, warned against the victimisation of people “by the promulgation” of the Citizenship Amendment Act. This is the first time in recent memory that the forum has issued a pre-election appeal with references to an inclusive society and raging issues of the day. Ahead of the 2016 Assembly elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the forum had confined itself to conducting awareness programmes among voters for free and fair elections and calling for development and jobs for the community. On Saturday, forum spokesperson Allen Brooks told The Telegraph: “We have spoken about an inclusive society because of increased intimidation of the minority community. For example, the arrest of Father Stan Swamy, connecting him to the Bhima Koregaon case along with other intellectuals. “Then, there is the CAA issue. Religion has nothing to do with citizenship and that is why we don’t want its implementation. During the 2019 anti-CAA protests in Assam, five innocent youths died in a police crackdown but till date we don’t know the status of the probe. We also are against privatisation. The government should ensure that the economy is not surrendered to corporate houses.” In a statement, the forum said: “The Assam Christian Forum stands for the sanctity of the Indian Constitution both in letter and spirit. The sovereign, socialist, secular and democratic republic character of the Constitution should be upheld and implemented. The practice of democracy — government of the people, for the people, by the people — in its true essence should be reflected in every strata of the society. “Secularism must be further nurtured and strengthened: people of different faiths, ideologies, cultures and races should have the joy of living with dignity and freedom in the state. This implies that the freedom of religion should be facilitated and ensured; the worship and worship places, religious practices and services of the minority groups, and the autonomy of their institutions should be respected and protected as enshrined in the Constitution. Persons from minority communities should be given representation at all levels of governance and administration.” The forum added: “The right to land, livelihood and life of all the people of the state has to be respected, protected and developed. Just wages should be given to all labourers, particularly tea garden workers. Laws should be so framed that they do not endanger the land, livelihood and income of tribal people. “Nobody should be unjustly victimised by the promulgation of the CAA. Women and children should be given all encouragement to live fuller lives.… The Environment Impact Assessment Act should not be implemented as it is detrimental to the homeland, identity and dignity of our people and to our mountains, plains, forests, rivers and air. Let there be free and fair elections! Let us all live in love, freedom and dignity!” Christians make up about 3.74 per cent of Assam’s 3.1 crore-plus population, according to the 2011 census. The Church’s influence extends beyond the community because of its work in education and health care. The forum has a reach among the Bodos, Karbis and Garos and a section of the tea tribes who play a decisive role in about 42 of the 126 Assembly seats. The clear statement from Assam comes at a time at least one Church denomination in Kerala has suggested that the community views no one as an untouchable. “We have to accept all ideologies since India is a diverse country,” Bishop Joseph Mar Gregorios, the Metropolitan trustee of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, recently said in Kerala. The denomination is locked in a century-old property dispute with another denomination, and hints of supporting the BJP have been dropped. “We have discussed the matter with the BJP-led Union government and we are looking for people who can deliver justice to us,” the bishop had said, referring to a meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called on the dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
14-03-2021||Opinion||It is all in the great Aashhole||You may have seen this before, and if you have, my apologies for affording you another look. You most likely have seen this before. In this space. But you may have seen it elsewhere too. Isn’t such a rare sight. This is to be seen everywhere, it cannot be avoided or averted. You have to look at it, and look at it you must. It is in your face, can’t run away from it. Look at it, the aashhole jinish. It’s coming, roaring like a storm cloud, sweeping, or wanting to, everything that comes in its way. Can you hear the sound of it, the thunder and the echo of it? Aashhole.... Aashhole...! AASHHOLE!! Can you hear it galloping, those high-voltage horsepower barrelling in from all sides? Aashbe. Aashchhe. Aashhole! Think of the prospects. Imagine them. What could happen. A lot many things happen around the promise, or the existence, of aashhole. You’d be familiar, of course; most of you would be. With the things that happen when aashhole things happen. Stinky things happen too, be warned, not all of those things are pleasurable. Though some are. For some. But let us not stray, as we are often wont to, let’s us stay this side of the limits. Let’s not cross them, as some folks we know tend to. It is as if they want to drill it in. Oh, don’t even mention it, the very thought of drilling. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Aashhole. Asshhole! Where is the need? But there is no escape, it would appear. From the drilling of Aashhole! Be prepared, several more rounds await, as if they were some dose of essential vaccination. Against something. An injection. Of antibodies. Beware. Everybody who has a body beware. Aashhole is not a smooth prospect; if you do not yet know, you will. You will be drilled with antibodies. They are there. All over. With that cry. You can hear it. Don’t say you were not warned, because they are making sure you hear it, that it is drilled into your ears. Or any other part of your being that requires to be drilled with this: Aashhole! Think. Look. Before it leaps onto you. I mean, this thing that is galloping on and on, closer and closer, faster and faster, louder and louder, more and more belligerent, more and more accompanied, more and more possessed of horsepower. Look at the formidable war chest approaching; we have heard of chests, haven’t we, those fifty and some inches of it. And that chest is in war mode. Yelling: Aashhole! Aashhole!! That chest. At war. Approaching. Don’t tell me you didn’t know. Don’t tell me this is not what you thought it would be. Don’t tell me this is not what you wanted. Have you had occasion to be familiar? With what is being offered? That thing whose mention I do not wish to repeat more times than is necessary? The one who is offering it does not tire of mentioning it, but that is no reason one should fall prey to the habit and follow suit. It may yet get mentioned in these columns, all eight letters arranged with integrity in the same sequence, but for now there is no need to mention it again. Perhaps in the next paragraph, should that be required. But, really, have you had occasion to be familiar? No? Which is why the illustration that accompanies. As repetition. And as aide-memoire. Look. And be well. Please. That is of the utmost importance for the good health of the nashun. Should you have an orifice Or more than one and several Do know it’s no thing of artifice It clarifies, it’s actually cerebral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||It’s a bird, it’s a plane, it’s Ajay Mohan||Okay, we get it. There are horses for courses. But say there is a course, a very crucial one too, would you then risk trotting out a creature most alien on it and still hope for recourse? The BJP, everybody agrees, has the pulse of the people, and yet it seems quite determined to have Ajay Mohan Bisht aka Swami Adityanath campaign for it for the upcoming Assembly polls in Bengal. The same Bengal it seems desperate to win, quite literally, by the hair of its chinny chin chin. Some might argue Adityanath’s efficacy on the campaign trail and cite the BJP's big win in the Hyderabad municipal elections last year, but if you jog that memory, in those elections the BJP had pulled out all its big guns from Amit Shah to J.P. Nadda. And what is it that Adityanath said there? Something about the election being all about making the bhagya of Bhagyanagar --- as he promised to name Hyderabad. He gave the examples of Faizabad and Allahabad, and how they had become Ayodhya and Prayagraj, respectively, after the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh. As if to say, a change of name alone guarantees an improvement in fortunes. Adityanath had campaigned in Bihar last year; there were reports about his "Midas touch". And yet we know now that the Bihar verdict was not unequivocally saffron as a Midas should have ensured. Recently, Adityanath kicked off his Kerala campaign, wherein he told people of the Indian state with the highest proportion of literate persons that its state government had failed to restrict the spread of Covid-19. He is expected to campaign in Assam and Tamil Nadu too. In 2019 he had said that the NRC drive was brave and important and if needed he would implement it in UP. In Tamil Nadu perhaps he will repeat his sentiments about Hindi as a unifying force. The BJP had Adityanath begin his Bengal poll duty with Malda --- erstwhile capital of Gour-Banga and a seat of prosperity and learning --- the same where Hindu and Muslim cultures are braided as closely as a school girl’s morning plaits. Here he thundered about love jihad and expressed concerns about cows not returning home. He is expected to visit at least a dozen places in Bengal by March end. Reports routinely refer to him as the BJP’s star campaigner. Could it be that courses have outgrown horses? And the party that has the whole zoo, hissing cobras and stomping pachyderms et al, on the road gets the most votes. Where does that leave us, I wonder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||Mahanta, epochal and controversial in equal measure, will be missing the elections||Several politicians who dominated Assam’s political landscape for decades will be missing from the upcoming three-phase assembly polls starting from March 27. One of them is Prafulla Kumar Mahanta, whose curriculum vitae would be the envy of any career politician. The 68-year-old is a former president of the influential All Assam Students’ Union that led the six-year-long Assam Movement against the influx of immigrants, resulting in the 1985 Assam Accord. A signatory to the historic accord, he was also the founder-president of the regional party, the Asom Gana Parishad, and a two-time chief minister, the youngest-ever in the country when he assumed charge in 1985. A member of the legislative assembly since 1985, Mahanta had also been the leader of the Opposition in the assembly. But the Mahanta story, epochal and controversial in equal measure, has come to an end for all practical purposes because of his poor health and intra-party politicking. His posturing against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act had not gone down well with the present AGP leadership since the party is a part of the ruling alliance led by the Bharatiya Janata Party. After being denied a ticket to contest the polls, Mahanta declared he would not stand for election amid speculations that he might revive the Asom Gana Parishad (Progressive) — an outfit he had floated as a rebel in the mid-2000s, only to merge it with the parent party a few years later. In spite of his achievements, Mahanta is more fondly remembered as a student leader than as a politician. The former CM has started preparing to shift to his private residence in Guwahati once his present term ends. His aides say that his Kharghuli residence is in need of serious renovation — much like the man himself, if he wants to remain a flag-bearer of regionalism. Nitin Gadkari is regarded as one of the most efficient ministers in the Narendra Modi government. He is also known to be blunt and extremely intolerant of inefficient bureaucrats. Gadkari controls two big ministries: micro, small and medium enterprises in addition to transport. On more than one occasion he has pulled up bureaucrats when projects have been delayed. Recently, his bluntness towards bureaucrats scaled a new high. During a live virtual inauguration event, the minister compared inefficient bureaucrats with cows and buffaloes that do not give enough milk in spite of being fed well. “Kya sarkar isliye hai ki hum logon ko phokat ka tankhwa de? (Is the government there to pay salaries for free?)”, he asked. Going ahead with his comparison, Gadkari said that people keep cows and buffaloes and feed them well to get good quantities of milk. “But if we keep feeding them and don’t get enough milk then what is the use of keeping those animals? This question will naturally arise,” he said. The reference to the buffalo might not ruffle feathers, but Gadkari could be pulled up for seeking to label a cow useless if it does not give enough milk. The list of Congress star campaigners for the upcoming assembly polls drew attention because of the absence of big names from the G-23 — the leaders who are seen as dissidents after they wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi on the pitiable situation in the party. But Congress circles were abuzz with something else. Party leaders pointed out that the lists were prepared on the basis of personal rapport, not the electoral requirements and political stature of the leaders. One senior leader reacted angrily, “They say about some leaders that they are not mass leaders despite spending decades in public life and holding key ministerial portfolios in several governments. So they need not campaign. And RPN Singh, BP Singh, Jaiveer Shergill, Akhilesh Prasad Singh... are mass leaders. Doesn’t Rahul Gandhi see that the party is being run like [a] friends’ club?” Many other leaders are wondering whether the people will listen to P Chidambaram, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal on the economy and China, or the likes of Jaiveer Shergill and Pawan Khera. While Raj Babbar, who was a permanent fixture in Congress campaigns across the country — and drew crowds because of his celebrity status — is now out of favour because of his association with the G-23, Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was the most prominent face among Muslims, has now been replaced by Salman Khurshid. Navjot Singh Sidhu, whose name reappears in the list of star campaigners, has not gone for electioneering in the last few years. Even among women campaigners, the Congress has nobody in the list except Sonia Gandhi, who rarely goes out campaigning anymore, and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, whose participation, too, is restricted. Even hardcore loyalists admit to the brazen groupism and the lack of application of the mind reflected in the selection of campaigners. There is little doubt about the political acumen of the Congress leader from Kerala, Ramesh Chennithala, who could even be the next CM if the United Democratic Front manages to win the upcoming state elections. But he has left even his diehard supporters confused by finding a link between the BJP and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) after Amit Shah addressed his own party’s rally in Thiruvananthapuram last Sunday. Chennithala contended that Shah not uttering a word about Rahul Gandhi during his speech meant that there was a clear understanding between the BJP and the CPI(M). Party workers are scratching their heads trying to decipher this mysterious claim. Karnataka politicians fear nothing more than ‘CD’. They equate ‘CD’ with any secretly-recorded video or audio clip with career-ending content. After the state minister, Ramesh Jarkiholi, got stung owing to a sleaze tape, at least half a dozen ministers got a court injunction against the publication of any such material on them. Why are political parties not disciplining leaders caught in such messes? As is said in Karnataka, some of them are larger-than-life owing to caste and regional power equations in politics and are thus uncontrollable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||Shut down||Sir — It is worrying to note the sudden crackdown on television content being streamed on online platforms after the new OTT regulation rules were announced. Recently, a furore was created over a show on Amazon Prime Video. Now, a web series on Netflix has come under the scanner. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights claims it portrays children inappropriately. While the allegation must be investigated, one wonders whether similar concern was shown when the consumption of child pornography after the lockdown in India went up by 95 per cent. Are we looking at a future where outrage will be used as a pretext to muffle creativity and expression?Devina Guha, Calcutta Shining star Sir — The ace batswoman and captain of the Indian women’s cricket team, Mithali Raj, must be congratulated for crossing the mark of 10,000 international runs (“Mithali’s run, 10000 & beyond”, March 13). This is a stupendous feat. The former England captain, Charlotte Edwards, is the only other woman to have scored 10,000 international runs in the history of cricket; she made 10,273 runs overall. This means that Raj is now only 272 runs away from equalling Edwards’s record. Given Raj’s present form on the cricket ground, it is only a matter of time before she crosses this milestone as well. Indian cricket lovers will be waiting eagerly for that moment to come.Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — The fact that the veteran cricketer, Mithali Raj, became the first Indian woman to make 10,000 international runs is a matter of immense pride for our country. If she continues to play for another year or so, she will certainly reach even greater heights. One wishes her and her team the best for their remaining one-day international matches in the series against South Africa.Janaki Mahadevan, Chennai Sir — Mithali Raj’s stunning achievements are not just about the 10,000 international runs she has scored; they are also about her having played at the international level for 22 years. This is no mean feat. Raj’s ODI batting average of over 50 after 212 matches bears testimony to her consistency. It is to be hoped that she goes on to play for a year or two more so that she can achieve many more laurels for her country. Raj and the legendary bowler, Jhulan Goswami, are two of the greatest legends of Indian cricket. Hopefully, after watching them perform, more young girls will get inspired to play cricket.Bal Govind, NoidaWake up Sir — India’s education policies are getting embroiled in one controversy after another. A furore has now erupted among intellectuals over the claim made by the All India Council for Technical Education that mathematics, physics and chemistry are no longer mandatory for admission into some engineering courses. Although the AICTE clarified its stand later, the incident points towards the growing promotion of an unscientific mode of thinking encouraged by the current dispensation at the Centre. It can be argued that the AICTE’s proposal is in keeping with the vision of the National Education Policy to offer students more flexibility in choosing their subjects, especially at the secondary level. But it cannot be denied that studying engineering without a solid base in mathematics will be to the disadvantage of the learner. Be it the Centre’s decision to train ayurveda students to perform surgical procedures, the University Grants Commission’s promotion of the ‘cow science’ exam or the numerous unscientific claims made by ministers and luminaries, they all bear grave implications for the future of our country. Unfounded statements, such as the claim that Lord Ganesha got his elephant head owing to plastic surgery, might elicit laughter in cozy drawing-room discussions, but we treat them as benign at our own peril. It is time we became aware of the serious flaws of the current government. Informed citizens who dare to question the administration and hold it accountable for its words and actions are the need of the hour.Satabdi Dutta, Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||Those Sunny days||My classmates and I were thirteen when Gavaskar saved us from second-rateness fifty years ago. He scored three half-centuries, three centuries and a double century in four Tests in his debut series. He rounded off his tour with a hundred and a double hundred in the same Test. 774 runs for the series... who is to say he wouldn’t have scored a 1000 if he had played all five? We used to play book cricket during lunch breaks in school and make runs on that scale. Gavaskar scored those runs in real matches, on tour, against the West Indies, in a winning cause. 774 is the highest series total notched up by a debutant in all of Test cricket’s history. Sometimes, figures do tell the whole story. On the subject of numbers, he was 5’4¾” tall. If you were thirteen and desi in 1971, you were likely shorter than that. This made Gavaskar practically one of us. He was, like the small Indian bodybuilder, Manohar Aich, our very own World Champion, Short Man Class. Between 1975 and 1980, when my cohort was in university, Gavaskar was the greatest batsman in the world. He scored a staggering 18 centuries in that time. There were periods of drought before and after this purple patch, but there was a sunburst of runs in the last two years of his career, and he signed off with 96, a masterclass in playing spin bowling on a turning pitch, in a game India lost to Pakistan. It is patently the case that Gavaskar is the greatest Test batsman India ever produced, but even if it weren’t, my generation, which came of age during his prime, is unlikely to concede the point. Many of us still date our young lives by the landmarks in his career. I remember, for example, the year that I did my thesis viva simply because it was the summer of the MCC Bicentennial match when Gavaskar scored his only hundred at Lord’s. He had announced his retirement from international cricket the evening before when he was not out on eighty, so celebrating his hundred the next morning was a strange, elegiac business. I was furious when the contest was allowed to devolve into a carnival match because it diminished this last achievement. Along with his cricketing achievement, the reason Gavaskar became a hero to young people in the Seventies was that he took the trouble to build a persona for himself. He wasn’t just a creature of cricket, he was a public man in his own right. Bishan Singh Bedi was and remains the most independent-minded and outspoken Indian cricketer ever, but he was one of a generation of cricketers mentored by the Nawab of Pataudi. Gavaskar seemed interestingly self-made, an opening batsman who announced himself to the world as the finished article. There was an assertiveness about Gavaskar, an awareness of his public, that set him apart from his contemporaries who tended to live within the constraints of a relatively poor and poorly administered sport. Gavaskar was undeferential about cricket’s shibboleths; he was, for example, dismissive of the fetishization of Lord’s as sacred ground. He was rude about India’s cricketing establishment while still an active player — he once famously called Indian selectors ‘court jesters’ — and there was a pugnacity to his on-field manner that gladdened the hearts of young fans. There was a perverse thrill in watching him walk off the field in 1981, taking Chetan Chauhan with him, in protest against Australian umpiring. It was the wrong thing to do as Gavaskar acknowledged afterwards, but I couldn’t help thinking that when Arjuna Ranatunga threatened to walk off many years later in 1999, after Muralitharan was called for throwing by an Australian umpire and won that argument, a cycle of South Asian civil disobedience had been brought to a successful conclusion. The most interesting part of Gavaskar’s persona was his writing. In a cricketing culture where players take their cues from the politicians who run the BCCI, it’s hard to imagine a young player writing an opinionated memoir. Gavaskar published Sunny Days in 1976 when he was in his mid twenties. It reads like a first draft that needed an editor but it is, for all that, an invaluable account of a young genius’s coming of age. That missing editor might have blue-penciled the racism of Gavaskar’s description of hostile Jamaican spectators in Kingston: “All this proved beyond a shadow of doubt that these people still belonged to the jungles and forests, instead of a civilised country.” This shouldn’t be excused by gesturing at the casual prejudices of a bygone age because it was called out by readers and reviewers of the book even then. But it is fair to say that this was an isolated instance of prejudice never repeated either in the book or subsequently. The important thing about Sunny Days is that Gavaskar wrote every word of it. This was unusual because most cricketing memoirs are ghostwritten. Mansur Ali Khan, the Nawab of Pataudi, had published a slim book in 1969 called Tiger’s Tale, but it was, in the tradition of cricketing memoirs, an ‘as told to’ effort. Sunny Days gives us its author warts and all and it’s worth the price of admission for its brusque description of Lord’s: “Quite frankly, I don’t understand why cricketers are overawed by Lord’s. The members are the stuffiest know-alls you can come across, and the ground is most uninspiring. It slopes from one end to the other. I shuddered to think of it as the Headquarters of Cricket!” In a world where players either speak in cricket corporatese or tweet on demand or stay mum for fear of displeasing their political masters, it’s good to have a hero who used to speak his mind. At a time when cricket was a precarious livelihood, when cricketers depended on the generosity of individual and institutional patrons, Gavaskar’s forthrightness was both unusual and brave. Recently, when Wasim Jaffer was accused of communalism by a cricket administrator in Uttarakhand, most of his erstwhile teammates didn’t say a word in support or solidarity. In 1993, during the riots in Bombay, Gavaskar ran down from his terrace to rescue a Muslim family cornered by a violent mob. The distance in time and temperament between those two events is the distance between two worlds. To watch Gavaskar receive a cap commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of his extraordinary debut from Jay Shah was strange, like watching a dystopic film that mashed these worlds together. As the young Gavaskar’s contemporaries and admirers, it’s down to us and our memories to keep those worlds apart. That past was a foreign country; they did things differently over there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Opinion||The Game is afoot||Scholars are viewed as harbingers of change; their ideas challenge and, often, break established moulds. As such, it is only fitting that a significant change in a different arena — football — is being brought about by a man known as ‘Le Professeur’. Arsène Wenger, one of the most revolutionary thinkers of the Beautiful Game — his approach towards training, nutrition and man-management transformed the way in which coaches looked at English football — has proposed a change in football’s contentious offside rule. At present, players on the field are adjudged offside if any part of their body with which they can play the ball is closer to the opponents’ goal line than both the ball and the last defender. The existing rule has stoked controversy and given football fans untold heartache, with offsides often being declared by the tightest — some would say, the unfairest — of margins. The former Arsenal manager’s proposed rule — it will be tried out by Fifa in the Chinese league — could mean a huge victory for attackers in the law books of the game. Mr Wenger’s rule states that attackers will be deemed onside if any body part with which they can play the ball is in line with the relevant defender. If the new law gains wider legitimacy, there will be a number of implications. For one, areas of uncertainty — and the coronary status of football lovers — will no longer be at the mercy of the blind spots of technology. Second, it might signal the end of marginal offside calls, thereby making the game more attacking and enhancing its dramatic appeal. Mr Wenger’s proposal does have its critics, with many arguing that it would alter the basics of defending and not be properly enforced by on-field referees. Setting these quibbles aside, it would be instructive to analyse the agenda of rule-change in sport. Changes in regulations that guide sporting activity signify that evolution is natural to sport as it is to life. But such transformations are not always innocuous: they also mirror extraneous factors and their connection with the consumption of sport as a spectacle. Changes are rarely implemented without the intent to render a game more competitive. This is because the element of competition has a complementary relationship with viewership, sponsorship and, consequently, revenue. Football has not been the only theatre of such experimentation. The shortening of boundaries, the application of the decision review system, the introduction and subsequent tweaking of the ‘super over’and such other changes in cricket were all decisions taken with an eye on heightening drama and, by implication, filling the coffers of the administration. Yet sport also sports warts that seem unchanging. The pay gap between men and women footballers has been found to be worse than that in medicine and politics; institutional support for differently-abled sportspersons and competitions remains patchy. For sport to be held up as a theatre of inclusion and fraternity, there is a need to ring in changes that are more radical than those pertaining to the offside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||NIT achieves 81 per cent placement, over 400 students get job offers||Over 400 students out of a batch-size of 500 facing placements at the Adityapur-based National Institute of Technology (NIT) for the 2017-21 batch have landed jobs in various companies that have so far participated in the ongoing placement process at the tech cradle. Data available from the training and placement cell revealed that the institute has so far achieved an overall 81 per cent placement. About 80 companies have so far participated in the placement process recruiting students from various streams of engineering. Another 50 companies are expected to turn up for recruiting students till July this year which is the end of the placement season. The online recruitment process for the current batch which began in July 2020 gained momentum in October. The companies participating in the placement process are head hunting students through the virtual process happening for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Data suggests that the computer science engineering stream recorded 95 per cent placement. This was closely followed by the electronics and communication engineering stream which recorded 92 per cent placement. Both electrical and mechanical engineering streams achieved 75 per cent placements each so far. The metallurgical and materials engineering stream too achieved 75 per cent placements so far. According to the data, the civil engineering stream recorded 60 per cent placements while the production and industrial engineering stream achieved 77 per cent placements. Professor-in-charge of the training and placement cell, Prahlad Prasad termed the placement scenario as encouraging. “The placement scenario looks encouraging so far. The placement target for the current batch may be as good as previous years or even more,” he said. Notably, Amazon has so far offered the highest package of Rs 30 lakh per annum, while the average package so far has been Rs 12 lakh per annum. In the computer science engineering branch, the average package has been higher at Rs 18 lakh per annum. Apart from e-commerce major Amazon, some of the companies that have already participated in the online recruitment process are Deloitte, Tata Power, Axis Bank, Vedanta, Bajaj Auto, Nokia, Comviva, TCS Innovator, Paytm, Genpact, Goldman Sachs, Lowe's India, One Plus, Cargil, Tekion, Tata Steel, Mentor Graphics, Publicis Sapient, Info Edge, Samsung (R&D), Bajaj, DMI Finance, Axeela, ZS Associates, Amdocs and Capgemini. The previous batch (2016-2020) had secured 92.11 per cent placements with an average CTC of Rs 8.71 lakh per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bank strike to impact Dhanbad traders||The two-day bank strike called by bank employees to protest against privatisation of banks, beginning Monday is expected to impact banking services across the country. Traders are apprehending a lot of inconvenience during these two days which is preceded by two more days of bank closure due to holidays on the second Saturday (March 13) and Sunday (March 14). Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, vice president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ajay Nanaryan Lal said, “Though the first two days of bank closure for holidays has somehow passed, the next two days are going to be really tough due to the cash crunch in the market.” “Despite the beginning of online transactions in recent years, cash transaction is still the dominant mode of business. The biggest difficulty is faced by the traders as they cannot deposit the cash in the banks and they find it unsafe to keep a large amount of cash received during business transaction either at home or at the outlet,” said Lal. “During the three days of bank closure from December 25 to 27, burglary worth Rs 7.5 lakh took place from a book trader outlet in Dhanbad as the wholesale book trader could not deposit the cash received from the retailers in their bank account,” added Lal. Echoing sentiments, Prabhat Surolia, president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “Majority of traders have a cash credit account and thus deposit the money almost on daily basis. The bank strike will affect our business because of non-deposition as well as non-withdrawal of cash.” Surolia, who himself owns a small industrial unit further said that as he had to carry some purchasing on Monday (March 15) he had to deposit the money in the account of the seller on Friday (March 12) itself. “Most of the ATMs are also likely to go dry during the next two days affecting the sale of purchase and resultant lack of customers in the market,” said Surolia. Meanwhile, more than 3,000 employees from around 250 branches of different public sector banks of Dhanbad are also bracing up for the two days of the nationwide strike of the bank unions on March 15 and protest against the central government’s plan to carry out the privatization of two banks. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Prabhat Chaudhary, district convenor of United Forum for Bank Unions said, “The government’s plan to carry out privatization is aimed at supporting the corporate houses and anti-common people.” “The corporate houses which are mainly responsible for the bad loans of banks will win the banks themselves and thus instead of favouring the common customers like rickshaw pullers, taxi drivers and other low-income group customers, they would provide loan to their partners and relatives,” and added that focus of the banks following privatization will shift to urban areas and rural branches will be closed. In a related development, a meeting of a joint front of all central trade unions was held on Sunday under the chairmanship of national vice president of Rashtriya Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, AK Jha during which the participants termed the privatization plan of banks of the central government as anti-people and extended support to the two-day strike call given by the bank employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Time for industries to return unused land, says state minister ||State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said on Sunday that land acquired for industrial or developmental purposes should be returned to the displaced if it remained unused or a specific period, advising his own government headed by Hemant Soren to begin the exercise with Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) in Ranchi. Addressing a rally organised by 32 displaced villages in the HEC area on Ranchi outskirts, Oraon said, “Rourkela steel plant has returned about 5,000-acre land to the Odisha government. The Jharkhand government should also adopt this practice to take back land from companies here. Being a minister, I am appealing to the Hemant government to begin the process of taking back land from HEC.” The comments of Oraon, who is also the state Congress president, is significant in a state like Jharkhand where land has always been a contentious issue. The previous government of Raghubar Das had to face the wrath of tribals and thousands of displaced after he unsuccessfully tried to amend age-old tenancy laws during his stint between 2014-19. Oraon accused the PSU for acting as a landlord by selling and leasing out land that was acquired decades to private parties. “Jharkhand wasn’t formed when HEC was set up but it was given vast acres of land in Ranchi by the government for industrial purposes. Thousands of people too got displaced in the process. While the displaced living in about 32 villages are battling for basic amenities, HEC has begun selling/leasing out land to others. Are they the real landowners? The answer is no. Why is it (HEC) then behaving like a landlord? Whatever land that is lying unused should now be taken back,” Oraon said. He said that during his stints as chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes between 2010 to 2017, he ensured that the provision of returning unused land was included in the Land Acquisition Act-2013. “Recently, baby steps have been initiated after the state government here took back some 40-acre land from NTPC in Hazaribagh after it remained unutilised for more than five years. The Land Acquisition Act-2013 specifies time-bound work on the acquired land. Or else the acquisition can be cancelled. We have to implement it in the interest of tribal and other land losers,” he stressed. Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who has been mobilising over 20,000 displaced living in 32 villages in the HEC region, said the rally was aimed at initiating a renewed fight for their long-pending demands. “We have two key demands from the government—formation of a commission for displaced, and implementation of the Land Acquisition Act-2013,” he said over the phone. “About 25,000 people were displaced for setting up HEC, but the government records today only have details of about 400 people. Not only this, many even got displacement benefits and compensation till date while the places where they live are in neglected condition as HEC never cared for them. So, we are demanding setting up of a commission, which will be a constitutional body, to address issues of all those who were is placed,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police bust fake currency racket in Mango, one arrested||In a sensational breakthrough, police on Sunday arrested a man who was running a racket of printing and circulating fake currency notes in Mango, Jamshedpur. The man identified as Aftab Alam, son of Mohammed Mazhar, is a resident of Gulab Baag in Mango. Aftab, who stayed in a rented house owned by one Mohammed Zama, was manufacturing fake currency notes of rupees 50, 100 and 500 in one of the rooms for the last six months. Police have seized 40 notes of rupees 500 denomination, 10 notes of Rs 100 and one Rs 50 denomination. This apart, the police have seized semi-finished Rs 500 notes worth 36,000, and a laptop, inject printer and a monitor from the house of the accused. Significantly, there was a sticker of the Pakistani flag on the laptop, hinting that Aftab might have a connection with Pakistan in running the racket. Revealing about the breakthrough, senior SP M Tamil Vanan said that the accused that was running the racket single-handedly was caught while he was making payment against fruits he had bought from a fruit vendor at Jugsalai late on Saturday night. “Aftab had given a 50 rupees note which seemed a bit different to the fruit vendor, the later objected to and demanded another note, leading the accused to indulge in an altercation. In the spur of the moment, the accused had torn apart the note, creating a commotion and attracting the attention of two mobile cops who arrived at the scene and asked why he tore the note. The cops took Aftab to Jugsalai thana where during interrogation he confessed that the note he tore was fake and that he was running a racket of fake currency,” said Vanan while addressing a press conference on Sunday. The senior SP said on Sunday morning the police raided Aftab's house and seized the equipment as well as the materials used in the making of fake currency notes and also a stock of the fake currencies of different denominations from his house. Vanan said the accused used to manufacture the currency notes during the day and got them circulated in the night, especially in the late hours so that shopkeepers might not focus on the notes meticulously. “The accused claimed he had started the racket a month ago and earned over Rs 40,000 after he lost his job during the lockdown, but we estimate that he has started the racket about six months ago,” added Vanan. The senior SP, on being asked, said they will investigate whether Aftab had a Pakistan link behind the fake currency racket, adding that they will unfold the mystery behind fixing a sticker of Pakistani flag in one of the equipment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jayant Sinha promises to develop Hazaribagh's latest archeological site||Former union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha on Sunday termed the Archaeological Survey of India’s findings in Bahoranpur village of the district a unique and  historic discovery, announcing to turn the place into a cultural and religious spot. “The ASI's excavation has so far confirmed that this place was a big spot for followers of Buddhism, where an important monastery and shrine stood during the ninth century,” he said. Sinha added that he has spoken to culture and tourism minister of state Prahlad Patel regarding the development of the site, who asked him to make a report regarding the requirements. “I will leave no stone unturned for bringing this place on the tourism map of the country. But I am surprised how this place was away from the eyes of all for so long and no effort was taken before,” Sinha added. Delhi-based Buddhist priest Bhante Tiswarro told the Telegraph Online that he will visit the site soon. Tiswarro was the first one who had initiated the discovery, informing the ASI about the possibility of finding something. Meanwhile, residents have demanded that the ASI should make a state-of-the-art facility at the village itself, instead of shifting it to some other museum. Tiswarro had the same queries. I want to know what the ASI is planning to do with the recoveries while there are no museums in Bahoranpur. If they take the decision to remove structures from here, I will start a satyagraha in the village,” he said. “I can assure you that this place will have a big museum here so as to attract tourists from the country as well as abroad,” Sinha commented on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||27-year-old man lynched near Ranchi over suspicion of tyre theft||A 27-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by an irate mob in suburban Ranchi early on Sunday for apparently stealing tyres and a battery from a motorcycle, the second incident of mob lynching reported in the state capital this month. The deceased, identified as Mubarak Khan, was thrashed by a mob in Sirka village while he was allegedly fleeing the spot after stealing tyres and a battery of a pulsar bike, police said. However, Mubarak’s family has claimed he was murdered over personal enmity by some residents of the village, who had allegedly invited him to meet them in the wee hours of Sunday. “Prima facie, it seems that Mubarak, a resident of nearby Maheshpur village, was caught in the act of stealing tyres and a battery of a bike. The villagers caught hold of him and thrashed him brutally,” said OC of Angada police station Brajesh Kumar. “The man died on the spot,” he added. Mubarak’s body was sent for post-mortem on Sunday. An elder brother of his lodged an FIR with the Angada police against 18 people for tying Mubarak to a poll and beating him to death as a part of a conspiracy. Mubarak worked as a driver of a van used for supplying bread. Ranchi SP (rural) Naushad Alam, who visited the crime scene on Sunday, said police were investigating the matter and taking statements from villagers. The police have lodged an FIR against 17 identified persons and several others in connection with the incident, he added. “We are investigating the case from different perspectives. The post-mortem report will give us a clearer picture of the cause of death,” said Alam. In a similar incident reported on March 8, a mob of around 40 people had brutally beaten up one Sachin Kumar Verma at Kotwali police station area in urban Ranchi over suspicion of vehicle theft. Twenty-two-year-old Sachin succumbed to his injuries on his way to the hospital. The incident rocked the state Assembly with the Opposition targeting the Hemant Soren-led government over alleged lawlessness in the state. Cases of mob lynching by cow vigilantes and superstitious residents of far-flung villages of Jharkhand had kept even the former BJP-led government on toes. The state reported 39 cases of mob-lynching by 2019 and police had then set up special teams to investigate such crimes. Several cases of lynching over theft of mobile phones and spare parts of vehicles have been reported in the state in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand|| Children offering namaz on Hazaribagh Road sparks controversy||Eight to ten children were seen offering namaz in Pelawal area of Hazaribagh town on Friday. A picture of this went viral on social media and police have arrested three people for taking the photo and spreading it on social media. The viral picture also made the famous writer Taslima Nasreen to comment that these children are innocent and those behind it are the real culprits. Sources said on Friday these children were made to sit on the busiest Hazaribagh-Chatra road in the Pelawal area offering namaz. Due to this, traffic came to a standstill. Later someone posted this picture on social media which soon went viral. People also demanded action against those who asked the children to do so. Nasreen said none has the right to disturb humanity in this way. Hazaribagh is always known to be a communally sensitive area. The police came into action and showcaused Ibrahimi Masjid Committee of Pelawal area asking for the reason behind this incident. Committee head Mohammad Firoz issued a statement on Sunday claiming that it happened due to the foolishness of the children and the elders have no role in it. He also promised that no such incident will happen again. Superintendent of police Karthik S said, “No one has the right to block a road. We have showcaused the masjid committee and will take appropriate action in this matter. I urge people not to disturb the peace of this area and also not to make the picture share any further.” Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson of the state Pratul Shahdeo condemned the arrest of those who posted the picture on social media. He said, “Those behind organising namaz on road are moving freely. This shows the actual mindset of this government.” He also demanded the release of the three in custody and arrest of the culprits involved in arranging the namaz offering on road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 15,000 residents receive first shot of vaccine, active cases rise to 515||As many as 15,161Jharkhand residents, including over 10,000 senior citizens, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine on Saturday, while almost 12,000 healthcare workers and frontline workers got the second jab, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. However, the state achieved only nine per cent of its target for administering the first dose of vaccine to frontline and healthcare workers and 17 per cent of the target for the second dose on the day. As many as 3,164 healthcare and frontline workers got the first jab, while 11,864 got the second, an NHM report stated. So far, as many as 4,59,907 people, including 92,104 senior citizens and 16,078 middle-agers with comorbidities, have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand. As many as 1,41,122 beneficiaries have received the second jab, as per government data. Meanwhile, Ranchi continued to report the bulk of fresh Covid cases on the day. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the district accounted for 20 of 43 cases on the day. However, 26 of the 37 Covid recoveries in Jharkhand were also reported from Ranchi. The count of active cases have been on the rise in Jharkhand this month with the number soaring to 515 on Saturday. While the active cases dropped in Ranchi, the district still accounted for more than 60 per cent of the patients with 307 cases, the NHM bulletin stated. The state has so far reported 1,20,567 cases of Covid-19 infection and more than 98 per cent of the patients have recovered. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.04 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. At the current pace, it would take over 1800 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The national doubling rate was around 525 days. At least 14 of the 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases on the day. Urban districts – Ranchi and East Singhbhum – reported most of the fresh cases. East Singhbhum reported nine cases against eight recoveries, while Bokaro, Deoghar and Dhanbad reported two cases each. Barring Ranchi, all the remaining 23 districts had less than 100 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Protesting para teachers warned of strict action||The state education department on Saturday announced disciplinary actions including no-work-no-pay for all para teachers who will be part of the assembly gherao from March 15 to 19 that wil impact regular classes of students ahead of the upcoming matric exams. Ekakrit Para Sikshak Sangharsh Morcha (EPSSM), an umbrella outfit of about 60,000 para teachers in the state, have announced the gherao when the house resumes for the budget session to press for their several pending demands such as job regularisation and better pay among others. The Jharkhand Project Education Council (JPEC) has asked all para-teachers to refrain from protest and has directed district education officers to submit daily attendance reports to initiate action against the teachers. In a letter to all the districts, JEPC director Sailesh Chaurasia said that the government was already working on many of their demands and directed them to withdraw the stir in the interest of proper functioning of the schools, which reopened for class VII onwards few weeks back, after remaining closed for a year due to covid-19 induced lockdown. “Whoever remained absent from duty without duly approved leave would be marked as no-work-no-pay and disciplinary action will be initiated,” read the letter, circulated by EPSSM. Sanjay Dubey, officer bearer of the state unit of EPSSM in a media statement maintained that they will continue with their plan. “We appeal to the Hemant Soren government to fulfill their promises made to us during the assembly elections in 2019. The previous BJP government headed by ex-CM Raghubar Das wielded lathis on us when we protested for our demands, but before coming to power, Hemant Soren justified our demands and promised to fulfill. Now, it’s time to do so and recall this letter,” he demanded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rebels kill official after extortion police compliant in Latehar||A supervisor of a private firm who was returning after lodging a police compliant against militants for alleged extortion was allegedly shot dead by rebels in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Friday night. According to police, 32-year-old Vishnu Dev Singh was the supervisor of a private firm which had bagged the contract for the construction of a culvert connecting the road between Kone and Nareshgarh in Sadar block. Police said Singh had an argument with unidentified members of the Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad, a splinter group of the CPI (Maoist), over payment of extortion money a few days ago and also on Friday. He had gone to Latehar Sadar police station on Friday night to lodge a complaint along with firm owner Vijay Sahu and was returning home on his motorcycle when the rebels shot at him indiscriminately near Bareini More. Singh received six bullet injuries and died on the spot. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Kumar said that they were trying to arrest the accused. “We have intensified our combing operations and the rebels are resorting to such tactics out of frustration. We will be arresting the rebels soon as it is a clear-cut case of extortion related killing by the outlawed JJMP,” he said. Singh’s body was sent for post-mortem to the Latehar Sadar Hospital on Saturday. Meanwhile, senior police officials, including Palamau deputy inspector-general R.K. Lakra and Latehar superintendent of police (operations) Vipul Pandey reached the spot to oversee the investigation. Locals claimed that if the rebels had the audacity to kill villagers barely a few kilometres from the CRPF picket and shoot dead a person who was returning after registering a complaint at the local police station, then it meant the morale of the militant outfits was on the up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
