15-03-2021||Calcutta||‘PM forgot us but don’t forget 300 martyrs’, says farm leader||A farmer leader on Sunday described how the Narendra Modi government had been disregarding the movement against the new farm laws since June last year and how the Prime Minister had described the agitators as parasites. Balbir Singh Rajewal, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) addressing a kisan mahapanchayat in Singur, urged Bengal’s farmers to vote while keeping in mind that 300 farmers had been martyred in the struggle. He appealed to Bengal’s voters to ask BJP candidates why the Centre had not since January 22 talked to the protesting farmers, massed at Delhi’s borders since November 26. “We have been protesting since the ordinances were issued in June. We sat on railway tracks in Punjab, not allowing trains to run, but it made no difference to the Modi government. They have forgotten the value of farmers,” Rajewal said. He later told this newspaper that Punjab’s farmers had squatted on railway tracks from August through October. “We then marched towards Delhi in November. We were stopped at Delhi’s borders on November 26. Since then, we have been camping there,” said Rajewal, also a leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body leading the protests. “When the government held meetings with us, we criticised the new farm laws clause by clause. They said they would make amendments but we demanded the laws be repealed. Since January 22, the government has not met us once.” Several SKM leaders have while addressing Bengal’s voters cited the issue of the Centre’s refusal to meet the farmers. Addressing a meeting in Calcutta on Saturday, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait had said: “The government has not met us since January 22. We waited thinking they would meet us but they didn’t. So we thought we’d go to the nation.” Rajewal cited how the Centre had slighted the farmers. “The Prime Minister called us andolanjeevi. Yes, we are andolanjeevi but andolans (movements) have done a lot of good. They got India freedom,” he said. “The Prime Minister has also called farmers parjeevi, which means parasites. Itni badi gaali di (He hurled such a serious abuse)....” Rajewal then made an emotive appeal: “Three hundred farmers have died while protesting against the farm laws. When you go to vote, remember these 300 martyrs.” He said that when BJP candidates came to voters’ doors, people should ask them why the Centre had not met the farmers after January. On Saturday, Tikait had urged Bengal’s farmers to ask BJP candidates: “Where is the law on the MSP (minimum support price)?” The Singur event, held near Singur Bazaar, drew a crowd of about 2,000. Rajewal and several other SKM leaders had arrived in the state on Thursday. They held three meetings in Calcutta and one in Nandigram on Friday and Saturday. After the Singur meeting on Sunday, farmer leaders travelled to Asansol to address another mahapanchayat. At all the meetings they have addressed in Bengal, the farmer leaders have urged voters to reject the BJP while stressing that they were not seeking votes for any particular party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Creative minds march on in Calcutta||The secondary department of Abhinav Bharati High School recently organised an inter-class fest for students from classes VI to IX on a virtual platform. Multiple activities were clubbed under three categories — performing arts, visual art and sports — during the three-day event. Students performed dance recitals and sang folk and patriotic songs under the performing arts category. The visual art category brought out the students’ imagination on the lines of recycling and sustainable development through the event Best out of Waste. Sports included time-bound games such as skipping, alternate hand catching and dribbling with the edge of bat. “Since sports and other annual programmes were hampered because of the pandemic, we thought of having a virtual show. The students were very enthusiastic, and both teachers and students had fun,” said principal Sraboni Samanta. Hindmotor High School recently organised an inter-house solo dance competition for its students on a virtual platform. A total of 12 participants representing the four houses — Vivekananda house, Vidyasagar house, Radhakrishnan house and Tilak house — performed live. The participants were divided into three groups, each having a separate theme. Group A (classes I to III) presented dance performances on the theme of folk dance, while Group B (classes IV to VII) performed on Rabindranritya, Nazrulgeeti or patriotic theme and Group C (classes VIII-XII) students put up semi-classical dance. The participants were judged on the basis of choice of song, presentation, expression and rhythm. “Although the schools are running online, our school didn’t miss a single chance to enhance the co-curricular activities of the children. So, the inter-house dance competition was conducted,” said principal Nitu Chattopadhyay. Water conservation and humanisation of rivers was the theme of a literary meet, Sangam, recently organised by Delhi Public School, Howrah. Streamed live on YouTube, the fest had students from India, UK, Sweden and Singapore joining hands on digital platforms to share their views on various issues related to water conservation and water pollution. Sudha Murty, an author and chairperson of the Infosys Foundation, was the chief guest. In conversation with principal Sunita Arora, Murty encouraged students to blend water and literature through the event. Participants created stories about deep sea creatures those are victims of pollution and debated on the topic of humanising rivers. Some of the participating schools were DPS Electronic City-Bangalore, DPS-Noida, DPS-NTPC Farakka, The Newtown School, Don Bosco Liluah, VIBGYOR High School-Airoli, Navi Mumbai, Edward Peake Middle School-UK and Mayflower Primary School, Singapore. “Every year our children get involved in cleaning up the Ganges. Various school activities and curriculum are designed to make them aware about water conservation and the problems. The literary meet encourages reading and creativity among students. Clubbing a burning issue with Indian literature was an ideal way of capturing our students’ attention. Sudha Murty is a favourite author among them for her simplicity of style. Getting her on board was a treat for the students. The author too was impressed with our effort,” said principal Arora. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, organised a host of online activities to keep the students engaged. The online school magazine, Just Us, was launched and the annual photography exhibition was also conducted online on the theme, Life in Pandemic. The institute held an interactive session for parents on the Jamtara scam, conducted by Supratik Dasgupta, to spread awareness on cyber crime. The annual concert was conducted virtually, and teachers and parents, along with the students, performed. The nativity play entitled God’s Love for Mankind was the highlight. “In unison with the teachers, parents, children and the administration, we have designed ways to keep our students both mentally and physically healthy. Workshops widened their exposure and gave them first-hand knowledge of the world beyond school,” said principal Bobby Baxter. Students of Calcutta Business School, a unit of Shikshayatan Foundation, virtually celebrated International Mother Language Day to promote linguistic and cultural diversity. They all put up brilliant performances by presenting literary pieces in their own mother language. “These students who are grown-ups showed their creativity by putting up performances on International Mother Language Day. Creativity is the essence of life and students of a business school should have it. The manner in which the students celebrated the day, amid the pandemic, is praiseworthy,” said Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
15-03-2021||Calcutta||When Sir Arthur Conan Doyle turned Sherlock||Sherlock Holmes’s creator had once taken on an investigation on behalf of a young Parsee lawyer who had been sentenced to prison on false charges of slashing cattle in the English village where he lived. A virtual session with London-based author Shrabani Basu, a Bengal Club Library event in association with The Telegraph, introduced one to a case that had grabbed headlines across continents and provided an insight into Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s real-life sleuthing skills as well as racial equations in England at the turn of the 20th century. Basu, who has earlier written on Noor Inayat Khan, the only Indian-origin woman to die in the Dachau concentration camp for being a British spy, and Abdul Karim, Queen Victoria’s personal attendant in her last years, has an interest in characters who have slipped through the cracks in history. She told Sumit Ray, with whom she was in conversation on Friday, that she had “a filing cabinet of interesting people” where George Edalji was stacked for years. “He was a 28-year-old Parsee lawyer whose father Shapoorji Edalji had converted to Christianity and moved to England from Bombay. Shapoorji became a vicar in 1876, the first South Asian in England to be so, in a white village of Great Wyrley in Staffordshire. By the time George was 12, they were getting anonymous hate mail,” she said. He grew up as a “dark-skinned, awkward loner”. Basu’s new book, The Mystery of The Parsee Lawyer, almost did not happen. In 2005, a novel came out on the two, called Arthur & George, by Julian Barnes. So Basu put her project on the backburner. But in 2015, she learnt of an auction of letters between Doyle and Staffordshire police chief George Anson and got enthused. “Here was new material. Anson was a pucca imperialist and a complete racist. He described Edalji as niggerish in appearance,” said Basu. She read up the Home Office files on the case and Edalji’s letters in Birmingham, and pieced together the story from several archives. In 1903, Great Wyrley was gripped by terror as horses and cattle started being slashed at night and left to die in the field. The suspicion fell on George, an odd-looking boy with brown skin and bulging eyes. He was arrested, charged and pronounced guilty in a 55-minute trial. He was given seven years’ imprisonment but let out on parole after three. His solicitor’s licence was cancelled and he was scared to return to his village.So he settled in London. At this time, Doyle’s The Hound of the Baskervilles had come out. Edalji read it in prison. “The animals in the moors must have made him feel that Doyle was the man to help him. So he wrote to him.” Doyle, with time on hand after the death of his wife whom he had nursed for 13 years, stepped in to help the underdog. “The papers were immediately full of how Sherlock Holmes was investigating the Parsee case. The man who was being called ‘debased, Oriental and evil’ was suddenly everyone’s favourite. Such is the effect of stardust!” Basu said. She described how Doyle observed Edalji before their first meeting, holding a paper close to his eyes and concluded he was myopic. “He was confident that there was no way that a myopic man could walk in the dark and kill animals.” He wrote in The Daily Telegraph, doing “a forensic examination of every point in the trial” and exposing each as flimsy. The article was reprinted in The New York Times, The Washington Post and all over the UK. It was noticed even by Jawaharlal Nehru, an 18-year-old then at Harrow, who wrote to his father that the man was victimised as he was Indian. A fund was set up for Edalji’s legal battle in which many Indians contributed. The Home Office, under pressure, set up a committee which concluded that he was innocent but refused to give him compensation for imprisonment. Hundred years have passed since then but nothing has changed. “There is still prejudice against foreigners and dark skin, and instead of hate mail under the door, there is trolling,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Nursery kids thank grandparents for help||Nursery students of South Point School celebrated grandparents’ day on the last day of an “unprecedented session”, acknowledging the efforts of their grandparents, many of whom had helped them during online classes once their parents returned to work. In many households grandparents had to learn how to log into online classes and upload homework. In such a situation celebrating grandparents’ day is of a greater significance to thank them for their efforts to help their grandchildren, the school said. As many parents returned to work, the load of making the child attend the online classes fell on the grandparents. The task for them included,  logging on to the class on time, make notes of what the teacher was saying during the class. This apart, the grandparents had to ensure that the child stays in front of the screen for the entire duration of the class. “Grandparents’ Day is a regular feature in the school calendar and the idea behind this is to honour the special bond between children and the grandparents... It has been a unique year for our little ones who attended classes without entering the school. In many households it has been the grandparents who have guided the children patiently after their parents returned to their places of work. In this situation, grandparents’ day takes on even greater significance as a token of thanks for their untiring efforts to help their grandchildren through the pandemic,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of the school. 76 year old Biman Bihari Saha had never used a smart phone before May when the online classes started for his grandson. His son and daughter-in-law are both radiologists and during the pandemic they had to report to duty. “I had to learn the functions of a smart phone and laptop so that my grandson could attend classes. Also I kept a register where I would make a note of what was being taught in class — from letters, numbers to stories — so that he can be guided later on,” said Saha, a retired West Bengal Civil Service employee. Saha would log on to classes three days a week and said apart from two days when they had a medical emergency, his grandson did not miss classes a single day. For some parents who were at home it was still not possible for them to help kids attend classes because of the work from home pressure. For Dhrubajyoti Goswami who is based in Mumbai but is currently working from home, it was not possible to sit through his daughter’s classes despite being at home. His wife is a doctor. “My daughter’s classes begins at 10.30am but my work day starts at 9am and it is not feasible for me to sit with her. My father did use a laptop before but there were the nitty gritty like using the platform in which the classes were conducted, entering the password. Initially it was a challenge but it was because of them that my daughter could attend the classes,” said Goswami. The celebration on Friday, where the grandparents attended the classes with the children, included performances by the kids through a video thanking the grandparents. Photographs of the children with their grandparents were also displayed. “The relationship of grandparents and grandchildren has taken a different dimension this year and we thought this would be a befitting way to end the online classes by thanking them,” said Dalbir Kaur Chadda, principal of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Mosquito problem stings New Town||Residents of New Town are alleging a rise in mosquito population and several residents’ welfare associations have requested the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) to set up nets over canals that cut criss-cross the township. The NKDA has already laid nets over a portion of the Kestopur canal in at least four places as part of a pilot project to see whether it contains the winged menace, an NKDA official said. According to him, the residents’ welfare associations of several housing complexes in all three action areas that are near the canals have requested the authorities to use nets over the water. According to the official, several meetings were held with entomologists to figure out a way to reduce the mosquito population and one of the suggestions was to cover portions of the canal close to the banks. According to the official, water in the Kestopur and Bagjola canals move slowly and people often dump garbage along the banks. This causes the water to stagnate,an ideal breeding ground of mosquitoes. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said the nets would serve two purposes. “People will not be able to dump garbage into the water and even if mosquitoes lay eggs, new adult mosquitoes will not be able to fly out,” Sen said . According to Sen, they had also launched a campaign to create awareness among residents. Residents of New Town’s AB, AD, AI, AL, CD, CE and DC blocks have been complaining about mosquitoes since the beginning of the year. Monojit Biswas, a resident of Action Area I, said he had to shut all doors and windows of his house by 3.30pm. “Even then mosquitoes enter through gaps in the exhaust fan vents in the kitchen and toilet. We cannot survive without mosquito nets and repellents,” said Biswas. Anja Sen, a resident of Uniworld City in New Town, said they had instructed their housekeeping staff to spray larvicide around the complex at regular intervals. “This is in addition to what the NKDA vector control teams are doing. Mosquitoes are turning out to be the toughest challenge for us this year as we cannot step out and stay still for a moment as they bite everywhere,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town plans plantation drive||The New Town authorities will start a tree plantation drive on empty plots in all three action areas to prevent people from dumping garbage on the plots as well as to keep weeds in check, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. The drive will start on March 21 and at least a couple of plots where the trees will be planted have been identified, the official said. The NKDA’s target is to plant 10,000 trees by the end of the year, said Debashis Sen, the chairman of the agency. Most of the empty plots, an official of the agency said, are in places that are lit up by solar lights and have paved pathways as well as bamboo fencings but many have turned unkempt with the rampant growth of weeds. “Besides, many residents are dumping garbage on the plots, which have turned into mosquito breeding grounds,” the official said. Another NKDA official said they had planned to plant trees such as neem, guava and coconut, which are strong and do not need to be looked after well. NKDA chairman Sen said they were planning to approach NGOs and corporate bodies to adopt the trees to be planted and look after them. “We want to plant these trees as we want the empty plots to become tree banks. If the plot gets allotted, then the trees will be shifted and not cut down,” said Sen. The trees that will be planted will be at least three years old and of varieties that can withstand storms. More than 4,600 trees were uprooted or damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May in the township. New Town has palm, coconut, cherry blossom, pine and casuarina trees — all with supple trunks and branches — planted along its dividers. Hidco plans to plant more of these varieties among others. Residents of New Town will be able to adopt trees and nurture them with help from Hidco and the forest department as part of a drive to replant trees by the township’s authorities. The spots chosen for this are near housing complexes. The decision was taken after Hidco conducted a survey among residents to find out what they wanted to do as a community-driven activity with distancing norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Tagore and Netaji, an unusual relationship||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Rabindranath Tagore are Bengal’s two greatest icons. Though there were commonalities in their philosophy and politics, there were also differences. It might be fair to say that Tagore was more of an individualist while Bose was more communitarian. While Tagore was not involved actively in the freedom struggle since he was against notions of “nationhood” to which the individual must be subservient, Bose was involved in it with vigour. Not much has been written about the unusual relationship between these two towering personalities although they interacted several times. Right from his student days in Cuttack, Bose had been enthralled by Tagore’s poetry and used to recite them at events. His first interaction with Tagore happened in 1914 when he was a student of Presidency College, Calcutta, and visited Santiniketan with some of his fellow students. Unfortunately, Bose’s enthusiasm was dampened when Tagore gave them advice on village development and the role of the youth in facilitating that development. Bose was probably expecting a more grandiose conversation on arts and culture since Tagore had already won the Nobel Prize. Later in life Bose recalled this meeting and held a different opinion about it. Interestingly, many years after this interaction they did have a difference of opinion on the nature and usefulness of art in general. Bose thought art should be accessible to all, including the poorest. He felt there was an inherently elitist bias in the consummation and appreciation of art. Tagore, while appreciating Bose’s viewpoint, had a different perspective. According to Tagore, “When art reaches its pinnacle, that is the high point of the aesthetic of the creator. It is unfair to assume that everyone will appreciate that. If the forces of appeasing every individual are mandated on the creator, then it will spell disaster.” This difference of opinion on art is interesting given how the two are perceived in relation to their outlooks on life. The second interaction happened a few years later, on a ship, while Tagore was returning to India from one of his US and Europe trips. Bose was returning on the same ship after resigning from the ICS programme in England to join Mahatma Gandhi’s Non-Cooperation Movement. During that interaction, Tagore told Bose that though he was not against Gandhiji’s movement, he did not agree with a lot of what Gandhiji was attempting. He did not attest to Gandhiji’s call for boycotting the educational institutions established by the British. Although Bose heard out Tagore’s viewpoint, he was not influenced to act accordingly. He took part in the boycott of British educational institutions and the creation of a parallel national educational system, even becoming a key figure in establishing the Kolkata Vidyapith in 1921. Later, when Bose met Gandhiji, he was disillusioned by him. He did not think that Gandhiji had clear ideas about where he wanted to take the movement. Given that uncertainty, he was unsure how Gandhiji would achieve independence from the British. In contrast, Bose was much more impressed after meeting Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das and found in him the leader he was looking for. It’s well known that Tagore had many differences of opinion with Das, and this in turn affected the relationship between Tagore and Bose to an extent. It’s also well known that Tagore was upset with Bose when in 1928 Bose was involved in celebrating Saraswati Puja at City College with an idol of the goddess. City College was a Brahmo institution where idol worship was not permitted. When the students decided to ignore that and celebrate Saraswati Puja in a more traditional way, the college authorities fined them. Bose stood in support of the students quite strongly, which upset Tagore. In a letter to his son Rathindranath, he expressed his displeasure with Bose and wrote he had “lost all respect for Bose”. A few years later, in 1935, Bose’s autobiographical work, The Indian Struggle, was published from London. Bose wanted the foreword to his book written by either H.G. Wells or George Bernard Shaw, and requested Tagore to write to them on his behalf. In a letter to Tagore he wrote: “I had thought about asking Monsieur Rolland also but he is too much of a Gandhi admirer which I am not. Hence I am not sure whether he will be willing to write for my book. I had also thought about you but I am not sure whether you would be willing to write on my political book. You have also turned into a blind admirer of Gandhiji recently — one gets that impression from reading your recent writings. In this situation I am not sure whether you would tolerate any criticism about Gandhiji.” Tagore wrote back: “Gandhiji is a tremendous moral and ethical force which, if I do not respect it, will make me ‘blind’.” But later years witnessed a marked improvement in the Bose-Tagore relationship. In 1938, remarking about his first interaction with Tagore at Santiniketan, Bose said: “When I met him for the first time I was dampened by his advice to us on village development, but now I realise the potency of what he was trying to tell us.” I think Tagore became more empathetic towards Bose after observing how the younger man had been treated unfairly when he expressed his desire to become Congress president a second time at Tripuri. Gandhiji was clearly orchestrating the political cards so that Bose would be denied the position. In response to such machinations Tagore had written to both Gandhiji and Nehru arguing in favour of Bose. Ultimately, when Bose resigned from the Congress after much political drama, Tagore expressed his solidarity thus: “The dignity and forbearance which you have shown in the midst of a most aggravating situation has won my admiration and confidence in your leadership. The same perfect decorum has still to be maintained by Bengal for the sake of her own self-respect and thereby to help to turn your apparent defeat into a permanent victory.” Immediately after this in January 1939 he hailed Bose as “Deshnayak” (hero of the nation) and wrote a remarkable essay on him. After Bose’s mysterious disappearance from Calcutta in 1941, Tagore was greatly worried. In a telegram to Bose’s elder brother Sarat Bose he wrote: “Deeply concerned over Subhas’s disappearance. Convey mother my sympathy. Kindly keep me informed of news.” But Tagore’s greatest tribute to Bose came in his short story Badnam, written almost at the same time as Bose’s disappearance. The protagonist, a freedom fighter called Anil, who is crossing Afghanistan as Bose too did, remarks: “You are trying to chain me in your shackles, but do you yet have such chains?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid spike prompts call to follow norms in Calcutta||Public health experts have called for stringent adherence to the Covid-19 safety protocols, including wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and sanitising hands regularly, following a fresh rise in the number of Covid cases. The experts and health department officials are worried that many people are not wearing masks in public places, including malls and markets, and the number of public gatherings has increased. The protocols are being increasingly violated at gatherings such as marriage receptions and political rallies. Public health experts and doctors who have been closely monitoring the pandemic since its start a year ago said the situation was not as encouraging as it seemed a few weeks before. There has been an ebb for almost three months since end-November and this was typical of the pandemic, as witnessed across parts of Europe and North America, the experts said. But now there is a greater need for awareness of the situation, particularly in the wake of the huge rise in the number of Covid cases in Maharashtra, several doctors said. On March 14, the number of new Covid-19 cases in Bengal was 283. A month back, it was 185. The daily average of reported positive cases in Calcutta was 80, compared with around 55 a month back. On Sunday, Calcutta reported 93 cases and North 24-Parganas, 90 cases. “The Covid-19 pandemic raged for seven months and then the cases started reducing in November and December. Normal life was restored. When we were panic stricken with so many people around us getting infected and hospitals were full of Covid patients, it was easier to implement the safety norms. But once normality was restored, the threat did not sink in,” said cardiac surgeon and public health expert Kunal Sarkar. “Once public transport resumed and public gatherings allowed, it became impossible to maintain social distancing. Can people maintain physical distancing at election rallies and road shows? The only way out is to wear masks and avoid social gatherings as much as possible. We cannot presume to be safe unless we reach the threshold of Covid vaccination. Till such time the vaccination covers 25 per cent of the population, we cannot presume to be safe. We have barely reached one per cent. So, we have to adhere to the safety norms for next four to six months.” Last week, senior officials of the health department met at Swasthya Bhavan to review the situation. A string of advisories was drawn up for doctors and other frontline health workers at medical colleges where the footfall of Covid patients has again started going up. “Doctors attending patients in outdoor departments have been asked to be more particular about maintaining the Covid-19 protocols. At most major medical colleges, the staff at the clinics have been instructed to ensure physical distancing,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, the head of the gastroenterology department at SSKM Hospital, who is heading the Covid-19 monitoring team in Bengal. “Tests in some of the centres will be scaled up so that there is no laxity in detecting positive cases.” According to the health department data, a little over 17,000 samples were tested on Saturday. A month back, over 22,000 samples were tested in a day, a drop of 5,000 samples. Besides Calcutta, the chief medical officers of health in North 24-Parganas, Howrah and South 24-Parganas have been asked to increase the number of tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid spike defers classes on campus ||In-person classes in colleges and universities in the state are unlikely to be held in the upcoming semester, to start in April, because of a fresh rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, an official in the education department said. The spike in cases has also prompted the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, to defer implementing its decision to recall final-year BTech students to the campus. Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, an autonomous college under Calcutta University, has issued a notice announcing that it will conduct mid-semester, tutorial examinations and internal assessment in the online mode in the upcoming semester. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had said on February 3 after a meeting with vice-chancellors that colleges and universities would not open for in-person classes in the ongoing semester ending March. He had left it to the VCs to decide whether in-person classes could be held for the semester starting in April. However, an official of the education department said in-person classes were unlikely to begin before June. “Covid-19 cases are rising in Bengal and many other states. It would not be prudent to start in-person classes from April. We need to wait and watch how the situation unfolds and take a decision by June.” Several VCs Metro spoke to on Sunday opposed the resumption of in-person classes now. All of them expressed the fear that any gathering on the campus could aggravate the Covid situation and doubted whether the physical distancing norm, a key precautionary measure against Covid-19, could be observed in hostels, where each room is shared by multiple students. “In a university, students come from states beyond Bengal. The number of Covid cases is rising in Bengal and other states. Allowing students on the campus could be risky. What if students from other states come from containment zones?” wondered a VC who did not want to be named. A notice issued by Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, on March 10 said undergraduate and postgraduate theory classes in the upcoming semester would end by June 30 and classes would be held on digital platforms. “Since CU has not told us anything about the resumption of in-person classes, it is clear that classes will continue to be held on digital platforms,” said an official of the college. St Xavier’s College, also an autonomous college under Calcutta University, started holding classes of the even semester (second, fourth and sixth) from mid-February in the online mode, said principal Father Dominic Savio. Soumya Sen Sharma, the registrar of NIT Durgapur, said the institute had put on hold its decision to bring back final-year BTech students to the campus from March 15 following the rise in Covid cases across the country. The institute had decided to bring students of the eighth semester so that they could attend lab classes, which cannot be held online. Around half the students at the NIT are from other states. “The rise in Covid cases has prompted us to delay the recall,” said Sen Sharma. Calls to education minister Partha Chatterjee went unanswered. He did not reply to a text message from this newspaper either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid inspection before ISC/ICSE exams in Calcutta||Schools where students will appear in the ICSE and ISC exams will have an additional round of inspection, during which officials will check seating arrangements, sanitisation system and other Covid-19 protocols, said conveners. Usually, conveners visit the schools in their respective zones during the exams. This time, there will be a visit before the start of the exams as well, following an instruction from the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, which conducts the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. “The conveners have been asked to do one inspection before the board exams. We will see whether the Covid protocols are being followed. The conveners will inspect the seating arrangements, sanitisation system, availability of sanitisers and other things. The inspection will be done after the schools are ready with the arrangements and before the exams,” said Sanchita Biswas, the principal of St Paul’s Mission School and an ISC convener. All schools are required to maintain a gap of six feet between two examinees. In previous years, the requirement was to maintain a gap of two feet. “We usually do not make a visit before the exams, but this year we will,” said Lionel Chellappa, the principal and assistant administrator of the Assembly of God Church School Park Street, and an ISC convener. “We will have to ensure that the protocols announced by the council and the state government are followed.I plan to make a visit before the practicals to find out how many batches are there and how the lab space is being divided and utilised.” The ICSE and ISC theory papers start on May 4.The ISC practical exams are scheduled between April 1 and May 31. The Covid safety norms will include staggered movement of candidates, maintaining distancing norms, proper sanitisation of exam halls and frequently touched surfaces and keeping isolation rooms ready. “Since it is Covid, we have to be doubly sure and we cannot take chances,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar and a ICSE convener. Aniket Debroy, another ICSE convener and principal of St Thomas’ Day School, on Free School Street, said they would also check whether arrangements were being made to measure the body temperature of the examinees. The principals are in touch with the conveners in their zones to be briefed about the safety protocols. “There is going to be zone meetings to be briefed about the details that schools are expected to adhere to,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent, Entally. Conveners also expect schools to adhere to all norms and nobody would take it lightly. “This being an unusual year, the schools will not take it lightly and we think nobody is going to cut corners,” said Sanchita Biswas, of St Paul’s Mission School. Each convener has about 10 to 15 schools in his or her zone. The usual visit by conveners during the exams will be held this year, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Two Calcutta cops arrested for drug racket link||Two constables of Calcutta police have been arrested for allegedly being part of a drug racket that was supplying heroin to peddlers in Calcutta. The special task force of Calcutta police arrested Palash Biswas and Subrata Biswas at a hideout in Gaighata, North 24-Parganas, early on Sunday after their names emerged in connection with the drug racket that was unearthed by the city police two days ago. Both are constables of the armed police wing of Calcutta police and are residents of Bongaon, North 24-Parganas. An officer of the special task force said the lead came on March 12 when they arrested three men for alleged possession of heroin worth more than Rs 5 crore. The trio — Fani Biswas, Raju Biswas and Sambit Ray — were arrested on Strand  Road following a tip-off and heroin weighing 1.132kg was seized from them. Fani and Raju are from Bongaon, while Sambit is from Odisha. “During interrogation, Fani Biswas and Raju Biswas said they had received the supply from two of their neighbours in Bongaon who used to go to Calcutta frequently. On further investigations we found that both are constables of the Calcutta police and used to boast they would never get caught as they were cops themselves,” said an officer of the special task force. The sleuths also came to know about the involvement of another person in the case - Prasanta Sikdar, a drug peddler from Bongaon. By the time the police raided the houses of Palash Biswas, Subrata Biswas and Prasanta Sikdar, the news of the arrest of the others in Calcutta had reached them and none could be found at home. Based on inputs from sources, the STF team raided a small house inside a poultry farm at Gaighata, around 5km from Bongaon, and found all three there. They were arrested early on Sunday and produced in the court later in the day. The three have been sent to judicial custody. Those arrested on Strand Road are in police remand. Several police officers described as “very unusual” the involvement of policemen in a drug racket. “It is learned from the neighbourhood where the two live that they used to boast about their high-level contacts and that no one could touch them because they are cops,” said an investigator. Sleuths said they were trying to find out whether the constables had been acting as carriers and supplying drugs to places where they had easy access because of their uniform.  Both cops were suspended on Sunday and a departmental inquiry has been initiated against them, sources at Lalbazar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Youth catches hunters with 25 dead squirrels ||A 25-year-old man stood up to a group of alleged hunters armed with bows, arrows and improvised bamboo spears at a village in Howrah’s Panchla on Saturday. More than 25 dead squirrels were found on the group, most of whose members fled the spot after being challenged by Subhankar Koley, 25. Koley managed to hold on to two of the alleged hunters who were later arrested by the forest department. The incident took place at Jalalshi Bowbazar village in Panchla, around 7km from Dhulagarh and 30km from the heart of Calcutta. Shortly before noon, Koley spotted the group of seven coming out of a wetland near the village. “Arrows and what looked like spears in the hands of the members caught my attention. I stopped the group. One of the members said they had come to catch civet cats,” said Koley. Told that catching and hunting civet cats was illegal, the group members fled the spot. “I caught the shirt of one of the members who was carrying a bag… Over 25 dead squirrels were found in the bag later,” said Koley. He called his brother and a couple of friends who “detained” the man with the bag. Koley then raced on his cycle to catch hold of another man. “He seemed to have lost his way and was standing outside the village. I brought him back to his accomplice,” said Koley. A team of foresters arrived soon and the two men were arrested. “The arrested persons have been identified as Rajesh Dolui, 26, and Bikash Dolui, 23. The two are residents of a village in West Midnapore. They confessed to being part of a hunting group that travels across south Bengal to kill animals and birds, mainly for food,” said a forest official in Howrah. Squirrels are protected under Schedule 4 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. If convicted, the two face six months of imprisonment, said the forest official. Squirrel hair is also used in making paint brushes, said a forest official. “In this case, we have just provided support. The main credit goes to the young man and other villagers who caught the group,” said Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah. Koley used to work with an online fashion retailer before the pandemic. But he has since lost the job. He is part of Howrah Zilla Joutho Poribesh Moncho, a forum of several nature and wildlife NGOs in Howrah. “In the past, he has helped in the rescue of civet cats and other animals,” said Subhradip Ghosh, a convener of the forum. “We have encountered over 300 such hunting groups across Howrah this season,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Business||EPFO closes71.01 lakh employees’ provident fund accounts in Apr-Dec 2020||Retirement fund body EPFO closed 71.01 lakh employees’ provident fund (EPF) accounts during April-December in 2020 post-pandemic which is higher than 66.66 lakh in the same period year ago, Parliament was informed on Monday. The government had imposed lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic on March 25, 2020. “The number of Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) accounts closed during the period from April to December 2020 is 71,01,929,” Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha on Monday. According to the reply, the number of closure of EPF account in April-December 2019 was 66,66,563. The EPF account is closed for many reasons including superannuation, job loss or changing jobs. The minister also stated that the number of EPF accounts with partial withdrawal also rose to 1,27,72,120 in April-December 2020 from 54,42,884 in the same period in 2019. Total withdrawals from EPF account in April-December 2020 rose to Rs 73,498 crore from Rs 55,125 crore in the corresponding period year ago. In a separate reply to the House, the minister said that under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojna (ABRY), 1.83 lakh establishment or firms have been registered covering 15.30 Lakh employees till February 28, 2021. As much as Rs 186.34 crore has been released under the ABRY till February 28, 2021. The ABRY scheme has been launched to incentivize employers for creation of new employment along with social security benefits and restoration of loss of employment during the COVID-19 pandemic. This scheme being implemented through the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) reduces the financial burden of the employers of various sectors/ industries and encourages them to hire more workers. Under ABRY, the Government of India is bearing for a period of two years, both the employees' share (12% of wages) and employers' share (12% of wages) of contribution payable. In another reply to the House, the minister said the EPFO has invested Rs 27,532.39 crore in exchange-traded funds (ETF) till February 28, 2021. The EPFO had invested Rs 32,377.26 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 27,743.19 crore in 2018-19 in the ETF. In a separate reply to the House, the minister stated, “The number of claims settled by the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) during the lockdown period (i.e March 25, 2020, to May 31, 2020) were 31,01,818.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Centre working on Jharkhand to agree on commercial mining, says minister||The Centre on Monday said it is trying to "consult and convince" the Jharkhand government about the benefits of its commercial coal mining policy which is designed to boost domestic production and reduce imports. Union coal minister Prahlad Joshi said during the Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha that it was a "big sin" that India, despite having the largest coal reserves, was dependent on import of thermal coal used in power generation. The dependence on imports was due to restriction on allocation of coal blocks, which had been eased out after serious consultations with state governments, he said. After the consultations, the central government brought a commercial coal mining policy under which coal blocks are opened to private investors through auction for commercial purpose, he added. "We have consulted the state governments. Even we have consulted the Jharkhand government. Initially, they appreciated it and later they have opposed it. But we are in regular consultation with the state government," Joshi said in the upper House. The Centre is trying to "consult and convince" the Jharkhand government because ultimately the policy is in the interest of the state as the revenue earned goes to the state, not to the Centre, he said. "We are trying to convince them. I hope they will be convinced. Already auction is done since the cooperation of the state is needed, we are in regular touch with the state government," he added. The minister was responding to a query by BJP leader from Jharkhand Sameer Oroan that if any hurdle had been faced in imports due to opposition to the government policy by Jharkhand. Replying to another question asked by BJD leader Amar Patnaik on non-operation of coal blocks that were already auctioned, the minister said some of the mines had not started production. “The coal ministry on a day-to-day basis monitors and is changing the norms to withdraw such blocks which are not operational,” he said, adding that the Centre was continuously interacting with state governments, including Odisha on this issue. "I would also like to acknowledge that the Odisha government is giving very positive suggestions and accordingly we are acting," he added. The minister said that it took 2-3 years to start actual production after allocation of coal or mine blocks. However, many measures had been taken to speed up and begin the production at the earliest. “Approximately Rs 6,556 crore will be the revenue when coal mines start the production,” he said. On imports, the minister said that it may be little difficult to cut shipments of imported coal with which power is generated and there is no substitute for that in the country. "But the target of the Modi government is to stop all avoidable imports by 2024," he added. To another query on steps taken to preserve the green cover over mines, the minister said plantation drive was underway in a big way. “Wherever possible mine water is purified and supplied for drinking purpose and irrigation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 397 points, Nifty slips below 15K||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 397 points on Monday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid weak macroeconomic cues. After gyrating 1,035.71 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 397 points or 0.78 per cent lower at 50,395.08. The broader NSE Nifty finished 101.45 points or 0.67 per cent down at 14,929.50. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finance, L&T, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech and NTPC were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities witnessed sharp sell-off for the second consecutive trading day as mounting concerns about resurgence of COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country and rising bond yields made investors jittery. "Further, unexpected contraction in IIP data for January 2021 and sharp spike in CPI print also weighed on sentiments," he said. Industrial production growth re-entered the negative territory by contracting by 1.6 per cent in January, while retail inflation soared to a three-month high of 5.03 per cent in February on costlier food items, as per data released post market hours on Friday. Further, the wholesale price-based inflation rose for the second consecutive month in February to 4.17 per cent, as food, fuel and power prices spiked. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.01 per cent lower at USD 69.21 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||India||Nationwide 2-day strike impacts banking services of PSU banks||Banking services such as cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearing and business transactions were impacted across the country on Monday, the day one of the PSU bank union's strike, against the proposed privatisation of two more state-owned lenders.  United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, had given a strike call for March 15 and 16, and claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike.  In the Union Budget presented last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the government's disinvestment plan.  All India Bank Officers Association (AIBOC) General Secretary Sowmya Dutta said the government policies are going to have ill effects on the economy as also it will be reflected in the upcoming polls in some states.  He said nearly all the bank employees have taken part in the two-day strike except for top-level employees.  "All banking services are impacted from cash withdrawals to deposits, business transactions, loan process, cheque clearing, account opening and business transactions," he said.  He said the striking employees have taken out rallies, wherever permitted, across the country, and given a sat-in and if the government does not listen to them they will go for an even bigger, indefinite strike like the one on the lines of ongoing farmers' agitation.  "We are connected with crores of population through our branches, we are educating our customers about the government's ill policies and how it is going to impact them," Dutta said.  Through the Department of Financial Services, the bank unions have also conveyed to the Finance Minister to withdraw her statement from the floor of Parliament about privatisation of the state-owned banks, he added.  All bank employees from the scale I, II and III had a 100 per cent participation across the banking sector in Monday's strike, said a bank official who is not authorised to speak to the media.  "We call them assistant managers, managers and senior managers. At this level, there is 100 per cent participation in the strike and 80-90 per cent branches are headed by them," the official said.  The bigger branches headed by chief managers or AGMs are about 20 per cent, so even if these senior level employees are not taking part in the strike, they alone cannot run the bank, said the official cited above.  Meanwhile, branches of private sector lenders like ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank are open as they are not part of the strike.  The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019, and has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years.  According to All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) general secretary CH Venkatachalam, services at branch level; cheque clearance; and government transactions have been affected.  Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI).  Others are the Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 600 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 600 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking losses in financial stocks amid foreign fund outflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 630.51 points or 1.24 per cent lower at 50,161.57, and the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 184.15 points or 1.23 per cent down at 14,846.80. SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by M&M, Dr Reddy's Lab, Bajaj Auto, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra and PowerGrid were the gainers. In the previous session on Friday, the Sensex had ended 487.43 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 50,792.08, and Nifty tanked 143.85 points or 0.95 per cent to end at 15,030.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they sold shares worth Rs 942.60 crore, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, a sharp increase in CPI print for February and unexpected contraction in IIP data for January are expected to weigh on investors' sentiments. Further, sharp increase in US treasury yields and recent spike in fresh COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country are likely to keep markets volatile in the near term, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.74 per cent higher at USD 69.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||United Forum of Bank Unions calls for nationwide strike||Banking operations across the country could be impacted on Monday and Tuesday as the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has given a call for a nationwide strike to protest against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned lenders. Services such as deposits and withdrawal at branches, cheque clearance and loan approvals would be affected due to the strike. UFBU, an umbrella body of nine unions, in a statement claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike. Many public sector lenders, including State Bank of India, have informed their customers that their normal working could be affected at the branches and offices if the strike materialises. In the Union budget presented last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks as part of the government’s disinvestment plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||36 mutual funds to fall foul of Sebi’s latest rules||As many as 36 schemes of mutual funds will fall foul of Sebi’s latest rules that limit the exposure of the funds in instruments such as additional tier 1 (AT-1 or perpetual bonds) and tier 2  bonds. An analysis by credit rating agency Crisil said the 36 schemes of 13 fund houses held more than 10 per cent of their net asset value of their debt portfolio in such papers. The regulator had also said a single scheme cannot hold more than 5 per cent of their NAV in a single issue. Crisil said none of the fund houses has breached another restriction by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) viz. they cannot now hold more than 10 per cent of their holdings across all schemes in a single issue. Last week, Sebi had came out with a circular on the review of norms regarding investment in debt instruments with special features such as additional tier 1 (AT-1) and tier 2 bonds as well as the valuation of the  perpetual bonds. The directives prompted a sharp retort from the finance ministry which objected to the valuation rule for the perpetual bonds. North Block directed to Sebi to scrap the rule that said such instruments should be treated as having a 100-year tenure. Sebi had also said the investments in excess of the limits may be grandfathered. Such schemes shall not make any fresh investment in these instruments till their exposure comes below the specified limits. North Block, however, said the instructions that reduce the concentration risk of such instruments can be retained as fund houses have adequate headroom even within the ceiling. According to Crisil, the Sebi move will mitigate risk in debt portfolios of retail investors. The agency said  banking and public sector undertaking (PSU) fund categories have the highest number of schemes  — seven — exceeding the cap. Five schemes of credit risk funds have exceeded the cap. Others to cross the limit are four schemes from medium duration funds, four from medium- to long-duration funds and three from dynamic bond funds. Piyush Gupta, director, Crisil funds Research, said the move to grandfather limits previously held was a positive step. “In the medium- to long-term, with the caps in place, it can reduce the MFs’ appetite for these securities, thus limiting the risk for investors. This is also prudent given the advent of influx of individual investors into debt funds.” Gupta said the individual investors may not have the ability to understand MF portfolios and gauge risk, especially in such type of bonds. “We saw how they were caught unaware by the recent write-offs,” he said. Additional tier 1 bonds are perpetual debt instruments that cannot be redeemed at the option of the holder and carry fixed coupon. They are issued by banks which do not have a maturity date and are, hence, called perpetuals but have higher risks. On the other hand, additional tier 2 bonds are one-two notches above AT-1 bonds of a bank and therefore have high loss-absorption features. The RBI had opened up these bonds to retail investors about six years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||CII suggests safe harbours for independent directors||Industry body CII has suggested putting in place safe harbours for independent directors, calling for proceedings against them to be initiated only when there is prima facie evidence of their involvement in a matter. The government recently concluded the exercise of decriminalising the Companies Act, 2013. In this connection, the CII has submitted a paper to the ministry of corporate affairs highlighting matters with respect to the framework for settlement of offences; liability of independent directors; vicarious liability etc. The chamber said it is necessary to expressly exempt independent directors from vicarious criminal liability as they are not involved in the day-to-day running of the company. A non-obstante clause may be incorporated in the Act to exclude independent directors from any vicarious criminal liability for offences committed by the company, it said. As a general principle, given the onerous responsibilities and liabilities on directors, including independent directors and company secretaries, penalties ought to be limited to fines instead of imprisonment, suggested the chamber. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in the paper on decriminalisation argued that establishing safe harbours will go a long way towards addressing concerns of talented individuals wishing to join company boards as independent directors. “Liability of an independent director under the Companies Act may be limited to the extent of such contraventions/defaults, which are committed by the company with the knowledge or consent of the said independent director,” CII said. In relation to corporate social responsibility (CSR), the penalty that be imposed for non-compliance should not exceed the unspent CSR amount, it suggested. The chamber highlighted the need to create legal and procedural safeguards relating to personal liability of independent directors, and initiation of prosecution itself should be an exception rather than the rule, to keep risk and rewards of being an independent director proportionate. The whole idea of decriminalising civil duties is essential to conserve faith in the institution of independent directors, it said. While there are several case laws that set out legal principles on interpreting vicarious liability under various statutes, initiation of proceedings itself can involve significant personal hardship and costs for the concerned individuals, it argued. “While wrong doers must be prosecuted, there needs to be procedural guidelines/safeguards across laws to restrict and minimize proceedings against individuals who are not actually and demonstrably in charge of the management," said CII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Govt plans to sell residual stakes in Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad airports||The government plans to sell its residual stakes in the already privatised Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad airports as part of the ambitious Rs 2.5-lakh-crore asset monetisation pipeline identified to raise additional resources, sources said. The sale of the Airport Authority of India’s (AAI) remaining stakes in the four airports as also 13 more airports has been identified for privatisation in 2021-22, two people aware of the deliberations at the empowered committee of secretaries last month said. The ministry of civil aviation will obtain the requisite approvals for the divestment of equity stakes of the AAI in the respective joint ventures running the Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad airports, they said, adding the issue is likely to go to the cabinet for approval in the next few days. For the 13 AAI airports identified for privatisation, the possibility of clubbing of profitable and non-profitable airports will be explored to make more attractive packages, sources said. In the first round of airports’ privatisation under the Narendra Modi government, the Adani group bagged contracts for six airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangalore, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati — last year. The AAI, which works under the ministry of civil aviation, owns and manages more than 100 airports across the country. Adani Group holds a 74 per cent stake in Mumbai International Airport, while the remaining 26 per cent stake is with the AAI. In Delhi International Airport, GMR Group holds 54 per cent and the Airports Authority of India holds 26 per cent, while Fraport AG and Eraman Malaysia holds 10 per cent stake each. The AAI along with the government of Andhra Pradesh holds 26 per cent in Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. It holds a similar stake in Bangalore International Airport along with the Karnataka government. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the 2021-22 budget speech had said monetising operating public infrastructure assets is very important financing option for new infrastructure construction. A “National Monetisation Pipeline” of potential brownfield infrastructure assets will be launched and an asset monetisation dashboard will also be created for tracking the progress and to provide visibility to investors, she had said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month said the government is targeting monetising 100 assets such as oil and gas pipelines, which can draw a massive Rs 2.5 lakh crore of investment. The government is targeting Rs 1.75 lakh crore from the divestment proceeds in the next financial year beginning April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Raghuram Rajan cautions 'drastic changes in India’s monetary policy can upset bond market||Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan on Sunday cautioned that “drastic changes” in India’s monetary policy framework can upset the bond market as the current system has helped to contain inflation and promote growth. Rajan, also a noted economist, opined that the government’s ambitious target to make India a $5-trillion economy by 2024-25 was “more aspirational, rather than a carefully computed one even before the pandemic”. “I believe the (monetary policy) framework has helped bring inflation down, while giving the RBI some flexibility to support the economy. It is hard to think of what would have happened if we had to run such large fiscal deficits without such a framework in place,” Rajan told PTI in an interview. His remarks were in response to a query on whether he was in favour of reviewing the 2-6 per cent target band for inflation under the monetary policy framework. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has the mandate to maintain retail inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. The central bank’s six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) headed by RBI governor decides on policy rates keeping this target in mind. The current medium-term inflation target, which was notified in August 2016, ends on March 31. The inflation target for the next five years starting April 1 is likely to be notified this month. Against this backdrop, Rajan said, “We risk upsetting bond markets if we make drastic changes in the framework”. “I think the framework has been beneficial in bringing down inflation, I don’t think it has been costly in slowing growth, and this is probably the wrong time to make drastic changes,” he pointed out. With the government embarking on substantial borrowing plans to boost the coronavirus pandemic-hit economy, there are concerns among certain quarters about the overall financial health, and bond yields have also been on an upward trajectory. The latter trend indicates that government borrowings could become more costly. About reform measures, Rajan said that while the 2021-22 budget has placed a lot of weight on privatisation, the history of the government delivering on this is checkered, and he wondered how it will be different this time. He pointed out that in the latest budget, laudably, there is more transparency about the true extent of spending, as well as a degree of conservatism about budget receipts that has not been seen in recent budgets. However, Rajan opined that the budget is less clear about revenue raising and the financial sector actions. The slow projected pace of fiscal consolidation could have been made more feasible by credible measures such as a fiscal council and a debt target, he added. The government has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sales in public sector companies and financial institutions, including 2 public sector banks and one general insurance company for the next fiscal beginning April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Tata Motors optimistic about semiconductors supply||Homegrown auto major Tata Motors is optimistic that the supply constraint of semiconductors that has impacted its commercial vehicle production will be back to normal by the second half of the next fiscal, according to a senior company official. The company, which had hiked prices in October and January to offset the impact of rising commodity rates, is looking at taking a similar step in April in the wake of continued increase in steel and other raw material prices. “In H2 (the second half of the ongoing fiscal), we have also seen semiconductors becoming a major constraint. This is something which has actually affected us in commercial vehicles (CVs) also,” said Girish Wagh, president of commercial vehicle business unit, Tata Motors. Stating that the semiconductor supply constraints started from November, he said, “We have seen some impact. Initially, it was on small commercial vehicles (SCV) and later we have also seen some impact happening in medium and heavy commercial vehicles (M&HCV).” In terms of the actual impact on production, he said it varies from segment to segment with the “highest in SCVs and the least in I&LCV (intermediate and light commercial vehicles)”. To overcome the challenge, the company has taken several steps, including engaging with suppliers and talking to semiconductor manufacturers to get some of the consignments faster. On being asked how long the issue is likely to continue, Wagh said, “The impact should go on gradually reducing. Towards the end of Q2 and beginning of H2, we should be seeing the supply side completely on track but the situation is indeed very very dynamic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Home buyers prefer market leaders||The Covid pandemic appears to be changing the landscape of Indian real estate in a manner no regulation could do yet. Top-grade developers and branded players with established track records are gradually cornering a bigger pie of the market, pushing out the rest. In a sign of maturity, the share of top developers has doubled in just two years with most of the tailwind felt after the lockdown, consolidating the highly fragmented residential real estate market in favour of big boys. Top developers now corner 15.6 per cent of the total floor space sold in India, twice the share it had two years back. In the beginning of the year, their share was just about 9.8 per cent, a study conducted by India Ratings & Research, noted. They predicted the share could touch 19.8 per cent by FY22. During April-December, the total floor space sold was down 41 per cent but grade-A players bucked the trend, who saw their sales going up by 4.3 per cent in the same period despite the pandemic. “There is a clear shift happening towards branded players. When it comes to under-construction property, buyers are trusting only top developers. In the case of others, we see customers preferring only if it is ready to move in wherein risks of delivery are not there,” said Sriram Mahadevan, managing director of Joyville Shapoorji Housing Pvt Ltd. The company said it has been able to command premium over competitors in the market where it operates — Pune, Delhi, Mumbai and Howrah — apart from clocking faster sales. The absence of advance money from prospective buyers during construction and unavailability of bank finance is only exacerbating the tight cash flow of non-graded players. Abhishek Shukla, associate director of Ind-Ra, who wrote the report, said non-graded players were caught in a vicious cycle during the pandemic and the stress they were in multiplied during the period. “Buyers have turned cautious, they are preferring builders who have a track record of timely delivery. As a result, sales dried up for non-graded players, which further hamstrung their ability to complete an ongoing project and get buyers,” Shukla explained. Ind-Ra expects overall floor space sold during the next fiscal to go up by 30 per cent, after the 34 per cent decline witnessed in this fiscal. It was stagnant at 326 million square foot in 2019-20. “The recovery will be dominated by the grade-1 players, whose sales are likely to grow by 49 per cent year-on-year next fiscal, after a 14 per cent y-o-y increase in this fiscal. Non-grade I players are also likely to see their sales rise by 26 per cent y-o-y in FY22, after a 39 per cent y-o-y decline in FY21,” the report read. Trapped with large inventory of land or unfinished projects and tight cash flow, many developers are looking to farm out assets to monetise them. Consolidation is seen among players where companies having stronger brand name are entering into development management contracts with relatively weaker players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Dabbling in debt||Years from now you would remember the last few months of fiscal 2020-21 for a number of reasons — the arrival of a vaccine, the appearance of green shoots in some corners of the economy, the farmers’ agitation in the North and the market’s changing views on interest rates. Those were the winds of change, you would then think aloud, and may be you would recall some of the specific events and developments that you know would eventually fade into oblivion. Casting aside oblivion and steering clear of sentiments, let us dwell on the here and the now — more specifically, on developments in the debt market, especially the probability of rising inflation. Influential sections of the market seem to have taken this into account already; they are, in fact, well aware of the impact of factors such as the recent stimulus packages, partial opening up of the economy after the lockdown, increasing commodity prices and so on. Informed quarters now have a pronounced leaning towards shorter duration debt products as such a stance would help in mitigating the downside risk in a scenario marked by rising rates. I have a strong feeling that the discerning investor of the day would focus heavily on yields, and not really on the prices of securities. This, of course, is in line with the preferred trend; smarter sections of the market seem to simply love phrases like “well, the yields scenario looks primed for changes” and even “yields increased (or declined) on Monday” but not “prices declined (or advanced) on Monday”. These participants certainly are well aware of the fact that coupons are holding steady as changing yields do not mean that coupons are changing too. A coupon is, after all, determined at the time of issuance and mostly does not alter during the existence of a security. Investors further know that their shorter allocations would continue to fortify their total income. Bonds, for instance, keep paying interest despite changes in prices. In fact, rising prices mean that investors could sell their holdings and derive capital gains. Here are three quick points to remember: The writer is director of Wishlist Capital Advisor||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Maruti to have a service workshop for its vehicles every 15 to 20 km||Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) will be having a service workshop for its vehicles every 15km to 20 km in the country. At present, it has 4,000 touch points in 1989 towns and cities, thus making it the largest service network of any car maker in the country. The company has added 208 service workshops in this fiscal. “The country has 5500 talukas and we are covering almost 98 per cent of these talukas apart from some hilly terrains in the north-east,” said Partha Banerjee, executive director (service), MSIL. Besides having the largest retail network among all the car companies, Maruti has an  an end-to-end digital sales platform. “The customer journey has been digitised but the vehicle journey cannot be digitised. So we are bringing the service part closer to the customer so that if he has any problem with the vehicle it can be addressed quickly and efficiently,” said Banerjee. Customers can digitally book their servicing needs, create a job card, book a pick-up and drop of his vehicle digitally. “Once at the workshop, if the vehicle needs additional work or repairs, we upload videos with details and send to the customer for his approval.” Of the 1989 towns and cities covered, most are in the urban areas. “In the rural areas we can have a brick and mortar workshop only if the area crosses a threshold of car park. We need to have a car park of 600 vehicles to have a physical brick and mortar workshop,” said Banerjee. In those areas where the company does not have a workshop, vehicles are repaired by Service on Wheels, a mobile service station. In a move to offer faster on-road assistance for customers’ cars, a first-of-its-kind integrated service initiative, the Quick Response Team on bikes has been rolled out in 249 cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||India||Shopian encounter: 2 terrorist killed in an encounter||Fresh firing erupted on Monday between militants and security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir where a top commander of Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit was among two ultras killed in the operation that entered its third day, police said. “Fresh contact has been established with the third terrorist at Rawalpora in Shopian,” a police officer said. Earlier in the day, Inspector General of Police Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar said the security forces achieved a major breakthrough by eliminating a top commander of Jaish who was operating under the nom de guerre of Sajad Afghan. Vilayat Hussain Lone alias Sajjad Afghani, one of the most wanted militants in Kashmir, was killed in fresh exchange of firing with security forces on Monday. One militant identified as Jahangir Ahmad Wani of Lashkar-e-Toiba was killed in the firefight on Sunday. Kumar congratulated the security forces for eliminating Afghani. According to police records, Afghani was active since September 2018 and part of a group involved in executing a series of attacks on security forces and civilians. He was also involved in attacks on security establishments and brutal killings of civilians branding them as police or security forces informers. “Several terror crime cases were registered against him including a case pertaining to terrorising the people so as to keep them away from panchayat polls including blazing a panchayat ghar at Kanji-ullar,” a police spokesperson said. He said Afghani was also involved in the case pertaining to barging into the houses of police personnel, abducting and killing constable Nisar Ahmad, follower Firdous Ahmad and SPO Kulwant Singh. The other cases he was involved in included killings of civilians Tanveer Ahmad Dar, Suhail Ahmad Ganai and SPO Khusboo Jan. Giving details of the operation, the spokesperson said security forces launched an operation on Saturday night based on a specific input generated by Shopian Police regarding presence of terrorists in Rawalpora village. “During the search operation, as the presence of terrorists got ascertained they were given opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” the spokesperson said. Arms and ammunition including US-made M4 Carbine rifle and other incriminating material have been recovered from the site of encounter so far, the spokesperson said. “During the encounter, three houses caught fire while a group of miscreants tried to disrupt the operation and created law and order problem near the encounter site during which some of them were injured,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||BJP demands Gehlot’s resignation over phone tapping allegations||On Monday BJP demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on moral grounds after his government replied to a question in the state Assembly that it taps phones in the interest of public safety and order. Though the reply did not say it tapped phones of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat and supporters of former deputy CM Sachin Pilot after a rebellion in the Congress last year, the BJP linked it with the episode and demanded for a CBI probe. The Congress has denied the allegations with its chief whip in the state Assembly Mahesh Joshi saying they did not tap phone of any MLA or MP. The reactions came after the state government replied to a question asked by BJP MLA Kalicharan in the state Assembly last year. In the session called on August 14 by the Gehlot government for a floor test after the rebellion by Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs, Kalicharan had asked, “Is it true that phone tapping cases have come up in the last days? If yes, under which law and by whose orders?” In its reply given recently, the Home Department stated that telephones are intercepted in the interest of public safety and order. The telephones are intercepted under the provision of Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, and Section 419 (A) of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007, and Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 after approval by a competent officer, according to the reply. The department further states, Interception cases are reviewed by the chief secretary. All cases up to the month of November 2020 have been reviewed. Neither the MLA asked details about any particular person whose phone was tapped nor did the government gave any specific information about it. However on Monday, the BJP attacked the government over the issue and demanded Gehlot's resignation, accusing him of misleading the public. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat in a series of tweets accused the Congress of using government machinery to contain rebellion inside the party by tapping phones. BJP's Rajasthan chief Satish Poonia demanded a CBI inquiry into the matter. This is what the BJP had said in July last year – ‘Emergency is going on in Rajasthan’. The Gehlot government denied it at the time, and is now accepting that the phones were tapped. This is a violation of privacy, the murder of democracy, Shekhawat tweeted. There is a question from the public that why was phone tapping done using government machinery to contain the internal rebellion of the Congress Party? Why did the Congress government use the administration in its own interest? This is an illegal process, he said. Shekhawat alleged that the Congress trapped phones of its own MLAs, including a young leader . Insult at peak has been the tradition of the Congress. How can the Rajasthanis trust a government that does not trust its MLAs, he asked. Meanwhile, state BJP chief Satish Poonia alleged that lies were told and facts were tempered with. The chief minister, who holds the home portfolio, is guilty of this, Poonia told reporters here, demanding that the chief minister should resign on moral grounds and the matter should be investigated by the CBI. Trashing the charges, the Congress said it did not tap phone of any MLA or MP. "The government in a reply to the question has mentioned the process of phone interception under the law. After permission from competent authority, it is done. The Rajasthan government has not tapped phone of any MLA or minister," Joshi said. "If Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is so confident that phones were tapped, why he does not give his voice samples. It will prove whether the phone was tapped or not," he said. On the other hand, RLP's Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal said the state government indulged in an illegal act. He alleged phone tapping took place during the rule of Vasundhara Raje-led BJP government also and demanded an inquiry into matter. A controversy over phone tapping had erupted last year after audio clips purportedly having telephonic conversation between Union minister Gajendra Singh and Congress leaders surfaced. Congress leaders of the Ashok Gehlot camp had alleged that BJP leaders were involved in horse trading to topple the state government. The state government had rejected allegations of phone tapping. CM Gehlot had categorically stated in the last session of the Assembly that no illegal tapping of phones of any MLA or MP was done in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||Mumbai police suspends Sachin Waze from service||Mumbai Police on Monday suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Waze following his arrest by the NIA in connection with its probe into the recovery of explosives from a car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here, an official said. Deputy Commissioner of Police S Chaitanya told reporters that "API Sachin Waze has been placed under suspension by an order of Additional Commissioner of Police Special Branch". The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Waze on late Saturday night in connection with its probe into the recovery of a Scorpio containing 20 gelatin sticks near Ambani's house 'Antilia' in south Mumbai on February 25. Waze (49), credited with eliminating 63 alleged criminals in 'encounters', is also facing heat in the murder case of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the Scorpio. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane district on March 5. A Mumbai court on Sunday remanded Waze in the NIA's custody till March 25. Waze was arrested under IPC sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) 465 (forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal with intent to commit forgery), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and relevant provisions of the Explosive Substances Act, a police official earlier said. In its remand plea, the NIA submitted statements of witnesses to show Waze's involvement in the case. Waze, a 1990-batch officer of the state cadre, was earlier also suspended in 2004 over his role in the custodial death of a 2002 Ghatkopar blast suspect Khwaja Yunus and was reinstated last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||BSP to contest assembly polls in WB, TN, Kerala, Puducherry on its own: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Monday asserted that her party will contest the assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry on its own, saying the BSP has had a bitter experience of aligning with other parties in the past. She also stated that her party will go alone in the UP assembly elections next year. "We are working internally on the elections. We do not reveal our strategy. The BSP will contest on all the 403 assembly seats in UP, and will perform well. The performance of the party will be good in the panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh," she told reporters at an event to pay tributes to BSP founder Kanshi Ram on his 87th birth anniversary. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said her party has had a bitter experience of aligning with other parties in the past. "The experience of our party forging an alliance with others has not been good. Our party leaders, workers and voters are highly disciplined. This is not the case with other parties of the country. In an alliance, our votes are transferred to the other party, but the votes of the other party are not transferred to us," she said. "This has been a very bad and bitter experience. In future also, we will not forge any alliance with any party," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||'Metro Man' Sreedharan launches campaign, vows to regain lost glory of Palakkad||Launching his campaign, BJP candidate in Palakkad 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan on Monday said the party is fighting the elections on the plank of development and reasserted his claim that the NDA will form the government in Kerala after the April 6 Assembly polls. He attacked the state's ruling LDF, alleging that it was a government hit by corruption, scandals and nepotism. "The (CPI(M)-led) government was not keen on the development of the state. Its main focus was upliftment of the party," said the 88-year-old technocrat, a day after his name was officially declared as the BJP's candidate for Palakkad Assembly constituency. Taking a dig at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Sreedharan said, "He is a good chief minister for his party but not for the state." Sreedharan alleged that the LDF government did nothing for the development of the state during its five-year rule. He said the CPI(M)-led government did not take any steps for the implementation of NilamburNanjangud line to create a broad gauge rail connection from the town of Nanjangud in Karnataka to Nilambur in Kerala. Nothing has been done to implement a railway line between Guruvayur and Thirunavaya despite getting sanction, he added. The government stopped the preliminary works of light metro projects for ensuring improved transports systems in the cities of Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram. He expressed hope that the BJP-led NDA will win the Assembly polls and a government will be formed under his leadership. Sreedharan said if elected, he would try to regain the lost glory of Palakkad district in rice production. "Once upon a time Palakkad was the largest producer of paddy, popularly called 'Nellara (the rice bowl of the state). Those days have gone by a long time back. That lost glory will be regained," Sreedharan told a news channel. He lamented that Palakkad lacks basic facilities needed for a town. "There are no good higher education facilities in Palakkad barring Victoria College. Improved higher education facilities are required in Palakkad," said Sreedharan who made a surprise entry into politics through the BJP last month. Sitting MLA Shafi Parambil of the Congress and CPI(M)'s C P Pramod are his main rivals in the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
15-03-2021||India||India logs 26,291 new Covid infections, highest single-day rise in 85 days||India recorded 26,291 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, its highest single-day spike in 85 days, taking the country's infection tally to 1,13,85,339, according to Union health ministry data.  The death toll due to the disease increased to 1,58,725 with 118 more fatalities being recorded in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed.  Registering an upward trend for five days in a row, the total active caseload has gone up to 2,19,262 which is 1.93 per cent of the total infections in the country, while the recovery rate has dropped to 96.68 per cent, the data stated.  As many as 26,624 infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 20.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,07,352, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.39 per cent, according to the data.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,74,07,413 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to March 14, including 7,03,772 on Sunday.  The 118 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 20 from Punjab and 15 from Kerala, the data showed.  A total of 1,58,725 deaths have so far been reported in the country, including 52,861 from Maharashtra, 12,547 from Tamil Nadu, 12,390 from Karnataka, 10,941 from Delhi, 10,292 from West Bengal, 8,746 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,184 from Andhra Pradesh, it stated.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
15-03-2021||India||Boy thrashed for drinking temple water terrified, stays in bed: Dad||The father of a Muslim boy who was thrashed allegedly by caretakers of a popular temple near Delhi says his son is “very scared” and just “lies in bed” since Friday’s assault. Two men have been arrested and charged with assaulting the 14-year-old, who was attacked after he said he had come to the Dasna Devi Mandir to drink water. The accused allegedly filmed the assault — the images show a man stamping on the child’s face and upper thigh repeatedly — and uploaded the video on Instagram, boasting that a “Muslim terrorist” had been made “impotent”. “I was at home when all this happened,” the father told The Telegraph from Dasna in Uttar Pradesh, 50km east of Delhi, where the family lives. “He is very scared and he just lies in bed now.” A social worker who has met the boy said the child feared that if he stepped out, he would be beaten again because he is Muslim. The temple's controversial mahant, Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, had told this newspaper the boy had unnecessarily entered the temple despite the drinking-water tap being outside, and that the shrine had a sign prohibiting entry by Muslims. But the boy’s father said his son had drunk water from the tap outside and was leaving when the alleged attackers called him back. “The tap is at the gate of the temple. He says he drank water from it and was returning home, walking on the road, when two Pandits called him back,” the father said. “They asked him his name and his father’s name. Then they told him they would make a video with him, after which one of them thrashed him while the other recorded it.” The boy has eight siblings who work as rag-pickers and day labourers to support the family as the father is in poor health. On Saturday, the police had said the boy and his family were untraceable. However, after the boy had his statement recorded at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad district, the media were able to contact the family. "After beating him up they (the accused) told him to get out. This happened around (Friday) noon. Two policemen found him and gave him first aid and bandaged his injuries, after which he returned home," the father said. "Yesterday (Saturday) morning the police came to our home. They had his video on WhatsApp. I told them he had injured his head. They took my name and number and returned at 10pm and took me and my son to the police station. "I'm illiterate, so I don't know what they were writing in the police station. They were mainly talking to my son. Then they took us for his medical test, gave us medicines and dropped us home." The family is from Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh. Both accused are in judicial custody. The police say the man who beat the child is Shringi Nandan Yadav. The other accused has been identified as Swami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
15-03-2021||India||Crimes against women: UP accounts for 14% of the national total||Hundreds of crimes against women are reported every month in Uttar Pradesh, whose chief minister Yogi Adityanath likes to point the finger at other states like Bengal. Uttar Pradesh accounted for 59,853 crimes against women — 14 per cent of the national total — in 2019, the latest National Crime Records Bureau report says. Here’s a look at a few such crimes committed in Uttar Pradesh in the first eight days of this month alone, with several policemen among the accused and a woman police officer among the victims. These incidents show the cops following their tradition of refusing to register cases, casting aspersions on the victim, and even being accused of aiding the murder of the victims’ family members — features seen also in the notorious Unnao and Hathras gang-rape cases. Incidents: A 13-year-old girl is allegedly gang-raped in Ghatampur, Kanpur Rural. Her father is run over by a lorry on March 10 in the presence of police, a day after a death threat from a suspect’s brother. The victim’s brother alleges a policeman pushed his father under the lorry’s wheels. Suspects: Deepu Yadav, son of sub-inspector of police Devendra Yadav, and his friend Raj Kumar aka Golu Yadav are accused of the gang rape. SI Devendra, posted in Banda, is accused of plotting the father’s murder. Threat: While the girl’s brother was travelling to Sajeti police station on March 9, Golu’s elder brother Saurabh allegedly thrashed him and threatened publicly to kill him and his father if they dared register a rape case. Aspersions: The girl’s brother somehow reached the police station but the police didn’t register the case. A cousin of the rape survivor said the Sajeti police had claimed the girl was “immoral”. Kanpur superintendent of police Brijesh Srivastava has denied the allegation. Case status: A gang-rape case was registered on March 10 only after journalists visited the police station. Golu was arrested. Three policemen — inspector Abdul Kalam, sub-inspector Ram Shiromani and constable Adesh Kumar — have been suspended for dereliction of duty. Deepu remains untraced. A murder conspiracy case has been registered against Devendra. Incident: A male police sub-inspector abuses and shoves a woman inspector in full public view in the Civil Lines area of Allahabad. Dinkar allegedly wanted the inspector, his senior, to vacate her rented rooms in the Kotwali area. A video of the incident circulates on social media. Suspect: Sub-inspector Vinod Kumar Dinkar. Case status: Local circle officer Ajit Singh Chauhan says he is unaware of any such incident. The woman inspector had told reporters her own police station (Civil Lines) had rejected her complaint. Allahabad DIG Sarvashresth Tripathi said he had warned both officers of disciplinary action in case of a repeat. He didn’t explain what the woman inspector’s fault was. The video does not show her misbehaving with anyone. Incident: A youth allegedly stabs a married woman to death on a road in Shikarpur, Bulandshahr. Suspect: Vinit Kumar aka Vinesh, a distant relative of the victim. Case status: Vinit has been arrested. The police claim he had an affair with the victim. Incident: A 19-year-old youth allegedly barges into the home of a 45-year-old woman in Haveli Mohalla, Agra, and stabs her and her 15-year-old daughter to death. Suspect: Govind Kumar, a BSc student from the neighbourhood. Case status: Govind arrested on March 10. Incident: An 11-year-old girl is allegedly raped in an agricultural field in Phulpur, Azamgarh district. Suspect: A boy from the girl’s village whose name the police are withholding till they find out whether he is a minor. Case status: Local police inspector Ratnesh Kumar Singh said the suspect was in hiding. Incident: An Anganwadi worker from the Civil Lines area in Badaun alleges gang rape by a sub-inspector and two constables at the local Shekhupur police outpost. She says she had come to complain that four people had arrived at the Anganwadi centre on March 2, thrashed her and left with the record of expenses. She says the policemen told her to come another day and, when she did, took her into a room and gang-raped her. Suspects: A sub-inspector and two constables. Case status: No case has been registered – for gang rape, for assault at the Anganwadi centre or for theft of the expense records. The police are accused of failing to take her for a medical examination or to record her statement. Aspersions: Senior superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma said: “The woman’s husband is an accused in a molestation case. The allegation against the police is baseless. Still, we are probing it.” He did not explain how the husband’s being a molestation accused was relevant to this case. Incident: A professional dancer is allegedly kidnapped, confined in a house in Shahpur, Gorakhpur district, and gang-raped by three men. The accused allegedly upload a video of the incident on social media. Suspects: Real estate agent Ravi Kumar and two friends. Case status: Brajesh Yadav, a police inspector, and constable Dharmendra Kumar were suspended on March 4 for failing to register a case. All three suspects have been arrested. ‘anti-women’ police S.R. Darapuri, a retired IPS officer from Uttar Pradesh, said state police’s tardy “application of the law” encouraged criminals to think they could commit crimes with impunity. “Also, the state police are mostly anti-women. They register cases only under pressure. This sends out the message that checking crimes against women is not a government priority,” he said.D.R. Sahu, a sociology professor at Lucknow University, said it would “take time to change the state’s culture from feudal to democratic”, and urged everyone to work towards this. “However, the good thing is that the women and their families are reporting the crimes these days, undeterred by the social stigma. I believe this will bring about a change in the popular mindset,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
15-03-2021||India||BJP forgets one-poll cry, fields MPs ||The BJP on Sunday fielded six MPs — three each from the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha — to contest the Assembly polls in Bengal and Kerala, upending Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s untiring pitch for simultaneous elections. If these MPs are elected to the Assembly, they will have to quit their Parliament seats, necessitating another round of by-elections. This flies in the face of the BJP’s pitch for simultaneous polls to Parliament and the Assemblies, for which it had coined the tagline “One Nation, One Election”. In Bengal, the BJP has named four MPs as candidates for the state polls — Babul Supriyo, Locket Chatterjee, Nishit Pramanik and Swapan Dasgupta. Barring Dasgupta, all the three are Lok Sabha MPs, elected just over a year ago. Supriyo is also a junior minister in the Modi government. Fresh elections will have to be held in the Lok Sabha seats in the event of victory. In Kerala, two sitting Rajya Sabha MPs have been fielded — K.J. Alphons and Suresh Gopi. Picking MPs to contest Assembly elections has raised questions since none other than Modi has repeatedly argued in favour of elections to the Lok Sabha and the Assemblies being held together for unhindered development and to cut down on unnecessary expenditure. Modi, who had first raised the issue at a party meeting in 2015 and then pressed for it again and again from many public platforms, is a member of the BJP central election committee that finalised the names of the candidates. President Ram Nath Kovind too had pitched for simultaneous elections in his address to Parliament ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, saying frequent elections not only impose a huge burden on human resources but also impede development. The President’s address to Parliament is framed by the government. The Congress and many other parties, however, are opposed to simultaneous polls, terming it an “anti-thesis to democracy” and seeing it as part of Modi’s and the RSS’s plan to gain absolute power. Early this month, the matter led to a ruckus in the Karnataka Assembly when the Speaker and chief minister B.S. Yeddyurappa wanted to have a discussion on “One Nation, One Election”. The Opposition Congress protested vehemently. BJP leaders on Sunday refused to react to the doublespeak on elections. “The MPs are popular faces and we feel when they contest, it generates a favourable atmosphere for the party,” a BJP leader said. The move bolstered the perception that the BJP didn’t have enough credible faces at the state level. Rajya Sabha MP and former Union minister Alphons indicated he had been fielded against his will. “I will follow the directions of the party even though I was not keen to contest at all,” Alphons, fielded from Kanirapally in Kerala, said. The AIADMK on Sunday released its manifesto for the April 6 Assembly elections, promising to urge the Centre to scrap the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act. The AIADMK is an ally of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
15-03-2021||India||Women’s collective in Kerala prods secular parties to be more inclusive||A women’s collective has proposed the names of about 150 women who can be fielded in the upcoming Kerala Assembly elections to prod secular parties to be more inclusive. Names of writers, lawyers, social activists, film stars and transwomen are among those suggested by Sthree Koottayma (women’s collective in Malayalam) in its fight for equal rights. “The names of many women who have done well in their respective areas of activity have been included without their permission since this is more of an awareness campaign to win our rights. The idea is to provide a list so that political parties won’t have the excuse of saying there are not enough women who can be fielded,” social activist and a member of the collective, Aleyamma Vijayan, told The Telegraph on Friday. The social media campaign launched on Friday morning has received a lot of support. “Many people have even started sending more names to be included in the list. This shows that there is no dearth of capable women to contest any kind of election and ensure we are well represented in all elected bodies,” Aleyamma said. The CPM has 12 women among the 84 persons whose names have been announced. “No party will give more than 10 per cent of the seats to women,” Aleyamma said. Among those named by the collective are noted writers Sarah Joseph, K.R. Meera, Khadeeja and Saradakutty, film stars Parvathy Thiruvothu and Rima Kallingal, Kerala Trans Justice Board member Sheetal Shyam and her compatriot Vijaya Mallika, state Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash, Congress leader Bindu Krishna, former MLA Jameela Prakasham of the Janata Dal Secular and Oleena A.G. of the CPM. Lathika Subhash on Sunday resigned and tonsured her head because she was not nominated. The Congress list of 86 candidates has nine women. “I will continue to suffer humiliation if I don’t take this step at least now. Why should I wait for crumbs? At least now the Congress should be ready to take a position on giving sufficient seats to women,” she said before getting her head shaved in front of the party office in Thiruvananthapuram. Lathika, 56, was not forthcoming about her next move. Aleyamma said only those with “secular credentials” had been included in the list of potential candidates. Sarah Joseph welcomed the idea but cautioned that merely adding numbers in the existing system would not help the cause. “The patriarchy-driven perspective must change to enable women, transgender persons, Dalits and minorities to thrive in the system. Otherwise there’s no point including more women who end up nodding to whatever the patriarchal system says,” she told The Telegraph. “Everyone talks about 33 per cent reservation for women. But even the Congress and the CPM do not implement that. So it’s a good thing that this collective has put forth names of highly capable women,” she said, adding it’s another matter that many women might not like the pulls and pressures of politics. Sheetal Shyam had no idea about her name being included in such a list until this newspaper spoke to her. “It’s a pleasant surprise that they included me in the list. But I am currently not inclined to contest any election,” she said. The Left-leaning Sheetal, however, appreciated the idea. “It’s important to tell the parties that there are enough women who can take the electoral field and even win and do very well, like our own health minister (K.K.) Shailaja Teacher,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
15-03-2021||India||Sachin Waze in NIA custody till March 25 ||Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze was on Sunday remanded in the National Investigation Agency’s custody till March 25 after the NIA claimed in court that he had admitted to his involvement in placing explosives in a car parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Assistant inspector Waze, who had led the team that arrested Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami last November, was arrested on Saturday under IPC Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc, with intent to commit forgery), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and the Explosive Substances Act, an official said. Waze’s brother Sudharma said the family learnt of his arrest through the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
15-03-2021||India||Sanjeev Balyan promises statues of local icons as incentive for farmers||Union minister Sanjeev Balyan is promising statues of local icons as an incentive for farmers to call off their protest, reduced to desperation by his unsuccessful efforts so far to carry out his assigned task of breaking the movement. Balyan on Saturday told farmers in the Baraut area of Baghpat district that he would install statues of late leaders Charan Singh and Rajesh Pilot if they worked to ensure the protest at Delhi’s borders was withdrawn. “I shall personally come here to install the statues if you ensure the farmers’ protest is withdrawn,” the minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries told a meeting in Ramala. Charan Singh, a former Prime Minister, was a Jat leader and founder of the Lok Dal, parent of the Rashtriya Lok Dal. Baraut is an RLD stronghold. Pilot was a Gurjar leader from the Congress. Jats and Gurjars are dominant farming communities in western Uttar Pradesh. While Balyan claimed the Ramala meeting was a farmers’ rally, local farmers told reporters they were ostracising the BJP and that the small crowd on Saturday was made up only of BJP supporters. “We will attend their rallies if they come to us after resigning from the anti-farmer central government and the BJP,” said Jaiveer Singh, a farmer in Baghpat. Earlier, farmers had lined both sides of the road and shown black flags to Balyan while he was travelling the 20km from Baghpat town to Ramala. The police arrested half-a-dozen farmers and later released them. “Balyan first bullied us, and is now begging before us,” farmer Jaiveer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
15-03-2021||India||Naveen: Stick to rules, avert lockdown ||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday appealed to the people of the state to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines to avoid a lockdown kind of situation in the coming days. His appeal to the people comes in the wake of Covid cases increasing in states like Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Naveen pointed out how lockdown has been enforced in some areas of Maharashtra because of rising virus cases. In his message to the people, the chief minister said: “The lockdown agony is still fresh in our mind. It has severely hit our socio-economic conditions, social life, education of our children. It has almost affected all sectors. “The normalcy returned to the state because of people’s sacrifice and co-operation. No one wants that lockdown to return. Therefore, the only way to avoid such situations is awareness and following the guidelines. If we stay alert, the lockdown kind of situation will not come up.” Stating that the state will never let the sacrifice of the Covid warriors go in vain, Naveen said: “We have lost many lives in our battle against coronavirus. The tears rolled down from the eyes of the kin of deceased persons are yet to dry up. We will not let all the sacrifice of the Covid warriors to go lost.” Naveen maintained how because of  state’s co-ordinated fight against the corona pandemic, the number of cases have come down. “The risk is yet to be over. Zero infection is our target,” said Naveen, adding that the World Health Organisation has praised Odisha’s battle against the virus. He urged people to come forward and make the vaccination programme a success .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Shah’s rally cancelled after ‘chopper develops snag’||The cancellation of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s poll rally in Jhargram due to a “technical snag in his helicopter” has triggered a war of words between the TMC and the BJP. The ruling party claiming that the glitch was actually “poor turnout” and the saffron party leader tweeting a video of a jam-packed ground. Shah was scheduled to address a rally in the Jhargarm district on Monday, however, he delivered a brief speech virtually. Explaining the reason for the cancellation of his visit, the senior BJP leader said that he could not attend the rally as his chopper developed a technical glitch. “I was going there for campaigning. Unfortunately, my helicopter was damaged and I couldn’t come to see you,” Shah said while virtually addressing the rally. Taking a dig at Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee’s injury at Nandigram he said, “My helicopter developed a snag, but I will not call it a conspiracy.” Mamata was injured while campaigning in Nandigram on March 10, an incident the ruling party claimed was a “BJP conspiracy to take her life”. TMC was quick to hit back at Shah as it posted images showing a thin crowd and empty chairs at the Jhargram rally ground, which it claimed prompted the last-minute change of plans for Shah. TMC MP and Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek, while addressing a rally at Chandrakona, a few kilometres away from Jhargram, mocked Shah for cancelling his rally “due to thin crowd”. “Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s scheduled rally at Jhargram was cancelled due to some technical glitch, it seems. Anyways, the photos of the rally that I have received show very few people. More people watch excavation work done by an earthmover or sip tea at a village shop than those present at the senior BJP leader's public meeting,” he said. On the other hand, the massive participation of people in the TMC’s rallies indicate that the party will return to power in the state on May 2 by bagging over 250 seats, Banerjee maintained. “Had he requested, we would have sent some people to the venue,” the chief minister, who is still recuperating from the injuries she sustained last week in Nandigram, said while addressing a public meeting in Purulia district. After a few hours, Shah posted a video on his Twitter page, showing a jam-packed ground. “I apologise to the people of Jhargram for not being able to address the rally in person due to a technical snag in my chopper.But I thank you all from the bottom of my heart for turning out in such large numbers. Let Jhargram be the harbinger of change and usher ‘asol paribartan’ (real change),” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt didn’t offer support for Tajpur port: Gadkari||Countering West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegation about Centre having “inordinately delayed” the Rs 15,000-crore Tajpur deep sea port project, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday claimed that the project was “decided by him” when he was the shipping minister but the state administration did not extend support towards it. Banerjee had earlier announced that the state government will execute the greenfield port project in Purba Medinipur district on its own in the PPP model as the Centre has been “inordinately delaying” it. “When I was the shipping minister, I used to often come to West Bengal and I had taken the decision for the Tajpur port. But the state government was not available. This port could have generated huge employment in the area,” he said while addressing a rally at Egra in the district. The state government had formed the West Bengal Maritime Board, through which an Expression of Interest had been floated. The last date of the EoI was February 19 but it has been extended till March 19. Sources in the Kolkata Port, which was the project partner on behalf of the Centre, said the SPV Bhor Sagar Port Ltd was formed at 76:24 stake and the company is alive. “We had spent Rs 3-4 crore for the technical feasibility report. The state government had also not formally communicated to us about their decision. We will evaluate options later, if required,” a port official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah wishes Mamata speedy recovery, but asks about pain of BJP workers' kin killed in TMC rule||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in pain because of the injury she received recently, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Monday, wishing her a speedy recovery, but questioned that whether she could feel the pain of families of BJP workers who have been killed during the Trinamool Congress's rule in West Bengal. Addressing a rally at Ranibandh in the Bankura district, Shah promised that if the BJP is voted to power in West Bengal, it will implement the seventh pay commission for the state government employees. "Didi (Banerjee), when you got hurt in your leg, you felt pain. I wish you a speedy recovery. But, what about the pain of the mothers of 130 BJP activists who were killed by TMC goons. Did you ever try to feel their pain?" he said. "You never felt the pain of these people. They will give you a befitting reply while casting their votes in the assembly polls," he added. Shah said that if the BJP is voted to power in the state, it will ensure that the rights of the tribals are secured. "TMC seeks cut money even for a tribal certificate. We will ensure the land rights of the tribals. The special focus will be on education, health and drinking water for the tribals in the area. We will also mention it in our manifesto," he said. Bankura district, in the western part of the state, has a significant tribal population, crucial to any party's electoral success. Earlier in the day, Shah was scheduled to address a rally in the Jhargarm district but gave a brief speech virtually. The BJP said that he couldn't attend the rally due to technical glitches in his helicopter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC MLA Debashree Roy quits party after being denied poll ticket||Noted actor and two-time TMC MLA Debashree Roy on Monday quit the party after being denied a ticket for the upcoming assembly elections. The Raidighi legislator, in a letter to TMC state chief Subrata Bakshi, said she will no longer be associated with the party. "Although, I don't hold any post in the party, but I felt it is necessary to write this letter as I wanted to inform the leadership that I don't want to be associated with the TMC anymore," she said. When asked about her future plans, Roy said she will concentrate on acting but is open to joining any other party if there is a "concrete proposal". Roy was scheduled to join the BJP in 2019 but her plans got scuttled after TMC turncoat and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Bandopadhyay opposed her induction into the saffron camp. Incidentally, Chatterjee resigned from the BJP on Sunday after he was denied a poll ticket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Conspiracies cannot stop me from campaigning, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee on Monday said no conspiracy can stop her from campaigning ahead of the assembly polls in the state and will continue to fight against the BJP. Addressing her first rally in a district after being injured at the hustings in Nandigram, Banerjee said as long as she has her voice and her heart functions, she will continue to fight. "Wait for a few days, my legs will be better. I will see whether your legs move freely on Bengal's soil," Banerjee said without naming anyone. "Only conspiracy," she said, addressing the election rally here in Purulia district. She also said the BJP has come from Delhi with many of its leaders to win the assembly elections. "But I say you will not get Bengal," she said, claiming that her government has done a lot of development and welfare works in the state in its 10-year rule. "No other government in the world has been able to do as much work as ours. Their (BJP) prime minister cannot run the country, totally incompetent," she said. Banerjee was injured in her left leg, head and chest while campaigning in Nandigram on March 10 after filing her nomination from the high-profile seat, an incident the ruling TMC claimed was a "BJP conspiracy to take her life". The Election Commission, however, ruled out that there was an attack on the chief minister after reviewing the reports sent by its two special poll observers and the state government. The poll panel concluded that Banerjee sustained injuries due to a lapse on part of her security in charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Nurse held with brown sugar by Englishbazar police||Englishbazar police arrested a nurse carrying brown sugar weighing around 600gm, allegedly for supplying to peddlers, at Rathbari area on Sunday morning. The 31-year old nurse, identified as Azinoor Khatun a.k.a. Noor, was coming from Alipur area under Kaliachak police station on a bus when the police, acting on a tip-off, intercepted her at Englishbazar around 9am on Sunday. “She worked as a nurse in a private nursing home. Preliminary investigation reveals that she was offered a hefty amount to deliver the narcotic substance to someone in Englishbazar,” said Madan Mohan Roy, inspector-in-charge, Englishbazar police station. The police official said that the price of the brown sugar in the clandestine market would be around Rs 10 lakh. Following her interrogation police have identified the intended recipient of the consignment in Englishbazar but have not been able to arrest the person till late evening. The identity of the person is being kept under wraps for the purposes of the investigation. “It seems the nurse was peddling for the first time. Those who appointed her as a peddler have been identified too. Raids are underway to arrest the masterminds of the drug peddling racket,” a senior police official said. Police said peddlers are increasingly using women in the trade. “We are witnessing this trend. A few months back we had come across a similar case of women being asked to transport drugs by peddlers at Kaliachak area,” said a police official. Kaliachak is around 15km from Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Malda youth found dead in a flat in Egypt||Musharraf Hussain, 34, a research scholar from Malda studying in Egypt, was found dead in his Cairo flat on Saturday. Musharraf, whose family lives in the Madia Shovabajar area under Englishbazar police station had gone to Egypt to pursue higher studies in Arabic almost a decade ago. He was to return to his native place this April, his relatives said. “Early on Sunday, we received a phone call from some students of the Al-Azhar University in Cairo, informing us that Musharraf was found lying dead at his flat where he stayed alone,” said Piyar Ali, a close relative of the deceased. The family members have been told that Musharraf was found lying near the door of a room. “We were told that the flat owner initially refused to break open the door to this flat. Later, the door was broken with the help of the local police and Musharraf’s body was found lying near the door,” said Ali. Family members believe that Musharraf’s death is shrouded in mystery. “He had had a talk with family members just last week and seemed perfectly happy,” said a family member. Efforts are now on to get Musharraf’s body back to India, and if possible conduct an autopsy to ascertain the cause of his death, his relatives said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari runs into Nandigram memorial protest||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari was kept waiting for over two hours beside the Sonachura-Bhangabera road in East Midnapore’s Nandigram on Sunday morning by protesting Trinamul Congress workers who claimed he had lost his right to pay respects on the occasion of Shahid Divas following his defection to the saffron camp. The stonewall at Sonachura prompted Adhikari to retort later in the day calling Mamata Banerjee the “real” traitor to Nandigram, citing her government’s promotion of at least three IPS officers who had allegedly been involved in police firing at farmers in 2007. Adhikari attacked the chief minister at a rally organised by the 2007 land agitation veterans. Shahid Divas is observed in Nandigram on March 14 in remembrance of political workers who lost their lives in the police firing on the same day in 2007. The deceased were part of the anti-land acquisition movement spearheaded by Mamata. On Sunday, both the BJP led by Adhikari and Trinamul led by East Midnapore district leaders marshalled their forces to outshine each other’s tributes on an occasion that is believed to influence the mood leading to the Assembly elections. Tweeting on Sunday morning, the chief minister even went to the extent of stating that her Nandigram candidature was being made “as a mark of respect” to “this historic place”. “The standoff in Sonachura on Sunday morning resulted in physical altercations between opposing party workers which was stemmed by local police forces before they got worse,” said a witness in Sonachura. Trinamul-led protesters on Sunday morning set forth chants of “Mir Jafar” against Adhikari’s convoy, with attendees being vocal with their claim that Adhikari had “lost credibility and respect” among local residents. “We will not allow him to enter Nandigram and pay his respects on a day like this,” said panchayat member Ashwini Patra, who claimed more than 500 Trinamul workers had joined him for the road blockade. Adhikari was finally escorted to Sonachura shortly after noon by central forces and could pay respects to the victims of the land agitation. Later, he proceeded to an event organised by the Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee. Speaking to attendees and journalists, he said: “Police officers who were made to testify regarding the firing were later promoted by the chief minister personally.” Sources said he was referring to Arun Gupta, Tanmay Roychowdhury and Satyajit Banerjee. Banerjee recently joined Trinamul following his retirement from government service. “Such people have no business paying their respects on such a day,” said Adhikari, before going on to implore the crowd to name “the real Mir Jafar of Nandigram”. The crowd responded with resounding chants of the chief minister’s name. “If you think you can assign a few goons from Garchakraberia and have our democracy ruined, then you are wrong.… Central forces will be here this time,” he added. Adhikari also went to Gokulnagar later in the day to attend a similar commemoration programme. Trinamul leaders Bratya Basu, Purnendu Bose and Dola Sen paid Trinamul’s respects in Nandigram on Sunday in the absence of the chief minister who took part in an event in Calcutta. Speaking to journalists, minister Basu said the BJP had “no right” in usurping the Nandigram narrative, although he admitted Adhikari did have “a say” in the discourse. “The BJP has no business introducing their name into this narrative. They are total outsiders to what happened in 2007,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader says sorry to Left for dishonouring alliance in 2019 Lok Sabha elections||A Congress leader on Sunday offered a rare peace offering to the Left, the party’s alliance partner for the state elections — a public apology. Mohit Sengupta, the Congress candidate from Raiganj Assembly seat, apologised publicly to the Left Front for having dishonoured the alliance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which many believe led to the defeat of CPM candidate Md Salim and a win for BJP. “I tender my apology to all the workers of the CPM and Left Front for creating a misunderstanding during the last parliamentary election in 2019,” said Sengupta, while addressing a joint meeting organised by Left-Congress alliance at Bidhan Bhavan in Raiganj on Sunday. In the 2019 parliamentary election Md Salim of the CPM had been nominated from the Raiganj seat. However, despite being alliance partners, the Congress had fielded Deepa Das Munshi from the same seat. Sengupta on Sunday confessed that their party had not only fielded Das Munshi but had also carried out campaigns against Md Salim. “We campaigned against each other during the election and we lost the seat to the BJP candidate (Debasree Chaudhuri),” Sengupta, who is also the district Congress president of North Dinajpur, said. “It was a mistake on our part. We had not only field candidates in Raiganj against Left, but also carried out campaigns against him. As the Assembly election is approaching, it is my duty to tender my apology to all the Left workers,” said Sengupta. In the ensuing vote split in 2019, Raiganj was won by BJP candidate Debasree Chaudhuri, who is now the Union minister of state for child and women development. The 2019 Lok Sabha election results were a setback for the Left-Congress alliance which had in the 2016 Assembly election had fielded Sengupta as their candidate and he had emerged victorious. Sunday’s unconditional apology from the Congress leader seemed to have smoothed the ruffled feathers of the Left leaders and workers. “It was wrong for the Congress to have fielded its candidate in the 2019 election. (However), with this apology let bygones be bygones,” said Uttam Paul, the CPM district committee leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung camp’s 12 leave, hint at joining BJP||The Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha suffered a major setback with the party’s chief election coordinator, Subha Pradhan resigning along with 11 other Kalimpong district committee leaders. Pradhan dropped broad hints of aligning with the BJP, prompting the Gurung faction to remind the deserters the importance of “regionalism” Other prominent faces to leave the Gurung camp with him were former elected Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Sabha member and vice-president of Kalimpong district committee Gopal Ruchal, as well as others from Kalimpong like Sangay Bhutia, Gyan Bahadur Chhetri and Hari Sharma, and from Darjeeling, Tilak Chhetri. After the resignation, Pradhan said he felt that main issue (statehood) was being kept on the backburner in the volatile political atmosphere following the return of Bimal Gurung after over three years. Gurung had dumped the BJP and aligned with Trinamul in October last year alleging that the saffron party was not serious about hill issues. Pradhan, however, said: “Regarding the main issue, the BJP has mentioned (it) in its sankalp patra (manifesto)....” In recent times, a number of Gurung camp leaders have joined the BJP, including the party’s vice president Kalyan Dewan (now the BJP hill president), former GTA Sabha member Tilak Chand Roka and former party spokesperson B.P. Bajgain. Asked if Pradhan would follow suit, Pradhan said: “As an alternative I see BJP but I am not sure what the party (BJP) is thinking about me.” Observers believe this is enough hint of the political course Pradhan plans to chart. Similar hints were dropped by many others who resigned too. The Gurung camp said that they had not officially received the resignation letters and had come to know about the development through social media. Anil Lopchan, Gurung camp spokesman, told deserters the importance of regionalism. “Gorkha Janmukti Morcha was born for Gorkhaland and the issue is related to our identity and regional issues. If the regional party goes into oblivion it would mean our regional issues going into oblivion,” he said. “Our friends, wherever they go, should safeguard and promote regionalism.” A senior leader of the Bimal camp said that for some time the BJP leaders were trying to poach their leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati drama teacher suspended||Visva-Bharati authorities on Saturday night suspended assistant drama professor Rajesh K.V., also the general secretary of the Adhyapak Sabha, on charges of neglect of duty. Varsity sources said Rajesh, a native of Kerala, who joined Visva-Bharati in 2012, was accused of visiting the academics and research section of the varsity “almost every day”. “The undersigned is directed to communicate that Sri Rajesh K.V., Assistant professor, department of Rabindra Sangit, Dance and Drama, Sangit Bhavana, is placed under suspension with immediate effect,” the order signed by officiating registrar Ashok Mahato read. However, a source said: “There were allegations that he is being targeted for initially refusing to sign a petition prepared by authorities against a colleague.” Popular on campus as Rajesh Venugopal, he is the second teacher to be suspended after Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the president of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association and a critic of certain activities of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. Bhattacharyya, an economics professor of renown, had been suspended in January. Since the start of the year, the varsity’s relationship with some of its “dissenting” faculty members has been rocky. On February 26, teachers of the English department were allegedly “confined” by authorities in a bid to grab a copy of a mass petition written to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the state of affairs within the varsity. The varsity authorities had later rejected the charge. All 10 teachers were recently showcased regarding their “absence” based on their “identifical undertakings” admitting to their absence, which a teacher said was “dictated” by the authorities. In a separate development, around eight teachers of the physics and philosophy departments — who were earlier showcaused — were chargesheeted for alleging that their counterparts from the English department were illegally confined on February 26 and for filing what varsity authorities termed “false police complaints” in the matter. “The situation on the campus can be understood easily as Dulal Ghosh, the nominee of Prime Minister and university Chancellor Narendra Modi in the varsity’s executive council, sat in protest with pensioners recently (when varsity authorities scrapped their free health consultation at Pearson hospital,” said a varsity official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar BJP functionaries upset over candidate selection||The BJP on Sunday announced economist Ashok Lahiri as the candidate for the Alipurduar Assembly seat and moments later, district party president Ganga Prasad Sharma said he could not divulge much about the nominee as he knew little about the contestant. Sharma’s candid statement has reflected the general mood among Alipurduar district BJP functionaries who seemed peeved over the national leadership’s decision to field the candidate without consulting them. “I came to know from the media that Ashok Lahiri would contest from Alipurduar. I don’t know him. So, how can I speak about him?” Sharma told this correspondent a few hours after Lahiri’s name had been announced. The BJP district chief said nobody in the party had informed him either about Lahiri’s candidature or the decision to field Bishal Lama — a former leader of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha — from Kalchini. Lama had joined the BJP a few days ago. Later in the evening, BJP supporters started a demonstration in front of Sharma’s residence at Jaigaon in the district, demanding that Lama’s candidature be dropped. Lahiri is a former chief economic advisor to the Indian government and was based mostly in New Delhi. Terming the BJP’s decision as a damper on the prestige of local leaders, Sharma said district committee members should at least have been consulted before the announcement. “Again, regarding Bishal’s candidature, I came to know about it through the media. Nobody discussed it with the district committee. We have lost our prestige because of the development around these two candidates,” said Sharma. Lama had contested from Kalchini as the Morcha nominee in the 2016 Assembly polls and lost to Trinamul candidate Wilson Champramary by a little over 1,000 votes. “We were at the opposite ends of the political spectrum till a few days back but now, he has been made a BJP candidate,” said a BJP leader. Sources in the BJP said there were at least 30 local leaders who wanted to contest from the Alipurduar seat. Apart from Sharma and Gunadhar Das, the previous district chief of the BJP, the names of people associated in other fields like medicine and education were doing the rounds in Alipurduar. “For the local aspirants, Lahiri’s name has come as a spoiler,” said another BJP leader. Alipurduar BJP leaders also said they could not fathom the reason for not naming the BJP candidate for the Falakata seat. “We have no idea what is happening with regard to the candidate selection,” said another BJP leader. The resentment shown by BJP leaders and workers regarding the two names underlines allegations that the BJP does not have much bench strength in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||New entity in north Bengal poll fray||A section of Kamtapuris, tribal community and proponents of Greater Cooch Behar have forged an alliance — the Kamtapuri Bhumiputra Mahajote — and decided to contest in 40 of 54 Assembly seats from north Bengal. The first such alliance in north Bengal in recent times, it can split votes of established political parties. The Kamtapuri Bhumiputra Mahajote, announced at Jalpaiguri on Sunday, comprises entities such as the Kamtapur People’s Party (United), the Greater Cooch Behar Democratic Party, the Progressive Peoples Party (PPP), the Biswa Rajbanshi Unnayan Mancha, the Kamtapuri Rajbanshi Samannay Samity, the Uttarbanga Samajbadi Party, the Kshatriya Samity (Uttarbanga) and the Kamtapur Democratic Party. Nikhil Roy from the KPP (United), who is the president of the alliance, said: “We will field our candidates in 40 seats.” The issues the alliance flagged are inclusion of Kamtapur language in the Eight Schedule of the Constitution, tribal land rights, minimum wages for tea workers, measures to safeguard the “sons of the soil” and a separate state of Kamtapur. Alliance leaders criticised both the BJP and Trinamul for using their people as “vote banks”. They added they were open to post-poll pacts with any party. However, many political watchers pointed out that the alliance would definitely be a headache for major political parties. “There are at least 15 Assembly seats, especially in the tea belt, where the tribal populace is a deciding factor,” said an observer. A large population of the influential Rajbanshi community resides in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar districts. Observers said even though the alliance has been formed it can’t claim that the entities under it represent their communities in totality. “Many tribals, Kamtapuris and other community members vote for Trinamul and the BJP. One cannot say that the alliance represents the entire gamut of the communities but in this competitive election, this alliance cannot be written off too in terms of influencing the outcome,” said an observer. Parimal Barman, treasurer of the newly formed body criticised Union home minister Amit Shah for allegedly failing to keep the promise “to develop a new tourism circuit by allocating funds to the tune of Rs 250 crore”. Alliance leader Mahesh Roy criticised the Trinamul-ruled state government for granting “paltry” funds to the Kamtapuri and Rajbanshi development boards. “While an autonomous council in Assam is getting Rs 125 crore every year, the (Bengal) state government allocated only Rs 10 crore each for Kamtapuri and Rajbanshi development boards. This amount of funding is insufficient,” said Roy. Community leaders also said that Kamtapuri and Rajbanshi communities were same and that the state should stop “creating a division within the community” by according separate recognition to Kamtapuri and Rajbanshi. “We will extent support to any party that will help fulfill our demands,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Extra-tight security for wheelchair-bound Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had multiple security rings on Sunday afternoon during her first wheelchair-bound public rally since Wednesday’s Nandigram incident that left her injured. Security detailing, multiple sources said, had never been as tight as it was on Sunday. The rally from Gandhi statue to Hazra on Sunday afternoon had visibly more police personnel — in uniform and plainclothes — to ensure no physical harm came to Mamata, entitled to Z-plus security cover, state home department sources said. Sources in Lalbazar said that instead of the regular 1,500-2,000 police personnel, around 2,500 personnel on Sunday were deployed from many units of Calcutta police to secure the start and end points of the rally, the route, aerial view and the area near the injured chief minister. A senior officer said that the Lalbazar brass did not want to take chances after the Nandigram incident. The officer added that special care was taken to ensure that no one could reach Mamata within the radius of a few metres throughout her route from Gandhi statue to Hazra via Mayo Road, JL Nehru Road, Park Street crossing, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road and SP Mukherjee Road. Around 60 police personnel — 40 in uniform and 20 in plainclothes, led by four senior IPS officers — accompanied the chief minister on the 5km stretch on Sunday. “Twenty-odd lady constables in plainclothes made a box formation around her. Apart from police, only those whom the chief minister personally wanted to assist her were allowed in this ring. The next layer comprised uniformed men and women officers around her, but maintaining a gap,” said a senior police officer. The stretch between the two ends of the rally had seven police pickets — each manned by over two dozen police personnel reporting to two IPS officers of deputy commissioner rank. The entire stretch was barricaded and police personnel at pickets ensured no one could break through the cordon. A police staffer video-recorded the movements of the chief minister and people near her. Unlike earlier, there was additional deployment on the rooftops of highrises along the line of route that falls under Shakespeare Sarani and Bhowanipore police station areas. An ambulance each, at the Hazra crossing and the Gandhi statue were kept on standby. Sunday’s police arrangements were in addition to the existing security cover that Mamata gets from the special security unit, comprising three personal security officers and four-five police personnel. The police arrangements not just included her safety but also ensuring no traffic snarls or law and order problems in the vicinity of the stretch from where the chief minister passed by on Sunday. On Wednesday evening, Mamata Banerjee was injured while standing on the footboard of her SUV at a crowded area in Nandigram, where she is contesting from. The incident had triggered the removal of two police officers involved in her security arrangement during the Nandigram event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee attends her first public meeting since injury||Used to pacing up and down the dais armed with a microphone, she sat in a wheelchair and with a plastered foot — an extraordinary sight in a state grown familiar to a boundless mix of movement and sound that explodes when Mamata Banerjee takes centre stage. Shorn of mobility, the voice of the 66-year-old lacked the usual thunder and the speech was over in barely 10 minutes. But the message from Mamata at the Sunday afternoon event — her first public meeting since her injury in Nandigram on Wednesday — was loud and clear:  “Don’t forget an injured tigress is more dangerous than a dead one.” The warning to her opponents capped the speech at the Hazra crossing in the city, which began with another reminder: “I have faced attacks several times in my life but I have never bowed my head.” Mamata had earlier made an appearance to lead a party march from the Gandhi statue at the Maidan to the Hazra crossing, covering the 5km in her wheelchair across 80 minutes in the afternoon sun. The reaction of the people along the route and the concerns expressed about her health suggested her injury had assumed a great deal of political significance in poll-bound Bengal. While Trinamul is hoping the sight of Mamata in a wheelchair will galvanise voters, the BJP is still trying to gauge the public response to her injury after some of its leaders had initially suggested it had been stage-managed. The BJP’s concerns were on full display on Sunday when the party approached the Election Commission demanding full disclosure of Mamata’s injury and the treatment she had received at SSKM Hospital, where she spent two days. “Have faith in me,” the chief minister said in her brief speech. “Sitting in this wheelchair, and with this broken foot, I shall travel across Bengal. And khela hobe (the game is on).” Her party colleagues and supporters broke into euphoric chants of what has become Trinamul’s main poll slogan: “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants it own daughter, none else).” The march that preceded the meeting was held to mark Nandigram Dibas, the anniversary of the killing of 14 people in police firing in 2007, an incident key to Mamata’s rise to power four years later. Most in her party had expected Mamata to turn up directly at the Hazra crossing after the march, which was to be led by Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee. But to everyone’s surprise, the chief minister’s convoy pulled up near the Park Street crossing around 1.50pm. The wheelchair-bound chief minister was taken through Mayo Road to the statue, where she paid tribute to the Mahatma. Then the march to Hazra began with Mamata at its head. Her security guards and aides such as Aroop Biswas took turns pushing her wheelchair along Jawaharlal Nehru Road under a blazing sun. Mamata seemed in some discomfort: she wiped her face with her sari and occasionally used her palm to shield her eyes from the sun. Large crowds had gathered along the route. The collective sighs that went up at the sight of her plastered leg and the constant enquiries on how she was feeling suggested her injury had become a hot topic. At Hazra, Biswas pushed the wheelchair up a ramp to the stage. Without wasting time, Mamata took the microphone and began her address, thanking everyone for their concern about her injury. “When someone asked, ‘How is your pain?’ my reply was the pain will persist as the doctors had suggested 15 days’ bed rest. But if I rest in bed, who will reach out to Bengal’s people?” she asked. Mamata is expected to campaign in Purulia on Monday. “I will have to be out on the streets, else the conspirators will have been successful,” she said. At her rallies, the chief minister is expected to build around her injury the theme of a conspiracy by adversaries to hurt Bengal and democracy, and paint herself as the protector of the ordinary people. “I’m in pain, but more than the physical pain it’s the pain in the heart that hurts,” Mamata said. “When democracy is trampled on, it hurts too much. Autocrats are inflicting pain on democracy; we have the responsibility to protect Bengal’s common people from that.” She suggested the battle for Bengal was a contest between good and evil. “Let’s pray that the evil forces are defeated and their conspiracy to capture Bengal is thwarted,” Mamata said. Towards the end of the speech came the warning for her opponents: “Nihoto bagher theke ahoto bagh onek beshi bhoyonkor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||EC removes Bengal security director over Mamata injury||The Election Commission on Sunday removed Bengal director of security, Vivek Sahay, and East Midnapore district magistrate and police superintendent after reports submitted to the poll panel had said there had been a breach in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s security in Nandigram on March 10 when she had suffered injury to the left leg. The EC also placed under suspension Sahay and SP Pravin Prakash. The move by the commission is considered unprecedented as the poll panel has so far taken action against officials involved in election-related duties. “The director of security is responsible for providing security to VVIPs in the state and he is no way involved in poll-related affairs. The removal of the DM and the SP for their failure to provide security to the VVIP is also unprecedented. There is little doubt that the steps are taken to put bureaucracy in the state under unnecessary pressure,” said a senior government official. While the EC asked the chief secretary to appoint the new director of security in consultation with the DGP, the poll panel has appointed Smita Pandey, a 2005-batch IAS officer as the DM of East Midnapore after removing Vibhu Goel. The EC also appointed Sunil Kumar Yadav, a 2009-batch IPS officer, as the SP after suspending Pravin Prakash. The decisions were taken after the full bench of the EC met on Sunday morning to discuss the reports of the chief secretary, special observers deployed in the state and also reports submitted by the DM and SP of East Midnapore on the accident that injured Mamata necessitating her admission to the SSKM Hospital in Calcutta. “The EC found there was a large gathering in close proximity of the chief minister, which is a breach of security in case of a Z-plus security protectee. So, primarily, the director of security, who is responsible for VVIPs’ protection, and the district authorities who are in charge of security arrangements on the route the chief minister was scheduled to take, are held accountable for the breach,” said a source in the EC. Placing Sahay under suspension has raised several eyebrows in the state administrative circles as the ADG rank officer is highly regarded in Bengal’s police establishment. According to sources, all the reports submitted to the EC pointed out that the chief minister had been injured after the door of the car she had been travelling in had slammed her left leg. “But none of the reports could conclude how the door had gone back to hit the chief minister. All the reports mentioned there was a large crowd in close proximity of the chief minister,” said an official. Taking a further step, the poll panel has asked the chief secretary and the DGP to identify other “proximate security personnel” below the director of security, who failed to prevent the incident, and initiate suitable against them for their failure by March 17. This is considered to be a sensitive step as the security personnel work in the close proximity of the chief minister and have been working with her for years. “Identifying them guilty for the incident would be very sensitive,” said a source. The chief secretary has been asked to ensure investigation into the case filed at Nandigram police station gets completed within next 15 days and a report should be filed to the poll panel by March 31. “This action gives a hint the EC wants a detailed probe to find out whether it was a conspiracy or just an accident. This made it clear the issue remained inconclusive so far,” said an official. Sources at Nabanna said the actions initiated by the poll panel clearly suggested that the EC was focussing on the breach of security of the chief minister right at the moment. The press note issued by the EC does not reveal the contents of the reports it received as a source said it could be construed as prejudicing the police inquiry. However, the suspension of the SP and removal of the DM, the source claimed, was an indication of the EC’s dissatisfaction over not only their supervision of the rally but also alleged lacunae in the district administration’s reportage of the incident. “Trinamul was claiming removal of the DGP and the ADG (law and order) by the EC had triggered the incident. But the EC made it clear the lapses were on part of the security directorate of the state and the district authorities, who were not appointed by the EC. But it remained unclear whether it was a conspiracy,” said a source. Sources also said all the reports submitted to the EC were inconclusive to point out whether the incident was a conspiracy or it was just an accident. All the reports submitted pointed out the inconclusive video footage also. But now question are raised on whether a new DM and a new SP would be able to complete the investigation within 15 days, as directed by the EC, as they have to start the investigation afresh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP fields serving MPs as candidates for the Bengal elections||The BJP has fallen back on a pool of serving MPs and turncoats to come up with an incomplete list of candidates for the third and fourth phases of the Bengal elections, prompting questions on the party’s bench strength in the state and triggering expressions of discontent. The list announced on Sunday features 63 names although 75 constituencies will go to the polls over these two legs, leaving 12 seats to be assigned candidates at a later date. The list was announced after several days of deliberations in New Delhi in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Within an hour of the names being announced, protests were reported from party workers and leaders on the ground in Singur, Uttarpara, Raidighi and Behala East. Locket Chatterjee, MP from Hooghly, has been fielded from the Chinsurah Assembly seat; Babul Supriyo, Asansol MP and junior Union minister, from Tollygunge; Nishith Pramanik, Cooch Behar MP and Trinamul turncoat, from Dinhata; and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta from Tarakeswar. A name that stood out was that of economist Ashok Lahiri, who will contest from Alipurduar. A member of the 15th Finance Commission, Lahiri is known for his proximity to the Prime Minister. He is a former chief economic adviser who has served with the World Bank and the IMF. But the challenge of hard-selling Lahiri to the electorate became apparent moments later, with the BJP district party president Ganga Prasad Sharma saying he knew little about the candidate. Overlooked for his Behala East seat, Trinamul turncoat and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee sent separate letters to the state BJP chief, articulating their pain and informing him they were dissociating themselves from the party. But Chatterjee and his friend have been known to express displeasure in public and then fall in line. Actress Payel Sarkar, who joined the BJP less than three weeks ago, has been fielded in Chatterjee’s place. At 89, Trinamul deserter Rabindranath Bhattacharya will contest as BJP candidate from Singur. Other Trinamul defectors who have been given tickets are Rajib Banerjee from Domjur, Prabir Ghosal from Uttarpara and Dipak Halder from Diamond Harbour. Former CPM leader Rinku Naskar has been fielded from Jadavpur while Forward Bloc turncoat Biswanath Karak is the candidate for Goghat. “First of all, despite so many meetings at the topmost tier of the leadership, not all the names could be announced — again. Second, fielding all these MPs does not send a message of confidence to either the electorate or the party ranks, and it will be used against us by Trinamul,” a Bengal BJP functionary said. Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra rubbed it in with a tweet: “When ‘largest global political party’ lacks enough faces and strength to announce 294 names in one go for a state it claims it will sweep!” The choice of MPs also flies in the face of Modi’s campaign for “One Nation, One Election”, as by-elections will have to be held if these candidates win and move to the Assembly. “Most important, fielding even last-minute Trinamul deserter Rabindranath Bhattacharya from Singur, depriving those who have served the party loyally for years, has not been well-received…. These things are already allowing Trinamul to accuse us of not having enough decent candidates of our own to field in an election we so badly want to win,” said the Bengal BJP leader. Immediately after the candidates were announced from the BJP’s national headquarters, party workers in some places in Bengal took to the streets to protest the selections. “We are still trying to figure out the logic behind fielding such people. Trinamul’s Shantanu Bapuli, who has been fielded by us from Raidighi, is yet to formally join our party. Moreover, we in the BJP have accused him of corruption in handling relief after Cyclone Amphan,” a BJP leader said. Besides nominating Payel from Behala East, the BJP has fielded other actors who are greenhorns in electoral politics, such as Yash Dasgupta from Chanditala (Hooghly), Anjana Basu from Sonarpur South and Tanushree Chakraborty from Shyampur (Howrah). “These are not easy contests, and experienced politicians would have been better suited to such seats. Unlike Babulda and Locketdi, these newbies have spent little or no time in this arena,” a state BJP functionary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||North East||Assam Adivasis ask BJP 10 questions ||The All Adivasi Students’ Association of Assam (AASAA) on Sunday posed ten questions to the ruling BJP, mostly over its “unfulfilled” promises, on a day senior Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh campaigned in the state to mobilise support for the party in the upcoming three-phase polls. The questions were released at the AASAA-organised annual mahasabha at Halem in Biswanath district, about 12 km from where defence minister Singh addressed a massive rally listing out the achievements of the state government in five years compared to previous governments, especially targeting the tea community. Assam’s Adivasi community, which include the tea tribes, has sway over 40 of the 126 seats. AASSA president Stephen Lakra said the ten questions has been “triggered” by the ruling party’s promises since the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and their unfulfilment, especially scheduling, daily wage and land rights. The last question as to why should vote for the BJP reflect the resentment within the community, which has been growing following the manner in which the daily wage issue was handled. Though the government hiked the daily wage to Rs 217 from Rs 167 last month, the Gauhati High Court had asked the government not to act against the Indian Tea Association and 17 tea companies till their plea challenging the hike is settled. The petitioners have challenged the hike as illegal. Lakra told The Telegraph all parties are wooing the adivasi/tea community. “They want our vote and cheap labour but they don’t want to give us our due. Our population is over one crore but we are taken for granted. That is why we have posed these ten questions. “The message we want to send from the sabha is: No ST No Votes for BJP; No 351 no votes for BJP, no mati (land rights) no votes for BJP!” he said. It is not only the AAASA which is unhappy. The Assam Tea Tribes Students’ Association (ATTSA) has called for a bandh in tea estates across the state on March 22 in protest over the daily wage fiasco, which is not good news for the ruling BJP in Upper Assam which goes to polls on March 27. The AASAA, like ATTSA, is a pressure group espousing the cause of the community, from seeking basic amenities to adequate job and political representation for community members. The BJP has stepped up its campaign since Saturday, criticising the Congress for its alleged failure to work for the welfare of the adivasi/tea community when in power and what they have done in the past five years. Though the community is “unhappy” with the BJP, the Congress has not been able to gain as much as it should have, PCC insiders said. “The Congress-led grand alliance is not seen to be too effective in the field as yet. Secondly, though the party has guaranteed to hike the daily wage to Rs 365 if it is voted back to power, it could have made more impact had it given more ticketsto deserving community members,” a PCC insider said. AASAA’s 10 questions ⚫Why the BJP did not act on its promise of according ST status to the adivasi/tea community? ⚫Why was daily wage of tea garden workers not raised to Rs 351.33? ⚫Why land pattas were not distributed to the community? ⚫Why LP & ME schools in tea garden areas not provincialised? ⚫What happened to the promise of setting up 100 residential schools in the tea belt? ⚫How can tea garden people survive with galloping price rise? ⚫What happened to plans to open ATMs in tea gardens? ⚫Where are the Adivasis in the sabka saath sabka vikash plan of the government? ⚫Why happened to the promise of bringing down price of LPG cooking gas? ⚫Why will people vote for the BJP? For non-fulfilment of promises?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
15-03-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi’s detention draws flak||Swaraj India founder and activist Yogendra Yadav on Sunday slammed the BJP-led state government for jailing Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi and called for the defeat of the ruling party in the upcoming state polls. Yadav was part of the visiting six-member Samyukta Kishan Morcha delegation which attended an interactive session on the topic “Farmers’ protest, contemporary political situation and the Responsibilities of democratic Citizens” at the Cotton University here. “Those who should be in jail are outside and those who should be free are in jail. Akhil’s is not a criminal trial, it is a political trial. It is also a trial of the judicial system! “If Akhil is a terrorist, then everyone in the country is a terrorist. He has been kept in jail so that he can’t engage with the people at large during the elections,” he said after his meeting with Gogoi. Yadav and Dr Sunilam of Madhya Pradesh, said that the morcha is visiting Assam with only one message: Defeat the BJP for imposing the destructive farm laws and save the country’s unity and democracy. Assam is having three-phase polls on March 27, April 1 and April 6. Akhil, who is contesting from Sivasagar constituency, was arrested during the peak of the anti-CAA protest in the state in December 2019 and has since been in jail. He is at present recuperating at the GMCH. Yadav had last met Akhil in February 2020. The Morcha team sent the same message at the interactive session with Yadav saying that it was time to teach the party which brought the farm laws a lesson so that future governments will think twice before targeting the farmers of the country. The farmers’ protest that completed 109 days on Sunday, according to Yadav, has revived the self-respect of farmers, established their political clout and helped them unite. “This is a big achievement. It is the responsibility of the farmers movement to keep the country united and save its core foundations,” Yadav said, clarifying that they are not here to campaign for any candidate or political party. “We are here with a message that the political party which has gone all out to oppose the farmers, defame the farmers movement and come up with most destructive laws against the farmers needs to be punished. This is our only message,” he said. The interactive session was organised by three organisations — Sustha Samaj Bikash Chakra, All India Kishan Sabha, Assam unit and Sangrami Krishak Shramik Sangha — said Jayanta Gogoi, one of the organisers. Advocate Shantanu Borthakur presided over the interaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
15-03-2021||Opinion||Be prepared: vaccine diplomacy at Quad meet||The inaugural meeting of Quad has led to the inception of a welcome initiative on the Covid-19 vaccine, with the four member countries deciding to pool in their individual capacities to augment the delivery of the much-needed medications. The strategy to remove bottlenecks assumes significance in the light of the growing spike in coronavirus cases in India that has resulted in legitimate speculation of a possible second wave. India added over 20,000 new cases of infection on three consecutive days last week, confirming fears of the burden of cases getting heavier since February. It is being reported that several states and Union territories have experienced a surge, albeit disproportionately, with Maharashtra, once again, leading the way, followed by Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Delhi and Haryana. A number of causes are being attributed to these worrying signs. India’s testing rate has fallen to 40 per cent from its peak capacities; it needs to be raised significantly to prevent the contagion from overwhelming spatial congregations, communities and, eventually, the health system. Public functions, accompanied by laxity in adhering to precautionary measures among participants, may be responsible for the resurrection of the virus in some parts of the country. The apathy towards precaution must be addressed on a war footing. India’s vaccination programme has gathered pace with nearly 30 million doses being administered; yet, the number of people inoculated remains a meagre percentage of the total population. There is a clear need for the vaccination programme to adopt a flexible approach so that wider segments of Indians, especially the young, mobile groups, receive special attention. It has also been reported that the vaccination programme in urban clusters has received a tepid response from the poor. A discernible class division seems to be at work. It is possible that the cost of a jab in private facilities eludes a large number of Indians in penury but what is worrying is that the concentration of the poor in government hospitals, where vaccines are being administered for free, remains equally disheartening. Lack of awareness, prejudiced ideas about vaccines or, simply, indifference may be the principal factors behind this challenge. India must fall back on the wealth of experience and knowledge it has gathered in the course of other mass vaccination programmes to find a way around these obstacles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
15-03-2021||Opinion||Moot point: cow examination||Sir — As expected, the government is having to eat its words with regard to several claims made in the study material for the ‘cow examination’ that has now been postponed. Leaders of the ruling party who extolled the virtues of the desi cow must be disappointed. Leaving aside the serious problems of spreading false information — nearly half a million people had registered for the test — this episode raises the question whether leaders who support such outlandish beliefs can be trusted to run the government. Ishita Chowdhury,Calcutta Stand together Sir — The article, “A novel unity” (March 10), by Prabhat Patnaik — it highlights the potential of the farmers’ protests to unite the people of India — is scintillating. It is very unfortunate that the ‘annadaatas’ of our country are being mistreated by the Central government. The farmers’ struggle has not only withstood multi-fanged State repression but has also strengthened its resistance over the past few months. More farmers have continued to join the protests. In several states — Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan among others — thousands of farmers have been holding mahapanchayats. People are transcending barriers of caste and religious belief, responding to clarion calls to intensify the protests. Many have come forward with water tankers, food and all other essentials to sustain the farmers in their struggle against the formidable odds they are facing. The Centre may well know that a community that is strongly united for a cause cannot be defeated. That is the true lesson of this iconic movement. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Grim situation Sir — It is a matter of great concern that the army in Myanmar massacred 12 protesters in a fatal resistance (“12 protesters die in Myanmar firing”, March 14). Since February, the military junta has taken over power in the country by deposing its democratic government headed by Aung San Suu Kyi. Over 70 people have already died. Many are allegedly being tortured in custody; several are trying to flee the country. Democracy and human rights are being trampled on. Only a few organizations are being able to shed light on the situation from within the country. The United Nations must be more active in Myanmar. The rights of the people have to be retrieved so that democracy can be restored. Raghunath Pramanik,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
15-03-2021||Opinion||Unkindest cut: intimate partner violence||In the largest multi-country survey of violence against women using data from 2000 to 2018, the most striking feature is the scale of intimate partner violence. The study, conducted by the World Health Organization with a special working group of the United Nations, found that around 736 million women are subject to violence, and 641 million women have experienced physical or sexual violence from their partner. This begins early: a quarter of 15- to 24-year-old women have been subject to it by their mid-20s. Women in developing countries have it worse, with 37 per cent of 15- to 49-year-olds having been beaten up or sexually violated by their spouses; in some regions this goes up to one woman in two. Violence against women worldwide is hardly a secret; this report exposes the rate at which male partners in relatively better-off and apparently gender-equal countries hurt women. Yet the study excludes the Covid-19 period, when housebound violence grew worse. That no law or education is effective in curbing the desire to perpetrate violence on a woman partner suggests that men’s desire for control and domination remains unchecked. The prevalence of intimate-partner violence also indicates the endorsement of this by the Establishment. A silent belief seems to be that marriage — when that happens — means possession. This is demonstrated clearly in India, where there is no law against marital rape and where a member of the highest judiciary can ask in court whether violence by the husband can be called rape. India is one of the leading countries in violence against women; violence by strangers is as common as violence within the family — and not by the spouse alone. Dowry deaths and honour-killings show that marital and natal families are equal participants in lethal cruelty, while spousal violence, suggests the National Family Health Survey-5, is far more widespread than is recorded. Stigma, financial dependence, the children’s security, lack of support from the natal family and society, poor education leading to joblessness — all compel Indian women to bear untold torture. The WHO report can be useful for comparisons: conditions in countries with less familial violence may be studied to see which bits they got right. Unless the socially accepted, gender-based logic of power undergoes a change, of course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
15-03-2021||Opinion||Rotating capitals in India||The Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, recently spoke in favour of four rotating capitals in the country instead of just one national capital in Delhi. While there may be arguments both in favour of and against such an idea, another one — that of decentralization and/or making one or more small cities the national and state capitals — might be worth discussing. Although the word, capital, originates from the Latin word, capitalis, meaning ‘of the head’, a capital may not necessarily be a big city. While in Ottawa, I sometimes walked from one side of the city to the other, and wondered how such a small city could become the Canadian capital instead of Toronto, Montreal or Vancouver. I learnt that, in 1857, when a few cities were competing for the status of the capital, Queen Victoria chose Ottawa as it was centrally located between Montreal and Toronto, and was along the border of Ontario and Quebec (the centre of Canada at the time). Also, being reasonably far from the border of the United States of America, it seemed safer from attacks. Instead of New York, Chicago, Los Angeles or San Francisco, the founding of the much-smaller Washington, DC as the US capital in 1790 was grounded in political compromise. Alexander Hamilton and the northern states wanted the new federal government to assume Revolutionary War debts, and Thomas Jefferson and James Madison wanted the capital to be in the South. George Washington chose the exact spot on the Potomac River’s navigation head, near two well-established colonial port cities, George Town (now Georgetown, a section of the city of Washington) and Alexandria. Similarly, one might wonder why Canberra, not Sydney or Melbourne, is the capital of Australia. It is often said that the inland city of Canberra was built as the ‘bush capital’ as a compromise somewhere between Sydney and Melbourne. Some historians such as David Headon, however, believe that “The most significant reason... was that [the white population] could only really thrive and lead by living in a cold climate”. In Europe, during the years of the Cold War, a relatively small city like Bonn was the capital of West Germany. In fact, Bonn was chosen because Konrad Adenauer and other prominent politicians intended to make Berlin the capital of reunified Germany. They thought that a major city being made the capital would mean that it would be the permanent capital, and would weaken support in West Germany for reunification. The German federal government still maintains a substantial presence in Bonn. Decentralization of government activities is not an alien idea. The branches of government in South Africa are split between Cape Town (legislative), Pretoria (administrative) and Bloemfontein (judiciary), although the Constitutional Court is in Johannesburg. The history, however, can be traced back to the days of the creation of the Union of South Africa in 1910 after four British colonies were unified and agreement could not be reached on where the capital would be located. Interestingly, in India, Andhra Pradesh earlier had four capitals: Visakhapatnam (executive), Amaravati (legislative), Kurnool (judicial), and Hyderabad. The ‘glamour’ of big cities like New York, Toronto, Frankfurt or Sydney is not lessened by the fact that they are not capitals. In fact, this might have eliminated for them the burden of parliament, accommodations for ministers, foreign embassies and the rush caused by secretariats, government offices and apex courts being located there. Delhi, India’s capital, has a severe air pollution problem, so much so that its chief minister called it a ‘gas chamber’. Decentralization, or even shifting the capital further south might restore normalcy and cleaner air to Delhi. Similarly, Calcutta, Mumbai or Hyderabad would not lose any stature if they cease to be state capitals. If a small city is made the capital, it might trigger development in the concerned region as well. In 1961, Brazil moved its capital from Rio de Janeiro to inland Brasília “to bring progress to the interior of Brazil”. But an apolitical ‘capital push’ may not be easy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
15-03-2021||Opinion||India and the Great Game||The secretive India-Pakistan negotiations for the border ceasefire raise perplexing questions. Scoring in propaganda, the Pakistan army publicized the ceasefire before India could state soberly that it was a joint decision. Veterans of the government linked the ceasefire to the Joe Biden administration’s desire to draw India and Pakistan together as it takes on its rivals, China and Russia, but the reaction of the United States of America came later than usual. The question is this. Would rededication to the ceasefire owed to the statesmanship of the former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, be a self-contained exercise or catalyse negotiations on Kashmir and other issues? In February, the Pakistan army chief spoke of resolving Kashmir “in a dignified and peaceful manner”. Viewing the ceasefire as an Indian concession, Pakistan would now expect movement on Kashmir. Before this, India refused any common ground till Pakistan’s ‘cross-border terrorism’ in Jammu and Kashmir ceased. Since the 2016 Indian counterstrike on Pakistan’s border posts and the Balakot air attack in 2019, New Delhi has continuously weighed military options to neutralize Pakistan’s ‘State policy’ of terrorism. In a noteworthy change, the second anniversary of the Balakot strike on February 26 passed uncelebrated; this is unusual for an overtly nationalistic regime. While the Biden administration may indeed have wrought India’s change of heart, the ground has also shifted unfavourably for New Delhi. Since last summer’s border clashes between Indian and Chinese soldiers, China has successfully merged expansion with negotiations. The anti-China Quad with the US, Japan and Australia is a non-starter. ‘Trusted friend’ Russia decries Quad and puts China ahead of India to counter US and Western antagonism towards Vladimir Putin’s hard rule. Russia has its own problems with India’s proximity to the US post the Cold War and since the 1991 market reforms. With the reforms enriching India, Russia is transactional, no longer memorable as the Cold War ally of Bangladesh’s creation and extorts in defence deals. Since Pakistan abuts oil-and gas-rich Middle East and is pivotal to Afghanistan’s geopolitics, Russia accommodates Islamabad and pays lip-service to India’s concerns. Although India is part of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, Russia, China and Pakistan form their own club in it. In the best of times, India has had to balance relations with all. Jawaharlal Nehru understood the nature of the Indian State and gave it Non-Alignment. Its geography denies alliances. It is not in the Asia-Pacific to where growth has shifted from the West since the 1980s. It is not linked by land or religion to the Middle East, which, with North Africa and Turkey, has weighed on Europe’s strategic consciousness. India’s uniqueness lies in democracy; a multicultural, multireligious secularism; and in its mixed-market economy. These assets transcend its geopolitical disadvantages. This was the settled position till six years ago when the political, social, economic and strategic coordinates of the country were changed to fit a narrow nationalistic ideology and base. Although the changes were internal and unstoppable, it manifested in the internal-external realm before long. On August 5, 2019, Article 370 and aligned laws for Jammu and Kashmir’s special autonomy were scrapped. The next day, China was tacitly warned from the Lok Sabha to vacate Indian territories. The rest, as they say, is history. The present government certainly inherited the China, Pakistan and Kashmir problems. But it also made them worse with ultranationalism. Sooner or later, internal turmoil reflects internationally. Pre-2014 India posed no threat to peace in the neighbourhood and beyond. The world was happy for democratic, secular India growing steadily with reforms. India was almost able to escape its geographical confines. No longer. The world is not where it was six years ago when India could profitably engage with it. Donald Trump’s narrow nationalism and white supremacist presidency have eroded US preponderance versus authoritarian powers like China and Russia. Chinese programmes like ‘Made in China 2025’ and the ‘Belt and Road Initiative’ prepare it to lead the world in technology, innovation and infrastructure-building. Russia has joined its Great Power advantages with China in a new Cold War against the West. Brexited UK is floundering while continental Europe has tied its future with China and — covertly — with Russia. It is not apparent whether India has understood the profound changes in world politics stuck in failed and self-defeating mantras like autarky and nationalism and encouraging religious divisions in citizens and minority persecution. The world has three more-or-less equal powers and one of them straddles India’s northeastern borders. India’s security hitherto lay in being a status-quo power. Changing the status quo has driven the country into a cul-de-sac. All three Great Powers want India-Pakistan peace, with the US resolve being the weightiest. Even without that, the border ceasefire is overdue. There’s no miracle cure for the self-inflicted wounds of Kashmir or the gratuitously destroyed ties with China and it hasn’t helped to reduce the country to an India-Pakistan binary. The ceasefire is expected to follow a natural course and if it returns India to pre-2014 peace and stability, no one should cavil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
15-03-2021||Opinion||Reassessing ideas||Leo Tolstoy’s Anna Karenina begins with a disquieting aphorism on unhappiness: “Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” While accepting that there is a uniqueness to each unhappiness, it is possible to grade some misery experiences as greater in intensity and extent than others. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has surpassed the unhappiness caused by the two World Wars. The phrase, World War, in fact, is more symbolic than literal. Although only a few nations were primary participants in these two wars, they are presented as wars of the entire world. In contrast, the novel coronavirus became globally pervasive within the short span of a few months, setting a record. The unhappiness caused by the pandemic is, arguably, greater, making ‘Covid’ the most widely-used word across the continents over the past year. Unlike the World Wars in which the enemy was a visible presence, the ‘enemy’ during the pandemic is an invisible virus. This has caused much confusion. In some cases, people sanitizing where there is no virus and not protecting themselves adequately where there are significant threats. This has led to immense complications, further compounding the sufferings of people across the world. Just as important cities were targeted by aerial bombing during the war, this virus is concentrated in developed countries and big cities. The area of operation has shifted from the border right to the heart of the cities. In effect, the less developed countries and rural areas have been affected less. Assuming that we are entering a new era, there is a need to philosophically scrutinize some existing ideas and practices, especially the idea of dependence that emerges from Adam Smith’s division of labour, liberal ideas of individual autonomy and the domain of needs of human beings. One needs to reassess — not necessarily abandon — the path of globalization that involves the dependence of countries on each other for production, distribution, and consumption. No other event has confronted issues arising from globalization, capitalism, and international trade on as large a scale as the pandemic. This forces us to make readjustments to our lifestyles at a micro-level and to global trade at the macro-level. The pandemic has revealed vulnerabilities in the idea of dependence and exposed weaknesses in its opposite, namely independence and autonomy. The pervasive liberal notion is individual-centred. In its preoccupation or near-obsession with the self, liberalism seems not to have recognized the importance of the other, even though the other is another self. At times, it sees the other as a necessary evil. The pandemic, however, has made us intensely aware of how dependent we are on the other. For instance, one must be healthy and virus-free and ensure that others are virus-free. This creates a strong dependence on others, which calls into question the liberal idea of autonomous individualism. The idea of leaving crucial decisions, such as wearing masks or maintaining social distance, to individual discretion needs critical scrutiny. The decision not to wear a mask as an act of individual choice seems to have accelerated the spread of the virus in some developed nations. There is a need to learn from these experiences and re-examine them, especially for countries like India. Alongside economic equality, health equality has now emerged as an important issue. In this changed scenario, others’ health is as much of a concern for the self as for the community. It would be interesting to revisit some ideas of Emperor Ashoka without lapsing into preliberal ways of life in this context. He advocated an important idea in his Twelfth Edict about the relationship between our own sect and another’s: “Whoever honours his own sect and disparages another man’s... does his own sect the greatest possible harm.” The underlying message here is that others’ happiness and welfare precede the individual’s happiness and welfare. This reversing of the sequence is a radically different moral principle regarding the relationship between the self and the other. This alternative morality highlights the importance of the other unlike liberalism that is centred on the self. Concern for the other in Ashoka seems more useful in the context of the pandemic. Another important idea for critical scrutiny and evaluation is M.K. Gandhi’s distinction between need and greed. In his criticism of modern civilization, he disparages its greed-centredness. It may not be viable to follow his rigorous asceticism in our day-to-day life. However, his distinction between need and greed can be useful to determine what is dispensable in life and what is not. In pre-pandemic times, we witnessed a proliferation of desires that largely fall under greed. At a more fundamental level, the younger generation’s basic needs are often seen by the previous generation as greed. Then again, ideas considered radical or modern by one generation are deemed orthodox by the next. The present is largely regarded as modern and past ideas, which have preceded it, as orthodox. Despite the shifting definition of needs, the pandemic lockdown provided an opportunity to discover how much of what we desire is a need and how much is greed, what is indispensable in life and what is not. The lockdown across the world has provided a rare social spectacle to closely watch how people have dealt with what Gandhi would call greed and how much they have suffered due to the non-availability of goods for their needs. For instance, during the lockdown, the private medical sector that accounts for more than 75 per cent of India’s health facilities was closed down. It will be interesting to explore — with an open mind — how many suffered due to the lack of medical facilities during the lockdown and how many benefited by avoiding the cost of non-essential treatment, including the battery of often unnecessary medical tests that are routinely prescribed, significantly inflating a patient’s medical expenses. This will also help us assess our health preparedness. In the post-pandemic era, we can critically scrutinize the basic ideas of dependence, autonomy and need. The last idea has a serious consequence for ecology, environment and threat due to global warming that may cause a bigger catastrophe. Vaccination cannot protect human beings from this possible future catastrophe. While each unhappiness may be unique, it is possible to compare one with the previous and the possible future sufferings. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology,Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant govt to reserve 75% jobs for locals in private sector||The JMM-Congress-RJD government of Jharkhand has decided to reserve 75 per cent jobs in the private sector for local residents, following a policy similar to that adopted by the BJP government of Manohar Lal Khattar in Haryana amid mildly sceptical reactions from industry associations. Chief minister Hemant Soren announced his government’s plan, which he said would be rolled out formally soon, in the state Assembly on Monday when the ongoing budget session resumed after a four-day break. He also announced that his government would be providing an annual employment allowance of Rs 5,000 to skilled youths who failed to get jobs. For widows and the disabled, the unemployment allowance would be Rs 7,500. “Our government is now heading towards fulfilling the poll promises we made to voters during the 2019 Assembly elections. We had promised jobs to locals and we have decided to go ahead with it by reserving 75 per cent jobs in the private sector to the people of this state. Those without jobs will be given an unemployment allowance," he said in the Assembly amid rousing applause from the Treasury benches. Hemant also said that the government would be giving compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the next of kin of those who die in road accidents. Speaking to the media outside the House, Hemant said, “Unemployment allowance is just a small gesture from the state government to keep youths motivated amid the pandemic. We had already said that this year will be dedicated to jobs. We are trying to provide as many jobs as we can through direct recruitments and by creating different avenues to generate moreo pportunities cutting across public and private sectors.” An official of the labour department said job reservations in the private sector would be implementd once a law to that effet was enacted. “The reservation will be for jobs offering salaries of up to Rs 30,000 per month,” he said. Industry organisations reacted cautiously, and hoped that the reservation move did not end up being a regressive step at a time when the state government was eyeing fresh investments. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) president Praveen Kumar Jain said, “We are not against jobs to locals, but do we have enough skilled labour? The state government needs to first ensure that there isn’t any scarcity of skilled labour required for various sectors. Otherwise it will pose hurdles in getting the right investments.” An official of Jharkhand Small Industries Association (JSIA) was equally sceptical of the policy. “What is the criteria of being a local? Will someone who hails from Odisha and is working in my company for the last 20 years be called a 'local'? If not, where will I get a proper substitute to his/her skill level? The government must define this without any ambiguity first,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad women activists protest against anti-poor Centre ||Over 50 women’s rights activists carried out demonstrations near the district headquarters of Dhanbad on Monday against the central government and terming it as anti-poor and anti-farmer and held it responsible for the increase in unemployment, inflation and crime against women. The protestors also accused the government of befooling people by raising slogan on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao but not ensuring proper security for the girls and women who are going out of their houses to study in educational institutions or workplaces leading to crimes like rape, murder and harassment. The demonstrators who congregated at the site at around 10 am and raised slogans like Kisan virodhi bill ko wapas lena hoga, kisan virodhi sarkar murdabad, etc. also accused the central government of coercing farmers protesting against the farm bills aimed at helping the corporate houses at the cost of farmers. Talking to the media at the demonstration site, Upasi Mahtain, district president of All India Democratic Women Association (AIDWA) said, “The unemployment is at the highest level during the present government regime of the centre due to its anti-people policy.” Attacking the government, Mahtain said, “The government opened schools for offering khichdi to the students but didn’t make provisions for the appointment of teachers as the primary work at the schools for imparting education.” Another protestor, Chhavi Dhar who is also the district secretary of AIDWA said, “The government instead of coining proverbs like Beti Bachao Beti Padhao should ensure immediate punishment to perpetrators of offences like rape, dowry murder, female infanticide by carrying out a trial in fast track courts.” The protestors further demanded the government to ensure immediate passage of women’s reservation bill and other demands including equal pay for women, strict implementation of 498A of Indian Penal Code (IPC) related to the harassment of women. The irate protestors also demanded provision of reservation for women in government jobs. The demonstrators also termed petrol diesel price hike carried out by the central government as anti-people and demanded rollback of the various provisions of the recent budget presented by the government aimed at increasing inflation and unemployment. They also accused the government of carrying out privatization of public sectors organizations, including the profit-making organizations like Indian Railway, banks, Life Insurance Corporation of India, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Cornhole Baggo: a new game for special athletes of Dhanbad  ||Special athletes in Dhanbad will soon be introduced to a new game which is highly popular in Europe, the United States and Canada. After launching Cornhole Baggo in Jamshedpur last month, Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) will be introducing it in Dhanbad on Saturday, March 20. Cornhole Baggo will also be introduced in Ranchi and Bokaro in due course of time. SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota said the game will be introduced at Pehla Kadam, a special school in the coal town. "We have already finalised the programme with the administration of Pehla Kadam," he said. In Cornhole Baggo, players have to throw 6 inch x 6 inch bags full of corn into a 6 inch hole on a 4ft x 2ft board. Participants with lower ability are required to throw the bag from a distance of 3m, those with moderate ability from 4m and those with higher ability from 5m. Each bag, which are in red and green colour, is filled with corn weighing 454 gm. The board is placed in an inclined position and the game is played over three sets. Each set has two points and participants putting the bag into the hole maximum number of times emerges winner. It's interesting game and is somewhat similar to bocce. The game is played between two or four athletes and is also played with unified partners. Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which promotes special athletes, has already launched Cornhole Baggo through its Odisha chapter earlier this year. The new game was recently demonstrated and rules explained in a webinar conducted by the outfit and attended by more than 125 people consisting of coaches, officials and athletes of the national outfit from across the country. Sahota represented Jharkhand in the webinar. According to the SOJ assistant area director, talks are underway with Ranchi-based Deepshikha Institute of Child Development and Mental Health and Asha Lata Kendra (Bokaro) to introduce Cornhole Baggo in the two cities. "Dates will be finalised once Deepshikha and Asha Late Kendra reopens. Both schools are presently closed owing to the pandemic," Sahota said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Angara lynching: 9 of 17 named in FIR detained for questioning ||Police have detained at least nine residents of Sirka village to question them regarding the mob lynching of Mubarak Khan in Angara block of Ranchi on Sunday, SP (Rural) Naushad Alam said on Monday, adding that all those apprehended so far were named in an FIR lodged by the deceased’s elder brother. “We have detained nine of the 17 men named in the FIR lodged by Mubarak Khan’s brother. They are being interrogated,” said Alam. He said police were also investigating the case from the perspective of one Durga Munda, who had lodged an FIR against Mubarak and two others for stealing tyre and battery of his bike. In the FIR lodged by Tabarak Khan, the elder brother of Mubarak, he has named Saheb Ram Mahto, Durga Mahto, Raju Munda, Durga Munda, Lakshman Munda, Balram Mahto, Karulal Mahto, Sakhichand Mahto, Kamlal Mahto, Pokhar Mahto, Jaleshwar Mahto, Dilip Mahto, Chunnu Thakur, Jitendra Thakur, Sanjay Mahto, Dashrath Mahto, Rajendra Mahto, Jhabbu Lal Mahto, Pranav Mahto, Raghunath Munda and 20 unknown people for killing his brother as a part of a conspiracy. In what is the second incident of mob lynching in March, 27-year-old Mubarak, a driver by profession, was allegedly beaten to death by some residents of Sirka village in suburban Ranchi on charges of stealing tyres and a battery of a bike owned by Durga Munda. The irate mob reportedly caught hold of him while he was fleeing and thrashed him. However, the deceased man’s family has accused some residents of the village of tying Mubarak to a pole and thrashing him with the intent of killing him in the wee hours of Sunday. In the FIR, the family has alleged that Mubarak was murdered as a part of a conspiracy and that he had sustained severe injuries on his neck, back and head. Tabarak told police that his brother left home around 11 pm on Saturday. Around 4 am, he came to know that Mubarak had been spotted at Sirka village. He claimed that while the deceased was badly beaten, he was later strangulated to death. “We have taken statements of Mubarak's family, and investigation is on,” said the SP, but refused to divulge further details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Modi-Shah destroying federalsim, says K.N. Tripathi ||Former Jharkhand rural development minister K.N. Tripathi accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah of promoting regionalism in the country by using all their powers to defeat Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming Bengal elections. “The act of the Prime Minister and minister of home affairs is not as per the dignity of their respective posts, ” the veteran Congress leader said on Monday. Tripathi, who is also the national president of the Congress-affiliated Indian National Trade Union Congress (Tripathi faction), however, did not name the two leaders. “They should maintain the dignity of their posts and should not damage the federal structure of the nation,” he said while interacting with the media at Circuit House here during the second day of a three-day function of the trade union. He said the nation stood dismayed at the acts of the BJP. "We (Congress) have also ruled the nation for more than 70 years, and have witnessed very famous prime ministers, including Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. But he never indulged in such acts of using the entire power to defeat a chief minister,” Tripathi said. He equated the BJP's tactic of attacking Mamata Banerjee from all sides with that of the British surrounding the valiant Rani Lakshmibai. "The actions of our prime minister and minister of home affairs is totally disgraceful," he claimed. Accusing the Union government of trying to destroy the federal structure of the nation, Tripathi said, “The Constitution clearly mentions 47 subjects in the state list, including law and order, labour laws, agriculture laws, etc. But the central government is desperately acting to break the federal structure. It seems the Centre believes that state governments have no powers of their own." He also accused the central government of carrying out privatisation in all sectors, especially coal, leading to escalation of violence in collieries across the country, including Dhanbad. “Earlier during Congress rule mining was carried out by public sector companies. Instead, the BJP government has handed over coal excavation work to private contractors in order to get a share of profits from them. Consequently, local goons are trying to develop their influence on these contractors leading to violence,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Badminton Association elects 7 new faces in executive panel||Seven new faces have been elected to the executive committee of Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) with K. Prakhakar Rao becoming secretary for the fifth consecutive term. The 18th annual general meeting and the election of the state shuttle outfit was held at the Country Club at JSCA International Stadium in Dhurwa, Ranchi on Sunday. Jharkhand Olympic Association secretary Madhukant Pathak was present as an observer and regional deputy director of education department Arvind Bijay Bilumg graced the occasion as a special guest. The tenure of the new executive is four years. The faces who have been elected as the executive committee members include Ajay Kumar Rai (Chatra), Arvind Kumar Singh (Koderma), Vijay Kumar Singh (Ramgarh), Uma Rani Palit (Ranchi), Samrat Choudhary (Dhanbad), Kanishka Kashyap (Deogarh) and Shashi Kumar Pandey (Khunti). Uma Rani Palit is a seven-time state champion who has also represented India veterans. Others in the executive panel are Deepak Kumar Verma (president, Hazaribag), Deepak Kumar Sinha (senior executive president, Seraikela-Kharsawan), Dr R.A. Khan(executive president, Bokaro), Ganesh Prasad (executive president, Lohardaga), Shailendra Kumar Sinha (vice-president, Dumka), Santosh Kumar Namdhari (vice-president, Palamu), Ashok Joshi (vice-president, West Singhbhum), Vijay Sahu (vice-president, Gumla), Deepak Jha (vice-president, Dumka), K Prabhakar Rao (secretary, East Singhbhum), Ravi Shekhar Singh (treasurer, Seraikela-Kharsawan), Yashvir Jaggi (joint secretary, Hazaribag), Sachin Kumar Rana (joint secretary, Seraikela-Kharsawan), Nirmal Kumar Dey (joint secretary, Ranchi) Md Arshi (joint secretary, Godda) and Ranjay Kumar Ray (joint secretary, East Singhbhum). Sachin Rana, who runs a training centre at Mohan Ahuja Stadium in Jamshedpur has accompanied Indian shuttle teams to off-shore events as a coach. Jamshedpur-based Rao, who also happens to be the joint secretary of Badminton Association of India and chairman of Para-Badminton India, said representatives of all the 24 JBA affiliated districts were present at the meeting. "Promotion of the game in districts and other related issues were discussed during the meeting. The election was conducted in a peaceful manner," Rao, who is JBA secretary since 2006, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rights activists ask Hemant govt to crack down on lynching ||Expressing concern over two almost back-to-back incidents of mob lynching in Ranchi over the last two weeks, Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), a conglomeration of civil and human rights activists, demanded that the Hemant Soren government pay Rs 25 lakh compensation to the next of kin of the deceased, enact stringent laws to curb such incidents and implement the Supreme Court’s guidelines on such killings to prevent the state from becoming a mobocracy. Referring to the past incidents during the former BJP-led government in the state, JJM said that as many as 19 people had been killed by religious and cow vigilante groups. “It is appalling and sad that lynching incidents are still on despite a change of power in the state,” JMM said in a statement. “We demand that the state government provide relief to the bereaved family within 30 days, come up with tough laws to curb lynchings and implement SC’s directives in this regard, besides launching a massive awareness drive to sensitise people,” it added. The JJM also demanded that those responsible for these deaths be arrested and brought to justice by ensuring a fast-paced investigation and appointing an experienced public prosecutor to fight the case in court. “The government must also review the current status of past incidents of lynchings to ensure proper punishment for the culprits and launch a crackdown against those who are responsible for delaying these cases,” it said. A 27-year-old man, identified as Mubarak Khan, was allegedly beaten to death by an irate mob in Sikri village in Angara on Ranchi outskirts early on Sunday for apparently stealing tyres and a battery from a motorcycle, in a rerun of a similar incident under the city’s Kotwali police station area on March 8 when a mob of 40 people had brutally assaulted one Sachin Kumar on suspicion of theft. Incidents of lynching also dominated the day's proceedings at Jharkhand Assembly on Monday. While the Opposition BJP tried to corner the Hemant Soren government by accusing it of being a mute spectator amid deteriorating law and order, many MLAs from the ruling alliance also voiced their concern over such incidents and demanded the government take strict action. Congress’s MLA from Mandar Bandhu Tirkey demanded that Rs 10 lakh compensation be immediately paid to the victim’s family in addition to ensuring a speedy trial in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over one lakh senior citizens get Covid vaccine jab in Jharkhand||The count of senior citizens vaccinated against coronavirus crossed the 1 lakh mark in Jharkhand on Sunday as 8,450 senior citizens got the first jab on the day, taking the total number of vaccinated senior citizens in the state to 1,02,268, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. These senior citizens will have to get the second dose of the vaccine starting March 28. While senior citizens in the state have shown a positive response to the vaccine, Jharkhand is facing a tough time trying to achieve its target for vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers. For the past three days, Jharkhand failed to achieve more than 10 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the Covishield vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers. Even on Sunday, the state only managed to administer the first dose of the vaccine to only 5 per cent of registered healthcare and frontline workers, revealed the government data. As many as 1,478 healthcare and frontline workers and 1,178 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand on Sunday. The second dose was administered to only 4697 beneficiaries, hardly 6 per cent of the total number of beneficiaries registered for vaccination. Senior citizens in Ranchi, Giridih and Pakur have been prompt in getting vaccinated. As per the government data, as many as 12,565 senior citizens got the first jab in Ranchi – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Pakur and Giridih have vaccinated more than 10,000 senior citizens each. So far, as many as 4,76,367 people have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand, while 1,46,664 have received the second jab of the vaccine as well. As many as 18,451 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have got the first jab so far. Meanwhile, active cases of Covid-19 infection jumped to 548 on Sunday as the state reported 61 fresh cases against only 28 recoveries, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Ranchi reported 36 cases against 14 recoveries, and the count of active cases here rose to 329, which is more than 60 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand, the bulletin further stated. So far, Jharkhand has reported over 1.2 lakh cases of Covid-19 infection and more than 98 per cent of the patients have recovered. The state did not report any Covid casualty on the day. As many as 1,093 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far, reveals government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
