16-03-2021||Calcutta||Amit Shah rally in Kharagpur gets priority over classes says IIT students||Several IIT Kharagpur students have posted on social media about the irony that the Union home minister Amit Shah can hold a rally in Kharagpur with thousands of people but their institute is wary of resuming in-person classes to avoid assembly. The posts came on a day a section of students wrote to the institute’s director, V.K. Tewari, requesting that in-person classes be resumed. The students boycotted Monday’s online classes to press their demand. “The students of the institute collectively decided to miss scheduled classes on Monday to protest the closure of the campus over the past one year and… lack of information and concrete plan for reopening of the campus from the administration,” says the letter. A BTech student of the IIT has written on Facebook: “How come organizing rallies and gathering local crowd without masks and no social distancing by our Home minister is allowed but when it comes to the college reopening by following proper norms and regulations, the IIT Kharagpur administration maintains silence…. Who’s at fault here?” The student posted his comment as part of a campaign #reopenIITKGP, being run on social media by a group of students. The student has posted a picture of Shah perched on a vehicle with several others and travelling through supporters on Sunday. In the photograph, Shah, without any mask, is seen waving at supporters who also appear to be without masks and not following any distancing norms. Union education minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal, the Prime Minister’s Office, and IIT director Tewari were tagged in the post. Another student has posted: “The education minister and the home minister are promoting gatherings for their electoral benefits but IIT would remain closed!!!! What is this. 1)Boycott classes collectively and encourage others, 2) Mass mail to the Authority, 3) Tag and mention kgp diro in social media 4) Support the trend #reopen IIT #Boycott Classes.” He wrote that Pokhriyal was “live at 6:35pm” on his Facebook page, sharing visuals of Shah’s road show. Metro checked the Facebook page of Pokhriyal on Monday evening and found that he was “live at 6:35pm” on Sunday to share the visuals. “When people can take part in rallies, why can’t we walk on the roads of our campus? When other IITs are calling back their students, why can’t we?” posted another student. Only a handful of research scholars have been brought back to the IIT. Director Tewari said on his Facebook page on Monday afternoon: “At present we have 400 research scholars on campus who were quarantined on campus. We have plans to bring back more students….By May-June, we are hoping to call back the final year undergraduate and postgraduate students so that they would be able to complete their lab classes. By July, we hope to recall 50-60% of the students with due consideration of the SoPs and quarantine…..I hope the students and their parents would review the gravity of the situation with patience.” Repeated calls to him went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. An IIT student who is from another state said: “He (Shah) is concerned about Hiran Chatterjee (the BJP candidate from Kharagpur Sadar). But what about us? What if some employees of IIT attended the road show and then came to the campus? Will they not spread the virus on the campus? They have all the restrictions in mind only for students.” In the email sent to the director, the students have written: “As is well known to you we come from all over the country to study at such a prestigious college — many of us belong to remote areas of the country where the lack of Internet connection is an issue. Not only this, recent socio-political protest in various parts of the country has led to lack of Internet connection with the students. Despite the students complaining of their issues, the administration even did not try to respond to them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Future Hope's role model says help and hard work made a difference||A 19-year-old knocked on the doors of a charitable organisation because his father, a washerman (dhobi), had told him that he would either have to leave his studies or make his own arrangements. This was over a decade back. Bijay Das came from a slum in the city, where his father still lives, but the teenager worked his way up and is now a lecturer at Azim Premji University, Bangalore. “The designation is important to my father. Because he thinks it is a respectable profession. He felt that the work that he did never earned him respect,” Das said over the phone from Bangalore. He vividly remembers the summer day in May 2007 when he went to the charitable organisation Future Hope, after scoring  92.3 per cent in Class XII. “I was told that economics is a tough subject and I will have to put in a lot of effort. I was ready to do that. I came from a community where there was not much scope for education but Future Hope provided me with that and I was ready for hard work,” said Das, 32. Das went on to study economics at St Xavier’s University and did his masters at Jadavpur University. “But it was not funding alone that I received for my education, I was mentored and motivated by teachers at Future Hope... at some very critical junctures in my life,” said Das, who grew up in a less than 100 sq ft house with two siblings. It was not easy to set aside money from his meagre income but this father did that till Das was in Class XII. “My parents invested in my education despite constraints,” he said. It eventually became difficult for his father to sustain the family. “I do feel proud of my son today. Also of my daughters who earn their own living by working in a hospital. I had to give up education in Class VI because my mother fell sick and I started doing the work of a washerman, which my mother did. But I did not want to push my children into it,” said father Biswanath Das. But senior Das still prefers to stay in his humble home. “My children go out to work and I am ageing. In a new place, I would not be knowing many people and I am fine here,” said the 62-year-old. After completing his masters, Das moved to do the Gandhi Fellowship programme in Rajasthan and post that, he started working for a foundation in Jaipur. “I was working with government schools to build quality assessments for students,” he said. In March this year, he moved to Bangalore to work at  Azim Premji University’s School of Continuing Education. “He (Das) is a role model for our children and he has proved how hard work, sincerity, commitment can take you anywhere. He is still very grounded, with no airs,” said Sujata Sen, CEO, Future Hope.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Vaccinate every adult on an emergency footing, says Gopalkrishna Gandhi ||Former Bengal governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi has said every adult in the poll-bound states and Union territory should be vaccinated on an emergency footing. “Given that the coronavirus is re-surging in an almost frantic pace, it is essential that every single adult in the four ‘election-due’ states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and in the Union Territory of Pondicherry be vaccinated on an emergency footing, irrespective of age and co-morbidity. And all polling personnel including security guards as well. “It should not be said that electoral democracy runs at the cost of  her citizens’ health,” Gandhi said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta private hospitals expand Covid jab facilities as cases rise||Several private hospitals in Calcutta are setting up bigger and permanent structures for Covid-19 vaccination as they realise the drive is likely to continue for many months and the state government is asking them to increase the number of daily doses being administered as cases are rising again. Some hospitals have refurbished the vaccination rooms, while others are planning to relocate the sites within the campus so more people can be accommodated. Officials of several private hospitals said they had started the vaccination drive at makeshift facilities that did not have air-conditioning and enough seating arrangements. Initially, some of the private hospitals had planned not to continue with the Covid-19 vaccination, which had started in India on January 16, for long. Requests from the people and the government, however, prompted them to change their decision and they are now setting up permanent sites. Peerless Hospital is setting up a vaccination site on the ground floor of the building. The hospital is administering the doses to elderly people at the rear of the building on the ground floor and to healthcare and frontline workers on the first floor. “A new vaccination site will be set up near the entrance, where we have a garden and a fountain,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. At the new site, to spread across 700sq ft, 500 people can be vaccinated daily. The hospital now administers doses to 400 people daily. “Initially, we had thought not to continue with the vaccination drive for long. But we are getting requests (to continue the drive) from many people who are our patients. Also, the state health department has requested us to continue with the drive,” he said. “The new site will be more comfortable and, being near the entrance, easier to access,” said Mitra. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, the authorities have refurbished the vaccination site. “There was no AC in the rooms. Since summer is approaching, we have installed ACs. Also, the interiors have been refurbished,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. “We think the vaccination drive will continue for at least one year and so had to refurbish the facility.” Initially, 25 people could be accommodated at a given time at the hospital’s vaccination centre. The capacity has since been doubled, said Venkatesh. AMRI Hospitals, Dhakuria, had initially set up the vaccination centre at its diabetes clinic, opposite the hospital, which is spread over 3,500sq ft. As community vaccination started on March 1, the hospital decided to shift the centre to the Annex I building. “The site has been shifted because of the rise in the number of senior citizens queuing up for vaccination. The new facility is spread across 10,000sq ft and has three vaccination rooms — for Covishield, Covaxin and beneficiaries from among healthcare and frontline workers,” said an official of the hospital. AMRI Hospitals, Dhakuria, on Monday decided to continue with the vaccination at the new site. “From next week, we are planning to enhance the number of daily vaccinations from 300 to 500,” said the official. Health department officials said they wanted more vaccination centres in urban areas. “We are planning to increase the vaccination drive as number of Covid cases has started to rise again. On Monday, over 2 lakh people were vaccinated in Bengal, including more than 1 lakh elderly. Depending on supply of vaccines, we’ll increase the number,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the state’s health secretary. “We want to increase the number of vaccination centres in urban areas where gatherings and population concentrations are more. So, if private hospitals increase vaccinations, it will be a helpful move,” he said. On Monday, 251 more Covid-19 cases were reported in Bengal, compared with 133 on February 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||EC stresses on security norms after Nandigram incident||Following the Nandigram incident in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee was injured, state police have been instructed by the Election Commission of India to ensure that all star campaigners adhere to security protocols laid down by security agencies. The instructions sent by the election commission through the state’s chief electoral officer include ensuring use of bullet-proof vehicles for a Z-plus protectee and following security protocol like wearing a seat belt during the use of any vehicle or helicopter for election campaigns. The election commission, in a communication to the state chief electoral officer on March 14, has said the rules should be conveyed to all the political parties and the star campaigners for “strict compliance in their own interest and possible sensational impact on the general law and order across the state in case of any untoward incident”. “Attention has also been drawn that the safety provisions as prescribed in the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 (as amended) (e.g applying seat belt etc) are also not being followed in some cases thereby violating the existing statutory provisions punishable under law,” it reads. The message reached the state a few hours after the state director of security and district police chief of East Midnapore were suspended for alleged security lapses during the chief minister’s visit to Nandigram on March 10 where she was injured. A senior official of the state election commission said: “This is just to reiterate that it is the primary duty of the police and the security agencies to ensure the safety and security of the star campaigners and VIPs in the state, failing which they would be held responsible.” The “yellow book” of security that deals with the security rules of Z-plus protectees mentions the mandatory use of bullet-proof vehicles and defines the role of security personnel. Several police officers expressed helplessness and wondered if the norms could ever be implemented at a time leaders wanted proximity with people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Kalyani student under Covid mutant strain scanner||A postgraduate science student from Maharashtra, who had recently returned to his institute in Bengal after classes resumed, tested positive for Covid-19 last week and was admitted to the ID Hospital in Beleghata. The state health department has sent his swab sample to the School of Tropical Medicine to find out whether he is infected with a mutant strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The student, who got his swab sample collected at the Calcutta airport, is in the same ward at the ID Hospital where fliers from Dubai who have tested positive for the UK and South African strains of the virus have been admitted. Doctors said on Monday evening the student’s condition was stable. Health department officials said two fliers who had been earlier admitted to the hospital after testing positive for the British strain of SARS-CoV-2 were discharged on Monday. One of them returned home to Digha in East Midnapore and the other to Baruipur in South 24-Parganas. Earlier, a flier from Dubai who had tested positive for the South African strain had been discharged. Health department officials said the student from Maharashtra had reached the institute in Bengal on March 10. After he was found to be positive, district health officials alerted the health department and he was shifted to the Beleghata facility. “We want to find out whether the student has been infected with a mutant strain. There is no reason to panic and the patient is doing fine,” said a health department official. With several fliers from Dubai arriving in Calcutta testing positive, the health department has decided to tap the facility available at the School of Tropical Medicine to test some of the samples that need early detection. Usually, samples that tested positive in an RT-PCR test at the airport are sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for analysis of the strain. Officials said the Kalyani institute was burdened with samples and it would take at least three to four days for a report to reach the health department. Sometimes, results would remain “inconclusive”. “To hasten the confirmation of the strain in this particular case (related to the student from Maharashtra), we opted for the School of Tropical Medicine,” an official said. The Beleghata facility has eight patients who had flown in from Dubai and tested positive on their arrival. They have been admitted to the facility where the student, too, has been admitted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Rs 5 lakh compensation for surgery injury driven suicide||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday asked New Life Nursing Home to pay Rs 5 lakh to the family of a man who suffered a bile duct injury during surgery to remove gall bladder and later committed suicide. The wife of Manoj Kumar Parbat, 38, who suffered the injury, told the commission that her husband killed himself as he could no longer bear the pain and also because of fast depletion of the family’s financial resources, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the panel’s chairperson. The hospital on Rajarhat Road had offered to pay Rs 3 lakh to the family but the commission increased the amount to Rs 5 lakh. “The 38-year-old man got admitted to the nursing home on June 28, 2018, for gall bladder stone removal surgery. During the surgery, he suffered an injury in his bile duct. The nursing home did not conduct any curative surgery,” Banerjee said. “His family shifted him to other hospitals to treat the bile duct injury. He even went to Chennai to get himself treated.” Parbat filed a complaint with the commission on January 29, 2019, and the first hearing was held on January 14, 2020. “He committed suicide by the time the first hearing was held. His wife, who was present at the first hearing, told us that Parbat had committed suicide, unable to bear the pain. She also said the family’s financial resources were drying up,” Banerjee said. During Monday’s hearing, officials of the nursing home told the commission that they had already offered the family Rs 3 lakh to settle the matter but the family was not responding. “We asked the hospital to pay the family Rs 5 lakh. The family had to spend a lot of money for the man’s treatment,” Banerjee said. The family also lodged a complaint against the doctor with the consumer court. In a separate case, the commission asked Medica Superspecialty Hospital to offer a Rs 2 lakh discount to a patient’s family. The 71-year-old man was admitted to the hospital on December 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. The man’s son complained to the commission about overcharging. “The hospital raised a bill of Rs 13,79,000. The hospital did not offer discounts on medicines and consumables. Besides, the charges of some of the pathological tests were also higher,” he said. In August last year, the commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price of medicines and consumables to lessen the burden of bill on patients or their families. It had fixed at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables. Medica told the commission that they did not offer the discount since the patient had insurance coverage, but the commission did not accept the argument because the insurance company paid only Rs 5 lakh. The patient’s family had to pay the rest, Banerjee said. In yet another case, the commission on Monday mediated an agreement between a patient’s family and Charnock Hospital in New Town. A 68-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital in June 2018. The hospital raised a bill of Rs 2,38,143. “The patient was covered under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and they paid Rs 1,78,302. The patient party had to pay the remaining amount,” said Banerjee. The patient party refused to pay any amount arguing that the patient was covered under the CGHS. The hospital said there were items not mentioned in the CGHS. The CGHS authorities said they had reimbursed what they felt was right. “The three sides exchanged many letters over three years. On Monday we asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 30,000 from the remaining bill amount. The patient will pay Rs 29,881,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee, a 'people person' and Xaverian in spirit||I met Mamata Banerjee for the first time in 2010 when she was minister of railways. The bishop of Asansol had requested me to take him to her to get some advice on an issue related to a church in Asansol. I made the appointment and we were there at her residence in Kalighat. One of her officers told me that she had gone out for some urgent work and that she would be back soon. He laid out two chairs on the veranda and made us sit. She returned after 15 minutes and seeing us on the veranda, scolded the officers for making us sit at the entrance. Then she took us to her office and enquired about the issue. The bishop narrated the problem and Mamata immediately called up the local officer in Asansol and asked him to look into the matter and resolve the problem at the earliest. While we returned from her house, the Bishop remarked, “Mamata is really a go-getter, vibrant and a leader of the people.” St Xavier’s College has constructed twin hostels at Beck Bagan, central Kolkata — one for girls and the other for boys — with the generous support of the alumni in 2014. I was the principal of the college at that time. One Sunday morning, the director of the hostels called me up to inform me that the Mother Dairy workers were digging up a place right in front of the girls’ hostel gate to open a booth. When contacted, the supervisor said the work had been sanctioned by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation under the order of the mayor. I contacted the mayor, only to be told that the work had been approved by the ministry concerned and that it could not be stopped. Finally, I contacted Mamata Banerjee, who was the chief minister of West Bengal. She understood the issue and resolved it in 10 minutes. The mayor later called up to inform me that the work had been suspended. In January 2012, Mamata Banerjee was the chief guest for the SXC Convocation. While we were sitting on the stage, she asked me whether we could upgrade SXC to a university or start a St Xavier’s University. I told her that a new university could be possible if her government could give us up to 25 acres of land. She immediately agreed and promised to look into it. At the same convocation, on her humble request, and on behalf of the College Alumni Association, I conferred on her the Honourary Membership of SXCKAA. With the blessings of Mamata Banerjee, SXC was allotted 16.64 acres of land at Rajarhat for the establishment of SXUK. Mamata Banerjee is truly a Xaverian in spirit who has the rare quality of helping with utmost care. Mamata Banerjee has been attending the Christmas gatherings organised by the Alumni at SXC since 2010 without fail to deliver her Christmas message. The 2012 Christmas gathering was a special one for all Xaverians. Mamata came as a Santa, pulled out a document from her bag, handed it over to me and said with a broad smile to all who were assembled, “I have given a letter to Father and he will inform you what it contains.”  It was the document for 16.64 acres of land in Rajarhat. “We want St Xavier’s College to become a university. Your alumni are spread across the globe. We want it to grow bigger and bigger and become globally known,” she said. I said: “There could be no better gift than this for our Vision 2020. Her wish will always go with us in our efforts to start the Jesuit University.” Mamata did not go back empty-handed. I was honoured to hand over to her the Honorary Membership card of the Alumni Association. “I am obliged, grateful and overwhelmed to have been granted Honorary Membership of the Alumni Association. St Xavier’s remembered my request made almost one year ago in January. I will always remember this gesture and be a true Xaverian,” Mamata said with deep emotions. Mamata is known to be a charismatic and prolific leader who has a “dashing and robust personality” and has been described as “astounding”, “decisive”, "vibrant”, “vivacious”, “practical”, and a “keen, ambitious” leader in India. She would be described as a “people person”. She was instrumental in bringing about a change in Bengal. Despite being an influential and powerful leader, she lives and exhibits a humble and simple lifestyle. She is deeply caring for a peaceful and harmonious environment for the good of all. Fr. J. Felix Raj, SJ, is vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower, financial stocks drag||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty gave up early gains to end marginally lower on Tuesday, tracking losses in financial stocks. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 31.12 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 50,363.96, and the broader NSE Nifty slipped 19.05 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,910.45. L&T was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 1.56 per cent, followed by ICIC Bank, SBI, Kotak Bank, HDFC Bank, NTPC, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's, HCL Tech, HUL and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. Domestic equities gave up initial gains and traded flat towards the final hours of the day despite favourable cues from global equities, said Binod Modi - Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Financials once again dragged the markets. Notably, IT stocks were in focus today mainly on expectations of sustained earnings momentum in 4QFY21E and benefits from possible fall in INR. "In our view, increasing concerns with regards to resurgence of COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country and resulted restrictions could be a near term risk for domestic markets. Additionally, volatile bond markets and soaring inflation will continue to weigh on investors' sentiments," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.61 per cent lower at USD 67.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in opening session, Nifty tests 15K||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and Asian Paints amid positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 274.03 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 50,669.11, and the broader NSE Nifty was up 75.10 points or 0.50 per cent at 15,004.60. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Titan, UltraTech Cement, Bharti Airtel, Infosys, Reliance Industries and M&M. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, NTPC and SBI were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex had ended 397 points or 0.78 per cent lower at 50,395.08. The broader NSE Nifty finished 101.45 points or 0.67 per cent down at 14,929.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Monday as they sold shares worth Rs 1,101.35 crore, as per exchange data. "We are now in a highly volatile phase where the market swings on a daily basis, responding to major triggers. The major trigger now is the US bond yield which has the potential to move huge money," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Rising bond yield triggers selling in equity markets and when yields cool down buying resumes, he said, adding that bear hammering and short covering are making markets excessively volatile. "Consecutive 2 days of institutional selling -- by both FIIs and DIIs -- weakened the Indian market. But this is not a directional trend. Post the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meet and a possible affirmation of the dovish stance by the Fed, the market may resume its upward move. Presently top quality financials present a buying opportunity," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. US equities too ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.83 per cent lower at USD 68.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank strike deals||India’s deal street continues to be active even though the Covid-19 pandemic is still raging in parts of the country. Tech Mahindra on Monday said it will acquire a 70 per cent stake in Perigord Asset Holdings Ltd (Perigord) for an undisclosed sum. Perigord specialises in providing end-to-end packaging supply chain solutions to the life sciences industry such as artwork & labelling services, strategic consultancy and outsourcing. Tech Mahindra will acquire the Indian subsidiary of Perigord — Perigord Data Solutions India Pvt Ltd and Perigord Premedia (India) Pvt Ltd, while Mahindra Engineering Services (Europe) Ltd, a group firm, will acquire the other legal entities of Perigord. The acquisition comes days after Wipro said it will take over the London-based Capco (The Capital Markets Company) for $1.45 billion in cash. On Sunday, private sector lender Axis Bank disclosed that it will be taking an indirect stake in Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Ltd (MBHI). This came after it picked up 9.9 per cent in Fettle Tone LLP, a promoter of health insurer for Rs 90.8 crore. Fettle Tone currently holds around 55.6 per cent in MBHI. “Healthcare and Lifesciences (HLS) is a key vertical for Tech Mahindra and this acquisition will expand our footprint globally in these domains. Perigord’s proprietary platform and expertise in the artwork space and life sciences industry will add significant value to our offerings and capabilities,’’ Vivek Agarwal, president — BFSI, HLS and Corporate Development — at Tech Mahindra, said. The acquisition is a part of Tech Mahindra’s long-term growth plan to build presence across key markets in Ireland, Germany, the US, and India with enhanced global delivery. “Both companies’ future ambitions and desires to digitally transform the world of pharmaceutical packaging services will deliver long term innovative solutions to our clients that will future-proof their needs over the next 10 years,” Alan Leamy, chief executive officer of Perigord Asset Holdings Ltd, said. Meanwhile, Ratan Tata, chairman Emeritus of Tata Sons and chairman of Tata Trusts, has, in his personal capacity, acquired a stake in Pritish Nandy Communications through market deals last week. While the company did not give any details, the announcement led to its shares rising almost 10 per cent to close at Rs 23.50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||Draft e-commerce policy suggests conformity assessment procedures||Conformity assessment procedures will be put in place to verify that goods and services sold on e-commerce platforms meet the required standards and technical regulations, according to the draft e-commerce policy. The policy, which is under discussion, also stated that actions and things which cannot be done by the online platform entities “can also not be done” by any of its associates and related parties. The government may, from time to time, notify parties which fall in the definition of associates and related parties, it said. “Conformity assessment procedures will be put in place in order to verify that goods and services sold, on e-commerce platforms, meet required standards and technical regulations, as prescribed by sector specific regulations/rules,” the draft said. These procedures are related to testing, verification and certification of goods and services, among others. It also said a long-run endeavour will be to convert GeM (government e-marketplace) into a marketplace where “ordinary consumers” could procure, increasing the efficiency in the Indian economy. At present, only the government departments and agencies are allowed to procure goods and services from the GeM portal. According to the draft policy, an e-commerce operator operating in a marketplace or hybrid mode will have to manage its relationship with sellers on its platform in an agnostic manner and without being partial to any of its sellers. It has talked about areas such as definition of e-commerce, code of conduct, creation of conducive environment, enhancing exports, monitoring, meeting regulatory challenges of the sector, handling of data, free and informed choice of consumers, fair competition, anti-counterfeit and anti-piracy. Last week, an inter-ministerial meeting chaired by the officials of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade had discussed this draft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation doubles to 4.17 per cent in February||The wholesale price-based inflation doubled to a 27-month high in February to 4.17 per cent, led by soaring fuel prices and an uptick in food prices. This effectively dims hopes for any policy rate reduction in the near term to spur economic growth amid the pandemic. The WPI inflation was 2.03 per cent in January and 2.26 per cent in February last year. After witnessing months of softening of prices, the food articles in February saw 1.36 per cent inflation. In January it was (-) 2.80 per cent. In vegetables the rate of price rise was (-)2.90 per cent in February against (-)20.82 per cent in January. In fuel and power, inflation stood at 0.58 per cent against a 4.78 per cent contraction in January “The doubling in WPI inflation to a 27-month high was broad-based, reflecting the rise in commodity prices brought on by the global risk-on sentiment, hardening of crude oil and fuel prices, as well as a fading of the favourable base effect for food items,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at Icra Ratings. She expects large upticks in the WPI inflation over the next three months with core and headline WPI rising to around 6 per cent in March. “We maintain our view that inflation dynamics will rule out any further rate cuts, with a status quo expected through 2021,” added Nayar. The RBI in its monetary policy last month kept interest rates unchanged for the fourth consecutive meeting and said that the near-term inflation outlook has turned favourable. Retail inflation, based on the consumer price index, was at 5.03 per cent in February, data released last week showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||General insurance employees set to go on strike on Wednesday||Employees of public sector insurance companies, including LIC and four public sector general insurers, are set to up the ante against the government move to divest LIC and privatise a general insurance company. Following a two-day bank strike on Monday and Tuesday, general insurance employees are set to go on a strike on Wednesday (March 17, 2021) and LIC employees have called a strike on Thursday (March 18, 2021). Over 7,000 officers and employees from these government-owned insurance companies in Bengal are set to participate in the nationwide strike on these two days. Among the services that are likely to be affected include premium collection and payments at the offices of these insurance companies, claim settlement and underwriting of policies in both life insurance and general insurance, including health insurance. However, online payment facilities that have gained traction in the pandemic will remain functional, insurance industry officials said. In the Union budget, the government had announced its decision of strategic sale in one general insurance company in 2021-22 and introduce the initial public offer of LIC in the current fiscal. The government had also proposed in the budget to amend the Insurance Act, 1938 to increase the permissible FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent in insurance companies. Members of All India Insurance Employees’ Association (AIIEA) on Monday said that the reason for the strike call is three fold — the proposed LIC IPO, the decision to increase the FDI limit and a move to privatise a public sector general insurance company. Bank strike Rajen Nagar, president of All India Bank Employees Association, on Monday said that banking services were adversely affected not only in Bengal but in other parts of the country as well. Banking services, including branch banking, treasury operations, cheque clearances were among the services that were affected. According to the association, the social objective of providing insurance cover to the weaker sections will suffer a setback as the insurers target bigger policies to generate greater profit. The expansion into unprofitable rural areas will also take a backseat according to the association. AIIEA also questioned the flip-flop of government from its earlier decision (announced in union budget 2018) to consolidate three public sector general insurance companies – National Insurance, United India Assurance and Oriental India Insurance - into a single entity and list the same on the bourses to a straight strategic sale of one of the state owned general insurance company in Budget 2021. The union cabinet last July had approved a capital infusion of Rs 12,450 crore into these three insurance companies and dropped the plan to merge them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
16-03-2021||Business||Govt sets a floor price of Rs 1,161 per share for its offer for sale in Tata Communications||The Union government on Monday set a floor price of Rs 1,161 per share for its offer for sale (OFS) in Tata Communications. It will divest 10 per cent with an additional 6.12 per cent as greenshoe option. After this sale, the Centre will sell its remaining 2,85,00,000 shares to Panatone Finvest, an arm of Tata Sons. At present, the government holds 7,44,46,885 shares or 26.12 per cent of Tata Communications (formerly VSNL). At the floor price, the Centre will garner close to Rs 8,650 crore from the sale that will see its exit from the company. The floor price represents a discount of 10.42 per cent to the closing price of the Tata Communications scrip on the BSE on Monday. The government will initially sell up to 2,85,00,000 shares of Tata Communications, representing 10 per cent of its equity. The offer will open on Tuesday for non-retail investors and on Wednesday for retail investors and for those non-retail subscribers who choose to carry forward their unallocated bids. Here, a retail investor is an individual investor who places bids for not more than Rs 2 lakh across stock exchanges. Close to 10 per cent of the offer is reserved for them. The Centre added that it has an option to additionally sell 1,74,46,85 shares or 6.12 per cent of the company’s equity. The announcement came on a day the Sensex crashed 397 points following weak macro-economic numbers. The index moved 1035.71 points after opening lower at 50773.47. It settled 0.78 per cent lower at 50395.08. The NSE Nifty finished 101.45 points, or 0.67 per cent, down at 14929.50. Though the benchmark indices ended in the red, the primary market continues to witness good interest with six companies hitting the markets this week. They include Anupam Rasayan India (which opened for subscription on March 12), Craftsman Automation, Laxmi Organic Industries, Kalyan Jewellers, Suryodaya Small Finance Bank and Nazara Technologies Ltd. Anupam Rasayan’s IPO has already been subscribed 3.64 times. “While the long term structure of the market continues to remain positive, it may face some hurdles in the near term due to concerns over the bond yields, commodity prices and risk of increase in inflation. Even Nifty valuation at 21 times 2021-22 earnings per share is not inexpensive and demands consistent delivery of earnings. Rising bond yields may cap equity valuations as the RBI may have to do a fine balancing act to keep bond yields at lower levels while managing the government’s borrowing programme. Thus given the likelihood of high volatility continuing in the market for some time, investors would do well by accumulating good quality companies on decline in the market’’, Siddhartha Khemka, Head - retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
16-03-2021||Business||Finance minister introduces Insurance Amendment Bill 2021 in Rajya Sabha||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday introduced the Insurance Amendment Bill 2021 in the Rajya Sabha that seeks to increase FDI in insurance to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. The bill which amends the Insurance Act, 1938 was approved by the Union cabinet on Wednesday. Sitharaman had announced the higher FDI in the budget and had said the majority of directors on the board and key management persons would be resident Indians. At least 50 per cent of the directors would be independent, while a specified percentage of profits would be retained as a general reserve. The government has earlier allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment in insurance intermediaries such as brokers and consultants. Fuel in GST Amid record-high fuel prices, Sitharaman said there was no proposal as of now to bring some fuel items under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). ‘‘At present, there is no proposal to bring crude petroleum, petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas under GST,” Sitharaman said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. “So far, the GST Council, in which the states are also represented, has not made any recommendation for inclusion of these goods under GST,” she said. While the finance minister alluded to the role of states to bring petrol and diesel under GST and provide a much needed relief to the buyers, her deputy Anurag Thakur squarely put the onus on the states. In the Lok Sabha, Thakur said the Centre was ready to consider reducing the central taxes on fuel if the states first cut their taxes on petrol and diesel. “Aap bhi rajyon me kuchh kam kijiye, hum bhi yahan se kuchh karne ka vichar kar sakte hain (You do something in the states, we too may consider something here),” the junior finance minister said during Question Hour. “Dono ko milkar hi karna hoga (We have to do it together).” Thakur’s comment came as he tried to evade a direct reply to YSR Congress member P.V. Midhun Reddy, who had pinned him down on the rise in taxes on fuel. Sitharaman had sought a co-ordinated approach between the Centre and the states. Compensation States may face a GST compensation shortfall of Rs 3 lakh crore in the next financial year, a situation that will force them to borrow more from the markets, a report said. The states may face a shortfall of Rs 2.7-3 lakh crore as Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation from the Centre next fiscal. Out of that amount, the shortfall from cess collections will be at Rs 1.6-2 lakh crore, according to an Icra report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
16-03-2021||India||Amid bank strike, Nirmala says not all banks will be privatised||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said the interest of all employees of state-owned banks which are likely to be privatised will be protected, even as bank unions observed a two-day strike against the government's privatisation decision. Replying to a query during a press conference, she clarified that public sector presence will continue in the banking space. "...we have announced public enterprise policy based on which we have identified those four areas in which we said government presence, public sector presence will be there, and bare minimum presence is what we have said, in that financial institutions are also there. "Meaning, even in the financial sector we will still have the presence of public sector enterprise...not all of them are going to be privatised," she said. Even for those which are likely to be privatised, Sitharaman said the government will ensure that "these privatised institutions will also continue to function. After the privatisation, we will also have to ensure that the staff or the personnel who are there, their every interest will be protected." In her Budget Speech on February 1, Sitharaman had announced that the government proposes to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments and she had proposed to introduce the amendments in the ongoing Budget session of Parliament itself. Nine bank unions are observing a two-day strike opposing the government's policy to privatise lenders. Tuesday was the last day of their strike. At the press conference, the minister referred to amalgamation of PSBs and said the country needs many more lenders of the size of State Bank of India (SBI). She further said the government wants financial institutions to get more liquidity and more people to put money into them to make the entities sustainable. The government wants the staff of these financial institutions to be able to perform their duties, in which they have acquired skill over the decades, and run the banks, the minister added. "So, to immediately quickly conclude saying 'oh every bank is going to be sold off' is not right. "And even whether it is bank or any other privatisation, I want to take this opportunity to tell...that the interest of the workers, interest of those who have put in services over the decades will absolutely be protected. Whether it is their salaries, whether it is their scale, whether it is the pension, it will all be taken care of," she said. The government has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years. The four strategic sectors in which the government will continue to have its presence, though bare minimum, are -- atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||China to issue visa to Indians who take Chinese Covid vaccine||China has made it mandatory for people coming from India and 19 other nations to get Chinese-made COVID-19 vaccines if they want to travel to this country. "For the purpose of resuming people-to-people exchanges in an orderly manner, starting from 15 March, 2021, the Chinese Embassies and Consulates in India will provide the persons having taken Chinese-made COVID-19 vaccine and holding the Certificates of Vaccination," a notice posted on the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said. The announcement makes little difference for thousands of Indian students besides professionals working in China and their family members who are stuck in India awaiting Beijing to permit their return as there are no Chinese vaccines available in India. The Chinese Embassy notice did not specify how Indians can access the Chinese-made vaccines in India as they are not available in the country. Over 23,000 Indian students, most of them medical students, besides hundreds of professionals working in China are stuck in India since last year due to coronavirus travel restrictions. Despite repeated representations from the Indian embassy and appeals by the students, China is yet to respond positively. State-run Global Times reported that such notices were put up by Chinese embassies in 20 countries. Asked about the rationale of the regulation to have Chinese vaccines in countries like India where China made vaccines are not available, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here on Tuesday that many countries have floated the idea of linking vaccination status with opening up international travels. "Our proposal to facilitate the travel of those who have been inoculated with Chinese vaccines is made after thoroughly considering the safety and efficacy of Chinese vaccines," he said. "We believe this is a meaningful exploration of facilitating international travel once mass vaccination has been achieved. It is not linked to the recognition of Chinese vaccines," he said. When pointed out that would it not be better if China recognised the vaccines endorsed by WHO, which is yet to approve the Chinese vaccines, Zhao said, "China's proposal is a meaningful step. We are trying to facilitate international travel". "This is an arrangement made by the Chinese side unilaterally. It is a different thing from vaccine recognition," he said. The WHO has already approved Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca vaccines. AstraZeneca vaccine is being produced by Serum Institute in Pune in the name of Covishield. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Maharashtra in beginning of second Covid wave, says central team report||Maharashtra is in the beginning of second COVID-19 wave, a central team report has said, highlighting that there is very limited active effort to track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts, and there is no adherence to COVID appropriate behaviour among people in rural and urban areas. Based on the central team report, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written a letter to the Maharashtra government, stating "measures such as night curfews, weekend lockdowns etc. have very limited impact on containing/suppressing the transmission" and urged the state to focus on strict containment strategies, strengthening surveillance and augmenting testing. In a letter to Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, Bhushan said even though the health infrastructure is adequate as of now, the "state should plan for a worse-case scenario with sufficient lead time". The central team which visited the state from March 7-11 inferred in its report that the administrative mechanism should be re-instated to the level witnessed in August-September 2020 to contain/supress COVID transmission. "ln all the districts visited by the central team, the test positivity rate was high, ranging from 51 per cent in Mumbai to 30 per cent in Aurangabad, implying that there are lot many cases that are not being tested and there is high transmission in the community," the report underlined. ln view of limited contact tracing, a large pool of asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic people among contacts are not tracked and tested, the report said and stressed that testing must be considerably enhanced and protocol laid down by ICMR followed. "The absence of rigorous tracing, testing and containment is leading to sustained community transmission," it said. "The case-contact ratio is more than 1:20. Though it appears high, a deep dive into the methodology of contact tracing revealed that the main concept of contact tracing was not clearly understood by field level staff, who were mainly listing the immediate family and neighborhood contacts, for the sake of listing. "The high-risk contacts in workplace settings, social settings and family settings were not investigated and listed," the report highlighted. The report stated that the current case fatality was found to be very high among admitted cases in Government Medical College in Aurangabad and in Vasant Rao Pawar Medical College, Nashik which needs to be investigated in detail, including sending samples for whole genome sequencing, it said. Referring to the findings of the team, Bhushan said that containment strategy needs to be re-introduced, containment zones must be better defined based on contact listing, digital mapping of cases and contacts and should be much larger to include the area of influence of cases/ contacts. "The buffer zones need to be delineated. The perimeter control needs to be strictly enforced. For each containment zone, the Rapid Response Teams should develop an operational plan," he said. Bhushan also stressed on augmenting testing to bring the test positivity rate to less than 5 per cent and strengthening surveillance by active house to house search for active cases/contacts in containment zones (as per the containment plan). Further, passive surveillance for ILI and SARI must be enhanced through health institutions, and involvement of private practitioners. "The Incident Command under the leadership of district collector and municipal commissioner should be actively re-instated with whole of government approach to contain/ suppress the transmission. This should be monitored at the highest level," Bhushan said. For every positive case, at least 20 to 30 close contacts (including family contacts, social contacts' workplace contacts and other casual contacts) need to be promptly traced and tracked and the practice of isolating 80-85 pre cent of active cases kept in home isolation needs to be reviewed, he said in the letter. "Vaccine hesitancy among frontline workers needs to be addressed as their services would be required if the trajectory follows the upward swing as is being witnessed now. The state should also expedite vaccinating those with co-morbidities and elderly," Bhushan stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||PM Modi's principal advisor P K Sinha resigns||P K Sinha, the Principal Advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has resigned, sources said on Tuesday. Sinha, a retired IAS officer of 1977 batch, was appointed as Principal Advisor to the Prime Minister in September 2019, after a brief stint as an officer on special duty (OSD). Sinha was made OSD to the Prime Minister in August 2019, after he had served four years as Cabinet Secretary. According to the order of his appointment, his tenure as Principal Advisor was co-terminus with the term of Prime Minister Modi or until further announcement, whichever earlier. Sinha had also served as Secretary in the Ministry of Power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Mamata reciting ‘Chandi Path’ shows change of mindset in BJP era: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee has been forced to take to 'Chandi Path' publicly and visit temples due to the change in people's mindset after the BJP came to power at the Centre. He also criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his visits to temples in poll-bound states. Speaking at an election rally at Balarampur in Purulia district, the star campaigner of the saffron party said, a sect of people was created in the country, before the BJP-led government assumed power at the Centre in 2014, who believed that even visiting temples would pose a threat to their secular credentials. "A change has come... Even Mamata didi has started visiting temples and taken to 'Chandi Path'. Isn't this a change? This is new India. Each and every person has to go to God. "Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also goes to temple during election time. And a priest had to tell him to sit in a correct posture when he (Rahul Gandhi) went there," the UP chief minister said. The 'Chandi Path' is one of the most ancient and complete systems of mantra worship of the divine mother goddess in the Hindu tradition. Adityanath also criticised the Trinamool Congress (TMC) dispensation in Bengal for not implementing various schemes of the central government. Urging the people to vote for the BJP in the approaching Assembly polls in Bengal, Adityanath said, if voted to power, the BJP will punish those behind the "killing of party activists in the state". "This is the land of (Swami) Vivekananda, Rabindranath (Tagore), Syama Prasad (Mookerjee) which has inspired the entire country. But now it is the land of TMC-promoted goons and 'tolabaaj'(extortionists). "I think the days of Mamata didi's government are numbered. The people of the state have made up their mind in voting them out of power. Only 45 days are left for them," he said. The 294 assembly seats in Bengal will go to the polls in eight phases beginning on March 27 and the votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Maharashtra health minister requests 2.20 crore Covid vaccine doses from Centre||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has demanded 2.20 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses from the Centre for the ongoing inoculation drive in the state. He requested the Centre to supply 20 lakh doses per week to the state, as per a letter dated March 15 written to Union health minister by Tope, who went to Delhi on Tuesday. "The state is planning to immunise 60-plus age group and 45-plus population with co-morbidities. It needs supply of 2.20 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine (Covishield and Covaxin) during the next three-and-a-half months. You are requested to supply 20 lakh doses per week to Maharashtra," Tope said in the letter. Maharashtra has been the worst hit by the coronavirus infection in the country. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan recently wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, expressing disappointment over the state's measures to curb spread of the coronavirus infection. The state does not seem to be serious about controlling the situation, the letter said. A central delegation visited Maharashtra between March 7 and 11 and also discussed the COVID-19 situation with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. On Monday, Maharashtra reported 15,051 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's caseload to 23,29,464, while 48 fatalities took the death toll to 52,909, according to the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Railways will never be privatised and will always remain with govt of India, says Piyush Goyal||Railways Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday asserted that Indian Railways will never be privatised but said private investment should be encouraged for more efficient functioning. Replying to a discussion on Demands for Grants for Railways, Goyal said there has been no death of any passenger due to a rail accident in two years and the railways has been putting enormous focus on passenger safety. He said the country can progress towards high growth and create more employment opportunities only when the public and private sectors work together. "Indian Railways will never be privatised. It is a property of every Indian and will remain so, the minister said, adding that it will remain with the government of India. Goyal said the Modi government has hiked investment in railways to Rs 2.15 lakh crore in 2021-22 fiscal, from Rs 1.5 lakh crore in 2019-20 fiscal. We are focusing on passenger safety. I am happy to say that there has been no passenger death in past two years. The last death due to train accident happened in March 2019," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation targets inoculating 1 lakh people per day||With an aim to speed up the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has set a target of inoculating one lakh people in the city every day, BMC officials said on Tuesday. Currently, 40,000 to 45,000 people are being given vaccine shots here in a day at around 85 immunisation centres, including 54 private hospitals, they said. On Monday, 44,683 people received vaccine shots in Mumbai, according to the civic body. During a review meeting last week, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal set the target of immunising one lakh people per day, specially after the government permitted round-the-clock vaccination in private hospitals, civic officials said. With the addition of new vaccination centres and increasing the number of hours of the immunisation drive every day, the target can be achieved, they said. Highlighting the reasons for speeding up the inoculation process, the civic body in a release last week said there are around 30 lakh senior citizens in Mumbai. Hence, if the target one lakh vaccinations per day is achieved, the entire population of senior citizens could be covered in a month, it said. BMC’s Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said to achieve the target, they have planned to increase the civic-run vaccination facilities, apart from adding 29 centres in private hospitals. "With the existing centres, we have vaccinated up to 48,000 people in a day. By adding more centres, we can easily cross 75,000 vaccinations per day. Hence, the target of one lakh vaccinations per day can be achieved with some more efforts," Kakani said. According to BMC officials, the civic body had proposed round-the-clock vaccination in private hospitals and the government permitted it, but they are doubtful about the turnout, specially between 9 pm and 7am. When asked about this, Kakani said though they have received the permission for conducting vaccination round-the-clock, their plan is to initially start with two shifts between 7 am and 9 pm. Since the vaccination drive began on January 16 this year, so far 6,47,684 people have been inoculated in Mumbai. These include 2,75,618 people above the age of 60 years, 1,98,711 health care workers, 1,36,288 front-line workers and 37,067 people between the age group of 45 and 59 with co-morbidities, as per the BMC data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
16-03-2021||India||Government 'privatising profit and nationalising loss': Rahul Gandhi||Taking a dig at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that selling public sector banks to "cronies" will compromise the country's financial security. He also accused the government of "privatising profit" and "nationalising loss". "Government of India (GOI) is privatising profit and nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India's financial security," Gandhi tweeted. The Congress leader also expressed solidarity with the protesting bank employees, who are on a two-day strike against alleged privatisation of public sector banks. "I stand in solidarity with the striking bank employees," he said on Twitter. The bank strike, led by nine unions of public sector banks (PSBs) in the country, continued for day-two on Tuesday. Customers will be inconvenienced to get services such as cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearances, remittance services. Government transactions related to treasury as well as business transactions will also be impacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||India records 24,492 new infections, 131 deaths||India recorded 24,492 new COVID-19 cases, registering more than 20,000 cases for the sixth day in a row, taking the infection tally past 1.14 crore, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The total cases in the country rose to 1,14,09,831, while the death toll increased to 1,58,856, with 131 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a spike in cases for the sixth day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 2,23,432, which now comprises 1.96 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 96.65 per cent, it said. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 20. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,27,543, while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.39 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,82,80,763 samples have been tested up to March 15, with 8,73,350 samples tested on Monday.  More than 30 lakh people were inoculated against COVID-19 on March 15, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to 3,29,47,432, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.  The vaccination of beneficiaries aged over 60 has touched 1 crore within 15 days, the ministry said.  Of the total 30,39,394 doses given in a span of 24 hours on March 15, 26,27,099 beneficiaries have been administered the 1st dose and 4,12,295 individuals have been given the 2nd dose, according to the data compiled at 7 am.  Of the cumulative 3,29,47,432 doses which have been administered till now, 2,70,79,484 beneficiaries received the 1st dose and 58,67,948 individuals have taken the 2nd dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Satyapal Malik pitches for a law on minimum support price||Satyapal Malik, the Meghalaya governor handpicked by the Narendra Modi dispensation, has pitched for a law on the minimum support price and warned the Centre of consequences if the government tries to suppress the farmers’ protest and send them back empty-handed. Malik’s voice holds significance as he belongs to the ruling stable and hails from western Uttar Pradesh, the epicentre of the farm protests along with Punjab and Haryana. “When I saw what was happening in the matter of farmers, I couldn’t stop myself. I spoke and I told both the Prime Minister and home minister that ‘One, don’t send them back empty-handed because the sardars remember it for 300 years. Second, don’t use force against them’,” Malik told a felicitation at a school in Baghpat, western Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday. Malik had studied in the village school. Malik, who joined the BJP in 2004 after stints in the socialist camp and the Congress, was picked as governor of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2018, a move indicative of his proximity to Modi and Shah. It was during his stint as governor that the Centre decided to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Later, he was transferred to Goa and then to Meghalaya. Malik, who had spoken in favour of the protesting farmers earlier too, said he was “ready to go to any extent” for the farmers since he belonged to a farmer family and knew well the problems they faced. Malik warned the Centre against committing the mistake of ignoring the farmers and echoed their demand for a law on the minimum support price, underscoring that “Kisan bahut bure haal me hai desh me”. “Make a law on the MSP and the farmers will be ready for other amendments the government wants,” he said, urging the Centre not to allow the protest to drag on. The governor said the government’s current approach towards the protesting farmers was “wrong”. “This is a wrong approach, to suppress the farmers, insult and send them back,” he said and warned the government that the farmers were not going to leave by themselves and there would be consequences if they were forced out. Malik said he had been trying hard to make the government understand the gravity of the farmers’ protest and resolve the issue. “Yesterday, I met a very big journalist who is a friend of the Prime Minister. I told him that I had tried and now he should make them (the government) understand,” he said. The governor recalled his days as a farmer’s son in the village and assured the villagers that although he lacked the power to force the government to act, he would spare no effort. “I want to assure you that for farmers, I will go to any extent,” he said. “If the country’s farmers and soldiers are dissatisfied, the country can’t survive. Nobody can save the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Sedition proceedings against former JNU students begins||A Delhi court on Monday began sedition proceedings against former JNU students Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya five years after they became synonymous with dissent against the ruling BJP and their university captured the public imagination as the fulcrum of this resistance. By Monday the trio had aged beyond their years, with strands of white hair, and the shadow of the case had prevented them pursuing teaching careers despite their having earned PhDs. Kanhaiya is now a national council member of the CPI, Khalid has been in Tihar prison for the past six months on terror charges in connection with a speech linked to the Delhi riots, and Bhattacharya works for a think tank. In court, they stood near one another and Bhattacharya pinched Khalid to lighten the sombre mood, drawing smiles from the former classmates gathered there. While the trio already have bail in the case, the seven other accused — young Kashmiris who were students in 2016 — were granted the relief during the brief proceedings on Monday. The case stems from the events of February 9, 2016, when Khalid, Bhattacharya and others had organised a “poetry reading” session titled “The country without a post office”, after Agha Shahid Ali’s poem of the same name. It was meant to mark the third anniversary of the execution of 2001 Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru. The session was violently disrupted by RSS student arm ABVP, prompting the varsity students’ union, led by Kanhaiya, its then president, to intervene in support of the organisers. Kanhaiya and the rest were accused of chanting “anti-national” slogans. Apart from sedition, the charges the 10 accused face include voluntarily causing hurt, forgery, unlawful assembly, rioting and criminal conspiracy. The police filed the case on complaints from the ABVP and then BJP parliamentarian Maheish Girri, and later transferred it to their anti-terror unit’s special cell. Kanhaiya, Khalid and Bhattacharya spent several weeks in Tihar jail before securing bail and becoming public speakers and activists for free speech and secularism. The same Patiala House Courts where Monday’s hearing took place had seen men wearing black coats attack teachers, journalists and activists on February 15, 2016, and beat up Kanhaiya in the presence of police two days later. All 10 accused were in the court on Monday. They included former JNU students Mujeeb Gattoo and Khalid Bashir Bhat; former Jamia Millia Islamia students Umair Gul (now a university teacher in Pulwama) and Basharat Ali, now a journalist; Aligarh Muslim University student and Gattoo’s brother Muneeb; dentist Aqueeb Hussain; and rights activist Rayees Rasool. Umar Khalid was brought in from Tihar Jail under heavy security, which meant the hearing could begin only at 10.55am, almost an hour behind schedule. As Khalid was rushed in by armed policemen, a journalist from a pro-government TV channel tried to question him in the corridor leading to the courtroom, drawing shouts from the police to move away. Khalid asked the reporter: “For how long will you do paid journalism?” Hearing the policemen’s shouts, many of those in the courtroom rushed to the window, unsure what was happening and fearing a return of the black coats of 2016. None of the 2016 attackers, who allegedly included then BJP MLA O.P. Sharma, has faced prosecution although the violence took place on court premises in a high-security zone near India Gate. Despite the memories of the attack on the court premises in 2016, several teachers were present on Monday. Among them were Moushumi Basu, secretary of the JNU teachers’ association, Kanhaiya’s former PhD guide Subodh Malakar, economist Surajit Majumdar, Delhi University sociologist Satish Deshpande and political scientist Saroj Giri. Kanhaiya arrived on the court premises with 10 bouncers from Haryana who threw a cordon around him. Friends and sympathisers of the accused, lacking faith in the police to protect the defendants, had turned up in numbers while hardly any BJP supporters were present. “In the attendance of this case, we have a majority,” Kanhaiya joked with The Telegraph. A magisterial probe that Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government had ordered in 2016 had found that several purported videos of the February 9 incident had been doctored. These videos had aired on TV channels and led to mob frenzy and wildcat attacks on JNU students outside the campus. The probe also found that varsity security guards had given false testimonies implicating the students during an internal inquiry by the JNU administration. Then human resource development minister Smriti Irani had read out in Parliament the names of nine non-ABVP students whom the internal probe had found guilty of indiscipline in connection with the February 9, 2016, event. The chargesheet was filed in 2019 and the AAP government granted sanction for prosecution last year. On Monday, the seven Kashmiri accused deposited bail bonds of Rs 25,000 each with equivalent sureties, and chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma ordered the chargesheet to be given to the defendants who have to respond by April 7. Following this, the matter will be considered for committal to a sessions court that tries serious offences. Judge Sharma said that requests for exemptions from personal appearance from Kanhaiya — on the CPI’s list of star campaigners for the Bengal polls — would be considered on a day-to-day basis by the sessions court. Sharma allowed Umar Khalid to meet his family for 10 minutes at a holding cell on the court premises. Khalid raised his fist in a salute to his old comrades while being led out at the end of proceedings and court formalities around 11.30am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Kerala BJP nominee refuses to contest||The BJP’s attempt to field the first MBA graduate from the Paniya tribal community in Mananthavady has failed with the candidate turning down the offer saying he had already told the party he was not keen on contesting. C. Manikandan, 31, who works as a teaching assistant at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University in Wayanad, and is not even a primary member of the party, refused to take the field after finding his name in the BJP’s list of candidates announced on Sunday for the Assembly elections. “Some local BJP leaders had called me on phone three weeks ago to ask me if I was interested in contesting. But I had clearly told them that I was not inclined to contest as I am not even a BJP sympathiser,” he told The Telegraph on Monday. But the BJP went ahead and included his name in the candidates’ list. However, instead of the original name, the party printed his Facebook name Manikuttan in the list. “At first I thought it was someone else, but later realised they had used my Facebook name,” he said. “I am not even a BJP sympathiser, let alone a member of that party. All I want to do is to pursue my academics.” After finding his name in the list, Manikandan went to a BJP convention in Mananthavady on Sunday evening to meet some local leaders. “I told them what transpired when some leaders had called me earlier and requested them to drop my name from the list,” he said. He named Wayanad district BJP president Saji Sankar and Yuva Morcha leader Akhil Prem among those who met him at the convention on Sunday. “After sometime, (state BJP president) K. Surendran spoke to me on Saji sir’s phone and tried to convince me to contest. But I explained I had no intention of contesting elections,” Manikandan added. In a clear message about his ideology, Manikandan on Monday posted a picture of B.R. Ambedkar on his Facebook page along with a condensed version of the leader’s famous quote: “Even if you hang me upside down from this lamppost, I will not betray my people.” The original quote is: “I shall not deter from my pious duty and betray the just and legitimate interests of my people even if you hang me on the market lamp post in the street.” Faced with the ignominy of a candidate refusing to contest after being named, the BJP scurried to find an alternative. “We are fielding district general secretary P. Mohandas in Mananthavady,” Sankar said on Monday. Asked about the reason to name Manikandan without his permission, Sankar said: “What happened has happened. Now there is no point in talking about it. He was named because he is the first MBA from the Paniya community. Apparently, he was not convinced about contesting.” His Facebook friends posted affirmative comments like “Jai Bhim” and “respect” over his decision not to contest on a BJP ticket. Mananthavady is not the only problem area for the BJP. Pathanamthitta district BJP president Ashokan Kulanada, who was named from Thiruvalla constituency, backed off on Monday citing rebellion triggered by the choice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||BJP MP’s daughter-in-law slits wrist in Lucknow||The daughter-in-law of a BJP parliamentarian slashed her wrist on a Lucknow street on Sunday night hours after releasing a video threatening suicide and blaming her in-laws for refusing to accept her and her husband for abandoning her. Police took Ankita Singh, daughter-in-law of Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore, to hospital where she is recovering. Kishore’s son Ayush and Ankita had married a year ago without the MP’s consent and begun living in a rented house in Lucknow. But late last month Ayush returned to his parents’ home, accusing Ankita and her brother Adarsh of misbehaving with him. On March 3, Ayush accused Adarsh of shooting him in the right arm, prompting the police to arrest Ankita’s brother. But on March 5, the police registered a case against Ayush accusing him of shooting himself and framing Adarsh. “You have ditched me. I’m going for ever,” Ankita said in Sunday’s video, adding that Ayush, his parents Kishore and Jai Devi (BJP MLA from Malihabad) and his brother Vikas would be responsible for her taking her own life. It led to a search by the police, who found Ankita squatting on a deserted roadside near the MP’s home late at night, sources said. As soon as she saw the police, Ankita allegedly slit her right wrist. Kishore told reporters: “We don’t accept her (Ankita) as our daughter-in-law. The police are probing the case and we need to wait for the truth to come out.” Ayush had released a video on March 7 denying he had shot himself and accusing Ankita of conspiring against him. “I hurt my parents under the influence of this woman (Ankita). I spoiled my life by marrying a woman against my parents’ wishes. I didn’t shoot myself; that day (March 3) I was beaten up first,” he said in the video. Ayush had been admitted to the King George’s Medical University Hospital with his bullet injury but ran away fearing arrest after the police began suspecting him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Speed up Covid-19 vaccination campaign by 5 times: Expert||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign has administered over 26 million people their first doses and six million their second doses in the eight weeks since the campaign started. At this pace, it would take nearly two years to cover the 300 million people who make up the four priority population groups — healthcare and frontline workers, people aged 50 years or older and those below 50 with underlying chronic health disorders. Senior health officials have said the government is sure of procuring 660 million doses for the ongoing campaign but have not specified over how long. But two years seems too long a time to vaccinate less than 25 per cent of the country’s population. The US has announced a plan to vaccinate all adults by May this year. India too should set similar goals, says Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore, who has many years of experience in control and surveillance of infectious diseases. In this interview to The Telegraph, Babu says vaccines that can be manufactured within India and others willing should be made available at regulated prices to all — as soon as possible. I am concerned about the pace of vaccination so far. It is important to cover at least 10 million people per day to complete vaccinating all the vulnerable people within two or three months. The pace needs to increase by five times its pace so far. Vaccinating children is a most difficult and sensitive process. But the country’s auxiliary nurse-midwives and nurses comprise a large and well-trained workforce. They vaccinate millions of children routinely through outreach sessions without major complications. They can easily cover 2 million doses per day routinely. By expanding participation of private health facilities, it would be possible to cover more than 7 to 10 million doses per day. With current production, this may be a problem. However, there are several other vaccines available internationally. Foreign-made vaccines with arrangements for manufacture within India should be immediately prioritized and scaled up. Russia, for example, has already pledged 100 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine. An Indian company has signed a pact for its local production and the vaccine is already undergoing clinical trials in India. We need not wait for the companies to approach India. We’re seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases in many states again. Saving the lives of Indians should be the most important goal. We need to invite the other manufacturers to go through the due processes and make their vaccines available to Indians. The vaccines from Moderna and Johnson&Johnson are two other options. India could commission rapid studies to examine safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy for these vaccines too. Yes. The government should act as the assurer of the quality of vaccines while regulating their prices. This could open up vaccination in workplace settings across the country and for all others who can afford them. This should happen immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Indian army replaces Insas  with Sig Sauer assault rifles||The army has begun replacing its Indian small arms system (Insas) rifles with American Sig Sauer assault rifles, procured recently under fast-track procedures. These American-made rifles are easier to handle and offer better accuracy and a longer range — 600 metres compared with the Insas rifle’s 400 metres — sources said. Officials said the army was supplying the Sig Sauer to its infantry battalions, particularly troops involved in counter-terrorism operations and those on the frontiers with Pakistan and China. “Frontline troops along with soldiers in other infantry commands are being equipped with the newly procured rifles to boost their capability. Several units have started firing practice with the latest weapon,” an army official said. The army recently procured 72,500 Sig Sauer assault rifles from the US, and the Centre has ordered a second batch of 72,500. Indian soldiers have for over two decades mainly used Insas rifles made by the Ordnance Factory Board, amid complaints that they jammed frequently. Another shortcoming was that the Insas rifle’s 5.56mm bullet did not always kill the target in one shot. The Sig Sauer bullet is bigger at 7.26mm. “The Sig Sauer has an effective killing range of 600 metres against around 400 metres for the Insas,” the army official said. “Another advantage is that the Sig Sauer is more accurate and lethal because it has a higher calibre than the Insas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||CBI registers case against 17 army officers in recruitment scam||The CBI has registered a case against 23 people, including 17 army officers, in a recruitment scam. The agency also conducted searches at 30 locations across several cities on Monday in connection with the case. The agency registered a case on a complaint from the office of additional directorate general, discipline & vigilance, Adjutant General’s Branch, Integrated Headquarters of Ministry Office Defence (Army), New Delhi, against 17 army officers including a lieutenant colonel, a major, a naib subedar and a sepoy besides six private persons and others on the allegations pertaining to bribery and irregularities in recruitment of officers and other ranks through the Service Selection Board (SSB). “Searches were conducted today at 30 places including base hospital, cantonment, other army establishments, civilian areas covering 13 cities like Kapurthala, Bathinda, Delhi, Kaithal, Palwal, Lucknow, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Vishakhapatnam, Jaipur, Guwahati, Jorhat and Chirangon which led to the recovery of several incriminating documents,” the CBI said. The documents so far recovered during the searches are being scrutinised and investigation is continuing, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Report flags money power in election system in India||A new report by eminent citizens who reviewed the election system in the country has flagged concerns such as the exclusion of vulnerable groups from electoral rolls, money power in polls promoting an economic oligarchy and selective enforcement of the model code of conduct. The Citizens’ Commission on Elections, an NGO, released its second volume of “An Inquiry into India’s Election System” on Monday. The NGO is chaired by former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur and includes former IAS officers Wajahat Habibullah, Sundar Burra and M.G. Devasahayam, and retired Madras High Court judge Hariparanthaman as well as several academics and journalists. The first volume examined doubts on the integrity of the electronic voting machines and recommended that paper trail machines be redesigned for more transparent verifiability by voters and that the voting machines be independently verified outside the government and the Election Commission. Releasing the second volume, Devasahayam referred to the massive deployment of central forces for the Assembly polls and said: “Democracy is an exercise in freedom. Instead of that, people have been put under fear. But the basics like the level playing field, the democratic principles and public faith above all are not being complied with in the context of elections.” More than 1 lakh central police personnel have been deployed in Bengal. The second volume examines reports of exclusions from voter rolls, criminalisation of politics, ineffective and selective implementation of the model code of conduct that has benefited the BJP, fake news and alleged partisanship of the Election Commission. The commission is yet to respond to the reports. “Earlier the EC was very generous in offering us time, the Chief Election Commissioner (O.P. Rawat) would offer us time, and we would discuss. An air of closed doors has descended around the government,” Habibullah said. The second volume highlights the exclusion of vulnerable and disadvantaged groups from voter rolls, and says the move to link the electors’ photo identity card with Aadhaar “could lead to massive data leak, fraud and theft…” and that “the fast-rising economic oligarchy in the country, threatening India as a welfare state is the direct fallout of this extreme money power in elections” promoted by electoral bonds from anonymous donors. It also highlights a “lack of consistency by the ECI (Election Commission of India) in enforcing the MCC (model code of conduct), the ECI treating the ruling party with kid gloves and the ECI not using its powers under Article 324 of the Constitution.” On fake news, the report finds “procrastination, silence and inaction characterised the ECI’s responses even to serious violations of the MCC, media code and guidelines by the ruling party!” The report and Devasahayam referred to a report by Sweden’s V-Dem Institute that rated India as an “electoral autocracy”. The NGO’s second report says: “The ECI, the ‘engine that drives India’s elections’ seem to have corroded fast and has morphed into an ‘unelected autocracy’. It is maintaining the fig leaf of ‘free and fair elections’ only by deploying a vast array of paramilitary forces, variety of observers and flying squads while losing its essence of level playing field, democracy principles and public faith. In the event, the ECI has drifted away from its constitutional (Article 324) mandate of holding genuinely free and fair election. No wonder then that India is being branded as ‘electoral autocracy’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
16-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi: Modi govt cannot build, can only sell ||Rahul Gandhi on Monday suggested the Narendra Modi government knew only to sell, not to build, attacking the Centre’s privatisation drive that he said hurt the public and helped only crony capitalists. “Banana nahin, sirf bechna jaanta hai (Can’t build, knows only to sell),” Rahul tweeted. “India is against privatisation which hurts the public and benefits only the crony capitalists.” Rahul did not name the Prime Minister but the allusion to Modi was clear as he tagged a report that explained how the Centre planned to divest shares in four major airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad. The plan to monetise the assets gathered steam after Modi declared the “government had no business to be in business”. On Monday, the Congress ran a social media campaign against privatisation, recalling how Modi’s theme song in the run-up to the 2014 general election went: “Saugandh mujhe is mitti ki, desh nahin bikne dunga (I swear by this earth that I won’t let the country be sold).” The Congress has been painting the Modi government as a sales agent with the slogan: “Jo mile bech do (Sell whatever you can lay your hands on).” Congress governments too had divested public sector units in the past but the party opposes the sale of profit-making units such as the LIC, ONGC, BPCL and the like. On Monday, the Congress also highlighted the nature of the acquisition of airports, ports and other assets that it said were creating dangerous monopolies by a handful of industrialists. “They are dedicated to an asset-free India, not Congress-free India. It is incumbent on every citizen to fight against this ‘sell the country’ campaign by the Modi government. People have to choose between Modi bhakti and rashtra bhakti,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewla said. He also issued a statement on privatisation as bank unions began a two-day strike from Monday. “Today the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions, called for a two-day nationwide strike on March 15 and 16 against the privatisation of public sector banks and retrograde banking reforms,” he said. “We stand in solidarity with 10 lakh bank officials and staff participating in the strike.... There is no rationale for selling state-owned lenders to private lenders — foreign or domestic. This is yet again a desperate attempt to meet the disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore. “Even experts like former RBI governor Dr Raghuram Rajan have... red-flagged it by calling it a ‘colossal mistake’. The whole idea of bank nationalisation, a bold step taken by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, was to bring banking closer to every Indian. “The aim was to make banks and loans available even for those who do not meddle in High Street finance. PSU banks are not just profit-making ventures; they have been in the past used as vehicles of social reform. “A very large part of our population lives in rural areas and is involved in agriculture. We need public sector banks for outreach and to ensure banking is more accessible to (people) in villages and smaller towns, which aren’t high on the priority list of private lenders. “What we really need is higher accountability of public sector banks and not their outright sale. Public sector banks have been at the forefront of lending to the priority sectors like public infrastructure roads and also rural areas, which need financing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
16-03-2021||India||Death penalty in Batla case||A Delhi court on Monday awarded death penalty to Ariz Khan for the murder of decorated Delhi police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma in connection with the sensational 2008 Batla House encounter case, saying the offence fell under the “rarest of the rare category” warranting the maximum sentence. Additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav said Ariz be hanged by neck till death. Inspector Sharma of the police’s special cell was killed during the Batla House encounter between the police and alleged terrorists in Jamia Nagar in south Delhi following serial bomb blasts in the national capital in which 39 people died and 159 were injured. The court also imposed a total fine of Rs 11 lakh on Ariz.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
16-03-2021||India||BJP concern on racism in Britain||The issue of racism in the UK — prised open by American actress Meghan Markle’s allegations against the royal family — found an echo in the Rajya Sabha on Monday in what appeared to be the BJP’s eye-for-an-eye response to the discussion in British Parliament on the farmers’ protest last week. Volunteering to respond, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar said the land of Mahatma Gandhi can never turn its eyes away from racism, adding that India would raise the issue when required. This came hours before Jaishankar met British minister of state for the Commonwealth and United Nation, Tariq Ahmad, the Baron of Wimbledon. “Concern for Racism in United Kingdom’’ was raised by BJP MP Ashwini Vaishnaw as a Zero Hour mention. It secured a response from Jaishankar though it is not mandatory for ministers to respond to Zero Hour mentions. Twenty-seven MPs — 20 from the BJP — associated with Vaishnaw’s mention, the others being six from the BJD and one from the NCP. Jaishankar said: “Let me, first of all, commend the member for bringing up such an important issue. I note the sentiments of the House, government does.... As the land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP will play 'khela' of development and peace in Bengal says Rajnath Singh||Slamming the Mamata Banerjee government over alleged slide in the law and order situation, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday the "khela" (game) that will be played in West Bengal after the BJP's victory in the assembly election will be that of development and peace. He asserted the BJP will form its government in the state winning more than 200 of the 294 seats. Joining the campaign blitzkrieg that the BJP has launched, with several top party leaders holding meetings and rallies regularly to snatch Bengal from the TMC, Singh, who was once considered a friend of Mamata Banerjee in the saffron camp, asked what the two-time chief minister has done for the people of the state except for bringing disaster to them. Questioning what the Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee means by "khela hobe" (the game will happen), Singh told a public meeting here in West Midnapore district that "the game of development and peace will be played in Bengal". He said "asol parivartan" (true change) will usher in on May 2, the day of the counting of votes for the eight-phase assembly elections that commence on March 27. "The BJP will form a government in Bengal with more than 200 seats," he asserted. The BJP had won 18 of the 42 seats in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, emerging as the main challenger to the ruling TMC in the assembly polls. In a reference to the insider-outsider debate that the TMC has started while branding the BJP a party of outsiders, he said the saffron party is the present-day avatar of Jana Sangh, which the son of the soil Syama Prasad Mookerjee had founded. Claiming that the Mamata Banerjee government has not been able to maintain law and order in West Bengal, he said, "Go to Uttar Pradesh or any other state where BJP is in power, there is peace." He said the Narendra Modi government has allocated Rs 25,000 crore in the Union Budget for development of the highways in West Bengal. "The roads being built in the state are from funds released by the Modi government and not Mamata Banerjee," he asserted. Singh said Rajiv Gandhi, as the prime minister, had lamented that out of every rupee sent for welfare works, only 16 paisa reached the people. But the Modi government has ensured that every paisa released by the Centre reaches people on the ground for which PM Jan-Dhan Yojana has been launched so the money could be directly credited to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Claiming that the Mamata Banerjee government has not implemented the Centre's welfare programmes for the poor and backward sections, he said, "It is your duty as the chief minister of the state to reach the welfare schemes of the central government to the people." Claiming that the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana has not been implemented by the TMC government, Singh assured that every family in the state will have a house by the beginning of 2022, if the BJP comes to power in Bengal. He said while farmers in the rest of the country have got funds in their accounts under the PM Kisan Samman Yojana, those in West Bengal have not benefited since the Mamata Banerjee government has not sent the list of potential beneficiaries. He assured that the beneficiaries will be given the money with arrears once the BJP comes to power. Singh said once a BJP government is formed, no one will be able to extort money from people or indulge in violence. He assured the people of West Bengal that every political worker, whether from the Left, the TMC the Congress, or the general public, will be safe under a BJP dispensation. "Mamata didi had given the slogan of 'Ma, Mati, Manush' (mother, land, people), but now neither Ma is safe nor the manush or the mati of Bengal are secure," he said. He said recently the chief minister suffered a "little injury" and she blamed the BJP for that. Investigating agencies, however, maintained she got injured because of the lacunae in her security arrangement and not by BJP workers, he said. "BJP workers can never raise their hand on anyone," he asserted, adding party activists found indulging in any such activity will be shown the door. Claiming that anywhere between 150 and 200 BJP workers have been killed in political violence during the TMC rule, Singh asked "can Mamata didi bring them back to life for their mothers". Alleging that 1,500 to 2,000 BJP workers in the state are missing, he said the chief minister does not say a word about that. "The BJP does not do politics for forming government but for the development of the country," he asserted, and added the party, if voted to power, will transform West Bengal from a "police state to public state". Singh said the Modi government brought Jammu and Kashmir on par with any other part of the country by abrogating Article 370 of the Constitution. With the conduct of panchayat elections in Jammu and Kashmir, people there have realised for the first time what a democratic system means, he said. "India has become a powerful country under the Modi government," he asserted. The Defence Minister said earlier no one could talk to China looking in the eye but Prime Minister Narendra Modi changed the narrative with sheer courage. "Our soldiers have given appropriate response and the situation changed," he said, referring to the military disengagement in Ladakh after a tense stand-off between Indian and the Chinese armies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah is getting frustrated and planning to kill me, claims Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of hatching a conspiracy to harass TMC leaders ahead of the Assembly elections in the state and wondered whether the Election Commission is working as per his instructions. Claiming that Shah is getting "frustrated" by "poor turnout" at his rallies, Banerjee also alleged that the BJP is plotting conspiracies to kill her as her security director Vivek Sahay was removed by the Election Commission after she sustained injuries last week in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram. Referring to the alleged "attack" on her in Nandigram, Banerjee said no one will stop her from taking forward her battle against the BJP. "Amit Shah is getting frustrated as there is a poor turnout at his rallies. Instead of running the country, he is sitting in Calcutta and hatching a conspiracy to harass TMC leaders. What do they want? Do they want to kill me? Do they think that they will win this election by killing me? They are wrong," she said while addressing a rally here. Banerjee also wondered whether the Election Commission has lost its independence, and alleged that the poll panel is working as per Shah's instructions. "Is Amit Shah running the EC? He is giving instructions to the EC. What happened to their independence? My director, security (Vivek Sahay) was removed (by EC) as per his instructions," she alleged. Banerjee claimed Shah, who came back to Calcutta last night from Guwahati and held a series of meetings with the BJP's state leaders, was "hatching conspiracy as he has understood after witnessing poor turnout at his rallies that the saffron party is still miles away from winning the assembly elections".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Swapan Dasgupta resigns as Rajya Sabha member amid row over his candidature||Nominated Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta on Tuesday tendered his resignation from the upper house of Parliament after being named as a BJP candidate in the West Bengal assembly elections.  Dasgupta, who became a Rajya Sabha member on April 25, 2016, has been named by the saffron party as its candidate from the Tarakeshwar constituency in the poll-bound state.  "I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days," Dasgupta said on Twitter.  Sources said he has urged the Chairman of Rajya Sabha to accept his resignation with effect from Wednesday.  Asked about his resignation, Dasgupta told PTI, "I have always said whatever necessary steps will have to be taken will be done by me before I submit my nomination papers (for West Bengal polls)."  His term as Rajya Sabha member was till April 24, 2022.  His resignation came after Trinamool Congress MP Mohua Moitra raised objections to Dasgupta being named as a BJP candidate for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal.  "Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party AFTER expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP," Moitra tweeted last night.  "Following up on my previous tweet - Rajya Sabha website as of today says Swapan Dasgupta is nominated & not formally BJP. If he files nomination as @BJP candidate he should be disqualified according to the Constitution's 10th Schedule (Para 2 (3)," she also tweeted.  She also claimed that Dasgupta should "either resign RS now or be disqualified" and said he has "no safety net".  According to the Tenth schedule of the Constitution, a nominated member of a house can join a political party before the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with requirements of Article 99 or, as the case may be, Article 188.  "A nominated member of a house shall be disqualified for being a member of the house if he joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of article 99 or, as the case may be, article 188," the rule says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata  launches campaign in Jungle Mahal region ||Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched her campaign in the Jungle Mahal region from her wheelchair, holding back-to-back rallies in Purulia as she strove to recover ground lost to the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls. In the summer of 2019, the BJP had won five of the six parliamentary seats in the region, which has high concentrations of tribal and OBC populations, and led from 30 of the 40 Assembly segments in the four western districts of Bankura, Purulia, West Midnapore and Jhargram. The chief minister’s pitch for reclaiming Trinamul supremacy — the party had bagged 33 of the 40 seats in 2016 — was wrapped in a plea and a pledge. The plea: “Please don’t turn away from Trinamul as you had done during the Lok Sabha polls, possibly owing to some misunderstanding. If the behaviour of someone from Trinamul hurt you, I apologise. I shall ensure rectification.” The pledge: “People thought I would sit at home because of my injury and they would loot the votes in Bengal. But as long as my heart keeps beating, I shall fight the BJP’s conspiracy of capturing Bengal. I’m a street fighter.” Mamata is set to convey similar messages at her meetings in Bankura and Jhargram on Tuesday and Wednesday. She might return to the region before the first phase of the polls, aware that a recovery in Jungle Mahal will be key to Trinamul retaining power. Several Trinamul insiders told The Telegraph that the party’s poor performance in the Lok Sabha owed to a range of factors, from the post-Pulwama surge in “nationalist” sentiments to a grudge against the local Trinamul leadership. No such pro-BJP “wave” is visible this time, and Trinamul has tried to address local problems at the ground level, a senior district Trinamul leader in Purulia said. “If Didi’s messages hit home and we put up a collective fight, we can recover lost ground to an extent and seal a third term in office for her,” the source said. The BJP lacks Trinamul’s organisational reach in most parts of Jungle Mahal, as evident from the comparable spread of their posters, festoons and wall graffiti. However, even Trinamul insiders admit that the BJP may have an ace in silent voters. “We need to sway at least some of these people to our side, and only Didi can do that,” a Trinamul insider said. Unlike Union home minister Amit Shah’s virtual meeting in Jhargram and the physical one in Bankura, Mamata’s rallies in Jhalda and Balarampur were well attended, with crowds arriving well in advance, braving the blazing sun. Mamata flagged another chink in the BJP’s armour: the perceived inadequacy in the party’s bench strength, highlighted by the decision to field serving MPs in the Assembly polls. “Do they want to be MPs or MLAs? Let them decide that first,” Mamata said. In her usual style, Mamata thanked the audience, especially the women, for turning up in numbers. She repeatedly apologised to them for being unable to stand up on the dais because of her injured foot. At both meetings, she described multiple times how she had suffered the injury in Nandigram on Wednesday, before stressing that she was concerned less about her personal discomfort and more about the pain the BJP was inflicting on the common people. That’s why she had hit the streets — to prevent the BJP wresting power in Bengal — she said. “The Prime Minister is a liar; he is incompetent and cannot run the country. Look at the price of LPG cylinders; see how they (the central government) are selling (public sector) companies,” Mamata said. She wondered what the “outsider BJP” could offer Bengal. “They can only divide people but we can live with everyone,” she said, before flagging how she had personally raised five tribal girls and got them married and how a Bauri girl now lived with her at her Calcutta home. She asked the crowd in Jhalda what the people of the state had got by giving the BJP 18 seats in the Lok Sabha elections. She then reeled off the list of schemes initiated by her government, particularly the pension schemes for the SC and ST communities and widows. In several parts of Purulia and Bankura, the monthly pension scheme of Rs 1,000 has suddenly improved Trinamul’s poll prospects, party sources claimed. “I shall ensure that we return to power and you keep getting free rations, that too at your doorstep,” Mamata said, a promise that may strike a chord in this poorest region of Bengal. Being in power at the Centre, the BJP can roll out even bigger promises, such as Narendra Modi’s 2019 pre-poll declaration about trying to ensure ST status for Kurmis, who make up more than 36 per cent of Purulia’s voters. That promise has stayed on paper but may now be resurrected when Modi arrives in the region to campaign. Aware of the possibility, Mamata spoke not a word on the subject. Instead, plastered foot in full display, she kept repeating her plea for an end to “misunderstandings” and her pledge to fight the BJP till her last breath. Mamata is likely to campaign in Nandigram on March 19 and 20, making her first visit to her constituency since her March 10 injury. Trinamul sources said she had lined up an intensive campaign roster for both blocks in Nandigram. “She might hold eight rallies and conduct several outreach events, such as visits to places of worship, all from her wheelchair,” a source said. “The security arrangements this time will, however, be different. Nothing will be left to chance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Anit Thapa lunch to woo hill communities||Gorkhaland Territorial Administration head Anit Thapa engaged in lunch diplomacy with chairpersons of development boards for various hill communities and termed the meeting “good”. The meeting assumes significance as associations backing the boards have not revealed their card for the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls. Sources said Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Thapa had a meeting with the chairpersons of seven hill boards over traditional Nepali cuisine at Pintail Village near Siliguri on Monday. Soon after the meeting, Thapa said: “I had a good meeting with chairpersons of different development boards in the hills.” The Bengal government had formed 16 development boards for various communities in the hills. There are many community organisations that support the boards. The sources have said the chairpersons recently formed an informal body called “All Hill Development Boards” and the seven present at Thapa’s meeting are its core committee members. Sanjay Moktan, the chairman of the West Bengal Tamang Cultural and Development Board, said no decision on the elections had been taken at the meeting. “It was an administrative meeting. No decision was taken regarding the elections. If we take any decision, we will definitely announce the same,” said Moktan. But observers said there was more to this than meets the eye. Also, a photograph of Thapa with the chairperson was immediately circulated in social media by his supporters. “This is an indication of the importance Thapa’s team has attached to the lunch,” said an observer. The Trinamul Congress has left the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong to the “friends”, which essentially are the Morcha factions of Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung. Thapa belongs to the Tamang camp. Even though these factions are allies of Trinamul, both are bitter rivals in the hills. Both the groups have decided to field their own candidates in the three seats. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gurung camp, said its candidates would be declared on March 23. Both the factions are trying to woo Trinamul supporters. Chairperson of many development boards had supported Trinamul in the past. Some development board chiefs had said recently that there had been no clear directive from Trinamul on the coming polls. “With Trinamul supporting both the factions, it is unlikely that the party will publicly announce support to one camp,” said an observer. With many expecting a triangular contest of the Gurung and Tamang camps and the BJP-GNLF alliance, Monday’s meeting near Siliguri is being considered important. Even though it is not to say all hill community members follow the directive of the associations backing the development boards, many feel any support in the present political situation is more than welcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress supporters protest against renomination of Humayun Reza||Congress supporters in Murshidabad’s Suti Assembly segment hit the streets on Monday to  protest against renomination of sitting MLA Humayun Reza. The Congress had released the third list of candidates for the Assembly polls, which it would contest as part of the Sanyukt Morcha, on Sunday. About 500 Congress workers took out a rally in Suti’s Aurangabad market area under the leadership of the party’s vice-president for Suti Block 2 committee Abdul Khalek. Members of nine area committees in the block participated in the rally. The dissidents were carrying placards against Reza’s nomination and announced they would not campaign for him. “In 2016, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had announced that I would be the candidate in the next polls. But, this time again, Humayun Reza has been nominated,” said Alfajuddin Biswas, the block president of Suti block 2 Congress committee. Although Biswas wasn’t present at Monday’s rally, Congress sources said he was the man behind the agitation. The source said Biswas had hoped for a ticket for the 2021 polls, but was upset with Reza’s re-nomination. Later, the dissidents met at Biswas’s office and decided to field an Independent against Reza. “Someone or the other will be fielded from our side as an Independent. The angry workers will otherwise switch parties,” Biswas said. The dissidents alleged Reza had the least public acceptability because he had done little for the people of his constituency in the past five years. “Most of the people in Suti are labourers in the beedi industry. In the past three years, there has been no increase in their wages and the MLA has never pushed for any increment,” said Atiur Rahman, a local Congress leader. He also alleged Reza had worked in favour of the beedi factory owners. Reza, however, remains undeterred with the discontent. “It is true there are some issues. However, everything will be sorted through discussions and I’ve asked the leadership to hold talks with the dissidents,” he said. On the other hand, Congress’s sitting MLA of Murshidabad’s Burwan Protima Rajak resigned from all her posts on Sunday just before the list of candidates was announced. Rajak was denied a ticket this time and the party fielded Shiladitya Halder from Burwan. Rajak said she hadn’t decided whether she would join another party. The Congress has so far declared the list of candidates for 91 Assembly constituencies. However, in four Assembly seats — Baghmundi, Joynagar, Ballygunj and Joypur — the alliance is still in deep waters. Both the Left and the Congress have fielded candidates for Baghmundi and Joypur in Purulia. Ballygunj in Calcutta and Joynagar in South 24-Parganas were supposed to be Congress seats, but the CPM has already nominated candidates in the two seats. However, according to a senior Congress leader, all the disputes will be settled amicably in a few days. Congress has re-nominated most of its sitting MLAs for 2021, including Abdul Mannan, Manoj Chakraborty, Nepal Mahato, Sukhbilas Burma, and Sunil Tirkey. Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front also announced the names of 20 candidates. The ISF has so far been allotted 26 seats in its seat sharing adjustment with the Left Front. It also announced that it would contest in seats like Deganga and Magrahat, apart from the 26 seats they had been assigned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Low turnout or technical snag: What led to Amit Shah's absence at Jhargram rally?||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday cancelled his trip to Jhargram and addressed — what BJP insiders admitted was a “very low turnout” — virtually for only around seven minutes from Kharagpur, barely 42km from the venue; the change of plan formally attributed to “damage” to his helicopter. “You people have assembled in large numbers in this scorching sun. I was scheduled to visit Jhargram for a poll campaign rally….But my helicopter got damaged and I could not meet you…I apologise for this,” said Shah before slamming the Trinamul-led state government and assuring people of many tribal benefits, should his party come to power. Later in the day, he attended a rally in Bankura’s Khatra, which falls under the Ranibandh Assembly constituency, where he said: “I got delayed by a glitch in my chopper…However, I will not say it was a conspiracy as choppers could be damaged.” Despite Shah’s explanation, BJP insiders said the actual reason was “very low turnout”, which was “not good enough” for a leader of his stature. They said the cancellation of such a campaign, in a fully arranged programme, sent a “bad message” to the party workers and supporters, as he could have covered the distance easily by road. “If the helicopter glitch was the real reason, he could have come there by road, within the hour, as he was only 42km away. After addressing the rally virtually, he went by chopper to the Bankura’s Khatra rally easily,” said a BJP state unit functionary. “It would have been fine had there been an emergency or pressing work in Delhi and he addressed the rally virtually. But he came all this way, was only 42km away and he did not go…The low turnout caused the cancellation. It (the crowd) was not good enough for someone like him,” he added. Shah, however, assured party workers and leaders that he would attend another rally at the same venue in Jhargram before the poll campaign ends. Many in the BJP and rival parties recalled a cultural meet in Jhargram in February that BJP national president J.P. Nadda skipped purportedly because of low footfall. Sources in the BJP said the party planned to bring 45,000 people to Shah’s rally on Monday but less than 10,000 showed up till midday, though the deadline was 11am. “After waiting for over half-an-hour, a BJP leader announced Shah would not come because of a supposed glitch in the chopper, and he would address virtually. It was distressing news for us, as the people who had come had been waiting for an hour. Later, around 1.05pm, he addressed us virtually for seven minutes, with a party leader holding a cell phone to the microphone,” said a BJP leader in Jhargram. “People in large numbers started leaving before Shah started the virtual address,” he added. Sukhamoy Satpathy, the BJP’s Jhargram unit president and a candidate, when asked about footfall, denied that it was low “Footfall was not low. Amitji cancelled his trip because of a glitch in his chopper,” he said. “Most importantly, he assured me that he would come again.” Asked why Shah couldn’t cover the 42km by road, Satpathy said: “Then, he would have had to cancel the next campaign rally in Bankura.” A party colleague countered Satpathy’s logic, saying Shah could have gone by road to Jhargram, and by chopper to Bankura. “I cannot recall a rally where Amitji addressed only for seven minutes,  even virtually,” he added. Sources said the footfall was not only low in Jhargram but in Bankura too. According to a police report, the senior BJP leaders gave an estimate of 50,000 people and around 450 vehicles. A senior police officer said the actual numbers fell far short. “We found around 8,000 in Khatra. The number of vehicles was barely 120,” he said. A senior BJP leader said many local leaders directed to hire five vehicles each hired only two each and as a result many people skipped the rally. Shah, despite the curtailed itinerary, in Khatra did not miss the opportunity of bringing up last Wednesday’s Nandigram, where Mamata Banerjee sustained injuries. “I recently came to know that Mamataji received injuries to her leg and you people also saw it. The matter is under investigation. Trinamul leaders are claiming it was a conspiracy to injure her and the Election Commission said it was only an accident. God knows the truth,” said Shah. “Didi you were hurt as you sustained injuries to your leg. But you did not feel the pain of mothers of 130 of our workers who were killed by your political violence. I pray for your speedy recovery, but those mothers will respond to you in the polls,” Shah added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP plans to use railways to loot votes, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused the BJP of hatching a plan to use the railways to rig the elections in Bengal, an allegation that is bound to intensify the war of words between Trinamul and the BJP ahead of the do-or-die Assembly polls in Bengal. “Some ministers, including the railway minister, are hatching a conspiracy to loot votes in the Bengal elections... I know a high-level meeting was held to this effect. The plan is to send looters from different places in the country, who will reach Bengal in trains. The railway minister has instructed railway officers to organise food and place of stay for these people,” said Mamata in her second public meeting in Balarampur in the district to back party nominee Shantiram Mahato. Possibly aware that this charge — which includes railway minister Piyush Goyal — would draw sharp response from the BJP and the matter may even reach the Election Commission, the chief minister — campaigning in a wheelchair for the second day in a row owing to her injury in Nandigram on March 10 — stressed that she was making the allegation with full responsibility. “Someone in the know of things has told me about this...I am not naming the person because of security concerns,” she said. The issue of the BJP’s attempt to rig the election found a mention in Mamata’s address while she was referring to the border that Bengal shares with neighbouring Jharkhand along Ayodhya Hills. Midway through her speech in Balarampur, Mamata said that the BJP was infiltrating Bengal with outsiders using Ayodhya Hills. “This border has not been sealed as yet and I am urging the administration to look into it. I will also take up the matter with Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who will come to Bengal to campaign for us (Trinamul),” said Mamata. Mamata also urged the electorate to be vigilant about outsiders infiltrating their areas ahead of the polls and resist any attempts by them to “loot the votes”. In the past, several Trinamul leaders had blamed the BJP of using the Bengal-Jharkhand border to send goons to create problems in Bengal. But Mamata making a charge that includes the Union railway minister assumes more significance. A Trinamul source close to Mamata said she would not have made such an attack without definitive information. “We all know about the tilt in the poll panel towards the ruling party at the Centre. There is no doubt that they (the BJP) would take it up with the ECI... As she is sure about the information, she made it public to make people aware of the BJP’s culture,” said the source. Mamata also repeatedly tried to highlight the BJP leadership’s cultural disconnect with Bengal. “They will claim that they are having food in the homes of lower caste people, but these BJP leaders still believe in untouchability.... You will look at them and understand,” said Mamata. The BJP was quick to dismiss the chief minister’s allegations. Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson of state BJP, rubbished the charge. “We are tired of these fancy allegations from Trinamul. They must remember that the more the number of ridiculous allegations they level against us, the more our vote share will increase,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP workers erupt in rage over candidates list||The release of the BJP’s list of candidates for the third and fourth phases of the Bengal Assembly polls has erupted in the face of the party with protests breaking out across Bengal on Monday against several nominees. State BJP leaders fear the outbursts will have a negative impacts on the party’s prospects in the elections if not addressed immediately. “These protests will send a wrong signal. As it is, we are being ridiculed for not naming all candidates together and fielding MPs in the Assembly polls. Now, the protests will adversely affect the party’s image,” a state leader said. On Sunday, the BJP announced candidates for 63 of the 75 seats that would go to the polls in the third and the fourth phases. Within hours, BJP workers hit the streets against the candidates in several seats across the state. Old-timers of the party from constituencies such as Panchla, Udaynarayanpur, Raidighi and Diamond Harbour gathered in front of the BJP’s election office in Calcutta’s Hastings on Monday. MP Arjun Singh, also a Trinamul turncoat, sought to address their issues and sent them back with a promise that their concerns would be taken care of. The BJP has fielded Mohit Ghanti in Panchla, Trinamul turncoats Dipak Halder and Shantanu Bapuli in Diamond Harbour and Raidighi, respectively. Sumit Ranjan Karar is the BJP candidate in Udaynarayanpur. State BJP general-secretary and party’s observer for north Bengal Sayantan Basu was summoned by Shivprakash, joint general secretary (organisation), to discuss the emerging situation and how to pacify the agitators. “I’ll be going to Alipurduar tomorrow (Tuesday). There is some issue with the candidature of Bishal Lama in Kalchini and Ashok Lahiri in Alipurduar. It will all be resolved at a meeting,” Basu said. Lama is a turncoat from the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and was a close aide to Bimal Gurung. Lahiri is an eminent economist. In Hooghly’s Singur, the party’s old guards have been protesting the candidature of Trinamul turncoat Rabindranath Bhattacharya since Sunday. The BJP Hooghly district office at Chinsurah was locked up for over two hours on Monday. The protesters were also joined by party workers from Chandernagore and Uttarpara. Later in the day, the Chinsurah office was allegedly vandalised by party dissenters to protest against fielding of Trinamul turncoats in Singur and Uttarpara. While the BJP’s candidate for Uttarpara is another Trinamul turncoat Prabir Ghoshal, the party has fielded one of its state leaders Deepanjan Guha in Chandernagore. Several posters have sprung up across Uttarpara and Chandernagore seeking the removal of both Ghoshal and Guha. The posters accused Ghoshal of being involved in multiple scams. Guha has been labelled as an “outsider” and the posters demanded a local candidate. In Saptagram, BJP workers protested against the induction of Trinamul turncoat Debabrata Biswas into the party. Biswas, who joined the BJP on Sunday, is the party’s potential candidate for the Assembly constituency. In Saptagram’s Bansberia, some BJP workers laid on railway tracks and threatened to commit suicide if Biswas was nominated. They were later restrained by their party colleagues. “Debabrata Biswas is a tainted Trinamul man. He was the president of the Mogra panchayat samity in Chinsurah. He joined the BJP after he was denied a ticket by Trinamul. We hear he will be our candidate, which we don’t want,” said Nirupam Mukherjee, convenor of the BJP’s fisherman cell and one of the leaders who threatened to commit suicide. “We have spoken to the agitators. A report describing the details of their demands and the agitation has been sent to the leadership,” said BJP’s Hooghly district chief Gautam Chatterjee. A state-level BJP leader said the party was confident of winning five of the seven seats that were part of the Hooghly Lok Sabha constituency but whatever had happened in Singur, Saptagram and Chandernagore on Monday would have a ripple effect on other Assembly constituencies as well. He added that in the backdrop of the widespread discontent amongst party workers, Union home minister Amit Shah called an emergency meeting with state leaders on Monday night. The meeting was attended by BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. After addressing a meeting in Bankura on Monday, Shah had gone to poll-bound Assam to speak at a rally. Although he was supposed to leave Assam for Delhi, Shah decided to return to Calcutta and sit with his party colleagues. The BJP, however, managed to contain two dissident BJP leaders Pradip Lodha and Dhiman Koley by inducting them into the party’s state committee as permanent invitees. Lodha and Koley had filed nominations from Garbeta and Salboni seats. They had been persuaded by BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya to withdraw their nominations. “Since Pradipda and Dhimanda withdrew their nominations they were inducted into the state committee. But, given the kind of agitation that is being reported from everywhere, the party must start thinking how many people can be inducted into the state committee?” a BJP source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: New security director picked for ‘experience’||Gyanwant Singh, the IPS officer previously responsible for maintaining Bengal’s law and order as additional director general of police, was on Monday chosen to take care of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s security. Singh, an IPS officer of the 1993 batch, was chosen as the director of security following the removal of Vivek Sahay, an IPS officer of 1988 batch, from the post by the Election Commission (EC) on Sunday for his alleged failure in protecting the chief minister who suffered an injury at Birulia Bazar in Nandigram on March 10 during an outreach. “In keeping with the EC's directive to the state government about a replacement of Sahay by 1pm on Monday, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay informed the poll panel about the new choice,” said a senior official of the home department. “Singh was chosen in consultation with Niraj Nayan Pandey, Bengal’s newly appointed DGP. The new incumbent will be responsible for security of all VIPs including the chief minister of Bengal,” the officer said. State police sources said Singh was unanimously chosen for the new role, given his knowledge about the prevailing law and order situation of all districts of Bengal. He took charge on Monday and will oversee Mamata’s security arrangements for her poll rallies lined up across many districts of south Bengal. On Sunday, the EC removed Sahay, East Midnapore district magistrate and SP after reports to the poll panel cited a breach in Mamata’s security in Nandigram on March 10. The EC had also placed Sahay and superintendent of police, East Midnapore, Pravin Prakash under suspension. Senior police officers in the state police said the decision to replace Sahay was unprecedented and there was no reason for the two IPS officers to be placed under suspension. “As the head of the security, a serving officer can’t force a political leader to abide by the protocols. He can only remind and underline the challenges in case of breach of security,” said a senior police officer who has handled VIP security in the past. "The NSG had faced similar challenges with several VIPs, including former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi,” he said. Besides putting two IPS officers on suspension, the EC has asked the chief secretary and the DGP to identify other “proximate security personnel” below the director of security, who failed to prevent the incident and initiate suitable action against them for their failure by March 17. On Monday, senior officers in the home department said search for replacements of these personnel had already begun with the home department scanning through the records of some junior security personnel who are posted in the Special Security Unit (SSU), which is responsible for VIP security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP leader switches to ‘silence’ from grudge||Ganga Prasad Sharma, the Alipurduar district president of the BJP who had voiced his discontent over selection of candidates in two Assembly seats, said on Monday that the state leadership had asked him to remain “silent”. Hours after BJP had announced economist Ashok Lahiri as its Alipurduar candidate and Bishal Lama, a former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader, as the nominee for Kalchini on Sunday, Sharma said he did not know Lahiri and he had not been consulted on Lama’s candidature. On Monday, Sharma said: “I have intimated the state leadership about my grievances. They have asked me to remain silent for the next couple of days.” Sharma was scheduled to address a press meet in the Alipurduar BJP office at 4pm on Monday. A WhatsApp message addressed to media persons in the party’s chat group, sent at 6.20 in the morning, had said it would be his “last” press meet as the BJP district chief. The press meet was, however, cancelled which BJP sources attributed to “pressure” on Sharma. “The press meet has been cancelled because of unavoidable circumstances, but I will meet you soon,” Sharma said without divulging further details. The number from which Sharma’s message had been posted in the WhatsApp group was deleted later in the day. Sharma also changed his stance on Lahiri and described the economist as a “highly educated person” and an “excellent candidate”. On Sunday, Sharma had said: “I came to know from the media that Ashok Lahiri would contest from Alipurduar. I don’t know him. So, how can I speak about him?” However, he did not have any such kind words for Kalchini candidate Lama. On Monday evening, BJP supporters had demonstrated in front of Sharma’s house in Jaigoan and demanded that Lama be dropped as the Kalchini candidate. Deba Prasad Roy has been announced as the Congress candidate from Alipurduar. Roy had won the seat in 2011, but the veteran had been denied a ticket in the 2016 Assembly election. Sources in the BJP said a section of party supporters was still rigid in their demand for Lama’s pullout from the fray. “It seems the party will stick to Lama in Kalchini and hence, the cold war by BJP supporters might persist in the run-up to the election,” said an observer. Throughout the day, there was much debate over Lahiri’s candidature in Alipurduar. While a section of the people seemed satisfied over the candidature of a “highly qualified” person, another section wondered if he would have enough time to dedicate for the people of Alipurduar. Lahiri is expected to reach the district in the next few days to start his campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Edge for Mamata Banerjee||The third pre-poll survey conducted by pollster C-Voter for ABP Ananda has indicated that the Trinamul Congress and the BJP could be engaged in a direct battle in the coming Assembly polls and Mamata Banerjee could retain power by bagging 43 per cent votes and 150-166 seats. The BJP is predicted to get 38 percent votes (see chart) and 98-114 seats, while the survey forecast that the Left Front-Congress-ISF combine would corner 13 per cent votes and emerge winners in 23-31 constituencies. The latest survey was conducted between February 28 and March 13 and telecast on Monday. A total of 19,314 people took part in the survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
16-03-2021||North East||Badruddin Ajmal sees no Modi wave in Assam||Badruddin Ajmal, the All India United Democratic Front chief,  on Sunday alleged that the BJP was attempting to polarise the Hindus by pointing at him, invoking the ‘Mughals’ and portraying the Muslims as enemies, but said the ruling party will not succeed. He asserted that unlike in 2016 there is “no Modi wave” in the Assam Assembly polls this time. Dismissing as “baseless” the BJP’s charge of communalism against his AIUDF, Ajmal claimed “no outfit was more secular” than his party in Assam, and cited the party gave substantial representation to non-Muslims in elections in the past. In an interview with PTI, Ajmal said the Assam election would be a “turning point” for the country as the BJP’s defeat will begin from the state. The grand alliance, of which it is a part of along with the Congress, is fighting hard for it, he said. The BJP will be defeated in the polls in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, and this will send a message to the entire country, he said, exuding confidence that “secular forces” will win. The AIUDF is secular and will always remain so. But since the BJP is itself “communal” and plays communal politics, it looks at others through that lens, Ajmal said. “The BJP doesn’t have any development issue to talk about. They talked about jobs last time, could not provide any. At the national level, they talked about getting black money back, instead sent black money abroad,” he alleged. The BJP has not been able to solve the farmers’ issue also, he told PTI over phone. Asserting that almost every other day industries are shuttering in Assam, he said the AIUDF has promised that as soon as it comes to power, two paper mills that were closed down, will be revived. “Last time (in 2016) when Narendra Modi campaigned here there was a wave. But there is no Modi wave this time. He has visited five times, but has been unable to generate any wave,” Ajmal claimed. “By showing my face, by portraying Muslims as enemies, and making communal comments, the BJP wants to polarise Hindus, but unlike last time, they will not succeed,” he said. On its tie-up with the Congress and forming the ‘Mahajot’ alliance, the Lok Sabha MP from Dhubri said after seeing that wherever opposition parties were coming together along with the Congress, results were good, his party decided to forge the alliance. “I have been a part of the UPA for the last 15 years at the Centre, so it was important that we come together. Some people were not allowing it. But things fell in place. The Congress high command also gave the green signal and a grand alliance of seven parties has been formed, and we are confident of succeeding,” Ajmal said. There is a wave against the BJP and that will benefit the grand alliance, he added. On the recent controversy surrounding a “doctored” video of his doing the rounds on social media, Ajmal alleged that the BJP doesn’t have anything to say against his party so they are coming up with such tactics. He said action has been taken by Twitter over those who were behind the “doctored” video. “There is only one party in the country that talks about Hindutva and that is the BJP. If somebody is talking about Ram Mandir, it is the BJP. We are neither raising this nor making it an issue,” he said. Asked about the key issue in Assam polls, he said the main issue is of tea garden workers and his party will strongly fight for their rights. “The Citizenship (Amendment) Act is another big issue. We are opposing it and so is the Congress party. We were against it, are against it and will remain against it,” he asserted. With the AIUDF expected to fight in 21 seats as part of the grand alliance headed by the Congress, Ajmal said it could have contested 30-31 seats but decided to sacrifice for the sake of the alliance to prevent a division of opposition votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
16-03-2021||North East||BJP steps up attack on Congress-AIUDF pact||The ruling BJP has sharpened its attack on the Congress’s alliance with the AIUDF over the past few days with Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday referring to G-23 (group of dissenters in the Congress) to take a dig at the “anti-Assam” tie-up. The 23 senior Congress leaders had in a letter to interim party president Sonia Gandhi last August urged for a complete overhaul of the organisation and since then ties between the high command and most from the group apparently remain strained. Only two of the G-23 leaders are “directly” connected with the Assam polls, party insiders said. Only Mukul Wasnik, who was appointed one of the three senior AICC observers for Assam, figures in the list of 30 star campaigners released by the party till Monday. Another G-23 member, former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, was made chairman of the screening committee to shortlist candidates. Addressing three back-to-back poll rallies in Dibrugarh district to drum up support for BJP candidates in the three-phase polls from March 27, Chouhan flagged the disquiet within the Congress while launching a blistering attack on the pre-poll alliance between the Congress and the AIUDF. The Congress is leading a 10-party alliance which includes the AIUDF, three Left parties, the Bodoland People’s Front and the Rashtriya Janata Dal. Chouhan said: “The Congress does not want development. When (Tarun) Gogoiji was alive, he did not shake hands with (Badruddin) Ajmal. But Rahul Baba and Congress have now hugged Ajmal. They don’t want Ghulam Nabi Azad. They don’t want Anand Sharma. They want Ajmal. Rahul Gandhi is not walking on the path of Gandhiji. Yeh toh Jinnah ke raaste pe chal raha hai, jis ne desh ko bata hai (Rahul is following Jinnah who divided the country).” The Madhya Pradesh chief minister referred to Congress veterans Azad and Sharma in an apparent bid to fan the perception that the Congress has no future and the alliance would cost the Opposition party dear. “Can you trust Ajmal? Ajmal sells perfume but spreads hatred. He openly talks about a Muslim rashtra, who is a protector of ghuspetiyas (infiltrators)...Why did Congress tie up with the protector of ghuspetiyas? Congress and Ajmal? Yeh rishta kya kehlata hain (what is this relationship called)? Only for votes? But we have decided to serve everyone… The Congress has no future... Rahul Gandhi will finish the Congress,” Chouhan said. He even credited the Narendra Modi government for the development being witnessed in Assam since the BJP-led regime took charge in 2016 compared to the earlier Congress-led governments. Referring to Modi as “garibo ka bhagwan (God of the poor)”, Chouhan said that all poor households will have a roof over their heads within three years. Senior BJP leaders from Union ministers Amit Shah to Rajnath Singh and BJP national president J.P. Nadda along with state leaders have since Sunday stepped up their attack on the “unholy” Congress-AIUDF alliance. They are asking the electorate to choose between Modi-Sarbananda Sonowal and Rahul-Ajmal. They have said that voting for the Congress is voting for Ajmal and thereby “opening” the floodgates for infiltrators which will eventually “destroy” the identity and culture of Assam. The first phase of the Assembly polls will cover Upper Assam where the BJP alliance has done well since 2014. However, the Congress-led alliance has made the BJP alliance’s job a bit tough this time, evident from the campaigning being carried out by senior BJP leaders. The shrill campaign against the Congress-led alliance is being seen as an attempt to polarise the voters along religious lines and win as many seats as possible by projecting the Congress as a backer of infiltrators. The state BJP leaders often accuse the AIUDF/Ajmal of espousing the cause of infiltrators, a touchy issue in Upper Assam. Nadda too addressed poll rallies in the state on Monday, hitting out at the Congress-AIUDF alliance and how the Modi government has put Assam on the path of development. AIUDF chief Ajmal, addressing a poll rally at Dhing in Nagaon district, said the Congress-led grand alliance will win comfortably. “The BJP has nothing to show, a reason why they take my name in every rally. That they are scared is reflected from the visit of senior leaders to campaign in Assam,” he said. Union home minister Shah, who interacted with social media volunteers in Guwahati in the evening, focussed on conveying the development that Assam has witnessed during the past five years. Shah sought another term for the party to take the journey of development forward since the foundation has already been laid in the past five years. He reiterated the BJP’s pledge to check flood and infiltration in the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
16-03-2021||Opinion||Leading the way||Sir — The qualification of the 27-year-old fencer, Bhavani Devi, for the Tokyo Olympics — she is the first Indian to accomplish this — is an incredible achievement. Fencing, an elite sport, demands niche equipment and specialized coaching, both of which are difficult to come by in India. So far, very few Asian countries have broken into the upper echelons of this sport. Bhavani Devi’s pioneering foray into fencing heralds a new era in the world of Indian sports.Anamika Saha, Calcutta For shame Sir — The report, “Beasts we’ve enthroned” (March 14), represents the social and political scenario of New India under the Bharatiya Janata Party government in a nutshell. It is shameful that a young Muslim boy was allegedly slapped and kicked by one of the caretakers at the Dasna Devi Mandir in Dasna, Uttar Pradesh for drinking water at the shrine. The attacker seemed to want to establish the boy’s religion — he is seen asking the boy for his name and his father’s name on camera — before beating him. Tragically, many have expressed support for the accused and reviled the critics who condemned the assault and bigotry. This speaks volumes about the state of secularism in our country. Be it this brutal incident in Dasna, the unlawful detention of the environmental activist, Disha Ravi, or the treatment of the hundreds of farmers protesting against the three agriculture bills on the borders of Delhi, all of these point to the sorry state of affairs in India. The bigotry of the ruling BJP government and its supporters are laid bare for all to see. In the midst of this, it was good to read that Yashwant Sinha, formerly a Union minister of the BJP, has joined the Trinamul Congress before the 2021 assembly polls in West Bengal. It is hoped that the ordinary people of Bengal will make an informed choice and reject the BJP in the upcoming elections.Jahar Saha, Calcutta Sir — It is worrying that the atrocities inflicted upon the minority and Dalit communities by Hindutva forces are increasing by the day. The idea of a secular India and its constitutional values have all been decimated. The recent incident — the thrashing of a young Muslim boy in Uttar Pradesh for daring to drink water from a temple — is one among many. These have become daily occurrences in New India. Whether it is caste atrocities, religious intolerance or crimes against women, Uttar Pradesh seems to be the centre of all such brutalities. The chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, should focus on the law and order situation in his own state before declaring West Bengal to be mired in lawlessness.Kajal Chatterjee, Calcutta Sir — There is no doubt that BJP-ruled states have witnessed a significant rise in the number of attacks on religious minorities and Dalits. The people of Bengal must take note and vote against the saffron party in the upcoming elections.  Ria Sarkar, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||No surprises: V.K Sasikala quits politics||Some questions are fated to remain unanswered. The ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu, with its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party, must be relieved that V.K Sasikala, former right-hand woman of J. Jayalalithaa, decided to step away from politics after being released from prison. How the chips would have fallen had she contested the assembly elections scheduled for April 6 is now an irrelevant question. Ms Sasikala could have divided the AIADMK. The present leadership, comprising the chief minister once anointed by Ms Sasikala, E. Palaniswami, and his deputy, O. Panneerselvam, an earlier rival who became a friend with the BJP’s help, do not want her back. It seemed for a short while that she would draw on the popular support visible after her release and the gratitude of those legislators whom she had initially named as candidates to upset the apple cart. Reportedly, Ms Sasikala was talking quietly to supportive politicians and moving about with the AIADMK flag. Support would also come from her nephew, the once powerful T.T.V. Dhinakaran, and his party, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, formed when he failed to overturn Mr Palaniswami’s leadership after his aunt was convicted in a disproportionate assets case. Both aunt and nephew were expelled from the party in which they were once heavyweights. Revenge is a strong spur, as is the desire for control. Yet they did not work. Factionalism in the AIADMK could have been to the Opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s advantage, unless Ms Sasikala’s presence, evoking memories of the larger-than-life Jayalalithaa and the loyalties she cultivated turned the tide fully towards a new leadership in the AIADMK. The BJP could have supported the winning side: all it wants is to establish itself in the state. But Ms Sasikala’s withdrawal must have helped the BJP’s peace of mind; it can focus its calculations on other states. Mr Dhinakaran, disappointed, has led his party into an alliance with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen. It is not clear what this will achieve apart from eating into the DMK’s assured minority community base. The battle remains, ostensibly, between the two parties that have traditionally alternated in ruling the state. But the old glamour is gone; the BJP’s presence evokes grey arithmetic, not the colourfulness of the leaders who have passed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||Party hopping: Sovan Chatterjee quits BJP||Politics is treacherous terrain. That perhaps explains why politicians are prone to performing somersaults, either by volition or on account of sour fate. Some leaders are particularly skilled at such acrobatics. Sovan Chatterjee, the former mayor of Calcutta, seems to have perfected the art, hopping from the bandwagon of the Trinamul Congress on to the cart of the Bharatiya Janata Party: he has now tumbled out of the latter. Mr Chatterjee is said to have been miffed with the BJP’s refusal to give him an election ticket from his favourite constituency. Indeed, humouring disaffected leaders could take up a lot of energy within the BJP in the coming days, given the heartburn among its cadre over ticket distribution in Bengal. The BJP’s district chief of Alipurduar has declared that he has little knowledge of the party contestant chosen for the seat; it has also been reported that the BJP’s nominee for Raidighi — he was accused of corruption by the BJP — is yet to join the party formally. Encouraging defections from the camps of opponents is, these days, held up as an instance of chanakyaniti. Consequently, the turncoat is making hay — and not just during the season of elections. Even though every political outfit has attempted to appease the turncoat, it is the BJP — does it not have the deepest pockets? — that has gained the most by engineering defections: Operation Lotus bloomed spectacularly in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, to cite two examples. Carrots and sticks — monetary inducements as well as intimidation — are used generously to make defectors turn tables on their original patrons. The existing anti-defection law has not proved to be a match for such mischief. The ideological infidelity of defectors, their indifference to the mandate of the people and, most worryingly, citizens’ apathy towards the chicanery of their representatives are worrying signs for Indian democracy. But the turncoat is as much a bane as a boon. The BJP’s Bengal experience is a pointer to this double-edgedness. The induction of deserters from the TMC is said to be widening chasms within the BJP, with a number of old-timers expressing their unhappiness with the party’s willingness to reward defectors. The BJP’s strategy to keep its door open shows that in spite of its ambitious proclamations, the party remains organizationally deficient. If the poll winds blow differently, Bengal could witness a round of ghar wapsi among defectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||True vision: three months of farm protests||It’s been about four months since farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh started protesting along the borders of New Delhi, braving the cold, the rain and then the heat. The trigger was the enactment, without broad consultations, of three specific laws that the Narendra Modi government says will usher a reformist era into Indian agriculture and liberate the farmer. The farmer, on the other hand, is not only apprehensive but he also does not support the laws. While the immediate demand has been to repeal the laws and make minimum support price a legal guarantee, the larger question he is raising relates to State support, which farmers argue is essential for their survival not just in India but across the world. China, the United States of America, the European Union and Japan dole out massive subsidies — direct, indirect, cyclical, counter-cyclical — to their farmers, while subsidies for farmers in India are dwindling. The contribution of agriculture to our gross domestic product is falling; real farm incomes are dropping and wages are stagnant. The protests seem to be restricted to the north, where agriculture markets are better organized. Yet, agrarian crisis is a pan-Indian phenomenon, with varied outcomes, from suicides to migrations. The protests have support from farmers all over. We have to situate the agitation in the continuing agrarian crisis and rising income inequalities. Last week, we learnt that the fortune of the Indian businessman, Gautam Adani, rose by a whopping $16.2 billion to $50 billion in the time of the pandemic — impressive, given that many Indians actually lost their jobs and incomes. On March 8, the Centre told the Lok Sabha that the scheduled commercial banks had written off bad loans amounting to Rs 1.15 lakh crore during the first three quarters of the current fiscal year. In its reply to a question, the Centre said that banks waived loans of Rs 2,36,265 crore and Rs 2,34,170 crore during 2018-19 and 2019-20, respectively. In two decades, banks have written off loans worth lakhs of crores for corporates, money that could have built a vibrant, new India. According to the 2021 Oxfam report, The Inequality Virus, income inequalities widened in the pandemic year. “Extreme inequality is not inevitable, but a policy choice,” said Oxfam. The Modi government’s policy vis-à-vis the farm sector has been haphazard. On the one hand, the Centre gives a direct annual support of Rs 6,000 to a farmer — around Rs 16.5 a day. On the other hand, it wants to wriggle out and leave agriculture markets unregulated for private players. What it gives, it takes away by imposing higher taxes (take fuel, for example). It attacks the cooperatives, but wants farmers to form their own companies. It puts the onus of supporting farmers on states, already saddled with financial crises after demonetization, the imbroglio around the goods and services tax and disruptions caused by the pandemic. Meanwhile, the talks between the Centre and the 40-odd farmer organizations steering the protests in Delhi are stalled. No one is budging. The movement seems to be quietly expanding. Several kisan panchayats, all massively attended, have been held so far in the north. Now, the farmers’ leaders are fanning out across the country, beginning with the five states that are due for assembly elections. In three decades, farmers’ movements across India either splintered or stagnated. This one is looking to bring small groupings under one umbrella. For that, it needs to be flexible with regard to its avatar and demands, so that it can rally farmers from different states. It needs to study many workable farming models that exist across India to seek the right policy support. For rallying a demand is one thing. But building a pragmatic, sustainable and climate-resilient vision for Indian farming is a prerogative the movement must not shy away from. It is time farmers worked together to set their own agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||A fatal complacency||The frequent emergence of killer zoonotic viruses that were not known to infect humans earlier has been so prominent over the last two decades that underestimating their potential to evolve and kill us, as it did in the case of the recent pandemic, is suicidal. The loss of over 25 lakh human lives from this otherwise evitable pandemic has shattered our complacent belief that ‘humans are invincible’. Admittedly, addressing sickness from viral infections has always been a challenge. The frustration is subtly reflected in the enduring clinical advice — with medicines a virus can get you sick for a week and without medicines for as long as seven days. Thus, prevention has always been the preferable option rather than exploring possible cures for viral diseases. This holds true even today. It is well understood among those in charge of disease control that a combat approach of ‘will see when it comes’ is unlikely to work for a virus of this nature and the only way to avert it is to prevent it. Not surprisingly, the desperate experiments with multiple existing drugs in the guise of ‘repurposing’ them when we had, in fact, no clue on how to kill this virus had miserably failed to curtail the loss of human lives. Shamefully, it also exposed our lack of preparedness and competence to contain an expected viral invasion although billions of dollars of taxpayers’ money are spent every year on research related to disease surveillance, prevention, and control. Surely resources were not lacking in our failure to stop this virus. Then what was it? There is perhaps little doubt today that the SARS-CoV-2 originated in China and spread to even the most remote places through physical transmission from infected human travellers. It is difficult to believe that the ‘fertile human brains’ that prescribed the use of thermal guns as the sacrosanct method for screening passengers at airports and seaports failed to realize that this would not be an effective way to stop the spread of the virus. It was already known as early as February 2020 that most of the infected who could potentially spread the virus were asymptomatic. The blind dependence on thermal guns and their obvious failure to screen the infected at the port of entry was the primary cause of the global spread of the virus. Why is this device then still being used? One is also forced to wonder why there was such a delay in developing vaccines against these emerging killer viruses. The SARS virus, the evolutionary predecessor of SARS-CoV-2, had warned us with its deadly appearance in China in 2002. Exactly 10 years later came an even more deadly virus of the same genre — MERS in the Middle East. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 in China was perhaps not surprising, notwithstanding the digressing conspiracy theories about its origin. In saying so, one cannot absolve China from the crime of suppressing necessary facts about this deadly virus for over two months, contributing to its spread. Nevertheless, there has been no serious effort to develop vaccines against any of these zoonotic viruses notwithstanding their life-threatening potential. Is it because the panic index was not high enough for the pharmaceutical companies to make enough money out of such a venture? Indeed, none of the previous coronaviruses was as contagious as the present one and no virus in history has created such a large customer base for vaccines. If there was a vaccine ready even against the almost 20-year-old SARS virus, this pandemic could have been prevented to a great extent. The role played by public health organizations and the government is critical when it comes to protecting public health. But the political will to save human life using public money seems to be losing priority. This is due to the growth of an extremely powerful and rich lobby that is supported by the pharma and healthcare industries. Today, healthcare has become a lucrative business backed by influential catalysts that help in creating and promoting human health crises for money. This pandemic has revealed shocking instances of ‘conflict of interest’ in the conduct of organizations deployed for safeguarding public interest. It is important that amidst scientific efforts to prevent the re-emergence of such a pandemic, we also resolve to restrict the forces that continue to pitch human life as a commodity for business. If that is not done, the day is not far when such pandemics would be artificially created.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Opinion||Mood enhancer||Such has been the recoil of private investment that new plans announced by businesses, which filled media spaces some years ago, have all but disappeared from the landscape. Public pronouncements of infrastructure projects have replaced private ones instead. It has even retreated from our memories how, in the peak years of 2006-2011, planned investment values commonly ranged between Rs 24-28 trillion; these essentially halved in the three years to 2019-20 as per the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy database. Public investment proclamations have become the norm, accentuated further in the wake of Covid-19. It is the long slumber of private investment that the government is trying to jolt awake through change in direction, a transformed attitude, and an altogether different view about the respective roles of the public and the private sectors in the economy. Quite likely a response to popular demands for a 1991 moment to break out of the standstill, speculation is intense about the prospects of success of the new narrative. The failure of business spending to resume despite numerous helpful measures and reforms in the past years has been glaring. Even before this February’s sharp turn in policies and viewpoint — the preceding specific thrust for domestic industry in response to Covid-19 last year and even the earlier set of measures to boost private enterprise in 2019 — industry and investors alike were urging the government for a 1991-like moment. Such voices or requests only sharpened when the pandemic struck India in what were already-depressed growth conditions. This, argued many, would charge the environment, be the electric spark that lights up the desire to invest. One can speculate if the visible changes in direction and attitude are due to the lack of choice — binding financial constraints limiting the scope of public investments — or perhaps even the latter’s failure to stem the downslide since 2017-18. Or if this is an explicit choice to seek a different route to push growth, investments and employment, given the constant economic deterioration that has been further worsened by Covid-19. The fact is that the government has responded with some seminal changes and an altered approach towards the role of the private sector in economic progress. The changes can be broadly described as reducing government involvement in production and finance, deregulating factor markets (agriculture and labour), preferential policies for large-scale manufacturing, further liberalization, new infrastructure financing initiatives, fresh redress measures for resolving bad debts, amongst others. The production-linked incentive scheme is the centre piece fitted into the large-scale manufacturing thrust; this is now widened to include 14 industries with Rs 1.97 trillion spread out over five years for scale-acquisition in domestic production for home consumption and exports. The transformation in thinking is obvious in some upfront decisions in this year’s budget — outright sale of public assets and non-strategic public enterprises, reducing ownership stakes in others, including strategic ones, sale of two public sector banks. Here, the government’s open embrace of ‘privatization’ against the more guarded ‘disinvestment’ casts aside a long-standing political aversion to the former nomenclature. Arguably, these shifts may have brought clarity about the government’s position on the public versus private sector debate, dispelling investors’ perceptions about ambivalence on this. The government has also withstood the political economy fallout of agriculture marketing reforms last year, holding on and signalling policy stability. The directional turn is only one side of the effort. The other part is perhaps more important — the accompanying articulation at various public forums, including Parliament. Led by the prime minister, a new mindset has been expressed. This eschews the role of government in production, stressing the domain rightfully belongs to the private sector, which is the central driver of growth, investments and job-creation. It condemns the draining inefficiencies of public enterprises; it censures the bureaucracy for its obstructive and non-specialist character, batting for inclusion of private experts instead while scaling up industries to enhance productivity. Furthermore, there are hectic parleys, other interactions with industry at various levels by key ministers and officials. Ministries are reaching out to note industry’s concerns, seek ideas and proposals, with the active involvement of business bodies. And no less than the prime minister has discussed road maps to the PLI-scheme with top private sector executives. In short, there is visible qualitative effort to enthuse, elicit response and get the momentum going. Even if interpreted cynically as a desperation to push for growth, a different narrative and active outreach impressing transformation can make businesses feel upbeat. Changes in laws and policies do not always translate into actual plans or investments if the agents do not feel optimistic. We only have to look back five-six years in which structural reforms, such as inflation targeting, GST, IBC, amongst others, failed to inspire private investment; growth decelerated instead and investments remained depressed. Feeling hopeful about the future really matters as that shapes decisions to take the plunge. The longing for a 1991 moment referred precisely to such feelings. Now accorded a valuable, primary place in the economy with attendant changes, positive responses could follow in the future seeing the resounding endorsement of private participants in the last one month. What then are the chances of changing the private investment trajectory? It is a critical question weighing on the mind of every stakeholder. Seeking an answer is difficult at this point though. One must weigh, for example, if upbeat mood and sentiments stand alone — can these be decoupled from the demand environment and associated uncertainties? Private agents also look back to look forward for their business decisions. In this instance, if the past was of economic weakening, the prospective course is exceedingly uncertain: there are doubts about the post-pandemic future of some businesses and sectors; the extent to which households and firms may have lost incomes and revenues, or increased savings, and the restoration, longevity and duration of demand and the structural shifts and resource reallocations that may have been triggered. These are some — but not all — considerations. While there are no clear-cut answers about future investment prospects, it remains obvious that growth must stabilize enduringly in the first round for any meaningful reactions to the new economic narrative. When the pandemic itself is yet to recede in India and elsewhere in the world, lifting the declining trajectory of private investment will be up in the air for a while. Expectations of solid returns to directional change must, therefore, be tempered. The question is if the current mood uplift will endure. The stakes are high. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Motors Hospital starts mass vaccination drive on National Vaccination Day||On National Vaccination Day, Tata Motors Hospital flagged off a mass vaccination drive for its employees and their dependent above the age of 45 with comorbidities on Tuesday. Vishal Badshah, head Jamshedpur Plant, Tata Motors was present during the inauguration of this programme, along with Dr. Sanjay Kumar, Head Medical Services – Tata Motors Hospital and Dr. Sanjay Srivastava, Chief Medicine – Tata Motors Hospital. Significantly, this is not the first time for the hospital has pledged to fight against the deadly virus. It has treated over 3800 Covid-19 positive cases out of which 39 were pregnant women till date. Officials maintained that the company has been continuously working towards giving back to the society and in order to do the same Tata Motors even distributed food kit, sanitisers, masks and other Covid essentials and touched more than 52,000 lives during the pandemic. Tata Motors Hospital has successfully vaccinated a total number of 4,200 individuals so far. The corporate hospital has set a target of vaccinating 450 individuals daily. Commenting on the same, Dr. Sanjay Kumar, Head Medical Services – Tata Motors Hospital said, “It gives me immense pride and honor to work for the wellbeing of not only our employees but also for the society at large. Vaccines are essential to help us develop immunity against deadly diseases. With the present Coronavirus pandemic claiming about 2.66 million lives, vaccination has once again acquired paramount importance and on this day we would like to urge everyone to get vaccinated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||“Lights off” protest against proposed disinvestment in PSU||Over hundred executives of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) “switched off light” at their homes to register their protest against the government’s decision of disinvestment in Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) here on Tuesday evening. The proposed disinvestment is being widely opposed by members of Bokaro Officers Steel Association (BOSA) after a call given by associations like Steel Executive Federation of India (SEFI) and National Confederation of Officer’s Association (NCOA). BSL officers expressed grave concern over disinvestment issue. A K Singh, president, BOSA said, “This is our symbolic protest against disinvestment and privatisation of Steel PSUs. Government has announced ‘disinvestment of non-core sectors PSUs’ which is not acceptable.”. To make get heard around 1900 executives working in BSL, chose to switch off the light in their homes between 7 pm to 7.15 pm. Their family members also participated in the protest. BSL is a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). Executives in PSU’s are worried that the government would privatise SAIL in the future just like it has been done with Vizag Steel. Singh said that they will keep protesting till the government understands the sentiments and demands of PSU employees. Fighting against all odds of the prevailing pandemic, BSL executives exhibited exemplary courage to achieve the target set by the company. BOSA president said, “Disinvestment can’t be a good solution. Employment should also be taken care of by the central government.” SEFI council also had a virtual meeting with the members and expressed grave concern over the disinvestment of steel PSUs. The executive fraternities of steel PSU feel that the unnecessary proposals of disinvestment will definitely hamper the economy to a great extent. The entire nation is shocked with the government’ decision of retaining a bare minimum PSUs belonging to strategic sector, while others being sold off or shutdown, maintained many.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Lynch victim's widow meets Hemant to seek compensation||Tabassum Khatoon (25), the widow of Angara lynch victim Mubarak Khan , met chief minister Hemant Soren at his office in the state Assembly on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum demanding Rs 50 lakh compensation, a government job for herself, and assistance for education of her two minor children. “I wasn’t at home when the incident occurred. I was at my parents’ house. I rushed to the village early in the morning after getting the news. My husband is innocent and earned living by working as a driver,” she pleaded before Hemant. Khan was killed early on Sunday by a mob on suspicion of stealing a tyre and battery of a bike at Sirki village in Angara block on Ranchi outskirts. Khan’s family and relatives have, however, named 18 people in an FIR alleging a conspiracy to murder him due to personal enmity. During the lunch break of the day's Assembly proceedings, Congress’s MLA from Jamtara Irfan Ansari took Khan’s wife and her children to meet Hemant. While Ansari has himself demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation to the next of kin of Mubarak, his widow has sought Rs 50 lakh. Ansari said he has demanded that the guilty be arrested and a speedy trial held to bring them to justice. “Whatever happened shouldn’t have occurred in the first place. The entire allegation of he (Mubarak) being a thief is a concocted story,” he said, charging the BJP of giving it a communal colour. “I even learnt that the BJP is playing dirty games now to give the incident different spin,” he said, but did not elaborate. Later talking to reporters, Tabassum said she was worried about her children’s future. “My husband was the lone earning member of the family. I don’t know how we will manage and raise my kids,” she wept. Ranchi police have so far arrested 9 named accused. SP(rural) Naushad Alam said that raids were on to trace the remaining accused. Mubarak's lynching was the second such incident in Ranchi within 10 days. On March 8, Sachin Kumar was lynched by a mob of about 40 people under Kotwali police station area in the city on the suspicion of theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Violence rocks Dhanbad over coal loading work ||Two incidents of stone-pelting and arson rocked Dhanbad on Tuesday, injuring half a dozen workers less than 24 hours after former state rural development minister  K.N. Tripathi blamed privatisation of the coal sector for the escalation of violence in collieries. The first incident took place at 1am on Tuesday at the coal patch of private excavator Ambey Private Ltd, engaged in coal production on behalf of coal major Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) at Block II area, around 25 km from district headquarters. Unidentified persons hurled more than six bombs and carried out more than 10 rounds of firing at the coal patch. The attackers also set ablaze two tipper trucks (bearing registration numbers NL 02K 1492 and NL 02 K 9768) and damaged two other earth movers used in mining work. The armed attackers also caused serious injuries to tipper truck driver Manik Ghosh, an employee of the private coal excavator of Calcutta. A team of Baghmara police, led by OC Subedar Yadav, that reached the site after being informed by coal workers, admitted the injured driver to a private hospital. The police officer also tried to douse the flames that had engulfed the trucks with the help of local residents. Yadav said, “We are yet to identify the attackers. We are scanning CCTV footage to identify them.” The other incident occurred at 8am at the Integrated Muraidih-Phularitand colliery in Barora area of BCCL. Two warring factions of local residents involved in coal loading work indulged in violence during which stones were pelted at random. Firearms were used freely, injuring as many as six persons. Senior police officers led by Baghmara SDPO  Nisha Murmu were able to bring the situation under control after a lathicharge. At the crux of the issue, festering for over a week, is control of manual coal loading at Muraidih Shatabdi coal dump. On Monday, mechanised loading operations were carried out using 13 tipper trucks under police protection due to the volatile situation. On Tuesday, morning, the two factions reached the site after which a clash broke out over who gets to control manual coal loading operations. Murmu said, “We have stopped manual loading in Muraidih Shatabdi coal dump. At the same, we have launched an investigation to find who is responsible behind the violence.” State INTUC general secretary A.K. Jha blamed wrong policies for the escalation of the violence. "Faulty policies of the central government by virtue of which private companies are being engaged in mining activity is primarily responsible for the violence,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur byelection on April 17||Byelection to the Madhupur Assembly seat will be held on April 17 along with two parliamentary seats in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and 13 other Assembly seats, the Election Commission of India announced on Tuesday. According to the commission, a gazette notification for the elections would be issued on March 23 while the last date for nomination has been fixed on March 30. After scrutiny of the forms on March 31, withdrawals can be done till April 3. Results will be announced on April 2. The Madhupur seat in Jamtara district in Jharkhand’s Santhal Parganas fell vacant last year after the demise of former minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari, who died of post Covid complications. In January, chief minister Hemant Soren inducted Haji’s son, Hafizul Hassan, into his cabinet. He will be the JMM's candidate for the seat. Haji won from Madhupur as a JMM candidate four times since he first contested in 1995. He was also the first Muslim to become minister in the state after its formation in 2000. Since coming to power in 2019, Madhupur will be third byelection for the Hemant Soren led JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government. The two byepolls held in Dumka and Bermo last year were clinched by the ruling alliance. In Dumka, the chief minister's younger brother Basant Soren won on a JMM ticket while in Bermo, Congress’s Anup Singh emerged victorious. Both were debutants in electoral politics. Reacting to the poll announcement, the ruling alliance sounded more than hopeful of winning. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “Madhupur has traditionally been our stronghold and we shall certainly win riding on the good work done by our government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||At 71, steel city veteran gears up for national meet||At 71, Avtar Singh is gearing up  to make an impression at the inaugural National Veterans Sports & Games Championship Khel Mahakumbh to be held at Nashik, Maharashtra from April 8 to 11. The septuagenarian, a resident of Sonari locality in Jamshedpur, is preparing for the event in earnest interest. The zeal and excitement is also not amiss as he pedals on the Marine Drive in the evenings and also does some light stretching exercises. Singh, who used to participate in javelin at university level, practices the sport at Joggers’ Park in Sonari. “I’ll use all of my experience in both cycling and javelin at Khel Mahakumbh,” the veteran said. Singh, a seven-time national cycling champion, will be competing in cycling and javelin throw during the Khel Mahakumbh. "I will be trying my luck in 30 km and 50 km road cycling as well as javelin throw. I am gearing up and would leave no stone unturned to make an impression. I am very excited and looking forward to the event with a positive frame of mind," Singh, who runs Jeevika, a school for intellectually impaired, said. His wife Sukhdeep Kaur is the secretary of the school. Asked if he feels fit, he said barring a slight issue in the calf muscle, his fitness is okay. "I think pain in the calf muscle would subside by the time I reach Nashik. I will be borrowing a racing cycle from one of my acquaintances at the competition venue," Singh said. Singh led the Indian cycling team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi and has been adjudged fastest cyclist of the country several times. After retiring from the sport, Singh dedicated his life for the cause of special athletes. He is training and channelising the lives of special athletes for over three decades now. He has produced 10 athletes who have won medals in international competitions organised under Special Olympics International. Singh sustains on a simple diet and lives a balanced lifestyle. "One has to make adjustments when age is advancing. I am happy with my life and would carry on working for the cause of special athletes. Smile on their (special athletes) face gives me immense satisfaction," he added. He is the only trainer from Asia invited as a technical official for three Special Olympics World Summer Games in Shanghai (2007), Los Angeles (2015), Abu Dhabi (2019) by the Special Olympics Games organising committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||75% reservation for locals even in PSUs, says JMM||The Jharkhand government’s decision of providing 75 per cent reservation to locals in the private sector will also be implemented in the public sector undertakings, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said on Tuesday. Addressing media persons in Ranchi, the senior JMM leader said that the Centre should learn from chief minister Hemant Soren’s “revolutionary” decision of providing 75 per cent reservation to locals of the state in private sector jobs. "Reservation for locals will not only be restricted to the private sector, but also be extended to the public sector undertakings like Central Coalfield (CCL), Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) and Uranium Corporation of India (UCIL) in Jharkhand,” said Bhattacharya. The PSUs mentioned by Bhattacharya are all run by the Union government and recruitments for these companies are also done pan-India without state-specific reservations. In order to make changes in the recruitment rules for the companies, the state government will have to send a proposal to the Centre. Asking the Centre to learn from Hemant, Bhattacharya said that the state government’s decision of providing unemployment allowance to youths at a time when people were losing jobs across the country was a “masterstroke”. Bhattacharya also slammed the Centre for rising prices of crude oil and the growing rate of unemployment in the country. Taking a jibe at the ruling BJP, the JMM leader said, “BJP’s GDP – Gas, Diesel, Petrol – has been skyrocketing,” referring to the hike in the price of LPG, diesel and petrol. Talking about the West Bengal and Assam elections, Bhattacharya said JMM would extend support to Trinamool Congress in Bengal and the Congress  in Assam. The party had earlier decided to contest Assembly seats in West Bengal, but seeing the polarisation of voters in the neighbouring state, it decided to support TMC in order to defeat the BJP, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||SSLNT college student-entrepreneurs execute business ideas||Shantanu Banerjee, a 42 year-old software developer of Dhanbad, is helping girl student entrepreneurs to execute their business ideas into projects at the first incubation center in SSLNT the Women’s College of coal town. Banerjee’s Centre of Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship Development has been providing assistance to three different startups by women, working on different innovative ideas. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Banerjee, the chief mentor of the institute said that the centre was inaugurated by organising  a mega event of national level for startups at IIT-ISM on February 26 last year. Initially, they wanted to establish the centre at BIT-Sindri but that plan was marred by the pandemic. “We again initiated the effort to establish the center at SSLNT Women’s College about three months ago, when the College approached us and initially selected three projects, including two involving SSLNT college students. The other one involves one postgraduate student of the Department of Mass Communication of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University (BBMKU) and another student from this college,” said Banerjee.  Explaining the deets about the projects, he said, “One of the projects titled ‘Eco Loop’ launched by three M Com students of SSLNT Poonam Kumari, Shikha Singh and Nandini Singh involves working on environment conservation through waste management practices. Two undergraduate students Diksha Roy and Aditi are working on Kokaringa, a programme generating products made through Moringa plants, which has huge medicinal properties including anti cancerous properties.” Banerjee said that the third group is working on a project named ‘Kya Khoob’ which makes different utensils and decorative items through waste papers. Postgraduate students Pratigya Lala and Shikha Singh are working on this cause. “I have realised that the girls have more novel and innovative ideas compared to boys as they think of any project with greater concentration compared to boys,” he said. SSLNT College principal Sharmila Rani said that they have started off with the centre with limited facilities but will gradually increase them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two-day bank strike total in Jharkhand, customers suffer||Bank employees across Jharkhand joined the nationwide bank strike for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, primarily inconveniencing customers who needed to withdraw cash as ATMS ran dry. The strike affected the functioning of over 1000-odd branches of various banks across the state. Work of cheque clearance, issuance of drafts, cash deposits, issuance of letter of credit and bank guarantee were also affected. Government transactions related to treasury as well as business transactions were also affected. The call for a two-day strike which began in Monday was given by United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU), an umbrella outfit  of nine bank unions, against privatisation of PSU banks and other banking reforms. Branches of private sector banks like ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank also remained closed in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and other cities of Jharkhand. Bank employees under the banner of UFBU staged dharnas and demonstrations opposing the Centre's privatisation bid at several places. The dharna in Ranchi was organised at SBI's Kutchery Road branch while in Jamshedpur demonstrations continued for the second consecutive day near the SBI branch at Bistupur. Former Jamshedpur MP and Congress spokesperson Ajoy Kumar went to the dharna spot at Bistupur on Tuesday and extended his support to the cause of bank employees. In Dhanbad bank employees holding banners and shouting slogans against the Centre staged demonstration outside SBI's Katras Road branch. Bank employees participated in similar dharnas and demonstrations in several other places including Bokaro, Hazaribagh and Ramgarh where all banks downed shutters for the second consecutive day. Reports of ATMs running dry came in from different places in Ranchi and the steel city. Banks were closed on March 13 (second Saturday) and March 14 (Sunday), which meant that there were no banking services for four days. "We oppose the Centre's decision of privatisation of public sector banks. The budget announcement said two banks and one insurance company will be privatised in the name of disinvestment. Therefore, we had appealed to all bank employees to join the two-day strike, " said Rintu Rajak, the local convenor of UFBU. The senior functionary of UFBO claimed that the two-day strike was a complete success.He, however, said that the online banking facility  remained operational during the two-day strike . He said employees of public sector insurance companies have also decided to observe a similar strike on Wednesday and Thursday. Customers, hwoever, differed, saying they faced severe problems during the two-day strike. “I was not aware of the bandh and had gone to withdraw cash from the SBI ATM in Bistupur on Monday. But I found it closed. I needed the money for procuring text books for my daughter for the new session," said Ravinder Kumar, a resident of Bistupur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Squatters at Khaasmahal fell trees as steel city plans crackdown||Squatters who have returned to encroach upon government land at Khaasmahal in Parsudih have allegedly felled over 100 trees in the last week to pave the way for setting up shanties to live in. Many of the encroachers, who had initially marked out areas using ropes or clothes, have already built dwellings there and begun staying there at night. Concerned over the ever-increasing number of encroachers Jamshedpur circle officer Amit Srivastav has sent a request to Dhalbhum SDO Amit Srivastav to depute 500 armed policemen to carry out an eviction drive on March 18. "We have decided to carry out a massive anti-encroachment drive on March 18. To ensure its success, we have requested the district administration to send 500 armed policemen on Tuesday," Srivastav said. Srivastav said after the Khaasmahal land was cleared of encroachers, they would set up a picket of armed police. "This is to ensure the encroachers do not return and grab the land once again," said Srivastav. The circle oficer said cases had been registered against six persons for mobilising adjoining slum-dwellers to encroach on the government land. "We are identifying more people who are involved in the encroachment of the plot of land at Khaasmahal," he said. A large number of slum-dwellers from adjoining Jharkhand Nagar, Kitadih and Karandih had a week ago encroached upon over 10 acre government land at the prime location in Parsudih. The administration had evicted them on March 9. But they returned to the site the next morning and were now consolidating their presence there by felling trees and building hutments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress lines up campaigners for Bengal, Assam elections ||From next week, Congress ministers and key leaders of Jharkhand will be campaigning for the coming elections in Bengal, where voting will be held in eight phases, and in Assam, where voting will be held in four phases, beginning March 27. Talking to reporters on Tuesday, state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said the state unit getting reay to make active contribution in the elections to ensure pthe party does well. He said state party president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon is scheduled to visit Assam on March 24. “Oraon will be campaigning mainly in the tribal dominated pockets of Assam and Bengal. He is set to visit Assam on March 24 after the budget session of the state Assembly here. His focus areas will be in Dibrugarh and the  tea-estate areas that are dominated by tribals. Similarly, in West Bengal, he will be canvassing in regions like Darjeeling, Alipurdwar, Purulia and Jhargram, among others.” Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, on the other hand, is gearing up to campaign in Assam before the second phase of elections on April 1. Tirkey is among the 30 star campaigners appointed by AICC for the second phase of polls in Assam.  Another minister in the state government and Pakur MLA, Alamgir Alam, is also expected to head to Bengal on March 23. He is expected to stay put there till the elections, said party sources. Notably, Alam was a member of the three-man core campaigning committee of the Congress party for Bengal. Other Congress veterans who have been assigned poll responsibilities by the high command are Mahagama MLA Dipika Pandey Singh, health minister Banna Gupta, Bermo MLA Anup Singh and Mani Shankar. Congress is a part of JMM-RJD alliance government of Jharkhand. Dubey said that the good work done by the government here will have a positive impact in Bengal and Assam. “In little over one year since we came into power, our government has begun fulfilling major poll promises _ right from farm loan waivers, to reserving 75% jobs in private sector for locals and unemployment allowance, slash in application fee for state civil service aspirants, etc.  Our party will showcase the success stories before voters in other states to win their confidence and not indulge in mudslinging like the BJP,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand sets target: 10 lakh rural residents to be vaccinated||The health department has set a target of vaccinating at least 10 lakh rural residents against Covid-19 during a weeklong panchayat level immunisation campaign from March 20 to March 27 in Jharkhand, officials said on Tuesday, adding that community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs) in villages would double up as jab sites during the campaign. According to National Health Mission (NHM), the special vaccination drive will be run on March 20, March 21, March 23, March 24, March 26 and March 27. As a part of the campaign, the government aims to set up at least one vaccination centre at each of the 4,562 panchayats in Jharkhand, officials said. “The PHCs and CHCs will mostly double up as vaccination centres during the campaign. The objective behind the drive is to speed up vaccination at the rural level as people living in the villages were not as prompt as urban residents in getting the jabs in Jharkhand,” said state NHM director Ravi Shankar Shukla. State health secretary K.K. Soan has directed officials in all 24 districts to identify senior citizens and people who were above the age of 45 years and suffering from comorbid conditions for the vaccination programme. The beneficiaries will be informed in advance about their date of vaccination and provided details of the vaccination centre where they can get the jab for free, health officials said. In many parts of rural Jharkhand, the fear of side effects and rumours have slowed down the vaccination campaign, sources said. In some villages of Latehar, Lohardaga, Chatra and Pakur, many senior citizens avoided the vaccine jabs. As a result, while urban districts like Ranchi and Bokaro vaccinated more than 10,000 senior citizens each, Latehar, Lohardaga and Chatra inoculated less than 2,000 senior citizens since March 1. As per government data, around 5 lakh people have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand so far, and more than 3.5 lakh of them were healthcare and frontline workers. Around 1.16 lakh senior citizens and close to 20,000 middle-aged people with comorbid conditions have got the first jab of the vaccine in the state since March 1. Over 1.5 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have received the second dose of the vaccine as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city girl steals show in national archery championship||Steel city's Komalika Bari played a stellar role to help Jharkhand emerge overall recurve champions in the 41st NTPC Junior National Archery Championship which concluded in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, on Monday. The 19-year-old cadet of Tata Archery Academy (TAA) clinched four gold medals in the ranking round, individual section, team event and mixed category to stamp her authority. Besides Komalika, who has been selected in the Indian women's recurve team for the upcoming Tokyo Olympic Games, other members of the team included Deepti Kumari, Laxmi Hembrom and Rita Kumari. She paired up with Shrey Bhardwaj, also a cadet of elite Tata cradle, to claim the gold medal in the mixed category. Komalika, who hails from a modest family, had bagged gold at the World Archery Youth Championships held at Madrid, Spain in 2019 . In all, Jharkhand finished with 10 medals -- eight golds, including four  in the women’s category shooting with traditional bows and arrows. The team also bagged one silver and one bronze medal each in the Indian round. Eminent personalities including Jharkhand Archery Association president and former chief minister Arjun Munda, secretary and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahto, TAA chief coach and Dronacharya awardee Dharmendra Tiwary, coaches Harendra Singh and B. Sriniwas Rao congratulated the women's side for the success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 15,000 senior citizens get first jab of Covid vaccine in a day||As many as 15,982 senior citizens and 2,321 middle-aged with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, while 4,049 healthcare workers and frontline workers got their first jab at vaccination centres across the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The state, however, achieved only 10 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers on the day. The second jab was administered to as many as 13,351 healthcare and frontline workers, only 16 per cent of over 85,000 beneficiaries registered for the second dose on Monday. State NHM Director Ravi Shankar Shukla on Monday said that the government was focusing on speeding up the vaccination process as Covid cases were on the rise and vaccination would at least provide safety to senior citizens and people with comorbid conditions. “We are focusing on vaccinating as many senior citizens and vulnerable people as possible at the earliest in order to prevent casualties in the state in case of a rise in Covid cases,” said Shukla. As per government data, as many as 4,94,432 people have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand since the launch of the nationwide immunization programme on January 16. At least, 1,57,684 of these beneficiaries have also received the second jab, reveals NHM data. The state has so far achieved 86 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of vaccine and 68 per cent of the target for administering the second jab, stated a report released by the NHM. Of the close to 5 lakh people vaccinated, more than 3.5 lakh were healthcare and frontline workers. Over 1.16 lakh senior citizens and more than 19,000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have got the first jab of the vaccine so far. Meanwhile, at least 67 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Monday, while 59 patients recovered, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. The number of active cases of infection crossed the 550 mark on the day and reached 556. The number of active cases also drew close to 350 in Ranchi as the district reported 48 cases against only 31 recoveries. As many as 346 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi police drive against ‘mob justice’ ||Ranchi police have decided to seek the help of NGOs and local representatives to spread awareness among the people not to take the law into their hands after back-to-back lynching cases in the span of a week. Ranchi senior superintendent of police Surendra Kumar Jha on Monday directed all the 44 officers-in-charge of police stations in the Jharkhand district to take the help of local elected representatives and NGOs for an extensive awareness drive among the masses against mob justice. “We will be taking the help of mukhiyas (panchayat chiefs), zilla parishad members, ward councillors and local MLAs to help the police stations concerned in reaching out to the masses against taking law into their own hands and beating up people suspecting them of involvement in some crimes. “The officers-in-charge have also been directed to disseminate information using the public address system on the patrolling jeeps,” said Jha. The local representatives and police officers have also been asked to inform the masses about rigorous imprisonment after being convicted in mob lynching cases. “We would be trying to spread information among the people that they should hand over any suspect caught by them to the police. Almost all the village heads and mukhiyas possess the mobile numbers of local police officers and it would take less than 10 minutes for the police patrolling unit to reach the site of the incident to catch the suspects. During the awareness drive, we will inform the people that if convicted in lynching cases, they could face rigorous imprisonment upto 14 years which may ruin their entire life and career. “People will also be asked to inform immediately to the local police officials about any mob conspiracy in their locality,” said Ranchi rural superintendent of police Naushad Alam. Alam said that nine accused have been arrested in the lynching of 26-year-old Mubarak Khan in the wee hours of Sunday. Mubarak was tied to a pole and beaten to death for allegedly stealing tyres and battery of a motorcycle in Maheshpur village of Sirka panchayat under Angara police station on the outskirts of Ranchi around 2am on Sunday. Mubarak used to drive a bread container for deliveries. However, relatives of the deceased alleged that personal enmity led to his killing claiming that he had a dispute with some of the villagers a few days back and they had beaten him to death. This is the second incident of lynching in the Jharkhand capital this month. Earlier, 22-year-old Sachin Kumar Verma was beaten by a group of labourers in the Upper Bazar area in Ranchi on March 8 on the suspicion of vehicle theft. He was taken to the police station and succumbed to his injuries before he could be taken to the hospital. In the last 12 months, around 12 mob lynching cases have been reported in different parts of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
