17-03-2021||Calcutta||Bank protest unlocks a vault of distress||The city of demonstrations has rarely seen a “bank union” protest like this. ⚫ A 42-year-old bank officer who could not remember the last time he was part of a protest meet made it a point to turn up because he is “worried about my job and my family”. ⚫ An economics graduate from Presidency University made his presence felt because “there are two broad groups in the country right now — bekaar ar sambhabyo bekaar (the jobless and the about-to-be jobless)”. ⚫ The leader of a self-help group of women making clay dolls in Nadia attended because she is worried that once privatised, banks will no longer give her loans at an affordable interest rate and without collateral. The group of 50 women started out at the crack of dawn and pooled the money for the trip to the city. ⚫ Members of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign took the stage and raised slogans that ended with “Ei BJP aar na (No more of this BJP)”. Students, rights activists, self-help group members and young bank officers were some of the uncommon faces at a demonstration of bank unions at Dalhousie on Tuesday against the Centre’s proposal to privatise public sector banks. The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, organised the demonstration as part of a two-day nationwide strike that ended on Tuesday. If the common “adversary” was the government at the Centre that was described as “anti-people”, a binding factor was fear of an uncertain future. Among the participants was the 42-year-old officer of a nationalised bank in Kalyani, standing at a distance from the dais and listening to the speakers in rapt attention. “I have come this year because I am worried about my job and my family. Privatisation would mean job cuts. I don’t have an MBA or some such degree. At this age, it will be virtually impossible for me to find another similar-paying job. I have never felt so helpless in my life,” said the officer who had opted for a job in a PSU bank because he wanted “stability”, unlike his “high-salaried” friends in the private sector. “I studied hard to crack the banking entrance exam. When I was selected, I was happy because it was a job that promised stability. Now, that stability is under threat,” said the Kalyani resident. If the spectre of job cuts haunted some, others feared unemployment. “There are two broad groups in the country right now — bekaar ar sambhabyo bekaar. We are on the verge of completing our education. But we belong to the second group and have unemployment staring at us,” said Sayan Chakravarty, who has studied economics at Presidency University and is associated with an apolitical group, Janata Paksha. Chakravarty said: “The new farm laws and the proposed privatisation of banks are two offshoots of one agenda — to offer the entire country on a platter to a select few friends of Narendra Modi.” “The Narendra Modi government is like the wayward son of a rich family (boroloker bokhate chhele). A wise heir multiplies his ancestral wealth but a wayward son sells off ancestral properties indiscriminately. That is what the government is doing,” he added. Rumki Dutta, the leader of the self-help group of women making clay dolls in Nadia, said she took a loan of “around Rs 6 lakh” from a PSU bank in Krishnagar as recently as April 2020. “I got the loan at an interest rate of 10.5 per cent. I did not need to provide any security money or collateral. What if the new private bank (as proposed by the government) refuses to give me loans at the earlier rate or demands collateral security?” asked Dutta. Dutta was part of a group of more than 50 women who had left home around 5am on a bus to reach the venue of the demonstration. All the women contributed to collect “around Rs 10,000” needed for the travel and other expenses in Calcutta. The women said they feared privatisation of banks would hamper “small business loans”, the “lifeblood” of self-help groups. The “No Vote to BJP” campaigners chanted from the dais: “Chakri akhon haath-e gona; era gorur doodh-e pachchhe sona (Jobs are few, these people are busy tracing gold in cow milk).” Members of the audience joined in, their fists raised and shouting “ei BJP aar na”. Sayan Banerjee, a lawyer and one of the speakers, said “no street movement would be needed to defeat the BJP if the vote was fought on the agenda of economic policies and development”. “But religion, caste, food habit and choice of clothes are injected into the discourse to divert attention from the failures of the government. Our challenge is to stick to the discourse of economic policies and lack of development. The farmers have shown how to do this,” Banerjee said. Rights activist Sujato Bhadra said the BJP was taking the country towards a “single-party system”. “The double-engine theory (the same party in power in the state and at the Centre) is a pointer to that end,” he said. “A welfare state should work for the uplift of the most marginalised person. In contrast, the BJP government wants to shed all its liability,” Bhadra added. “We have found support from so many different people across the society. The anti-people policies of the central government have united all of us,” said Soumya Datta, the general secretary of the All India Bank Officers’ Confederation, one of the nine unions that make up the UFBU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
17-03-2021||Calcutta||12 inmates of Alipore Women’s Correctional Home fall ill||Twelve inmates of the Alipore Women’s Correctional Home complained of stomach ache and vomited on Monday, sources in the correctional services said. All of them were admitted to the jail hospital. Senior officials said the cause of the illness was yet to be ascertained and that majority of the inmates recovered by Tuesday. An engineer of the water supply department of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said on Tuesday water samples were collected from Sashi Sekhar Bose Row in Bhowanipore, where several people allegedly fell ill last week after drinking water supplied by the corporation. The samples have been sent for tests. The reports are expected on Wednesday. “We have been digging soil and checking for probable leaks in the pipeline. We have not found any leaks till now. Water bowsers were sent to the locality today to ensure no one panicked and there was adequate supply of drinking water,” the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||Couple and son found dead  inside a hotel room||An elderly couple and their 45-year-old son were found dead inside a hotel room on Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road, in central Calcutta, on Tuesday afternoon, two days after they had checked in. The family had apparently told the hotel authorities that they were from Siliguri and had come to Calcutta for medical treatment. Police said a purported note found in the room mentioned about a failed business and that the family was debt ridden over the past year, during the lockdown. A bottle, which the police suspect contained poison, was found in the room.  “There were no injury marks on them. It appears like a suicide pact,” said a senior police officer of New Market police station. Sushil Kumar Bansal, 66, of Maple View, Mayfair Garden, on Sevoke Road in Siliguri, had checked into the hotel on March 14 with wife Chandra Devi, 60, and son Sunil Kumar, 45. The family ran a gunny bag manufacturing business, which had to be closed down during the lockdown, the police have learnt. Investigators have found that the three and Sunil Kumar’s wife and children had left Siliguri in January. Last week, Sunil’s wife and children were left at her brother’s home in Lake Town. Cops said they were yet to ascertain where the family had been staying between January and March. “Sunil’s wife was told that she and the children would be picked up from her brother’s home in a few days once her husband rented an apartment,” said an officer. The hotel officials said the family last ordered food on March 14. The next day, when no activity was spotted around the room, the hotel officials knocked on the door but did not get any response. On Tuesday, hotel officials tried to contact the guests by calling the phone number they had written in the register, but there was no response either. Later in the day, the officials alerted the local police station and helped the cops break open the door. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of the death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine case witness seeks police protection||The man who apparently alerted police about Rakesh Singh’s alleged conspiracy to frame a woman in a narcotics case two days before Pamela Goswami’s arrest, and who later became a witness in the cocaine case, has sought police protection. S. Agarwal has written to the police citing specific instances during morning walks in a Salt Lake neighbourhood when he felt insecure and has requested police protection, a senior police officer said. In the letter, Agarwal has expressed his apprehension that his life was under threat from Rakesh Singh’s men and that he feared an attack on him the moment Singh is out (of jail) on bail. “He has cited a specific incident in a Salt Lake neighbourhood where he has mentioned a particular person who identified Agarwal in public as someone who was helping the Calcutta police headquarters. He has written that this man categorically said that as he (Agarwal) was helping police against Rakesh Singh, he would soon be in trouble,” the officer said. Senior police officers said cases of witnesses feeling intimidated or threatened are common but the person had shown rare courage by reporting the matter to the police. Agarwal had first written to Lalbazar on February 17, two days before officers of New Alipore police station received a “tip off about the presence of cocaine” in a vehicle belonging to BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami. Cocaine weighing 90 grams was allegedly seized from her car following her arrest in New Alipore on February 19. Soon after her arrest, BJP leader Rakesh Singh’s name had emerged during investigation and the police connected the incident to the mail they had received on February 17. In the mail, Agarwal had mentioned about his estranged wife Amrita Singh (who was later arrested in the cocaine case) and her alleged links with Rakesh, police sources said. The police had contacted Agarwal and made him a witness in the case. His statement was recorded before the magistrate under 164 of the CrPC — which is treated as primary evidence in court. The police has a witness protection scheme for helping witnesses who seek protection, another senior officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||Poll worry over Covid safety protocols||The state health department is worried about lack of Covid-19 safety protocols at election rallies. One environment activist has written to the Central Election Commission, expressing similar concerns. “We are very worried about the way people are not adhering to Covid safety protocols. The number of Covid cases is rising in Bengal,” a senior official of the health department said. “Apart from spreading awareness, we want to escalate the vaccination drive to cover all elderly people and those with comorbidities. Also, we want to complete vaccination of poll personnel, healthcare and frontline workers to protect the workforce during the election.” He said the elderly people and those above 45 with comorbidities totalled 1.72 crore in the state. Of them, only 26 lakh have been vaccinated. There are around 5.2 lakh polling personnel who need to be administered doses twice before the polling process starts. “Around 2.38 lakh doses are being administered daily. The vaccination pace has to be increased to achieve the target. We have barely 10 days of vaccine vials. We have written to the Centre asking how many vials they can supply…. Accordingly, we can plan to escalate the drive,” the official said. On Tuesday, 255 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bengal. The number was 251 on Monday. On February 16, the count was 151. Environment activist Subhas Datta, worried about the lack of Covid safety protocols at election-related gatherings, has written to the election commission: “...during the current election campaigns, the political parties and their leaders are not giving any cognizance to Covid-19 pandemic disciplines like maintaining social distancing, wearing masks etc, especially while organising rallies/road shows/ meetings in public places.” “In some states, including West Bengal the number of Covid-19 affected patients is increasing again. The present upward graph of Covid-19 patients has become a matter of concern to all. We had to face total setback in different fields due to Covid lockdown situation. It is feared that such a complete lockdown situation may repeat again, if the present practices are not changed or checked. “In the matter of maintaining law and order during the election process, the Election Commission has been found very active but it is painfully observed that this august institution has preferred to remain as silent spectator to this deadly situation arising out of non-compliances during the election campaign.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||A larger lesson from Indian Coffee House ||Satyapriya De Sarkar, a gastrointestinal surgeon, rarely attends meetings or rallies. Sarkar completed eight surgeries on Tuesday from 7.30am and was on College Street by 2pm to speak at a street corner meeting with the call “No Vote to BJP”. Sitansu Sekhar, a documentary filmmaker, was present at College Street’s Coffee House on Monday evening when a group of alleged BJP supporters first defaced and then tore “No Vote to BJP” posters pasted on the walls of the Coffee House building. Sekhar was also present on College Street on Tuesday to tell people what had happened. What brought Sarkar, Sekhar and many others to the meeting was the need to unveil the “undemocratic and violent” nature of the BJP. If the party is voted to power in the state, they would target all the platforms for debate like Indian Coffee House, they said. Tuesday’s street-corner meeting was held in protest against the alleged vandalism of “No Vote to BJP” posters by BJP supporters. The participants in the meeting pasted fresh posters with the words “No Vote to BJP” written in bold. They also wrote posters sitting on the road urging people to rise against the BJP’s alleged attempts to occupy all addresses associated with Bengal’s tradition of spirited debates. “I am not a regular in rallies but I felt like coming today. If the BJP comes to power, they will not allow us to stand here and hold a meeting criticising them. The basic right to protest will be taken away. You and I will not be able to say anything they do not approve of,” Sarkar said, standing on the road outside the gate of the Coffee House building as the audience nodded in approval. He later told The Telegraph that he was also appalled at how the BJP-led Centre was promo-ting anti-science theories and practices. “The Centre has decided to allow ayurveda practitioners to conduct complex surgeries. This will be dangerous for people’s health if implemented. There have been individuals in earlier governments in the country who practised unscientific things, but no government ever gave a legal stamp to anything so unscientific,” said Sarkar. Sekhar narrated Monday evening’s sequence of events as an eyewitness. “When I arrived at Coffee House, I found that most of the seats were occupied by men wearing saffron T-shirts with the slogan Modi r Para (Modi’s locality) written on them. The crowd started thinning soon, but an acquaintance came up from below and said that these men were painting black over the words ‘No’ in ‘No Vote to BJP’ posters,” he said. “The men were shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans. They also tore some of the posters. Some of us protested and there were heated exchanges. The men were also abusing us and they left gradually,” said Sekhar. “We have to be wary. The first thing that the BJP will do if they come to power is that they will take over control of places like Coffee House, where debates and dissenting opinions are expressed. They want conformity,” he said. Madhurima Bakshi, a college teacher who had protested against the BJP supporters on Monday, was also among the speakers. “When I protested they started addressing me as ‘tui’,” she said. Some of the defaced posters were still pasted on the walls along the staircase leading to Coffee House. The protesters pasted fresh posters covering the defaced ones and vowed to put up such posters across the city. “How many posters will the BJP supporters deface?” said one of the speakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||I liked the coffee, our men blacked out ‘No’||The Telegraph spoke to a BJP politician who led a group of supporters to the around 150-year-old Indian Coffee House on Monday and a foot soldier who was part of the team. The group allegedly defaced “No Vote to BJP” posters pasted on the walls of the Coffee House building. Here’s what they had to say Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga In 2011, Bagga, now a BJP spokesperson in Delhi, had attacked lawyer Prashant Bhushan We had just finished another leg of the Modipara (a campaign that aims to promote Narendra Modi in neighbourhoods) drive at the chowk by the lake (College Square). The campaign got a big thumbs up from the local people. I had heard so many things about Coffee House. I wanted to smell some coffee at the famous place. I am aware that the place is considered a den of people who subscribe to a certain ideology. I think these people live in their own bubble. We were a team of over 50 people, most of them in Narendra Modi T-shirts. Not all of us got places to sit. But our supporters were disciplined. There was no politics inside Coffee House. We did not raise slogans. Our people just had some food and refreshments. Personally, I quite liked the coffee. On our way out, our men spotted some posters along the stairs of the building. They had “No Vote to BJP” written over them. Some of our men had markers that they used to black out the “No” part of the posters. But the posters were not torn. Some people at Coffee House raised slogans against us. Our supporters raised counter-slogans. We did not heckle anybody. If we did, what is stopping police from slapping a case on us? Coffee House does not belong to any particular group. These people who believe in failed ideologies imported from China and Russia are inconsequential. I have faced a lot of trolling and abuse since I posted on social media pictures of our supporters inside Coffee House. In some of the posts, people are calling us monkeys and making fun of Hindu gods. The BJP is going to get 200 seats in Bengal. I have been camping here for over one-and-a-half months and the public support for Modiji is phenomenal. Kushal Pandey BJP’s youth wing leader Our boys are a little hot-headed (amader chheleder ektu matha garam). When some of them saw the (No vote to BJP) posters, they got somewhat agitated. But we did not indulge in any violence. We just covered the “No” in black ink. The name of the place is Indian Coffee House, not Communist coffee house or coffee house of some other groups. Every Indian has the right to enter the place. But the place has an image of being a Leftist bastion. We wanted to change that. Some people called us out for wearing Narendra Modi T-shirts. Is it a crime to flaunt the image of our Prime Minister, who is respected all over India and outside? On our way back, we did not start raising slogans. The slogans came from the other side. We just responded to show ournationalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid challenge for schools for special kids||The challenge for schools and organisations for children with special needs is maintaining the Covid-19 safety protocols like distancing, wearing masks and following the basic hygiene, the heads of several schools said. At least two organisations said that since many of the individuals belonged to a “high support” group, it was difficult to maintain distance even if they dealt with small groups of eight to 10. For children with special needs, there is a greater tendency to touch or have body contact or at times even put things in the mouth. For some travelling in public transport is a challenge because it might put them more at risk, another teacher said. Many find it difficult to wear masks for long durations and they tend to take off the mask every now and then. “Many of our children do not want to wear a mask and those who are in the high support group do not have the sense of maintaining distance,” said Anamika Sinha, the director of Manovikas Kendra. Sinha said for individuals whose cognitive functioning is low, it is difficult to understand the consequences of not following norms. “It will be difficult for people with developmental challenges to maintain distance. Though there will be some who will be washing hands, the true understanding of hygiene is difficult for many of them,” said Indrani Basu, founder, Autism Society West Bengal. Institutions are worried over reopening amid a fresh rise in Covid cases in Bengal. “It will be difficult for special schools to open totally under these conditions,” said Basu. A section of parents is still scared to send their children to schools because of the pandemic. But others, including single parents and those who have to go out to work and have no support at home, want the centres to reopen. A single parent, the mother of a 14-year-old boy with autism, had to “drag the child” with her everywhere after the grandmother passed away because there was no place to keep him. Some of the centres are awaiting a nod from the department of women and child development and social welfare to reopen. “During online classes, we are constantly telling the children about the safety protocols and the importance of wearing masks. But it is not easy for them to follow it. We will have to use strategies for making them wear it and for effective imple-mentation when we reopen,” said Sonali Nandi, the chief operating officer and director of technical services, Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy. Nandi said they were preparing the SOPs that have to be followed once children are back on campus. The class size in many of these centres are small but it will have to be further split to ensure distancing. “If we had 15 children initially, we would have to break the class further and have six or seven,” said Nandi. In some schools wearing masks has been made part of the daily activities and they are being trained to wear masks for some time and then keep them aside for a while.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur students' senate flag reopen preparation level ||The students' senate of IIT Kharagpur has alleged that “the current known preparation level to reopen the campus absolutely falls short of the claim made by the administration to call back all the students on time”. The senate, which represents students on the campus, met online late on Monday and demanded that the administration urgently hold an open-house forum with the students “to answer the questions put forward by the students as it is their natural right to do so”. The undergraduate and postgraduate students of the institute boycotted online classes on Monday to protest, what they called, the lack of planning by the administration in reopening the institute and calling students back to the campus. The continuance of online classes over the past year has made the students jittery. A teacher said students in the third and fourth year were worried as they had missed out on lab classes, which cannot be held online. “Minus lab work, the engineering education remains incomplete,” said a professor. A fourth-year BTech student said: “Earlier, some of the final-year students, whose labs were pending from last semester, were supposed to be called back to campus by April 18. But there is no preparation afoot to call back the 3,000-odd undergraduate students. They are playing with our future.” That the IIT authorities will not be able to meet the April deadline became clear from a Facebook post of director V.K. Tewari on Monday: “Recently the matter was discussed with the student senate….By May-June, we are hoping to call back the final year undergraduate and postgraduate students so that they would be able to complete their lab classes.” A BTech student said what was more worrying was utter lack of response from the administration despite repeated queries from the students. The senate resolution — signed by Shivam Singh, the chairman of the students’ senate — reads: “...the administration simply chose to ignore the mails despite repeated follow-ups. However, after repeated queries the director agreed to meet with the senate... The meeting naturally raised questions as to the current preparation level to reopen the campus and further mails to elicit response to queries and to put forward proposals were again met with no response”. A copy of the resolution has been mailed to the director. The meeting with him was held a few months back. Repeated calls to the director went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. The senate has flagged this attitude of not hearing out students and lack of accountability on the part of administration. “By sealing all communication channels with the students’ senate, which is the official representative body of IIT Kharagpur student community, the IIT Kharagpur is denying accountability to IIT Kharagpur students fraternity,” the resolution reads. “We demand that the administration urgently holds an open house forum with the students….and answer the questions posed by the students as it is their natural right to do so.” The state joint entrance examination board has revised the dates for Presidency University’s undergraduate admission tests as the schedule was clashing with the NEET. According to the revised schedule, Presidency’s undergraduate entrance test will be held on August 7 and 8, instead of July 31 and August 1, as was announced earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 562 pts, Nifty cracks below 14,800||Dropping for the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 562.34 points on Wednesday following losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets ahead of the US Federal Reserve's policy outcome. After a volatile session, the 30-share BSE index tanked 562.34 points or 1.12 per cent to close at 49,801.62. The broader NSE Nifty slumped 189.15 points or 1.27 per cent to 14,721.30. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, declining around 5 per cent, followed by NTPC, Sun Pharma, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, ITC, Infosys, TCS and HDFC were among the gainers. Domestic equities dropped for the fourth consecutive day as concerns pertaining to recent rise in COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country and high inflation continued to weigh on investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Additionally, he noted that weak cues from global markets ahead of the US Federal Reserve meeting outcome caused selling in domestic equities. The two-day meet started on Tuesday. All key sectoral indices witnessed selling pressure with PSU banks, metals and auto indices witnessing steep correction. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Hong Kong was in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.89 per cent lower at USD 67.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on cautious note ahead of Fed policy outcome||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a cautious note on Wednesday, tracking tepid global cues ahead of the US Federal Reserve's policy outcome. After starting flat, the 30-share BSE index gained momentum and was trading 128.84 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 50,492.80, and the broader NSE Nifty was up 30.50 points or 0.20 per cent at 14,940.95. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, TCS and M&M. On the other hand, Asian Paints, ONGC, NTPC and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 31.12 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 50,363.96, and Nifty slipped 19.05 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,910.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Tuesday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,692.31 crore, as per exchange data. Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities said domestic equities look to be flat to marginally good at the moment. Clearly, mounting concerns with regards to higher inflation, bond yields and a recent spike in new Covid-19 cases in select states have weighed on investors' sentiments. Outcome of the Fed policy meeting will equally be important for domestic markets in the near term as this can potentially influence FPIs flows into equities and INR. However, India continues to remain as the most preferred destination for investors on better growth prospects, he said. US equities finished marginally lower ahead of the FOMC meeting outcome. The two-day Fed meet kick-started on Tuesday. Given a faster rollout of vaccination process with over 32 per cent of the US population vaccinated at-least first dose so far and clearance of a mega USD 1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus, a faster recovery in economic growth looks to be imminent. Hence, Fed's earlier stance of not tweaking rates till 2023 might be changed, Modi said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent lower at USD 68.23 per barrel. Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a cautious note on Wednesday, tracking tepid global cues ahead of the US Federal Reserve's policy outcome. After starting flat, the 30-share BSE index gained momentum and was trading 128.84 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 50,492.80, and the broader NSE Nifty was up 30.50 points or 0.20 per cent at 14,940.95. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, TCS and M&M. On the other hand, Asian Paints, ONGC, NTPC and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 31.12 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 50,363.96, and Nifty slipped 19.05 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,910.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Tuesday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,692.31 crore, as per exchange data. Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities said domestic equities look to be flat to marginally good at the moment. Clearly, mounting concerns with regards to higher inflation, bond yields and a recent spike in new Covid-19 cases in select states have weighed on investors' sentiments. Outcome of the Fed policy meeting will equally be important for domestic markets in the near term as this can potentially influence FPIs flows into equities and INR. However, India continues to remain as the most preferred destination for investors on better growth prospects, he said. US equities finished marginally lower ahead of the FOMC meeting outcome. The two-day Fed meet kick-started on Tuesday. Given a faster rollout of vaccination process with over 32 per cent of the US population vaccinated at-least first dose so far and clearance of a mega USD 1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus, a faster recovery in economic growth looks to be imminent. Hence, Fed's earlier stance of not tweaking rates till 2023 might be changed, Modi said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent lower at USD 68.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries raises Rs 2,060 crore by issuing bonds||Kesoram Industries has raised Rs 2,060 crore by issuing bonds to institutions such as Goldman Sachs and Edelweiss, offering as much as 20.75 per cent interest in order to repay the debts of a clutch of 11 Indian banks and infuse much needed working capital for the optimum operation of the cement business. The funds flowed into the company through two separate instruments — a Rs 1603.50-crore of non-convertible debentures carrying a tenure of a little under five years and Rs 459.9 crore in the form of optionally convertible debentures with a tenure of 17 months. The company says efforts will be made to repay the bonds, especially the non-convertible debentures (NCD), ahead of the maturity through a mix of equity and fresh debt. “This is certainly an interim arrangement. We do not foresee paying this interest for the entire period. The NCDs are being issued to provide an exit to the Indian banks and infuse liquidity to the business,” P. Radhakrishnan, whole-time director and CEO of Kesoram Industries, explained. The company — the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla group — has cement production capacities of 7.25 million tonnes in South India, apart from a rayon and transparent paper plant in Bengal. It was unable to run the business to full capacity because of lack of liquidity. Kesoram also defaulted in loan payment obligations because of a cash crunch. Costly option Corporate sources said the banks could not come to unison on how to restructure the debt, forcing the company to go for the  option to completely pay them off by raising capital via the bond market even though it came at exorbitant rates. According to the one time settlement formula, banks are getting 80 per cent of their outstanding in cash and the rest, amounting to about Rs 600 crore, through a mix of equity and zero per cent optionally convertible redeemable preference shares. “Once the business starts performing and generates sufficient cash, the company will look to raise equity, which may come from the promoters as well as outsiders,” said a source aware of the development. Kesoram then plans to tap the banks again to raise fresh debt, which may be available in the range of 10 per cent, to pay off the NCD holders. Next step In effect, the company is paying off Indian banks with high-cost NCD money, hoping to stabilise the business and run it profitably. Once it is achieved with liquidity infusion, it plans to tap the Indian banks again to raise fresh debt at a cheaper rate to pay off debenture holders. The exercise is the latest attempt by the Manjushree Khaitan-led management to run Kesoram in a sustainable manner. In the past, the company hived off the loss making tyre business to a separate entity to reduce debt burden. Prior to that, it sold out a tyre unit in Haridwar to pare debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Nokia planning to cut up to 10,000 jobs||Wireless network maker Nokia says it is planning to cut up to 10,000 jobs, or over 10 per cent of its staff, to reduce costs as it invests in research and development and tries to cement its role as a key supplier of 5G technology. The restructuring means the number of staff is expected to fall to 80,000-85,000 employees over a period of up to two years, Nokia said on Tuesday. It should reduce costs by $715 million by 2023. The Finnish company didn’t specify countries or geographical areas affected by the measure but said the cuts would be carried out across its main four business units. “Decisions that may have a potential impact on our employees are never taken lightly,” Nokia CEO Pekka Lundmark said in a statement. “Ensuring we have the right setup and capabilities is a necessary step to deliver sustainable long-term performance.” The company based in Espoo, Finland, said the expected savings would “offset increased investments in R&D, future capabilities and costs related to salary inflation.” Apart from increasing investments in 5G — the new generation of broadband technology where Nokia competes with China’s Huawei and Sweden’s Ericsson and lately also with South Korea’s Samsung — Nokia said it would also invest in cloud and digital infrastructure. Lundmark, a former executive with the company in the 1990s, took over Nokia’s top spot in August, and has said he aims to make Nokia the leader in 5G, even at the expense of the company’s profitability in the short-term. In a period of six months he has revamped the company’s strategy and organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||BPCL selloff in 6 months||The government, which is set to fully exit Tata Communications, is optimistic about some of its other proposed divestments such as BPCL and Air India. This was indicated by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey in an interview to a TV channel. He said while the BPCL stake sale will be completed in the second quarter of the next fiscal, the selloff in Air India will be done in the first quarter. Meanwhile, the government’s share sale of 16.12 per cent in Tata Communications, previously known as VSNL, was subscribed 2.19 times by institutional investors, Pandey said on Tuesday. The clearing price was greater than the floor price. The issue will open for retail investors on Wednesday. The Union government had set a floor price of Rs 1,161 per share. Here, he pointed out that based on the price discovery, the Centre will be selling the rest of the stake to the Tata group. On Tuesday, Anurag Thakur, minister of state for finance, said Dipam is also processing the sale of non-core assets of two strategic sale-bound PSUs — BEML and Bridge & Roof Ltd. “The government has so far given an in-principle approval for strategic divestment of 35 CPSEs and subsidiaries/units/joint ventures of central public sector enterprises out of which eight have been completed,’’ he said in a reply to a question. BPCL completes Bengal projects Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd announced completion of two projects worth Rs 270 crore in Bengal. The company, which has a combined 38 per cent market share of petrol and diesel in Calcutta, modernised Budge Budge oil terminal with an investment of Rs 170 crore. Built at the turn of 20th century, the terminal is capable of meeting entire requirement of the city and adjoining districts, after doubling capacity. Moreover, BPCL also built a pipeline for Rs 100 crore to connect oil jetty at Haldia port to its installation nearby, ensuring smooth function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Vedanta Resources Plc raises open offer price for buying shares in its flagship Indian firm ||Anil Agarwal-led Vedanta Resources Plc on Tuesday raised the open offer price for buying shares in its flagship Indian firm to Rs 235 per share, nearly 4 per cent higher than the current trading price. In January, Vedanta Resources had offered to buy up to 10 per cent in Vedanta Ltd at Rs 160 apiece. Meanwhile, Vedanta Resources Finance II plc, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Vedanta Resources Ltd VRL), has issued bonds worth $ 1.2 billion which will become due in March 2025. Last month, Vedanta Resources while announcing the pricing of the bonds has said that they will be guaranteed by the company and its wholly owned indirect subsidiaries — Twin Star Holdings Ltd and Welter Trading Ltd. The company had disclosed that proceeds of the bonds will be used for the acquisition of equity shares of its Indian subsidiary, if decided and in accordance with applicable laws. The rest of the proceeds, if any, will be used primarily to service existing debt of the guarantors. The bonds which were offered were sold in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers (QIBs). In a regulatory filing on Tuesday, Vedanta Ltd, the Indian arm, said that Citicorp is acting as a trustee for the holders of the bonds, As per the terms and conditions of the bonds, the promoter group entities are not permitted to create any encumbrance over any assets directly held by them unless certain conditions are fulfilled. Further, Vedanta Resources and its subsidiaries are required to retain control over Vedanta Ltd or, directly or indirectly, own more than 50 per cent of the equity of the latter for so long as the bonds are outstanding. The fund raising comes ahead of an open offer in its India unit where it is looking to buy as many as 37.17 crore or 10 per cent, at Rs 160 per share. At that price, the total consideration of the deal would be about Rs 5,948 crore. The bond issue had received a good response with reports saying that it got $2.6 billion in offers from about 150 accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Emami Agro forays into processed foods||Emami Agrotech Ltd has ventured into the processed food category with the introduction of soya chunks, hoping to cash in on the heightened awareness about immunity and wellness. The company, arguably the second largest edible oil producer in India, is tapping the Bengal market initially as it is the biggest consumer of the rich source of vegetable protein. Soya chunks is estimated to be a Rs 1,000-crore market in the organised sector and Bengal accounts for 35 per cent of it. “We hope to corner a 10-15 share of the Bengal market over the next two years,” Sudhakar Desai, CEO of Emami Agrotech, said. Ruchi is the market leader in soya chunks at present. Emami said the chunks are being fortified with three immunity building nutrients, apart from zinc, to address consumer demand on wellness. The company earns a revenue of Rs 12,500 crore from edible oils and about Rs 500 crore from other businesses such as spices, vanaspati and baking fats and bio fuels. It plans to diversify into more processed food products going forward. “There are many products under research and development. It will be premature to say what we would bring to the market and when,” Desai explained. Founded by the promoters of FMCG major Emami Ltd, the company started operations a decade back with edible oils. It now has a 9,000- tonnes-per-day capacity, with two refineries in Haldia and Krishnapatnam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||Business||Finance minister says not all state-owned banks will be privatised||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said “not all state owned banks” would be privatised and the interest of employees would be protected even after privatisation as the two-day bank strike came to an end. “We have announced a Public Enterprise Policy, where we have identified 4 areas where public sector presence will be there, in this, financial sector too is there. Not all banks are going to be privatised,” Sitharaman told reporters after the meeting of the Union.cabinet. She said the banks that are privatised would continue to operate, while the interests of workers after privatisation would also be protected "Whether their salaries or scale or pension, all will be taken care of," the finance minister said. The public sector enterprise policy “very clearly” states that the Centre will continue to operate public sector banks. “So, just to quickly say that all public banks will be sold off, is not right," she said. Sitharaman's comments came on the second day of the two-day bank strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions that is protesting against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned banks. Around 10 lakh bank employees reportedly participated in the strike, affecting banking services. The minister said that the banks are being privatised because the government wants to make financial institutions better equipped and more sustainable. She gave the example of State Bank of India and added that the focus is on amalgamating banks that are big enough to meet the aspirations of the country. The 51% rule Bank unions are concerned about the Modi government's ability to introduce a legislation and directly make amendments to section 3 part 2B(C) of The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970. This section says that public sector banks may after consultation with the RBI and with previous sanction of the central government raise equity provided the central government shall at all times hold not less than 51 per cent of the paid-up capital. According to the unions, a money bill introduced in the Lok Sabha can bring in the requisite changes. As an example, the Finance Bill 2021, brought about amendments to the Life Insurance Corporation Act,1956, the unions said. With inputs from Calcutta Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||Business||Adani Ports to start work on Colombo terminal||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) will partner John Keells Holdings plc and Sri Lankan Port Authority to develop the west container terminal (WCT) at the Colombo port in Sri Lanka. As the first-ever Indian port operator in Sri Lanka, Adani Ports will hold a 51 per cent stake in the terminal partnership. WCT will be developed to reach a capacity of 3.5 million TEUs (Twenty-Foot Equivalent Units). The Colombo port is one of the most preferred regional hubs for the transhipment of Indian containers  with 45 per cent of Colombo’s transhipment volumes originating from or destined to an APSEZ terminal in India, APSEZ said. The company added that it had received a letter of intent from the ministry of ports and shipping of Sri Lanka and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority after an approval from the Sri Lankan cabinet of ministers for the development and operations of WCT in Colombo. “The WCT will be developed on a build, operate and transfer basis for a period of 35 years as a public-private partnership. WCT will have a quay length of 1,400 meters and alongside depth of 20 meters, thereby making it a prime transhipment cargo destination to handle ultra-large container carriers,” APSEZ said. The project is expected to boost WCT’s container handling capacity and also consolidate Sri Lanka’s locational advantage as one of the world's top strategic nodes along the busiest transhipment route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||Business||Asset reconstruction company to be formed by end of month||The proposed bad bank — the asset reconstruction company (ARC) proposed in the budget — will reportedly be formed by the end of this month. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced in the budget last month the creation of the ARC to take over the  non-performing assets (NPAs) of domestic banks. Stress tests by the Reserve Bank of India have indicated the perils of bad loans of banks. The tests in January forecast gross NPAs by public sector banks to rise to 16.2 per cent in September 2021 from 9.7 per cent in September 2020. Bad loans in private sector banks could inch up to 7.9 per cent in September 2021 from 4.6 per cent a year ago. The NPA of  foreign banks are forecast to rise to 5.4 per cent from 2.5 per cent, taking the system-wide bad loans to 13.5 per cent. Since the announcement, there have been questions about the ownership or control of the ARC. A CNBC TV-18 report on Tuesday said the national ARC may be formed in the next two weeks. The government has given its approval to provide sovereign guarantee to the security receipts that will be issued by the ARC. However, the transfer of bad loans will not happen immediately. The report, citing sources, said close to Rs 2 lakh crore of NPAs will be transferred to the ARC and this will be done in multiple tranches. According to a recent note from Bank of America Securities India, the proposed bank should be owned by the government as state-funding is more capital efficient, while it speeds up the implementation process. Bank of America Securities has estimated  the net non-performing loans of banks at 2.8 per cent or Rs 2,89,500 crore, which is 1.3 per cent of the gross domestic product as of March last year. It said the bad bank offers  an opportunity to  improve asset quality when real lending rates are falling. The key question is who will fund it. If state-run banks or financial institutions fund it, the ARC will largely take over their bad loans. In this scenario, banks would transfer their non-performing assets  against security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||Business||Govt approves setting up of a Development Finance Institution||The government on Tuesday has approved the setting up of a Development Finance Institution (DFI) with an initial paid-up capital of Rs 20,000 crore enabling the entity to leverage the capital and raise as much as Rs 3 lakh crore to fund infrastructure projects. The proposed legislation — the DFI was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget — will be introduced in the current session of Parliament. “The Cabinet has cleared this bill, through which we will have an institution and institutional arrangement, which will help in increasing long-term funds,” Sitharaman told reporters after the meeting of the Union cabinet. “Through this, we expect to raise a considerable amount from the market,”she said. The government expects marquee pension funds and sovereign funds to invest using the DFI route. The new entity will get tax benefits over a 10-year period. The Indian Stamp Act will also be amended for the benefit of the financial institution. The government also plans to give the institution certain assurances which will reduce the cost of funds, the finance minister said. Dibyanshu, partner at Khaitan & Company, said the tax benefits and stamp duty concessions for 10 years to the development FI should solicit interest from pension funds and sovereign wealth funds which are the key players in infrastructure. The finance minister said the initial grant to the DFI will be Rs 5,000 crore and additional increments will be made with the upper limit of Rs 5,000 crore. On speculation that infrastructure finance body IIFCL would be merged with proposed DFI, financial services secretary Debasish Panda said the new institution will start on a “clean slate”. Once the institution is set up, its board will decide about acquisition or merger of other companies, he said. “This is a very important initiative for bolstering the financing needs of the infrastructure sector. Relieving the banks of the asset-liability mismatch inherent in bank lending to infra, this institution should be enabled to provide long term capital to the sector,” Soumitra Majumdar, partner, J. Sagar Associates said “On the liability side, it should be permitted to access all forms of long-term capital, domestically as well as internationally. The bank needs to be manned by finance and sector experts, for effective monitoring of the projects,” Majumdar said. Sitharaman said initially the new institution would be government-owned, with its stake being cut gradually to 26 per cent. The DFI will have a professional board. It will have 50 per cent non-official directors and would be empowered to appoint and remove wholetime directors. Market-driven emoluments would be given to managing directors and deputy managing directors of to attract "best" of talents, Sitharaman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||India||Maharashtra’s one-day Covid-19 count crosses 23,000-mark ||Maharashtra reported as many as 23,179 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, which is the highest single-day infection count so far in 2021, a health official said. This is the sixth highest one-day spike of infection cases in the state since the pandemic began last year. With these new cases, Maharashtra's overall infection count rose to 23,70,507, the official said. The state had reported its first COVID-19 case in March last year. The daily number of cases had started rising gradually and in September last year, more than one lakh cases were added in Maharashtra within a span of merely a week. On September 11 last year, the state had reported 24,886 cases, while on September 17, a total of 24,619 cases were added. The third, fourth and fifth highest figures were reported on September 9 (23,816), September 6 (23,350) and September 10 (23,446). The number of new single-day cases started gradually going down by the end of last year, although the count started witnessing an upward trend once against from mid-February this year. With 84 deaths reported on Wednesday, the state's fatality count jumped to 53,080, the official said. As many as 9,138 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the recovery count to 21,63,391. There are 1,52,760 active cases in the state at present. Nagpur city reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases during the day with 2,698, followed by 2,612 in Pune and 2,377 in Mumbai city. Pune division, which comprises civic bodies of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, as well as districts including Pune, Solapur and Satara, reported 5,268 cases during the day, which is the highest for the day across all the divisions in the state. Mumbai's COVID-19 tally increased to 3,49,974 and eight deaths took the fatality count to 11,551. Mumbai division reported 4,811 new cases and 21 deaths, which pushed its overall caseload to 7,71,389 and death toll to 19,995. Nashik division has so far reported at 3,27,190 cases and 5,399 deaths, Pune division 5,71,786 cases and 11,887 deaths, Kolhapur division 1,21,608 cases and 4,092 deaths, Aurangabad division 95,053 cases and 2,127 deaths, Latur division 94,462 cases and 2,576 deaths, Akola division 1,23,095 cases and 1,941 deaths, Nagpur division 2,64,778 cases and 4,971 deaths. With 1,19,973 COVID-19 tests carried out on Wednesday, the overall test count rose to 1,78,35,495. There are 6,71,620 people in home quarantine while 6,738 are in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 23,70,507, new cases: 23,179, death toll: 53,080, discharged: 21,63,391, active cases: 1,52,760, people tested so far: 1,78,35,495.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||Mumbai Police Commissioner transferred amid Ambani bomb scare row||Under flak for 'mishandling' of the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambanis house in Mumbai, Maharashtra Government on Wednesday transferred city Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh to the low-key Home Guard. Senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, holding additional charge of the state Director General of Police (DGP) post, will be the new Mumbai Police Commissioner, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. Singh's transfer came even as the case of recovery of gelatin sticks near Ambani's residence turned murkier with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) claiming there were "other players" who had been allegedly instructing arrested policeman Sachin Waze. NIA sources said the case had virtually been cracked and soon the "entire conspiracy" behind it would be unravelled. "Big decision of the government. Shri Hemant Nagrale will be the new Mumbai Police Commissioner. Shri Rajnish Seth will have the additional charge of the post of Director General of Police, Maharashtra," tweeted Deshmukh, who met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier in the day. "Shri Sanjay Pandey will have the responsibility of Maharashtra State Security Corporation. Shri Param Bir Singh will have the responsibility of the Home Guard, he added. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government's move follows a series of meetings among the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance leaders. Waze is at the focus of NIA's probe in the recovery of an SUV with explosives near Ambani's house. Arrested in the case on March 13 for his alleged role in the crime, Waze was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) till recently. He was suspended after NIA arrested him. Singh's transfer follows Monday's talks between Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar, amid reports that Waze stage-managed the bomb scare on instructions from Singh. The NIA team recovered some "incriminating" documents and electronic evidence such as laptop, iPad and mobile phones from Waze's office, an official of the agency said on Tuesday. A black Mercedes car, being used by Waze, was also seized from a parking lot near the CSMT station, and Rs 5 lakh in cash, a note-counting machine, two number plates and some clothes were recovered from it, the official added. The NIA questioned Mumbai crime branch officer Riyazuddin Kazi for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday in connection with its probe into a case related to the recovery of the SUV with explosives. Another assistant police inspector (API) of the crime branch, Prakash Howal, also appeared before the agency here in the afternoon. Kazi had allegedly procured the fake number plates found in the SUV, an official claimed. NIA sources said a letter from the terror outfit Jaish-Ul-Hind, posted on Telegram app, demanding ransom and claiming responsibility for the incident will also be investigated. The Delhi Police's special cell has already taken into custody Tehseen Akhtar, an associate of the Indian Mujahideen who is an expert on fabricating improvised explosive devices. The officials said some evidence has been collected after questioning Akhtar and seizing the mobile instrument used to post the threat letter on Telegram app, and Waze will soon be confronted with these. Meanwhile, the former owner of the Mercedes car which was allegedly used by Waze and seized by the NIA, said he will "fully cooperate" with the probe agency if it approaches him for any information related to the vehicle. Saransh Bhawsar, a resident of Dhule district, told a TV channel that he had sold his vehicle last month through an online portal and claimed he did not know the person who purchased it. Bhawsar said he does not know Waze and heard his name for the first time on Tuesday. Bhawsar said though he does not own the car now, he got phone calls from people who know him after the vehicle was seized by the NIA. Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil said the NIA should complete its probe into the recovery of the explosive-laden SUV then announce the conclusion, instead of disclosing the investigation details in-between. Talking to reporters after a meeting of key state ministers at the Sahyadri Guest House here, the names of those involved are coming to the fore slowly. State textiles minister Aslam Shaikh said action will be taken against "anyone who has committed a mistake" and the state government will not back anybody in such a case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||Made-in-India vaccines given to 72 nations, says Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that India's reputation as "pharmacy of the world" stands reinforced the way it reached out to nations in the midst of a global crisis and supplied vaccines to 72 nations. Making a statement on "Vaccine Maitri" initative, he said the supply of 'Made-in-India' vaccine to 72 nations after the world was reeling under COVID-19 pandemic prompted global leaders and world citizens extend warmth to India and its citizens. Even as the COVID pandemic was in full fury, there were already global demands of India's pharmaceutical and medical capabilities which could be met largely due to the extraordinary ramp up of India's COVID-related capabilities, Jaishankar said. Talking about low fatality rates and the high recovery rates, he said: "Our reputation as the 'pharmacy of the world' has been reinforced. So indeed has the faith in 'Make in India'. But more than the vaccines, our policies and conduct have emerged as a source of strength for the stressed and vulnerable nations of the world. They can see that there is at least one major nation that truly believes in making vaccines accessible and affordable to others in dire need." He said Vaccine Maitri began in the immediate neighbourhood, starting with the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, as also Mauritius and Seychelles and thereafter to the Gulf. "Supplying smaller and more vulnerable nations was then the logic of reaching out to regions from Africa to the CARICOM. There was also contracts that our producers have entered into with other nations, either bilaterally or through the Covax initiative. To date, we have supplied 'Made in India' vaccines to 72 nations across geographies," the minister said. He said the House should recognise the enormous feeling for India that its initiative has generated. Jaishankar said there was an external beneficial impact of India's capabilities and it could meet the spiking requirements of hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other relevant drugs across the world and added that India's domestic vaccination programme started in January and within a few days, it also started assisting our immediate neighbours. "In fact, we supplied 150 nations with medicines, 82 of them as grants by India. As our own production of masks, PPEs and diagnostic kits grew, we made them available to other nationsl. This generous approach... was also extended to the Vande Bharat Mission. Starting from Wuhan, we brought back nationals of other countries while looking after our own," he said. He said as Indians, "we are all naturally internationalist by virtue of our culture, traditions, heritage and history" and PM Modi's vision has provided an over-arching framework to make India's goodwill meaningful in terms of practical initiatives and activities that reflected in its humanitarian assistance and disaster responses, whether in Yemen, Nepal, Mozambique or Fiji. "In the last few years, India has developed a reputation of being the first and reliable responder in the region," the minister said. "When it came to Africa, we raised the level of our cooperation very substantially ... Our projects, training and presence has today spread widely across that continent. From the Caribbean to the Pacific Islands, the message has been clear that the Prime Minister of India not only has the willingness to engage them personally, but to back that up with concrete development programmes. It is this outlook of human-centric global cooperation that is the driving force of Vaccine Maitri," he said. Jaishankar said the prime minister in his virtual address to the UN General Assembly in September 2020 had declared that India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis. "We also offered to enhance cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines. This approach is not only in keeping with our age-old tradition of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam.... As a prominent nation in an increasingly multi-polar world, the international community has greater expectations of us, and we, in turn, are prepared to demonstrate our willingness to shoulder greater responsibilities," he said. He said as early as 15 March 2020, prime minister took the initiative to hold a meeting of SAARC heads of government to fashion a regional response resulting in SAARC COVID-19 Fund that supported the early exchanges on this issue. "The Ministry of External Affairs conducted 14 e-ITEC courses in partnership with premier institutions like AIIMS and PGI Chandigarh" with 1,131 professional participants in it from 47 countries. Jairam Ramesh (Cong) said he expected the government to recognise the roots of 2014 success to the previous year adding that the FERA was set up in 1973 while there were huge investments in science and technology in public institutes. He said Bharat Biotech's Covaxin was developed in an institute in Hyderabad set up 16 years ago by public funds. Binoy Viswam of CPI said: "We did not become pharmacy of India recently question about vaccine reach to the poor. Anand Sharma (Cong) echoed "We must place the contribution of our institutes built over decades such as ICMR." To these, Jaishankar replied: "You will recall the saying, success has many fathers. Too many fathers claiming success today. .. All of us know the enormous efforts of government in getting vaccine prices lowered, lowest in the world" He also said that he was proud to have taken Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||Engagement process with China 'complex', govt informs Lok Sabha||India on Wednesday said its engagement with China is "complex" and the two countries agreed that the future direction of ties should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said in the Lok Sabha that India will continue discussions with China to resolve the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh to achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points. His written response came when asked whether India-China relations are being affected due to violation of negotiations made in the past by China and "unfruitful efforts" to cross the LAC again and again. Referring to the eastern Ladakh row, Muraleedharan said the Chinese side, since April/May last year, undertook several attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC in the region and India's armed forces responded to them appropriately. "It has been made clear to the Chinese side that such unilateral attempts are unacceptable. These actions have seriously disturbed the peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector," he said. The government often refers to eastern Ladakh as western sector. "India's engagement with China is complex. The two sides agree that the future direction of India China relations should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations," he said on the overall ties. "The two sides have also agreed to manage their differences and not allow differences on any issue to become disputes," Muraleedharan added. On the border row, the minister said the two sides have maintained communication through both diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement from all friction points and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. "The two sides were able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake, which has been completed. There are however still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh," he said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in line with the agreement on disengagement last month. "Government will continue discussions with the Chinese side to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas at an early date," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||PM calls for ‘quick, decisive’ steps to check emerging second wave of Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed concern over a rise in Covid-19 cases in parts of the country and called for "quick and decisive" steps to check the "emerging second peak". In a virtual interaction with state chief ministers over the pandemic situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, Modi said in states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh the number of Covid cases has seen a rise while nearly 70 districts in the country have have seen an increase in the positivity rate by over 150 per cent of late. "If we do not stop it here, then a condition for a nationwide outbreak may emerge," he said and called for quick and decisive steps to stop it. The confidence brought by India's fight against the pandemic so far should not cause carelessness, he said, and asked chief ministers to take measures, including more testing, enforcement of preventive measures as well as increase in the number of vaccination centres to curb the virus. People should not be put on panic-mode but need to ensure that they get rid of this problem as well, he said. "Test, track and treat" should be taken as seriously now as it has been for over a year since the outbreak, he added. The Prime Minister reiterated that RT-PCR tests should make up for over 70 per cent of overall Coronavirus testing, while noting that states like Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Odisha have been mostly dependent on antigen tests. Modi also spoke against wastage of vaccines and called for more vaccination centres. India has put up a strong fight against the Coronavirus so far, and it is being cited as an example in the world, he said, asserting that the country's recovery rate is over 96 per cent and fatality rate among the lowest. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel skipped Wednesday’s meeting. India on Wednesday recorded 28,903 new Covid-19 cases, the highest one-day spike so far this year, taking the Covid-19 tally to 1,14,38,734. As many as 30,254 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 13. Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a high number of daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for 71.10 per cent of the 28,903 new infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. It said 83.91 per cent of the new cases are from Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Maharashtra alone accounts for 61.8 per cent of the daily new cases with 17,864 cases. It is followed by Kerala with 1,970 while Punjab reported 1,463 new cases, the ministry said. Kerala is reporting a consistently declining trend over the last one month. According to health ministry figures, the average number of Covid cases is at an 81-day high. A central eam report on Tuesday said that Maharashtra is on the brink of experiencing a second wave of the infection, highlighting that there is very limited active effort to track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts, and there is no adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour among people in rural and urban areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||SC livid at cancellation of 3 crore ration cards||The Supreme Court on Wednesday termed the cancellation of around three crore ration cards by the Centre due to non-linking with Aadhaar card as too serious , and sought response from the Central government and all states on the issue. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said this matter should not be treated as adversarial as it is too serious a matter. The bench said the matter will be put up for final hearing. At the outset, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for petitioner Koili Devi, said the petition deals with the larger issue. "We see the problem at hand and I have dealt with this kind of matter in Bombay High Court and I think this matter should be filed before the high court concerned," the CJI said. The bench told Gonsalves that he has sought a very omnibus kind of relief and widened the scope of the matter. Gonsalves persisted with his arguments that it is an important issue as the Centre has cancelled around three crore ration cards. The bench said it will hear the matter on some other day as it is persuaded by Gonsalves that the Central government has cancelled the ration cards. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi said it is a wrong statement made by Gonsalves that the Centre has cancelled the ration cards. "We are asking you (Centre) to respond because of the Aadhaar issue. This is not an adversarial litigation. We will hear it finally. Issue notice returnable in four weeks," the bench said. Lekhi said that notice has already been issued in the matter and Centre's response is there on record. Gonsalves said notice has not been issued on the main plea but on alternative grievance redressal. "The Principal issue is cancellation of three crore ration cards and starvation death," Gonsalves said. On December 9, 2019, the top court had sought responses from all the states over allegations of starvation deaths of people who were deprived of their ration supplies for not having valid Aadhaar cards. Issue notice returnable in four weeks to the respondent States calling upon them to apprise steps they have taken for implementation of the grievances redressal mechanism contained in Sections 14, 15 and 16 of the National Food Security Act, 2013. Notice may be served on the standing counsel for the state, the bench had said. The Centre had earlier said that reports suggest that the deaths were not due to starvation. No one was denied food because of lack of a valid Aadhaar card, it had said. The PIL has been filed by Devi, whose 11-year-old daughter Santoshi of Simdega district in Jharkhand died of starvation on September 28, 2018. Santoshi's sister Gudiya Devi is the joint petitioner in the case. The petition pointed out that Santoshi, who belonged to a poor Dalit family, died as the local authorities had cancelled the ration card of her family since they failed to link it with Aadhaar. It said that subsequently, the family stopped receiving ration from March 2017 and as a result, the entire family had been starving. Even on the day Santoshi died, her mother could only serve her some tea with salt - the only thing the family had in its kitchen, the plea said, adding that Santoshi succumbed to hunger later that night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||Delhi Congress workers stage sit-in over bill giving powers to Lieutenant Governor||Delhi Congress workers led by party president Anil Kumar staged a sit-in at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on Wednesday against the Centre's bill that seeks to define certain roles and powers of the Lieutenant Governor of the national capital, demanding that the government withdraw it. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in Lok Sabha by Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy on Monday. "We are protesting against the autocracy of the Centre and the murder of democracy in Delhi through this bill," Kumar said. According to the GNCTD (Amendment) Bill, the "government" in the city would mean the "Lieutenant Governor" in context of any law made by the legislative assembly. The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the LG before any executive action, and the Assembly would lose its powers to conduct probes into administrative decisions like it is currently investigating Facebook’s alleged role in 2020’s communal riots. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led by its national convener and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will also stage a protest against the bill at Jantar Mantar later in the day. The AAP leader tweeted on Monday: “The Bill says — 1. For Delhi, ‘Govt’ will mean LG. Then what will the elected govt do? 2. All files will go to LG. This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, the elected govt will take all decisions and send a copy of decision to LG.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||BJP MP from Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma passes away||BJP MP from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma died in New Delhi on Wednesday, a spokesperson of the party said here. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said his body was found hanging from a ceiling fan. He was taken to a hospital where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival. Sixty-two-year-old Sharma had been suffering from various ailments. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide, the police said, adding that no suicide note was found from the spot. An inquiry is underway and the exact cause of his death will be ascertained after a post-mortem examination, the police said. The BJP has cancelled its Parliamentary meeting scheduled for Wednesday following his demise, reported news agency ANI. Lok Sabha was also adjourned till 1pm to pay homage to the sitting MP. Leaders of the party expressed grief over his death. Union home minister Amit Shah wrote on Twitter, “I am deeply distressed by the sudden demise of Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma, BJP MP from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. In this hour of grief, I express my condolences to his family and pray to God for the peace of the departed soul.” “Shocked to know that Shri. Ram Swaroop Sharma, MP (Mandi, HP) is no more. No words to express my grief. My prayers that his family, friends, followers have the strength and fortitude to bear this loss,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Twitter. Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi district on June 10, 1958, Sharma was a two-time MP. He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha from Mandi parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019 respectively. According to the police, a call was made to the Police Control Room (PCR) around 7.45 am by his aide after the parliamentarian did not respond to knocks on his door. A police team reached the spot and forced open the door and found Sharma hanging from a ceiling fan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||India records nearly 29,000 Covid-19 cases, highest one-day jump this year||India recorded its highest daily tally of coronavirus cases this year with 28,903 new infections, taking the total Covid-19 tally to 1,14,38,734, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,59,044 with 188 new fatalities, the highest in around two months, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering an increase for the seventh day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 2,34,406 which now comprises 2.05 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.56 per cent, the data stated. As many as 30,254 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 13. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,45,284, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.39 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,92,49,784 samples have been tested up to March 16 with 9,69,021 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 188 new fatalities include 87 from Maharashtra, 38 from Punjab, 15 from Kerala and 12 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,59,044 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,996 from Maharashtra, 12,556 from Tamil Nadu, 12,403 from Karnataka, 10,945 from Delhi, 10,297 from West Bengal, 8,750 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,185 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||High court orders judicial probe into charges of custodial torture of trade unionist||Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday ordered a judicial inquiry into allegations of illegal detention and custodial torture of young trade unionist Shiv Kumar by Haryana police in January. Kumar, 24, is the president of the Majdoor Adhikar Sanghatan and is under trial along with fellow activist Nodeep Kaur for three FIRs alleging extortion and attempt to murder during a protest against erratic wage payments at the Kundli Industrial Area in Haryana on January 12. Justice Avneesh Jhingan issued the order on a petition by Kumar’s father Rajbir, a Dalit farmer in Sonipat district. Kumar told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “I welcome the high court’s order and I hope that an impartial inquiry will give me justice.” Last month Kumar’s medical report, prepared by Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, on the high court’s orders, had recorded two fractures in his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe caused by a “blunt object”, as well as symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. Medical reports submitted by Haryana police had not revealed these signs of torture. Kumar had alleged torture by cops who were trying to get him to identify other union members involved in the protest. He had alleged that he was illegally confined by the police in Sonipat for days after being abducted from the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border. The high court said on Tuesday: “Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner submits that the comparison of the initial MLR (medico-legal report) and the subsequent MLR dated 22nd February, 2021, speaks for itself…. No comment is made on comparison of two sets of medical reports, lest it would affect any further proceedings or inquiry, it would be suffice for this court to say that a probe is required.” Justice Jhingan added: “At this stage, there is nothing before this court to doubt the investigation being carried out by the SIT (formed by the police). However, as there could be an occasion that the conclusion arrived at by the SIT and the inquiry report with regard to two sets of medical reports may cast a shadow on each other.” “Considering the facts and circumstances in entirety, let the district and sessions judge presently posted at Faridabad hold an inquiry with regard to the allegations of illegal detention and custodial torture of Shiv Kumar,” the high court added. Faridabad, like Sonipat, is another Haryana district on Delhi’s southern boundary. The probe by a judge from another district is ordered to ensure there is no conflict of interest. A status report has been called for by May 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
17-03-2021||India||House of Lords: Will Boris Johnson ask Narendra Modi about freedom?||Members of the House of Lords have taken the Narendra Modi government to task in a debate on Monday on “restrictions on freedom”. A crossbencher — meaning he does not align with any party — Lord Harries of Pentregarth asked what representations Britain had made to the government of India “about reports of that government restricting the freedoms of (1) non-governmental organisations, (2) academics, and (3) other groups”. Replying, Lord Goldsmith of Richmond Park, minister of state at the foreign, Commonwealth and development office, said foreign office minister Lord Tariq Ahmed — he has gone to India — “raised concerns about NGOs and human rights activists with the Indian high commissioner”. He went on: “In February, British high commission officials discussed university restrictions with the ministry of external affairs. On 3 March, senior FCDO officials discussed UK parliamentary interest in restrictions on civil society groups in India with the Indian high commissioner.” Harries was not satisfied and persisted: “To give just one of numerous examples, more than 24 Dalit rights activists are in jail on unproven charges, including an 80 year-old poet, Varavara Rao, and an 83 year-old Jesuit priest, Father Stan Swamy. “When the Prime Minister’s proposed visit to India is reinstated, will he draw Mr Modi’s attention to the report of Freedom House published this week, in which India has been downgraded from a democratic, free society to one which is only ‘partly free’?” Goldsmith — he is Zac Goldsmith, Jemima Khan’s younger brother and Imran Khan’s former brother-in-law — replied: “We will continue to engage India on the full range of human rights matters and raise our concerns where we have them — as we do — including at ministerial level.” Lord McConnell of Glenscorrodale, a Labour peer, was also critical: “In my view these reports of restrictions on freedom of expression and organisation in India follow directly from the decision in 2019 to end the autonomy of the people of Kashmir and impose severe restrictions there, locking up political leaders and ending freedom of expression. “Do the government agree that India cannot claim to be the world’s largest democracy if it continues to restrict freedom of expression and freedom to organise? Will the government make representations to India that, if it wants to be part of the democratic nations of the world, it must stick to these values rigidly?” Peers are invariably polite but know how to make their points calmly and forcefully. Baroness Northover, a Tory, also piled in: “The government of India are reported to consider human rights there an internal matter.… lessons from the 20th century in particular show that it is vital that the world pays attention to human rights, even within borders. If so, what representations have been and are being made to the government of India on the forced closure of Amnesty International India and the freezing of its accounts?” Goldsmith replied: “The right to peaceful protest is vital in any democracy and we encourage all states to ensure that their laws are in line with international standards. Any allegation of human rights violations is clearly very concerning and should be addressed.…Lord Ahmad… raised Amnesty International India’s case with the Indian high commissioner on 1 December and FCDO officials have raised our concerns with the Indian High Commission. Just a few weeks before, we requested in our representations that Amnesty’s accounts be unfrozen while the investigation is ongoing. We have noted the important role of NGOs in all democracies.” The Earl of Sandwich, a crossbencher, commented: “Will HMG continue to complain regularly to the Modi government about the imprisonment of journalists and the fear of persecution felt by non-Hindu minorities, Dalit activists, NGOs and all those campaigning against human rights violations?” Labour’s Lord Collins of Highbury said: “The strong relationship with India, built on trust and mutual respect, should give us the confidence to play the role of a critical friend. That means stressing the importance of a free civil society in a democracy. Can the minister say whether the Prime Minister will raise this issue not just through our connections with ministers but with Prime Minister Modi at the G7?” Goldsmith confirmed that Boris Johnson “will visit India shortly. That will be an opportunity to discuss a very wide range of bilateral and multilateral issues directly with the Indian government. Of course, where we have specific concerns, the Prime Minister will raise them directly with the government of India, as you would expect of a close friend and partner.” Modi and the external affairs ministry should be concerned that little by little the Indian government’s reputation is being sullied. Goldsmith set out British government thinking: “India — as the world’s largest and, as I say, one of the oldest democracies — and the UK have a very deep and broad relationship. Our trade and investment partnership is thriving, and we collaborate on defence and security. Together we are a force for good in the world…. We regard ourselves as friends, but as critical friends.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Congress and Aam Aadmi Party protest over new Delhi bill||The Congress and the ruling Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi have begun protests against a new bill, likely to be passed by Parliament, that they fear would make the Delhi government redundant. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, introduced by the Centre in the Lok Sabha on Monday defines the term “government” in any law passed by the Delhi Assembly as the “lieutenant governor”. The LG’s opinion will also be mandatory before any executive action by the elected government, and the Assembly would lose its powers to conduct probes into administrative decisions like it is currently investigating Facebook’s alleged role in 2020’s communal riots. The three major parties of the capital have promised statehood in their manifestos over the last three decades, and the Assembly has passed resolutions to this effect during governments run by the BJP, Congress and the AAP. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had threatened to go on a hunger strike for statehood in 2019. The Congress was first to start protests against the bill on Tuesday — on Jantar Mantar Road. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Kumar said: “It is shocking that the Arvind government kept quiet for over a month after the Union cabinet had given its approval for the introduction of the bill in Parliament on February 3; nor did the Aam Aadmi Party MPs in both Houses of Parliament speak against it.… The Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi has been handed out poetic justice for supporting the Modi government when the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir was snatched away and it was bifurcated into two Union Territories.” After Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood was nullified, Kejriwal — whose Lok Sabha campaign on the Delhi statehood plank failed — had tweeted: “Article 370 scrapped: “We support the govt on its decisions on J&K. We hope this will bring peace and development in the state.” The AAP leader tweeted on Monday: “The Bill says — 1. For Delhi, ‘Govt’ will mean LG. Then what will elected govt do? 2. All files will go to LG. This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to LG.” Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah responded on Twitter: “In spite of AAP’s support for the dismemberment & downgrading of J&K in 2019, we still condemn this assault on the powers of the elected government of Delhi. Delhi deserves to be a full state with all powers exercised by the elected government & not a nominated LG.” AAP MPs protested on the lawns of Parliament House on Tuesday and all MLAs have been called to protest on Jantar Mantar Road — the nearest permissible protest site. Now, the Centre controls the police, public order and land in Delhi. The Supreme Court had ruled in 2018, after a long legal battle, that beyond these subjects, the LG’s prior concurrence to decisions was not required. The president of the BJP’s Delhi unit, Adesh Gupta, said on Monday: “The honourable court, while deciding a dispute between the Delhi government and the Centre in February 2019, had observed that it will be better if the GNCT Delhi Act clarifies the division of administrative work and powers between the two governments. “Today the Centre has abided by the honourable court’s directive…. The situation to bring this bill came because between 2015 and 2019 the Arvind Kejriwal government constantly tried to encroach upon the administrative work area and powers of the LG and finally the February 2019 directive of the honourable Supreme Court left no option with the Centre but to bring the present amendment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Double mutation variant fuels fears||Government researchers have found a coronavirus variant with two worrisome mutations in samples from Maharashtra and started epidemiological detective fieldwork to determine whether it has played any role in the Covid-19 resurgence there or in other states. A 10-lab research consortium has alerted the Union health ministry that a variant with the mutations designated E484Q and L452R makes up about 20 per cent of over 200 coronavirus genomes sequenced from some of Maharashtra’s hardest-hit districts. E484Q is what scientists call an escape mutation that allows the virus to evade some human immune responses. L452R has been shown by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, to increase infectivity of the virus. Senior scientists with the consortium have asserted that there is no evidence yet to attribute the surge in Maharashtra to the variant but the double mutation among the sequences has amplified suspicions that a more infectious variant capable of evading immune responses might be at play. Epidemiologists at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) — the nodal centre for the Indian SARS-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium — and scientists in partner labs are looking for connections, if any, between the double mutation and infection patterns in Maharashtra or other states. “We’re searching for answers,” a consortium scientist told The Telegraph. “Are fractions of cases with the double mutation increasing over time? Is the double mutation appearing in clusters of cases? Is it associated with rapid infection spread? Is it causing reinfections in previously infected people?” Health authorities have so far attributed Maharashtra’s more than four-fold increase in average daily new cases over the past month — 3,051 on February 15 to 15,051 on March 15 — to laxity in wearing masks and avoiding crowds and poor efforts to test and isolate cases and quarantine contacts. Maharashtra’s second wave alongside rising counts in Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab have more than doubled India’s daily new cases from around 11,200 in mid-February to over 23,000 on Tuesday, raising fears of a second nationwide wave. Health experts say whether variants have played a role in the surge or not, it is critical to control the human factors driving the growth. “The solutions remain the same — wearing masks, avoiding crowds, aggressive testing, contact tracing and other containment measures,” one state adviser said. The L452 mutation has been implicated in multiple outbreaks in California where, the consortium’s scientists said, its frequency among sequenced genomes had increased from 0 per cent in September 2020 to over 50 per cent in January 2021. “I think the signals from California and the surge in Maharashtra are enough indications to consider the variant with the double mutation as a likely variant of concern that must be investigated deeper,” said a senior scientist. The NCDC which maintains a nationwide disease surveillance network and the National Centre for Cell Science, Pune, procured samples collected in districts from Maharashtra over the past two months and sequenced the genomes, collaborating with researchers at the CSIR Institute for Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi. Senior epidemiologists have suggested that there is an urgent need to determine who is getting infected in the worst-affected districts. One option would be to simultaneously perform a blood test looking for antibodies while taking throat swabs to diagnose the infection, an epidemiologist said. “In a large sample, if we find infections without antibodies, we’ll know the virus is spreading only among susceptible people. But if we find the virus in some people with antibodies, we’ll know people previously infected are turning up positive,” the expert said. “We need such studies immediately.” While E484Q had turned up in 11 countries and L452R had been detected in 20 countries by mid-February, scientists say this is likely the first time the two have been documented as a double mutation in a variant. The Centre had in December — amid signals of potentially troubling variants emerging in the UK and South Africa — announced that the consortium would sequence coronavirus genomes from 5 per cent of positive samples across the country. The consortium has bolstered sequencing efforts. The NCDC and nine partner labs have collectively sequenced over 7,000 genomes since mid-January, nearly as many as different scientific groups across the country had sequenced from April to December. All viruses, including SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19, acquire genetic mutations over time, most of them random changes that do not benefit the virus in any way. Some mutations, however, might make the virus more infectious or evade immune responses. Over the past six months, variants of concern — either more infectious or capable of evading antibodies — have emerged in the UK, South Africa and Brazil, among other countries. “Even if the E484Q-L452R double mutation variant turns out to be a variant of concern, the numbers for now suggest that 80 per cent sequences sampled are other variants — and public health response doesn’t change in any way,” said the director of one of the consortium’s labs in southern India. A public health expert said the current surge can’t be just “wished away” as large numbers of people are infected. “Rigorous testing, isolation of cases, house-to-house surveillance, and quarantine on contacts can curb the spread,” the expert said. “But it could take three to six weeks, but much will depend on how efficiently these things are done.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi: Won’t step aside||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said it was difficult to believe the results of the 2019 parliamentary elections in states like Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, in spite of massive polarisation caused by the surgical strikes in Pakistan and media domination in favour of the BJP. Asked what transformed the political landscape suddenly when the narrative was in favour of the Congress after victories in three states — Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh — Rahul said in a conversation with Brown University professors and students on Tuesday: “Our Chhattisgarh party, and I agree with them for sure, simply cannot explain how we go from a two-thirds majority to two seats. Can’t explain. Very hard to believe something like that happened.” He went on: “Similarly in Rajasthan, after a solid fight, suddenly we get zero seats. It is surprising to me. It is not easy to believe. Now there are a couple of arguments people make. I can see some of those — massive polarisation in north India. But it doesn’t take me to two seats in Chhattisgarh. Media domination, financial domination. It is there. Money spent, the ratio is 1:10. On media, Narendra Modi is 24x7. Institutional support, massive concentration of financial and political power sitting behind this machine.” While Rahul has talked about institutional capture and media domination in the past, he has for the first time argued that the results were still unacceptable in some states. Although he did not refer to his suspicions about electronic voting machine (EVM) on Tuesday, he has said in the past that he is not convinced about their safety and had even asked why the Election Commission of India didn’t allow political parties and experts to check the machines. Rahul once again expressed helplessness about the absence of institutional support and argued that it was a fantasy to think that democracy could work without independent institutions. “Modern India is an ongoing negotiation. Independent institutions guarantee that negotiation. A determined attack on these institutions is going on. I represent a part of that negotiation as other political parties do. But we are not given room for negotiation. As a political player, I need that institutional support,” the Congress MP said. While Rahul’s repeated arguments on these lines have generated appreciation as political observers and Opposition leaders agree with his assessment, many resent his show of helplessness, asserting that concrete political responses and strategies are required instead of theoretical lament.Rahul offered an interpretation of Mahatma Gandhi’s role in the freedom struggle and nation-building and also emphasised the role of politics in the mediation between identities and cultures. He described Mahatma Gandhi as the master negotiator who didn’t have a vested interest. His argument that Gandhi had deployed his “shunyata” in negotiations to achieve results attracted ridicule on social media. “Gandhi, despite being in the middle of negotiation, didn’t have a game of his own. It was as if he didn’t exist,” Rahul had said, meaning that without Gandhi’s detached neutrality, negotiation wouldn’t have been possible in a diverse and complex country like India. Asked about Gandhi giving up power, Rahul said: “If you take the blunt view of power, yes, he gave up. But in a sophisticated view of power, Gandhi didn’t give up his power. He used his power to give India the Constitution.” Asked about dynastic politics and whether he was willing to step aside for a non-Gandhi to lead the Congress, Rahul said: “Why should I step aside when I am defending an idea? I can’t be told that you can’t defend that idea because you are somebody’s son.” Told that the issue was about intra-party democracy, not defending an idea, he said he had been roasted for advocating internal elections. He said he was encouraging new leaders and wondered why the question of internal democracy was not asked of other parties, including the BJP. When Professor Ashutosh Varshney, who anchored the talk, asked him about the downgrading of Indian democracy by two foreign global institutions, Rahul said: “Foreign institutions have their views but we don’t need their stamp. They are much behind the curve. The situation here is much worse. Election is not about simply pushing the button on the EVM. Election is about narrative, debates, institutions. If you control WhatsApp and Facebook, you don’t have to attack the voting system. We have seen Saddam and Gaddafi coming to power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Adviser to Prime Minister resigns||P.K. Sinha, the principal adviser to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has resigned, sources said on Tuesday. Sinha, a retired IAS officer of 1977 batch, was appointed as principal adviser to the Prime Minister in September 2019, after a brief stint as an officer on special duty (OSD). Sinha was made OSD to the Prime Minister in August 2019, after he had served four years as cabinet secretary. According to the order of his appointment, his tenure as principal adviser was co-terminus with the term of Prime Minister Modi or until further announcement, whichever was earlier. Sinha had also served as secretary in the power ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls: Tariq Anwar admits tussle, predicts win||The upcoming Assembly elections are crucial for the revival of the Congress, which has the highest political stakes in two of the five poll-bound states — Kerala and Assam. Tariq Anwar, the Congress general secretary in charge of Kerala, concedes that groupism is hurting but exudes confidence that the party will snatch power from the Left. He also confronts NCP veteran Sharad Pawar on his prediction of a possible Congress defeat in Assam. Excerpts from the interview: Q: There is a general perception the Left government is coming back in Kerala. Anwar: This perception is erroneous. Those who have presumed there is no anti-incumbency in Kerala are either unaware of the issues and the public sentiment or are  underestimating the Congress. We will form the government. Q: Isn’t the chief minister’s image an advantage for the LDF and the absence of a projected leader a handicap for the Congress-led UDF? Anwar: I don’t know how the image of the chief minister can be good when the main accused in the gold smuggling case says everything was being done at his behest. The central agencies have filed a case. There are several scams. Temporary workers hired by the state government, all CPM workers, have been regularised without any recruitment process by the state public service commission. The youth sees this as injustice as they were not given an opportunity to compete. Q: But the Congress has been alleging that central agencies are executing the vendetta politics of the Narendra Modi government. How does that change in Kerala? Anwar: Because we know how corrupt this government has been. The main accused  is saying something on record. The CPM state secretary’s son is involved. We can’t ignore facts even as there is no denying that Modi has been extremely vindictive and has misused central agencies across India. Q: There is a belief the Congress was engrossed in groupism instead of fighting the Left. Anwar: It is unfortunate that senior Congress leaders in many states are not united. It is perhaps (because) the Congress is a democratic space and allows people to express their views. We don’t crush dissent. But we have tried to resolve issues. What is good is that candidates were not selected on the basis of factional demands.  We went for merit and a clean image. Q: Your ally, the NCP’s Sharad Pawar, has said the BJP will win in Assam. Was this a glimpse of future politics when regional players will corner the Congress on the question of leadership in the Opposition camp? Anwar: I strongly disagree with Pawar. He may not have the correct input. I have been to Assam and we are winning that state.  As far as leadership of the Opposition is concerned, nobody can fight Modi like Rahul does. There is no dispute about it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Glare on more army officers in recruitment scam||The CBI’s probe into the alleged irregularities in recruitment for the armed forces has opened a Pandora’s box in the Indian Army, with sources in the agency on Tuesday saying more serving army officers were suspected to be involved in the scam at several Service Selection Board (SSB) centres. The CBI has so far booked seven army officers, including five lieutenant colonels and two major-rank officers, and jawans apart from six private persons in connection with the scam. “The preliminary probe so far has revealed that the accused had abused their official powers/positions and accepted bribes from candidates who appeared for the review medical exam at Base Hospital in Delhi. Several other army officers are under the scanner,” said an agency official. The bribes, he said, were allegedly paid in lakhs to the accused officers and their relatives and family members through cheques and RTGS for the selection of candidates. “There is sufficient evidence of the accused army officers being the recipients of bribery amounts. It is a big racket and the involvement of more army officers is not being ruled out,” the official said. The CBI, he said, has already shared the names of several other suspects with the army headquarters in Delhi. “The sleuths have stumbled upon several documents that suggest large-scale irregularities in the recruitment scam. We are constantly in touch with officials in the army headquarters,” the official said. The CBI registered a graft case acting on a complaint filed by Brigadier (vigilance) V.K. Purohit from the office of the additional directorate-general, discipline, and the adjutant general’s branch, army headquarters. It was alleged that on February 28, an input was received about the alleged involvement of serving personnel in accepting bribes for the clearance of review medical exams of temporarily rejected officer candidates at Base Hospital, Delhi. “All the accused had facilitated the selection of the candidates at the SSB in exchange for bribes,” another CBI officer said. The agency had on Monday carried out raids at 30 locations across 13 cities, including the Army’s Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment Area, residences of several accused in Bathinda, Kapurthala, Palwal, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Visakhapatnam, Jaipur, Guwahati and Jorhat. Sources in the Indian Army said the case was handed over to the CBI since the scope of the investigation involved multiple agencies, including civil entities. “The Indian Army has zero tolerance towards corrupt practices in the recruitment process for the selection of suitable candidates for the armed forces,” an army official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Bihar government bans gatherings on Holi to check virus||The Bihar government has banned gatherings at public places on Holi and has made it mandatory for passengers from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala to carry Covid-19 negative test reports while entering the state from Wednesday onwards. The directions were issued after a meeting of the crisis management group chaired by chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh in the light of the coronavirus pandemic taking an upward trajectory in several states, particularly in Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala. Singh also directed all 38 district magistrates to inspect Covid care centres and revive them to meet any eventuality. They have been asked to ensure that ventilators and other facilities are in place. A large number of people are expected to return to their native places in Bihar for Holi increasing the risk of spread of the coronavirus. Banning celebrations at public places, including roads and streets, will help curb the spread of the coronavirus. However, people can participate in the festival of colours in their homes. “Passengers from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala will have to show Covid negative test reports (RT-PCR or rapid antigen) on arrival at airports and railway stations. Travellers who do not carry  negative test reports will be subjected to rapid antigen testing,” principal secretary (health), Pratyaya Amrit, said. He said passengers testing positive for Covid will be sent to isolation centres. The panchayats have also been asked to get people arriving from other states tested for the virus. Sources said that the state government was also considering the closure of schools in view of the spurt in Covid cases across the country. Bihar government’s data places the state in a much better situation in comparison to several other large states with regard to the coronavirus pandemic. According to government statistics, Bihar has recorded 2.63 lakh Covid cases so far, of whom 1,552 have succumbed to the disease. At present there are just 327 active cases in the state and the recovery rate is a whopping 99.29 per cent. The government is also considering strict implementation of the rules regarding physical distancing and wearing of masks at public places and transport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hold meeting over hybrid hearing||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to hold a meeting of the Supreme Court Bar Association and a committee of apex court judges, following protests from the Bar over the hybrid format of hearing, which commenced from March 15. Under the hybrid format, lawyers have the option of appearing through the virtual mode or be physically present in the court hall. The Bar wants physical hearings to resume. The apex court registry had recently issued standard operating procedure with regard to the hybrid hearing that formally commenced from Ma­rch 15, but had a very poor response. The SCBA, led by its president, moved the top court qu­estioning the recent decision of the Supreme Court to conduct the hybrid hearing – a decision which the association said was unilaterally taken by the top court on the administrative side without proper consultation and consent of the Bar. SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R. Su­bhash Reddy argued that most members of the Bar are opposed to the virtual format or hybdrid hearing and wanted restoration of the physical hearing. “Either you follow protocol by the government or follow the court’s protocol. Government permits opening of auditoriums and other public places and the ones who want virtual hearing have taken flights to Goa. If you can take a flight for two hours you can’t argue here?” Singh said. His reference was to several senior lawyers arguing from London, Goa, Mumbai and other places in different courts simultaneously, whereas many other not so privileged lawyers are facing even starvation. However, Justice Kaul said Singh’s argument that the SCBA and representatives of the Bar were not consulted before issuing the SoP on hybrid hearing was incorrect. The bench said it was fact that representatives of the Bar had attended a meeting prior to the decision to hold hybrid hearing. “I have minutes of meetings where representatives of the Bar were present. You said no one was consulted. I find it odd that you say there was no consultation,” Justice Kaul said. Singh submitted that pursuant to the last notification issued by the Disaster Management Authority, auditoriums and several other public places were opened. As such, the court must either follow the DMA rules or frame its own rules after proper consultation with the Bar. “Judges do not even know, what the stand of the Bar, it was not heard while formulating the hybrid hearing SOP... judges pass through sterile route and sit behind glass and you are protected. But for us , we should make rules. “The CJI had also told me how reverse cameras can be put up in courts to reflect physical arguments to the counsels who appear virtually. Today there are 200 VC (virtual court) hearings and 20 physical. How does one lawyer manage both? We want full physical hearing as an association. “The unsuccessful lawyers are at a disadvantage. My convenience cannot be taken as the yardstick. Filing of matters, have gone below 20 to 25 percent. Some lawyers have left profession and are struggling, ” Singh said. Justice Subhash Reddy agreed saying: “We know the problems of the young lawyers but there needs to be balance. Did you see the graph of Covid-19 cases in newspaper today?” he asked. Singh responded saying Delhi has 0.5 percent positivity rate. “Most of the positive cases are due to people not wearing masks and we will ensure we will wear masks and also sanitize hands,” he said. The court later adjourned the hearing saying a meeting of the judges’ committee and the Bar representatives would be conducted to thrash out the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear Modi riot case on April 13||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would not brook any further adjournments and would take up on April 13 the hearing of the appeal filed by Zakia Jafri, wife of slain former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, challenging the clean chit given by a special investigation team to Narendra Modi and others in the 2002 post-Godhra riots. The SIT had earlier been directed by the apex court to look into Zakia’s allegation that Modi, the then Gujarat chief minister, some ministers and police officers were behind the larger conspiracy related to the Gulburg Housing Society riots in Ahmedabad in which more than 1,000 people were killed. Ehsan Jafri was among those killed. A three-judge bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheswari and Krishna Murari on Tuesday asserted that the matter would be heard on April 13 after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Gujarat government, and senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing the SIT, opposed senior counsel Kapil Sibal who sought the adjournment on behalf of Zakia. Sibal wanted the matter to be adjourned till the third week of April as several advocates are busy with the hearing of the Maratha reservation row before a five-judge constitution bench. However, Rohatgi opposed the plea and insisted that the matter be heard on Tuesday itself. He submitted that the matter had been adjourned on a number of occasions. Mehta supported Rohatgi but suggested that the matter be taken up at least next week. Later the senior counsel mutually agreed that the hearing be adjourned to April 13 with no further adjournments. The court passed the following order: “…By consent, list the matter on 13.04.2021. It is made clear that no request for further adjournment will be sought by either side on that day.” The court was dealing with an appeal filed by Zakia challenging the judgment passed by Gujarat High Court on October 5, 2017, dismissing her plea challenging the SIT’s clean chit to Modi and the others. In February last year, the court had adjourned the matter upon a request from Zakia’s counsel. However, the matter did not come up subsequently due to the pandemic and was listed on Tuesday for hearing. Earlier on November 19, 2019, the matter had been adjourned upon a request from the counsel for the petitioner. At that time senior advocate Rohatgi, appearing for the Gujarat government, had complained that the petitioner deliberately wanted to drag the case by seeking frequent adjournments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
17-03-2021||India||Denied ticket to ensure state BJP chief victory: Sangh parivar veteran||A Sangh parivar veteran with close ties to the central leadership and the RSS has stunned the BJP in election-bound Kerala by hinting at a deal between his party and the CPM to deny him a ticket and ensure the victory of the state BJP chief in another constituency. R. Balashankar, a member of the BJP central committee on training and former editor of RSS mouthpiece Organiser weekly, suggested that Kerala BJP president K. Surendran might have entered into the deal with the ruling CPM for the Konni seat from where the party chief is contesting. In exchange, Balashankar indicated, the BJP state leadership has fielded weak candidates in Chengannur and Aranmula in south Kerala. The ruling Left Front, led by the CPM, and the Opposition UDF, led by the Congress, are the principal players in Kerala. The BJP has so far managed to win only one seat in the 140-member Assembly but the party can play spoiler in some of the seats. Both the Congress and the CPM accuses each other of seeking the “transfer” of the BJP’s votes to defeat their opponents. Surendran is contesting from Konni, in addition to his traditional seat in north Kerala, on the hope of milking his role as the spearhead of the Sabarimala temple agitation against the entry of women of child-bearing age. The Konni seat falls in Pathanamthitta district in south Kerala where the Sabarimala shrine is located. A Sangh parivar insider for several decades, Balashankar was tipped to be the BJP candidate for his home constituency, Chengannur, in Alappuzha district. But the party fielded district president M.V. Gopakumar. In an emotional outburst, the usually soft-spoken Balashankar told Mathrubhumi news channel on Tuesday that at this rate, the BJP wouldn’t be able to make its mark in Kerala even after 30 years. “It is possible that there was a deal between the CPM and BJP behind this. The deal could be that BJP will ensure CPM victory in Chengannur and Aranmula in exchange of Konni,” said the former convener of the BJP’s national intellectual cell. While all three are sitting seats of the CPM, the BJP is making a big pitch for Konni by fielding Surendran, who is also contesting from Manjeshwar in Kasaragod district. Balashankar claimed complete support from the central leadership of the BJP for his candidature in Chengannur. “Amit Shahji and even Modiji were aware of my candidature.” Surendran refused to get drawn into the issues raised by Balashankar. “I didn’t know if he had tried to contest. But his allegations do not deserve any kind of reaction,” he told reporters. The CPM’s acting state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan dismissed Balashankar’s suggestion of a “deal” with the BJP.  “The Kerala government is the one that adopted a very consistent position against the BJP. It is the CPM that have always had face-offs with the BJP. There is no need to raise such allegations against us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
17-03-2021||India||Odisha government reminds Union steel ministry on Prime Minister’s medical college offer||Ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Odisha, the state government has brought back into focus the issue of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurance to turn the Ispat General Hospital (IGH) run by Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP) into a medical college with a super-speciality hospital. The President will be visiting the state for two days from March 21 to inaugurate the super-speciality hospital into which IGH has been converted. But that is only part fulfilment of the promise made by the Prime Minister to the people of Rourkela during his visit to the steel city in 2015. The IGH is still far from becoming a medical college. The state government took the opportunity of reminding the union steel ministry headed by Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, about Modi’s public assurance of upgrading the IGH into a medical college and super specialty hospital. It is significant to note that the contentious issue is being raised ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to inaugurate the super speciality Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela. In a letter to Union steel minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, Odisha steel and mines minister Prafulla Kumar Mallik reminded the minister how the IGH was converted into a 200-bedded super specialty hospital but not into a medical college even six years after the Prime Minister’s announcement to this effect. “We are quite disappointed. The people of the state are disappointed. The authorities have failed to convert the hospital into a medical college despite the Prime Minister’s promise in this regard. Besides the Prime Minister, the then Union steel minister Narendra Singh Tomar also assured us to set up a medical college in Rourkela,” Mallik told reporters on Tuesday. On April 1, 2015, Modi during his visit to Rourkela had announced that the IGH would be converted into a medical college and super specialty hospital. The work was being carried out by the RSP. Now the super specialty hospital will be dedicated to the people by President Ram Nath Kovind. Union steel minister Pradhan on Tuesday met the President in Rashtrapati Bhavan and extended an invitation to him to visit Odisha. “Called on Hon President Sh. Ram Nath Kovind today to extend a formal invitation to him for his forthcoming visit to Odisha. Honoured to present him with a traditional handwoven cotton “gamcha” made by dalit artisans from Athamallik town of Angul district in Odisha.# Vocal for Local. Hon. President is scheduled to undertake a two day visit to Odisha on the 21st and 22nd March during which he will attend several programmes and also inaugurate the RSP-run Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela,” Pradhan tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
17-03-2021||West Bengal|| Income scheme for all, promises TMC in 'development-oriented' manifesto  ||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday unveiled a "development-oriented" manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal, promising an income scheme for all families, a student credit card and constitution of a task force to examine the inclusion of several communities under the OBC category. Claiming that her government has reduced poverty in the state by 40 per cent, the manifesto also promised to increase annual financial aid to farmers from Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000. "For the first time, every family in Bengal will be extended a minimum basic income. Under this, 1.6 crore general category families will get Rs 500 a month, whereas SC/ST category families will get Rs 1,000. The money will be directly transferred to the woman head of a family," Mamata said. A new student credit card scheme will be introduced with a credit limit of Rs 10 lakh and an interest rate of only 4 per cent will be charged, the West Bengal chief minister said. "We will set up 10 lakh new MSMEs and 2000 new big industrial units in the next five years," she said, adding that the state is ranked number 1 in this sector, having created lakhs of jobs. "In the MSME sector we are number 1... we have created lakhs of jobs in MSME sector... All the metro projects that we see in Bengal is all my projects.. all were sanctioned by me when I was Rail Minister," she added. "We shall appoint a Special Task Force to examine and propose OBC status to all the communities which are not recognised as OBCs like Mahishya, Tili, Tamul and Sahas. We will also ask the Government of India to grant ST status to Mahatos," the TMC chief said a day after the BJP outreach to the ''left out'' Hindu castes in the OBC list in the state. "We are creating a world class economy in Bengal. We want to create new jobs and a new path for the youth of Bengal... We have fallen back because of COVID-19 pandemic," added the Chief Minister, whose Trinamool Congress is seeking a third straight term in power in face of a massive BJP challenge. A Special Development Board would be set up for the development of Terai and Dooars region in north Bengal, the CM also announced. On Wednesday, BJP chief JP Nadda had visited the backward district of Bankura, where he said that if elected to power, the BJP would form a committee and as per the Mandal Commission''s recommendations on who are eligible, take steps "for their inclusion and bring them to the mainstream". "Mamata Ji is indulging in the politics of appeasement to retain her chair in Bengal. It is unfortunate that because of it, people of many left out Hindu castes like ''Mahisya'' and ''Teli'' have been deprived of OBC status in Bengal. This is an injustice towards them," Nadda had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Cancel Suvendu’s candidature from Nandigram, demands Trinamul||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday demanded the cancellation of the nomination of BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari, who is pitted against Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram, as his name also "seems to appear" in the electoral roll of Haldia constituency. This development came barely days after Adhikari, once a close aide of Banerjee, demanded cancellation of the TMC supremo's nomination from Nandigram seat. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien in a letter to the Electoral Registration Officer of Nandigram assembly constituency alleged that Adhikari's name "seems to appear" in the electoral rolls of both Nandigram and Haldia assembly constituencies and this is not permitted as per Section 17 of the Representation of The People Act of 1951. Section 17 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 mentions that no person shall be entitled to be registered in the electoral roll for more than one constituency. It also appears that Adhikari had filed an application for migration of his name from Haldia assembly constituency to Nandigram constituency, the TMC MP said, by providing "false particulars of his residence". He claimed that this became evident as Adhikari was found to be 'absent' at the time of field visit by a booth level officer (BLO) for verification. The TMC MP claimed that Adhikari has not resided at Nandanayakbar village, which falls under Nandigram constituency, over the past six months, "let alone being a permanent resident thereof". "As per Section 19 of the RP Act, only a person who is 'ordinarily resident' in a constituency may be registered as a voter in the electoral rolls of such constituency. Hence he is not entitled to 'migration' and his migration is bad in law," the letter read. The TMC leader said the Electoral Registration Officer should forthwith delete the name of Adhikari from the electoral roll of Nandigram assembly constituency and urged appropriate legal action, including criminal proceedings, be initiated against him. "The nomination paper submitted by Adhikari from Nandigram constituency be also struck down", he added. Adhikari had sought rejection of the nomination of the Bengal chief minister for not declaring six criminal cases against her while filing her papers. In his complaint to the Election Commission, Adhikari had claimed she suppressed the information about five cases filed against her in Assam and another lodged by the CBI in West Bengal. However, CBI sources had said it was a different Mamata Banerjee who was having cases relating to disproportionate assets pending against her and not Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In a significant ruling in March 2018, the Supreme Court had said the returning officer for an election can reject nomination papers of a candidate for non-disclosure and suppression of information, including those related to their assets and criminal background. It has ruled that voters have a fundamental right to know about their candidates and leaving columns blank in the nomination paper amounts to violation of their right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP wanted to keep me indoors before polls, alleges Mamata||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the opposition BJP wanted her to keep indoors ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections, which apparently resulted in her injury. Addressing a public meeting in Gopiballavpur in the Jhargram district, Banerjee alleged that earlier it was CPI(M) which used to physically attack her, and now the BJP was doing the same. "They (BJP) wanted to keep me indoors so that I cannot go out during the elections. They have injured my leg," Banerjee said, addressing the election rally sitting on a wheelchair. The chief minister had suffered an injury to her left leg at Nandigram on March 10 during a crowd surge as she greeted people from her vehicle with its door open, at a market area. "They cannot throttle my voice, we will defeat BJP," she said, while urging the people of the region to vote for the TMC candidates. "Every vote you cast for our candidates will be for me," she added. Banerjee claimed that though the BJP won the Jhargram Lok Sabha seat in 2019, the party MP did nothing for the area. She mentioned the schemes launched by her government over the years, reaffirming that if voted to power she will ensure free doorstep delivery of ration. Jhargram, in the Jangalmahal area in the western part of the state, witnessed a BJP wave in 2019 with the party winning four Lok Sabha seats in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses Amit Shah of conspiring against her||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused Union home minister Amit Shah of conspiring against her by misusing central agencies and meddling in the affairs of the Election Commission to harass government officials in the state. She linked Shah’s alleged actions to the BJP’s perceived failure to get adequate crowds at the party’s campaign rallies in Bengal. At a rally in Bankura’s Mejia, the first of her three public meetings on Tuesday, the chief minister said: “As the elections approach, the Union home minister has started his work. The home minister is orchestrating a conspiracy sitting in Calcutta. He is planning who will be grilled, who will be targeted and who will be persecuted by central agencies.” The Trinamul Congress had trailed the BJP in all 12 Assembly segments of Bankura in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. At all three rallies Mamata warned the people against being “deceived yet again” and urged them to “save” Bengal from conspirators in the form of BJP leaders who, she alleged, would take away everything the people held dear. The chief minister said the central government and the BJP were misusing agencies like the CBI and the ED as the turnouts at the party’s campaign rallies had been dismal. On Monday, Shah did not attend a rally in Jhargram. A snag in the helicopter was cited as the reason. But some BJP leaders had attributed the decision to low turnout. “Will you use your muscle power to deploy the agencies against us as people are not coming to your meetings? Will you conspire against us for the low turnouts at your events now?” she asked. On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath attended two campaign rallies in Purulia’s Balarampur and Bankura’s Raipur, with sources in the BJP saying the turnout was “very poor”. In Bankura, people started leaving the ground even before Adityanath had finished his speech. Mamata dwelt at length on how she believed Shah and his party were misusing central agencies. “Now they have sent a notice to the home secretary of the state. I will request the Election Commission to look into the reason why government officials are being harassed by agencies during poll time,” said Mamata. The chief minister could be referring to an Enforcement Directorate notice to home secretary H.K. Dwivedi in connection with a case related to the sale of 45 per cent of the state government’s share in Metro Dairy at a low price. Dwivedi was the finance secretary in 2017 when the allegation of the sale at a low price was made. Sources close to Mamata said she was livid after learning about the notice. “She said the notice had been sent just to intimidate state government officials,” said a source close to her. During her address, Mamata accused Shah and the BJP of interfering in the affairs of the Election Commission. “With full respect to the Election Commission of India, I would like to ask who is operating the commission. Are you not, Amit Shah babu, operating the commission?” she asked. “We want a free and fair election… but who is Amit Shah (when it comes to the conduct of polls)? Who is he to guide the Election Commission? He has been interfering in the day-to-day work of the commission,” Mamata added. The chief minister lambasted the commission for removing Vivek Sahay, a senior IPS officer, from the post of director (security), in connection with alleged lapses in Nandigram on March 10 when she suffered an injury and needed hospitalisation. Sahay was also suspended by the poll panel. “The person who was handling the main charge of my security was removed. What do they want? Do they want to end my life?” Mamata said. The commission on Tuesday rejected Mamata’s written request asking for the reinstatement of Sahay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||How Didi’s life has changed||The BJP has called it a “drama” and many cheap jibes have been made about Mamata Banerjee’s bandaged left foot but there is little doubt that it has changed her life for now. Some changes are discernible: Mamata’s red pouch — her constant companion from which she offers medicines along with medical advice to those she feels need them — shows a larger-than-usual bulge. “I have to take extra medicines to take care of the pain, else it will be difficult to carry on,” Mamata says, popping a pill while sitting in her wheelchair. Some changes are lost in the heat and dust of politics: at 66, Mamata is again having to cope with something that once defined her political rise: physical pain. “Suddenly there is this excruciating pain in my leg since morning,” the chief minister says before setting out from a Durgapur hotel for three rallies in Bankura on Tuesday. With Mamata wincing in pain but determined not to let it affect her campaign schedule, her aides wonder what may have intensified the ache. Two of them discuss whether extra stress on the injured leg was behind the stab of pain. If so, the root of the stress lies in another unfamiliar feature that has not drawn much attention among the rank and file: one of the most tireless public figures in the country cannot make a single move without assistance. She was hauled up from the wheelchair and helped back onto it multiple times on Monday. Mamata has had to use a crutch while indoors, which is a hazard as the sari occasionally gets entangled with the prop, and she has to take the help of two aides as doctors have advised her not to strain her injured foot, sources said. Such restrictions are not easy to come to terms with, especially for someone like Mamata who is known for her brisk morning and evening walks and the punishing regime she subjects herself to — she does not rest until she meets her 20km daily target. Mamata cannot afford the comfort of recuperating at home as she is facing the battle of her life. The fight is lopsided too, with the BJP deploying its full might to take her on. “I have three meetings today in Bankura and then will have to return to Kharagpur. My movements are taking a lot of time.… Let’s leave,” says Mamata, prodding her aides to prepare to set out for the helipad from where she is to fly to Bankura for her first meeting scheduled at 1.30pm. The flying time is barely 15 minutes, but Mamata is ready by 11am. Finally, she leaves the hotel at 12.15pm as an aide pushes her wheelchair towards the elevator. “Didi, Didi,” erupts the crowd outside. “Bhanga paye khela hawbe (The game will still be played with a broken leg),” they shout. The helipad near Durgapur City Centre is less than 1km away, so she is taken there in the wheelchair itself. The ride to the chopper is bumpy as the road is uneven and dusty. At the door of the helicopter, two aides push her wheelchair up the ramp while two others help her climb up. Mamata takes a small step and laboriously plonks herself onto the helicopter seat. She wipes sweat off her face with her sari and exclaims: “Uff!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to skip Modi’s meeting on Covid||Mamata Banerjee is unlikely to attend a video conference Prime Minister Narendra Modi has convened with chief ministers on Covid-19 in the country on Wednesday because of her prescheduled public meetings in Jhargram. Sources at Nabanna said Modi was scheduled to hold a virtual meeting with all chief ministers at 12.30pm. But the Bengal chief minister has already gone out of the city to hold several rallies in the Jungle Mahal. On Tuesday, the chief minister is scheduled to spend the night at Kharagpur and set to attend two rallies in Jhargram. Trinamul sources said after holding the rally in Gopiballavpur, Mamata was scheduled to come back to Calcutta in the afternoon and release the Trinamul Congress’s manifesto for the Assembly polls in the evening. “She has a tight schedule on Wednesday and it is unlikely that she would be able to attend the video conference. It is not possible for her to cancel rallies at the last minute as few days have already been lost,” said a Trinamul insider. In the past, the chief minister had attended such meetings from districts but this time, no such initiative has been taken so far. “The chief minister had attended a video conference with the PM from Bankura. A number of PWD engineers had rushed to Bankura a day ahead of the meeting to make the arrangements for the meeting. But no one from Nabanna has been sent to Kharagpur this time,” said a source. Sources aware of the development said Wednesday’s meeting was considered to be important for states like Maharastra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh where Covid-19 cases had increased in the past couple of weeks. “A total of eight states, including Maharastra, Karnataka, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, are causing trouble these days. These eight states recorded more than 80 per cent of the 24,000-odd cases over the past few days. Bengal is in a comparatively better situation with about 240 cases a day,” said an official. After such meetings, the Centre usually sends detailed guidelines to the states to deal with the existing situation. “If the chief minister cannot attend the meeting, the state can make up by following the guidelines to be issued after the meeting. As the state government has worked hard to bring the Covid-19 situation under control, it can continue with its effort that has produced results,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul functionary’s brother held for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate, which is probing alleged money laundering in multi-crore cattle and coal smuggling cases, arrested Vikash Mishra, brother of Trinamul Youth Congress leader Vinay Mishra, from New Delhi on Tuesday. He was produced in a Delhi court that remanded him in the ED’s custody for six days. Two central investigating agencies —CBI and the ED — have been looking for Vikash for some time in connection with their probe into the alleged multi-crore cattle smuggling and coal pilferage cases spanning several states, including Bengal. Sources said Vikash had been camping in the capital to oversee pending cases against his brother in the Supreme Court. “Vikash has been instrumental in distributing crores of rupees to some of the beneficiaries of both cattle smuggling and coal pilferage cases,” said a senior ED officer. “He will be brought to Calcutta within a day or two for further questioning in custody,” the officer added. In February, the CBI had named Vinay in its supplementary chargesheet in the cattle smuggling case and booked him under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including criminal conspiracy and cheating. Earlier in January, the agency had issued a “lookout notice” against Vinay after he had remained untraceable following a raid on three of his homes in Calcutta in December last year. Vinay was not at any of his three residences — at Rakhal Das Auddy Road in Alipore and Rashbehari in Calcutta, and Patipukur in Lake Town — but pen drives, laptops and documents had been seized, a CBI officer said. The CBI has still not been able to reach him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Swapan Dasgupta quits RS after Trinamul salvo||Swapan Dasgupta, BJP’s candidate for the Tarkehswar Assembly seat in Bengal, on Tuesday submitted his resignation as a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha. He announced his resignation via Twitter, a day after the Trinamul Congress had raised a stink over a nominated MP joining a political party after the permitted time. Trinamul was all set to submit an application for his disqualification under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. According to the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, a nominated member of a House shall be disqualified from being a member if he/she joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he/she takes his seat. Dasgupta had been nominated to the Rajya Sabha in April 2016, and had not opted to join the BJP during the six-month window. While announcing his resignation, Dasgupta made no mention of the legal provision cited by Trinamul. “I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days,’’ he tweeted. Dasgupta had been named a candidate on Sunday, after which Trinamul’s Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra had raised the issue on Twitter. “Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party AFTER expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP,’’ she tweeted on Monday. There was no official word from the Rajya Sabha secretariat on whether the Chairman had accepted the resignation and Dasgupta technically remained on the rolls all day. Officials indicated that the acceptance of his resignation would be formally announced by the Chairman during Wednesday’s proceedings. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray had prepared a detailed petition for Dasgupta’s disqualification as a member of the House under the Tenth Schedule. But before he could submit the petition to the Chairman, Dasgupta announced his resignation after which Moitra took to Twitter to say: “Thank you Sir (Dasgupta) -- we wish you well for the upcoming WB polls.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur BJP leader jailed in coal pilferage case||BJP leader and Durgapur businessman Rajesh Jha, alias Raju, was remanded in judicial custody by a Bankura court where he had turned up on Monday to seek bail in connection with a coal pilferage case lodged in 2005. The coal pilferage case was lodged at Mejia police station in Bankura in 2005. The court rejected his bail petition and sent him to 14 days’ judicial custody. Jha, who had recently joined the BJP in the presence of the party state president Dilip Ghosh and MP Arjun Singh, is one of the aspirants seeking nominations in the forthcoming Assembly elections. He was seen taking part in the BJP’s political activities, including Parivartan Yatra in Durgapur, Raniganj, Jamuria and Pandaveswar, areas that come under the coal belt in West Burdwan. On Monday, Jha had appeared in the additional district and sessions judge court in Bankura, which had last year issued an arrest warrant against him, and appealed for bail. However, the judge Arun Kiran Banerjee rejected his bail petition and remanded him in 14 days’ judicial custody. Public prosecutor Arun Chatterjee said the court had issued the arrest warrant against Jha last year after he had sent a man to impersonate him before the court during the trial. “During the trial last year, the judge had asked the man to show his identity proof when we came to know that he was standing in place of Jha. The court immediately issued the arrest warrant but according to police Jha was absconding,” said Chatterjee. Sources said Jha had turned up to seek bail from the Bankura court on Monday apprehending that the case might come in the way of his aspiration to be nominated by the BJP in the polls. Police sources in Durgapur said Jha used to run an organised coal smuggling and transportation of smuggled coal during the Left regime. “He fled to Malaysia and Singapore to evade arrest after the change of power in Bengal in 2011,” the police officer said. Jha was arrested within a month of Mamata Banerjee taking over as chief minister and sent to jail. Although he managed to get bail, he was arrested again after the 2016 Assembly polls on charges of transporting unaccounted cash and unauthorised firearms. BJP president in West Burdwan Lakshman Ghorui, however, said the law would take its own course. “The BJP has inducted Raju Jha in the party but if he had committed any mischief, the party will not protect him,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Thin crowd at Yogi’s public meetings in Purulia and Bankura||The BJP’s run with low attendance at rallies of its star campaigners persisted on Tuesday and this time, the poor turnout was at the meeting of the party’s “poster boy” and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath who addressed two gatherings in Purulia and Bankura. Union home minister had not attended a rally in Jhargram on Monday because of a snag in his chopper. But BJP insiders said Shah had been put off by low footfall and decided to address the gathering virtually from Kharagpur. Adityanath, who addressed the rallies in Purulia’s Balarampur and in Bankura’s Raipur on Tuesday, had very few people turning up to hear him and chief minister Mamata Banerjee did not miss out on the opportunity to snub her rival when she quipped that even money was not helping the BJP get people. “Even after giving money, the BJP is unable to bring people to its rallies…What can I do if people don’t come to your meetings. People are not with you because you tortured farmers, Dalits and people belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Will you kill me because the turnout at your meetings is very low?” asked Mamata while addressing a well-attended rally in Bankura’s Mejia. Sources said the BJP leadership had asked local leaders in Purulia’s Balarampur to find out the reason for such a low turnout as the Assembly segment is one of those in the Jungle Mahal where the party had a very strong base. BJP leaders said they had set a target to bring over 15,000 people but the approximate turnout was not more than 4,000. “A large number of people voted for the BJP after the panchayat polls in 2018 and in the last Lok Sabha elections, the mandate for the BJP in the Assembly segment was huge. But after voting for the party, people did not get anything, apart from the politics of religion. So, people are not coming to BJP rallies,” said Nabendu Mahali, a Trinamul general secretary in Purulia. BJP leaders in Balarampur, however, claimed that they had met the target given the hot conditions and time of the meeting. “The meeting time was 11am and it is the time when most people are at work. However, we had set a target of 15,000 people and managed to cross it,” said Gopal Kataruka, a BJP leader in Balarampur. Countering the claim of low footfall at Adityanath’s rallies, a BJP leader in Bankura said that social media was full of pictures of a sparsely attended rally of Mamata Banerjee at Shaltora on Tuesday. Trinamul leaders, however, said the pictures of the rally being circulated by the BJP were from a time before Mamata had arrived. A BJP insider, however, said: “The party has asked the leaders to look into the reason for the low footfall. One reason could be the problem of language. The people in these areas are not used to listening to speeches in Hindi and that is playing a damper.” In Bankura’s Raipur, BJP supporters started to leave the ground when Adityanath began to speak around 1.30pm. “The turnout in Yogiji’s rally was very low in Raipur and it was because of the scorching sun. People did not come and started leaving the place to find a shade under a tree,” said a BJP leader in Bankura. Trinamul leaders, however, did not leave the chance to criticise the BJP for failing to get people to their shows. “The turnout will drop every day. People are not interested in BJP’s leaders coming from outside the state as they can’t understand what they are saying,” said Dilip Agrawal, the Trinamul spokesperson in Bankura. The presence of BJP national president J.P. Nadda did not attract much crowd at his road show in Bankura's Bishnupur and later at the rally in the district’s Kotulpur. However, BJP leaders said the turnout at Nadda’s rally and the propaganda of low turnout was a Trinamul ploy. “We had concentrated on Naddaji programme on Tuesday and Yogiji’s meeting was for a single constituency,” said a BJP leader. The issue of low turnout had cropped up during Shah’s unscheduled meeting with state leaders in Calcutta late on Monday night. A BJP leader said Shah was unhappy with the low turnout at his rallies in Jhargram and Bankura on Monday. “Amitji wanted to know the reason behind the low turnout. He has asked the leaders to find out the real reason behind people not turning up in adequate numbers,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Will back Trinamul in hung House: Malda Congress MP||Congress MP Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury said on Tuesday that his party would help the Trinamul Congress form the government in Bengal if the election verdict threw up a hung Assembly. The Malda South MP has, however, done a volte face after he was reprimanded for such remarks by state Congress leaders. Abu Hasem later said the Congress would maintain “equal distance” from Trinamul and the BJP. “The BJP has been trying to implement its agenda in Bengal like it did in Uttar Pradesh and some other states. But its plan will not be successful. Bengal wants industry and employment. If there is a hung House, we would support Trinamul to keep the BJP away from power,” said Abu Hasem. He explained that a pre-poll alliance with Trinamul was not possible because the state’s ruling party misbehaved with the Congress and started humiliating Congress workers while running the state government together. “Even then, I prefer to support Trinamul for the sake of preserving harmony in the state,” the Congress leader added. Krishnendu Choudhury, the chairman of Malda district Trinamul, said: “The Congress cannot support the BJP in case there is no clear verdict. So, whether they like or not, the Congress has to support us.” The Left leaders, on the other hand, sounded peeved. “Trinamul and the BJP are like two faces of one coin. There is no question of supporting Trinamul under any circumstances,” said CPM’s state committee member Ambar Mitra. As the Congress MP’s remarks sparked a controversy, sources said, he was summoned to the neighbouring district of Murshidabad by PCC chief Adhir Chowdhury. After his return, Khan Choudhury did a volte face and issued a written statement, saying his “statement was taken out of context and twisted in the media and social media”. “I urge all concerned not to get misled by unsubstantiated rumours and get the candidates fielded by secular Congress, Left and ISF elected from all constituencies,” his statement said. Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya on Tuesday wrote to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, requesting them to refrain from campaigning for Trinamul in Bengal. “We are in alliance with the NCP and the RJD in two different states. However, we are fighting against Mamata Banerjee in Bengal. If the two leaders come to campaign for her, it would send a wrong message to our party workers here,” Bhattacharya told The Telegraph. Trinamul sources have said Tejashwi and Pawar might come to Bengal to campaign for Mamata, along with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah rebukes Bengal BJP leaders for protests||Union home minister Amit Shah reportedly pulled up Bengal BJP leaders at a late-night meeting here on Monday over the growing discontent among party workers at the grassroots level over selection of certain candidates. Sources in the BJP said the announcement of candidates for 63 of the 75 Assembly seats, which would go to polls in the third and fourth phases, on Sunday had led to a public show of dissent over a few names and the inability of the state leadership to control the anger of workers had made Shah furious. “Amitji pulled up almost all the leaders present at the meeting because he believed the discontent was over the names that had been suggested by the BJP’s functionaries at the Bengal unit. There has been no controversy over names finalised through surveys conducted by private agencies appointed by Amitji. All the uproar is over the candidates who were suggested by state leaders,” the BJP source said. Shah, who had gone to Assam after addressing two rallies in Bengal on Monday, was supposed to leave Guwahati for Delhi. However, amid reports of protests against the list of candidates coming from crucial districts like Hooghly and South 24-Parganas, Shah rescheduled his itinerary and returned to Calcutta to hold a meeting with the state BJP office-bearers. The meeting was attended by BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and co-minder Amit Malviya, national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh, his deputy Shivprakash, Santosh’s Bengal counterpart Amitava Chakraborty and BJP’s Tarakeswar candidate Swapan Dasgupta. Sources said the meeting was so crucial that Nadda, who was supposed to land in Bengal on Tuesday morning for his scheduled public meetings, was called by Shah on Monday itself. Santosh was also asked to fly down from Delhi to join the meeting. Apart from discussing the pressing issue of discontent over candidates, Shah also met representatives of different departments of the state unit and it went on till 3.15 on Tuesday morning. When asked about the development, Ghosh rejected claims that Shah had rebuked the state BJP chief and his team. However, he acknowledged that the issue of discontent over a few names had come up at the meeting. “He enquired about the places where our workers are protesting,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. “Some people thought they would get tickets and finally they, didn’t. That has led to some discontent,” Ghosh added. A BJP office-bearer said Shah was angry with the state leaders because he felt they did not take the district functionaries into confidence before deciding on the names. He has also asked the leaders to speak to five representatives from each Assembly seat where there was unrest and contain the outburst. A detailed report has been asked to be sent to Delhi. A key BJP member and Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy was absent from the meeting. A state BJP leader said Shah was purportedly unhappy with Roy over the selection of candidates in a few seats. “Mukulda had pushed for the candidature of Rabindranath Bhattacharya and Samiran Mitra, in Singur and Haripal, respectively. The common workers have rejected both the names and hence, Amitji is upset with Mukulda,” a party source said. Both Bhattacharya and Mitra are Trinamul turncoats. A section of BJP leaders was also unhappy with Bhattacharya’s candidature since he is 89-years-old. Shah called out Vijayvargiya also for similar reasons. Vijayvargiya had been party to Roy’s endeavour in helping Trinamul turncoats get BJP tickets for the 2021 polls. The nomination of Deepanjan Guha, a BJP state office-bearer and member of the RSS, has also drawn flak from the supporters for being an outsider. Posters had come up against his nomination in Chandernagore on Monday. Multiple sources said Guha was the choice of a national BJP leader who was also present at the meeting. Shah rebuked the leader for being unable to foresee the situation. The list was announced on Sunday and protests against some of these names continued even on Tuesday. BJP supporters from 13 Assembly constituencies — Singur, Khanakul, Goghat, Bagnan, Joynagar, Canning West, Kultali, Diamond Harbour, Kulpi, Mandirbazar, Goghat, Satgachhia and Magrahat — agitated in front of the party office at Hastings in Calcutta on Tuesday. Later, a team of representatives went to the office to meet BJP leaders and submit a deputation. At a point, police had to resort to lathicharge to disperse the mob. BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, however, condemned the role of the police. Ten agitators were arrested and a policeman was injured when the protestors allegedly hurled bricks at the law enforcers. “The agitation by our workers is unwelcome. No candidates will be replaced. However, the police shouldn’t have beaten up peaceful protestors,” Bhattacharya said. Ghosh and other state leaders will be in Delhi on Wednesday for the central election committee meeting, where the names for the rest of the seats will be discussed. The issue of discontent is likely to come up at this meeting that is to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well. B.L. Santosh on Tuesday met BJP workers from the party’s Calcutta zone. Sunil Bansal, who is currently in charge of the zone, was also at the meeting. Since Trinamul turncoats Sovan Chatterjee and Baisakhi Banerjee who were assigned the responsibility of the Calcutta zone quit the party over discontent for not being fielded from the seats of their choice, Santosh and Bansal took stock of the zone’s affairs themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP, Trinamul workers hit streets against nominees in north Bengal ||Supporters of the BJP and the Trinamul Congress took to the streets at different places in north Bengal on Tuesday to protest against some of the candidates announced by the respective parties in the Assembly elections. The BJP activists raised a road blockade to protest the nomination of former Forward Bloc leader Dipak Kumar Roy in the Sitai Assembly seat in Cooch Behar district. The Gosani Road (which connects the historical site of Gosanimari with the district headquarters) was blocked from around 12pm till 2pm. “The person who has been fielded by our party had defected from the All India Forward Bloc. He doesn’t enjoy acceptance in the BJP. We want Bhaben Roy to be fielded at Sitai. He had contested from the same seat as the BJP candidate in the 2016 Assembly polls. If the BJP doesn’t give Bhaben Roy a ticket, we will field him as an Independent,” said Biswajit Burman, a local BJP leader. The road blockade was lifted after BJP leaders had spoken to the protesters. BJP supported had held protests at Gosanimari in the Sitai constituency on Monday also. So far, the BJP has announced candidates in seven of the nine Assembly seats in the Cooch Behar district. “A number of names have emerged as probable candidates for the remaining two seats. There is a chance of similar protests once the party announces the names,” said a BJP insider. Trinamul supporters also raised objections to the party’s candidate in Sitai. When sitting MLA Jagadish Roy Basunia went to some villages to seek votes, there were heated exchanges of words between his supporters and Trinamul members who were opposed to his re-nomination. As many as nine office-bearers of the Trinamul Congress in the Itahar block of the North Dinajpur district resigned on Tuesday to protest against the party’s decision to drop sitting Itahar MLA Amal Acharya. Mosharaf Hossain was declared as the Trinamul candidate at Itahar. “Some Trinamul leaders hatched a plot against Amal Acharya and are trying to create a rift in the party. As these leaders did not listen to our demands and suggestions, we have stepped down from our posts,” said one of the Trinamul functionaries. BJP workers gathered in front of the house of Alipurduar district BJP president Ganga Prasad Sharma on Tuesday and demanded that Kalchini candidate Bishal Lama be replaced. “Lama had left the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and joined the BJP recently. He was fielded by ignoring senior BJP leaders who had been working at Kalchini for years,” said a protester. Trinamul supporters burst crackers when Raiganj candidate Kanaialal Agarwal started his campaign on Tuesday. The BJP has filed a complaint with the Election Commission, pointing out that there is a ban on sound crackers. Even some Trinamul leaders slammed the party workers for bursting the crackers. There had been protests against Agarwal’s candidature. Jalpaiguri district Trinamul leadership removed the Rajganj and Nagrakata block presidents of the party on Tuesday. Hundreds of Trinamul activists had hit the streets demanding their removal. “We have also formed Assembly level committees which comprise all senior leaders of the areas concerned. All of us will work together for Trinamul candidates,” said K.K. Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Chinese duo without documents detained at Bagdogra airport||Two Chinese nationals were intercepted by CISF personnel at the Bagdogra airport on Tuesday for not possessing appropriate documents required to travel in a foreign country, just before they were about to board a flight to Hyderabad. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, who man the airport, later handed over the duo to Bagdogra police. Different agencies of Siliguri Metropolitan Police have started interrogating the Chinese nationals and are trying are to find out the purpose of their travel. According to police sources, the duo have been identified as Kailang and Zhang Jun. They had entered India via Panitanki, the transit point that is located on the India-Nepal border and around 35km from here. During preliminary investigation, the police have come to know that they had been to Karachi in Pakistan from Nepal earlier this month. “Both the Chinese nationals went to Karachi from Nepal on March 3. After spending a few days at the port city of Pakistan, they returned to Nepal. Then, they crossed the border and reached Bagdogra with a plan to take a Hyderabad-bound flight from here,” said an officer of Siliguri Metropolitan Police. At the airport, the on-duty CISF personnel found that the documents which they were carrying were inappropriate. “The CISF detained both and informed us. Later, they handed over the Chinese nationals to us. We have detained them and our officers are trying to collect more details from them,” the police officer said. Sources said while one of them was carrying a Chinese passport but lacked a visa, the other did not have a passport at all. “Interestingly, both of them were carrying Aadhaar cards which appeared to be fake. We have engaged our men to verify the documents. Altogether, their travel with Aadhaar cards and without visas has raised our doubts,” a senior police officer said. A retired army officer pointed out that the police, central and state armed forces and different intelligence agencies always remained alert in north Bengal, particularly in Siliguri, considering the geographical location. “This is because the area is known as Chicken’s Neck, where the width of the Indian sub-continent is narrow with Nepal and China on the north side and Bangladesh on the south side. It is one of the strategically important areas of India, particularly after the recent stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops. Those who have been detained should be properly interrogated to find out why they were here. They do not appear to be tourists as they lacked proper travel documents,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Plea for child shelter promise in Bengal poll manifestoes||The North Bengal Child Rights Network  — a joint forum of NGOs from eight districts of the region working on child rights — has appealed to all political parties to include establishment of a children shelter in the region in their respective election manifestoes. NBCRN which was formed in 2013 is a platform of 17 NGOs. “There are a total of 17 NGOs which are engaged in rescuing or protecting children across north Bengal. We have appealed to all leading political parties to mention in their election manifestoes the need for establishing asylum homes in the districts of the region,” Sudeep Bomzan, the convener of the network, said. Social workers claim that rescued children who needed to be sent to shelters had to be taken to Behrampore in south Bengal, about 350km from Siliguri, because of lack of such facilities in the north. “The nearest home is at Behrampore and taking them that far is an arduous task at times,” said Amos Tshering, a member of the network. The representatives claimed there were a few private rehabilitation centres operational in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Kalimpong. Sources said there were 189 children presently staying at those centres. “Also, these homes are mostly running as vocational training centres for the underprivileged or destitute children,” said another member. According to Tezkumar Thapa, another member, a 2017-18 survey by the labour department suggests there are 1,500 child labourers in Darjeeling district alone. A large number of them work at tea stalls and eateries. “We want the party that forms the government to work on children’s issues with the importance it deserves. We appeal to our political leaders to make the region child labour-free and also ensure proper functioning of child labour task force,” said Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Rivals unite over Nandigram murder cases||A judicial development preventing the withdrawal of two murder cases against 63 persons in connection with the anti-land acquisition movement at Nandigram seems to have brought leaders of the Trinamul Congress, BJP and the Congress closer. The Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC), the umbrella body of the movement with representation from the major non-Left political forces, went into a huddle on Tuesday, before 30-odd of the 63 accused went into hiding. The development, deemed significant just a few weeks ahead of the Assembly polls in East Midnapore, followed a series of events prompted by a public interest litigation by the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate Nilanjan Adhikari. He had challenged before Calcutta High Court the Mamata Banerjee government’s decision to withdraw cases lodged during the movement, specifically referring to two murder cases — case numbers 237 and 697 — where the 63 persons, including leaders of Trinamul, Congress and even the BJP, stood accused. The high court had on March 5 ruled that the two murder cases, which were allowed to be withdrawn by a lower court in Haldia, were not to be withdrawn. Following the high court ruling, the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate prayed before a court at Haldia for action, and it told the police to reopen the cases and take necessary action. The BJP’s Ananda Mandal, a leader from Sonachura and part of the BUPC, said Adhikari had “betrayed” the movement and the people of Nandigram. “I never thought a leader of my own party would put us in trouble and even shame the movement like this,” said Mandal, one of the 63 accused, who attended the closed-door meeting of the BUPC, which resolved to launch an all-out movement against the decision. “I will demand an explanation from the BJP state leadership. This is utterly shameful. It shames Nandigram and the historic movement,” he added. “I have no doubt that it would impact the BJP negatively in the elections here.” In the BUPC meeting, the body concluded that it was a conspiracy by the BJP —a theory endorsed by even the BJP members of the BUPC, such as Mandal — and it will need a full-fledged movement. The 63 accused include at least a dozen elected representatives of Trinamul, including Mamata’s proposers (for the Nandigram candidature) Abdus Samad and Swadesh Das, and her chief election agent Sheikh Sufiyan. Congress leader Milan Pradhan, who is among the 63, was one of the 30-odd who went into hiding. “We had to go into hiding ahead of every election since 2011, as the administration under the Election Commission of India could have acted against us. This time, we had thought we would be able to campaign for our Sanyukt Morcha freely. But thanks to the BJP, we have to stay in hiding this time as well,” said Pradhan, a member of the BUPC. Mamata’s chief election agent Sufiyan, an influential Nandigram leader, said the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate was doing this on behalf of Nandigram heavyweight — Trinamul turncoat, now in the BJP — Suvendu Adhikari, to “exact revenge” against those from Trinamul and other parties who did not join the BJP with him. Mamata’s proposer Das had another theory. He pointed out that the three main demands of the BUPC were the return of the land, the withdrawal of the “false” cases, and the punishment of those “truly” responsible. “Didi (Mamata) came to power and the land was returned. Then, the cases were also gradually withdrawn. The CBI was to punish the truly guilty. In the hands of the BJP-led Centre, the CBI did nothing…. To divert attention from that abject failure, Suvendu got Nilanjan to do this,” said Das. The BJP’s Nandakumar candidate, however, begged to differ. “It had nothing to do with politics or elections. The cases were being withdrawn selectively, to benefit none other than Trinamul leaders. I moved court. I got justice,” he said. The matter is likely to be turned into yet another poll plank by Mamata, who is the Nandigram candidate. The chief minister, expected to be in Nandigram on Friday and Saturday for eight political programmes, demanded answers from Union home minister Amit Shah on the matter. Speaking at a rally in Mejia on Tuesday, Mamata said: “Those who were in the pro-farmer movement are being sent warrants now. Nandigram already, Singur next? Everybody eventually.” “What does Amit Shah think, that he will forcefully shut everything down, silence all voices of dissent?” she asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
17-03-2021||North East||41 candidates in Assam have declared criminal cases against them||Sixteen per cent of the candidates contesting in the first phase of Assam assembly elections have declared criminal cases against themselves, according to a report by poll rights group Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). The Assam Election Watch and ADR have analysed the sworn affidavits of 259 out of the 264 candidates in the first phase. Out of 259 candidates analysed, 41 (16 per cent) candidates have declared criminal cases against themselves and 34 (13 per cent) have declared serious criminal cases against themselves, the ADR said. The report said out of 259 candidates, 101 (39 per cent) are crorepatis. Giving educational background, the report said 97 (37 per cent) candidates have declared their educational qualifications to be between 5th and 12th standard, while 157 (61 per cent) candidates have declared having an educational qualification of graduate or above. Four candidates are diploma holders and one candidate is just literate. The report said 67 (26 per cent) candidates have declared their age to be between 25 and 40 years, while 153 (59 per cent) candidates have declared their age to be between 41 and 60 years. "There are 38 (15 per cent) candidates who have declared their age to be between 61 and 70 years. One candidate has declared his age 85 years," the report said. Giving gender details of the candidates, the report said 25 (10 per cent) women candidates are contesting in the first phase. Among the major parties, 10 (23 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, eight (20 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad, three (8 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and one candidate each from the NCP, AGP and the SUCI(C) have declared criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits. Among the major parties, nine (21 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, six (15 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad, three (8 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and one candidate each from the NCP, AGP and the SUCI(C) have declared serious criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits. Serious criminal cases are non-bailable offences with over five years of imprisonment. Five candidates have declared cases related to crime against women. "Out of five candidates, one candidate has declared cases related to rape (IPC Section-376)," the report said. Two candidates have declared cases related to murder (IPC Section-302) against themselves and four candidates have declared cases related to attempt to murder (IPC Section-307) against themselves. "Three (6 per cent) out of 47 constituencies are Red alert constituencies. Red alert constituencies are those where three or more contesting candidates have declared criminal cases against themselves," the report said. "The directions of the Supreme Court have had no effect on the political parties in selection of candidates in Phase 1 of the Assam Assembly Elections 2021 as they have again followed their old practice of giving tickets to around 16 per cent candidates with criminal cases," the report said. Giving financial background of the candidates, the report said among the major parties nine (90 per cent) out of 10 candidates analysed from the AGP, 31(72 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, 28 (72 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and 15 (37 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad have declared assets valued more than Rs 1 crore. "The average of assets per candidate contesting in the Assam Assembly Elections 2021 Phase I is Rs 1.84 crore," the report said. Elections to the 126-member Assam Assembly will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
17-03-2021||North East||Mizoram MP conveys concern over Myanmar refugees to Delhi||The Mizoram government has told the Centre that looking after the “safety and welfare” of refugees entering the state from coup-hit Myanmar “was a priority” while the apex Mizo student organisation — Mizo Zirlai Pawl — has announced it will host a series of concerts on Saturday to raise funds for those who have already entered from the neighbouring country. Mizoram Lok Sabha MP C. Lalrosanga on Tuesday met external affairs minister S. Jaishankar in Parliament House and voiced his “serious concerns over the shelter and well-being of refugees” coming into Mizoram following the political turmoil in Myanmar. According to reports, over 380 refugees, most of them police personnel, have sneaked into Mizoram, which shares a 510km porous border with Myanmar, fearing persecution by the junta. Six districts — Champhai, Lawngtlai, Siaha, Saitual, Hnahthial and Serchhip — border Myanmar. Champhai and Aizawl are most affected, the MZP said. Since a large section of those fleeing to Mizoram “share the same ethnic ancestry” as the Mizos, Lalrosanga said that “looking out for their safety and welfare was a priority”. He also expressed his gratitude for the asylum granted by the Centre to Myanmar refugees for around 25 years under the aegis of the United Nations, which has been of great solace to them. Jaishankar, according to officials in Mizoram, said he shared the MP’s concerns over the refugee situation and assured him that the matter will be “dealt with cautiously and conducively”. On Monday, Mizoram Rajya Sabha MP K. Vanlalvena had called on Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu at his official residence and urged the Centre’s intervention for restoration of peace in trouble-torn Myanmar, and to provide relief for nationals of that country who have crossed the international border to take shelter in Mizoram following “gross atrocities committed against protesters who stand up for democracy, human rights and justice since the military junta took control of the Myanmar government” on February 1. According to officials, Vanlalvena was accompanied by ruling Mizo National Front adviser Rosangzuala with both raising  their concern that the situation in Myanmar “could go from bad to worse” by highlighting deaths, arrest and detention of protesters. In view of the grim situation, Vanlalvena urged the central government to “stand up for the people of Myanmar and review its foreign policy towards the neighbouring country and try to find a solution for the restoration of peace and harmony in the country”. The developments involving the two MPs from the ruling MNF come despite the home ministry reportedly conveying to Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh, four states which border Myanmar, to not allow anyone to illegally enter the country barring cases “absolutely essential on humanitarian grounds”, a line which the state government is apparently pursuing. Myanmar shares 1,468km-long border with the four states. Assam Rifles guard the Mizoram border. Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga had said last month that refugees would be offered help on humanitarian grounds but official formalities would be followed. The state government is still awaiting the Centre’s directive on how to deal with those who have already entered, media reports suggest. Amid the developments, MZP announced it will hold concerts in state capital Aizawl on Saturday. MZP vice-president Peter Chhangte told The Telegraph that they have planned nine to 10 back-to-back concerts at traffic points and bazars from 11am to raise funds for their “brothers and sisters” who have fled Myanmar following the coup. “We are working closely with NGOs representing Myanmarese already living in Aizawl for helping those who have entered in wake of the coup. We cannot stop them from coming into Mizoram because they are our brothers and sisters by blood,” Chhangte, 36, said. The MZP had on February 4 staged a protest in Aizawl against the coup and human rights violations in Myanmar. Chhangte had said they will always stand by their Mizo brothers in the neighbouring country while urging the MNF-led state government to ensure that Mizos do not face any crisis owing to the prevailing situation and urging the Myanmar junta to restore democracy. Mizos living outside the state are also extending support. Bangalore-based Mizo singer Rebecca Saimawii had come up with an emotional song expressing solidarity with the people of Myanmar opposing the coup. The song in Mizo language has gone viral. The Champhai district administration was the first to sound an alert on possible influx by Chins from Myanmar following the asylum request made by the Chin National Army (CNA) for 40 families fearing persecution by the army in wake of the military coup. The CNA is a Myanmar rebel group fighting for self-determination, among others. The Chins share the same ancestry as Mizos. Myanmar’s Chins have been fleeing to Mizoram since the eighties to escape the army’s wrath but were returning after the neighbouring country took steps to restore democracy. Their number has come down significantly but the coup could see a fresh exodus, officials feared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
17-03-2021||North East||All Assam Students’ Union to organise statewide rally against CAA backers||The  All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) will not only be organising a state-wide bike rally in protest against the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act on March 20 but will also appeal to the masses to vote against the parties which have brought the CAA. The protest assumes significance because it comes a week ahead of the first phase of the three-phase Assembly polls in Assam, starting March 27, and is mainly targeting the ruling BJP and its ally AGP. In the polls, the BJP-led alliance is up against the Congress-led 10-party alliance and the Assam Jatiya Parishad-Raijor Dal regional alliance, both of which have made the CAA their key poll plank. The protest against CAA had triggered the formation of both the AJP and Raijor Dal. AASU president Dipanka Nath said they had to call the protest to generate awareness about the “anti-Assam” law and its long-term ill-effects. “We will be taking out bike rallies across the state and visiting villages across Assam to apprise the masses about the ramifications of the anti-Assam legislation and also issue an appeal that they should not vote for parties who brought the law or are supporting it. The ruling BJP has made it clear that they will impose the law. We want the law scrapped. Period,” Nath said swearing by the 1985 Assam Accord cut-off date of March 24, 1971 for detection, deletion and deportation of illegal migrants. The anti-CAA brigade asserts that the law makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan who have entered till 2014 to secure Indian citizenship, triggering fear Bangladeshi influx will threaten the culture and identity of Assam’s people. They want that those who have come after March 24, 1971 have to leave, irrespective of religion. The Lok Sabha had passed the CAB on December 9 while the Rajya Sabha on December 11 despite widespread protest in the state and the northeast, especially Assam where five persons died on December 12 in the government crackdown to contain the protest. Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi, who is contesting the Assembly polls from Sivasagar, was arrested on December 12 and has been in jail till now. The protest comes amid intense campaigning by all the key players, especially BJP, AGP and the Congress, for the Assembly polls. The BJP has refrained from commenting specifically on the CAA or the National Register of Citizens and Clause 6 of the Assam Accord that provides for constitutional and administrative safeguards for the indigenous people of Assam except that it will “continue” protect the interest of Assam and the Assamese people. BJP’s senior leaders from Amit Shah to Rajnath Singh have instead attacked the Congress’ alliance with the AIUDF on the ground that it will only open the floodgates for illegal Bangladeshis. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday hit out at the alliance as protectors of infiltrators. “Can you trust (AIUDF chief Badruddin) Ajmal? Ajmal sells perfume but spreads hatred. He openly talks about a Muslim rashtra, who is a protector of ghuspetiyas (infiltrators)… Why did Congress tie up with the protector of ghuspetiyas? Congress and Ajmal? Yeh rishta kya kehlata hain (what is this relationship called)? Only for votes? But we have decided to serve everyone… The Congress has no future... Rahul Gandhi will finish the Congress," Chouhan said. The Opposition Congress, which has made CAA one of its main poll plank, too is hitting back in equal measure. “Before coming to power, the BJP had promised to protect the jati- mati- bheti (community- land- home) but instead imposed the CAA) on the people of Assam. CAA is posing a threat to the language, culture and identity of the people of Assam. It is giving a red carpet welcome to illegal migrants to settle in Assam. The saffron brigade has failed to implement the Assam Accord in letter and spirit, and also Clause 6, as promised by them,” Bobbeeta Sharma, Chairperson, PCC Media department, said, adding the party will bring a law to nullify the CAA if voted back to power. Prof. Gourav Vallabh, AICC spokesperson, on Tuesday said that the Congress believes in positive politics and politics of change. “Our promises are not just seasonal, like the ‘Chunaavi Janta Party’. Through a robust roadmap and resolute efforts, Congress party is dedicated to provide 5 lakh government jobs to the youth of Assam and create private employment opportunities for 25 lakh youth,” he said while taking a dig at the BJP which had countered the Congress job guarantee by promising one lakh government jobs by March 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
17-03-2021||Opinion||New friends: first Quad summit||It is a matter of perspective. While the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, correctly surmised that the first summit of the members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue was a “force of global good”, China, tellingly, denounced the engagement as an attempt by nations, presumably India, the United States of America, Australia and Japan, to form cliques. Beijing’s allegation against Quad members of ganging up is bound to sound rich given that Quad’s genesis lies in the unprecedented show of aggression by China, especially in the Indo-Pacific stretch. Little wonder then that the summit’s joint statement, even though it did not name China, pointedly referred to reservations with coercion in the region. While the lengthening shadow of China may be a common worry within the Quad, the alliance, refreshingly, has chosen not to be limited in its focus. This was evident from the fact that one of the first plans — the Quad Vaccine Partnership — discussed during the summit concerned the pooling of financial resources, manufacturing capacities and logistics to expedite the reach of Covid-19 vaccines across the Indo-Pacific. This would undoubtedly earn the goodwill of nations in this stretch and, possibly, draw other multilateral blocs towards the Quad. If this were to happen, not only would it signal a welcome shift against insularity and protectionism but the emerging solidarities in the Indo-Pacific — the new theatre of conflict — would also act as a much-needed counterweight against a predatory China. One way of weakening the Quad would be to drive a wedge among the members. China, apparently, is attempting this already: the Global Times, it enjoys the patronage of the Chinese State, is of the view that India’s Quad membership implies that it has become a ‘negative asset’ in such other fora like BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. New Delhi must not lose sleep over this. What India needs to do is achieve harmony between its traditional foreign policy pivots — non-alignment, for instance — and a supple strategic vision that takes into account the changing global reality. This is a fine balance but it must be attained. Only that will enable New Delhi to chart the unpredictable, troubled waters of international diplomacy without being cornered for its proximity to any particular country or platform. The Quad is both an opportunity and also a test for Indian diplomacy. Imagination, instead of ideological prerogatives, must be its guide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
17-03-2021||Opinion||Renewed discussions on the Places of Worship Act||This is a sensitive time. A notice issued by the Supreme Court to the Centre regarding a petition questioning the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 may send confusing signals. Renewed discussion on a law that prevents the conversion of religious places and upholds the continuation of their religious character as on August 15, 1947 may be disconcerting to many in the post-Babri Masjid demolition period. The only exception to the 1991 law had been the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi issue, because the matter was already in the courts when the law was promulgated. High praise for this law had come from the Supreme Court bench that allotted the disputed land to the advocates of Ram in 2019; the reference could have been seen as a reminder that no other place of worship could become the subject of dispute. The court then said that the cut-off date indicated that independence from colonial rule offered the constitutional basis for healing past injustices. The operative word in this comment is ‘healing’. The dawn of an independent republic built on unity amid diversity meant erasing old wounds inflicted or imagined to have been inflicted under completely different conditions in the obscure past. The court reportedly felt that by enacting a law upholding the equality of all religions and secularism, part of the Constitution’s basic structure, the State enforced a constitutional commitment. This understanding is of overwhelming importance at a time when polarization of communities seems to be the aim of much political rhetoric, frequent administrative action and certain government policies. The challenge to the 1991 law comes from the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Ashwini Upadhyay, whose petition criticizes the cut-off date as arbitrary and the law for barring Hindus, Buddhists, Jain and Sikhs from ‘reclaiming’ their places of worship which were encroached upon by ‘fundamentalist barbaric invaders’. This petition follows one filed by the Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Purohit Mahasangh last year, challenging Section 4 of the same law and believed to be targeted at ‘reclaiming’ places of worship of the minority community in Mathura and Varanasi. The time when religions competed with one another for dominance and the world of democracy, equality and secularism represent two different phases in history. It is up to the people to decide which phase they wish to inhabit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
17-03-2021||Opinion||Education and the budget||The year, 2020, will be remembered not only for the global pandemic but also for the National Education Policy. When NEP-2020 was announced, it was clear that heavy financial resources would be needed to execute its ideas. It would be instructive to see what this year’s budget had to offer for the NEP. The new education policy has proposed several changes to the existing education system, from school education to higher education. It aspires to introduce formal education for children above three years of age, foundational learning for children from ages three to eight, mother tongue-based primary education and organizational changes. But the implementation of ideas mentioned in NEP-2020 remains unclear on account of budgetary constraints. Six per cent of the gross domestic product, it was announced, would be spent on education. This is an old demand, going back to the last five decades. However, a scrutiny of the education budget would reveal that this commitment had been made without addressing economic bottlenecks. What is even more astonishing is the reduction in the education budget. The total allocation for education in 2020 was 99,311 crore; it has been reduced to 93,224 crore in 2021. This year’s budgetary allocation in education has been the lowest in the last three years. Budget cuts would also adversely impact the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, which merged the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan. The allocation for the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan stood at around 38,750 crore last year; this year, it has been slashed to around Rs 31,050 crore. The closure of schools in 2020 hampered learning and the mid-day meal scheme. The National Family Health Survey-5 data, released in 2020, reflect the poor state of nutrition in India where malnourishment is a major concern. The mid-day meal scheme got 11,500 crore this year, a hike of 500 crore. This is a move in the right direction but it required further resources to tackle the issues raised by NFHS-5. Apparently 15,000 schools will be created in line with the ideas integral to NEP-2020. What needs to be seen is whether these are Kendriya Vidyalayas/Navodaya Vidyalayas or state-controlled schools. Since the budget for Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas has been increased, it is likely that the proposed schools would be turned into laboratories of NEP-2020. An increase of 1,284 crore for Kendriya Vidyalaya and 500 crore for Navodaya Vidyalaya has been announced. Even if 15,000 schools in this category are transformed into ‘centre of excellence’, they would still cater to a limited number of children. Pilot projects have become a regular feature in the school education sector. Central and state governments and Union territories keep setting up schools — Kendriya Vidyalayas, Navodaya Vidyalayas, Model Schools, Pratibha Vidyalayas, Vivekanand Schools — with improved norms. But these model schools have not been able to maintain their standards in the absence of a political commitment towards education. The failure of these pilot projects to create quality education and an inclusive learning environment needs to be examined for the sake of future school projects. Schemes to encourage girls at the upper secondary level have also faced budgetary cuts. Girl students from marginalized communities are more likely to drop out of school, especially during the pandemic. Thus, the reduction in incentive money may hamper the momentum gained by the Millennium Development Goals and the Sustainable Development Goals for 2015-2030. Support for girls’ education does not only motivate girls but also reduces child marriage. If the provision of quality education for marginalized groups is not a priority, then the target of increasing enrolment in higher educational institutions cannot be achieved. Incidentally, NEP-2020 has set an ambition goal to achieve 50 per cent enrolment in higher education by 2035. Yet, the budget for higher education has decreased by nearly one thousand crore. Some Central universities have been set up over the years; some state universities have been elevated to the stature of Central universities. Has this elevation in status helped them impart quality education and attract meritorious students? The quality and challenges faced by these institutions remain potential areas of research. The National Research Foundation, proposed in NEP-2020, must assign studies on the state of higher education. The announcement of a Central university in Leh is a welcome move. Scattered villages of Leh and Kargil would benefit from this. But care should be taken to ensure that the university does not come in the way of cultural exposure and exchange for students in the region. One hundred new Sainik Schools are set to be opened too. They will be established with the support of private agencies and non-government organizations. Till now, Sainik Schools were under the government’s control. Would these new Sainik schools, built with monetary support from private agencies, be inclusive and affordable? 750 Eklavya Schools would also be established in the tribal areas. Several primary schools have been shut down in tribal areas recently. If new schools have to be opened in these areas, why can they not be Kendriya or Navodaya Vidyalayas? During the lockdown, online education was promoted aggressively in schools and in higher education. This exposed the challenges faced by innumerable students who did not have access to the required gadgets as well as data-purchasing capacity. Surprisingly, such issues as the digital divide, education during emergencies and loss of learning in year 2020 did not find a place in the budget discussion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
17-03-2021||Opinion||Age of reckoning||In February 2021, Facebook briefly banned all news content in Australia. Australian users were restricted from posting or viewing news content on its platform. The company also deployed tools to scrub its platform of links to content by the Australian press. This unprecedented move sparked a global conversation about the grand narratives of digital sovereignty and big tech. Yet, the issue at the heart of this conflict has escaped deeper scrutiny. Facebook took the step as a reaction to Australia’s News Media Bargaining Code. The Code, among other things, requires large platforms to negotiate commercial terms with Australian news publishers for showing their content and to pay publishers for their content shared on the platform. Facebook opposed this, claiming that the Code misunderstands the relationship between its platform and publishers. Subsequent negotiations have ended the stand-off — the ability to view news content was restored by Facebook in exchange for changes to the law conceded by the Australian government. Why did the issue of sharing advertising revenue with news publishers lead to this high-stakes Westphalian drama? One must reckon with the state of the media industry to answer this. Media houses have grappled with an existential economic threat in the last decade, given the costs of producing high quality-journalism. The Covid-19 pandemic demonstrated this frailty in the Indian context, with many reports of newsroom closures and job losses. In this context, the business model of news, the rationale for revenue sharing and the political facts emerging from this conflict are key to evaluating what this means for the future of news. Public interest in high-quality journalism arguably makes it a public good, lending to its eternal challenge of developing a sustainable business model. Despite its nature as a public good, asking governments to play a direct role in financing the press is like leaving the sheep in the wolf’s care. Financial control by government strikes at the inherent tension between the State and the press in the liberal democratic set-up given the role of the press in critically examining government policy. An alternative is asking readers to pay for news. This, too, is a partial solution at best. Subscriptions create financial barriers to access, excluding large segments of the population. Further, most digital subscriptions are priced outside the common man’s reach, in addition to the practical hassle of obtaining multiple subscriptions. The traditional answer to this conundrum is to rely on advertising. This led to the development of a model where revenue from advertising cross-subsidized the readers who paid only a nominal amount. In doing so, advertising emerged as a way of financing the production of news without relying on government support or burdening readers. With the emergence of social media platforms and improvements in targeting algorithms, advertisers have obvious reasons to prefer advertising digitally through advertising services offered by these platforms as opposed to engaging publishers individually. It is here that things get tricky. Publishers say they do not get a fair share of digital advertising revenue generated through their content. This is attributed to the market power of advertising platforms like Facebook and Google that intermediate publisher-advertiser interaction and, together, control nearly 60 per cent of the digital ad market. Publishers state that this makes them unavoidable trading partners, with asymmetrical bargaining power in negotiations, if any, on terms of advertising and revenue sharing. The central question then becomes: in the digital era, who should pay for news? Governments cannot be trusted to finance the very people who are supposed to criticize them. Readers, largely, cannot afford subscriptions and, in any case, subscription-led models deny access to news to the indigent. Advertising revenues, on the other hand, are not reaching publishers. The solution proposed by the Australian government is to require platforms like Facebook and Google to agree to terms for sharing advertising revenue with news publishers subject to binding arbitration. In essence, this is intended to ensure that a fair and equitable share of advertising revenue reaches the publisher. The logos of requiring revenue sharing is that Facebook and Google are unavoidable trading partners and set the terms of digital advertising. This makes it impossible for publishers to negotiate fair terms. The Code creates a structure for negotiations to address this imbalance. This is bolstered by the ethos of requiring revenue sharing, which holds these platforms accountable to their claim of establishing new ‘global public spheres’. As per this argument, the unique position of operating the global public sphere comes with responsibilities, which safeguard public interest. This includes enduring limitations on private profit for the sustenance of an important public good. The pathos is supplied by the narrative of the slow death of print media, emergence of global tech monopolies, and journalism as a central facet of democratic processes. While some reservations to the Code are well-founded, it would be premature to treat them as fatal flaws. Many, including Facebook, state that the Code misunderstands the impact of platforms, which do not ‘leech’ ad revenue but instead amplify content and increase traffic, benefiting publishers. This is empirically true. At the same time, platforms like Facebook are complex and perform many functions. An appreciation of the distribution-function of social media platforms (which is user-driven and free) should not mean ignoring market failures or asymmetries in their advertising-function (which is provided as a paid service). Others argue the law only benefits legacy media houses with obsolete business models, preventing new business models from emerging. The business model of legacy media outlets may not sustain in the long run, and a shift towards decentralized freelancer-led models of journalism may be the future. This should not gloss over the fact that legacy media houses currently employ a substantial number of ‘on the ground’ journalists. Worsening economic health of the media industry risks not only job losses for these journalists but also affects journalistic output in this transitional period. To sacrifice the sustainability of high-quality journalism at the altar of a romantic vision of the internet would be to kill the goose that lays the golden eggs. The power imbalance between publishers and platforms is not the only imbalance, which has come to light over the past month. Many describe Facebook’s actions in Australia as the successful ransoming of a sovereign State. When Facebook carried out its threat of disabling access to news content for the citizenry of an entire nation, it arguably crossed the Rubicon in terms of its relationships with sovereign States. Governments across the world are waking up not just to the tremendous power that platforms wield over people but also to the unsophisticated nature of their own regulatory toolkits. A likely consequence is a cascade of regulations across the world, as governments try to protect themselves from similar reactions by platforms. For many, sovereignty is under direct threat from unaccountable tech platforms that can dictate the well-being of an entire citizenry. Considering the way in which Facebook lashed out at the Australian law, this is not far from the truth. As governments create laws cutting at the heels of big tech but framed in their constituents’ interest, we are likely to see many more rounds of sparring between these giants. In this, Australia is not alone. There are reports of the Indian prime minister “discuss[ing] the progress” on the Code with his Australian counterpart. The Indian Newspaper Society, an industry body of legacy media houses, has already written to Google seeking 85 per cent of advertising revenue generated from their content. In many ways, this is an age of reckoning for big tech. Platforms like Facebook may be Goliaths in negotiations with news publishers but we are yet to see if they can stand up to sovereign States with comparable effectiveness. If the source material is anything to go by — in the hierarchy of Biblical giants — the Leviathan far outranks the Goliath. By requiring the operators of the ‘global public sphere’ to pick up some of the tab for production of journalism, the Leviathan is intervening on David’s behalf, as it rightfully should. The author is a Research Fellow at the Centre for Applied Law and Technology Research (ALTR), Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
17-03-2021||Opinion||Origin story||Sir — Man is not the original provider, as patriarchal history would have us believe. Archaeological evidence from Peru now suggests that some ancient big-game hunters were in fact women. Since hunting — done by men — is cited as the prime driver of evolution and the reason behind the rise of the family, men often say that their dominance in society is ‘biological’ or ‘evolutionary’. It now follows that the patrilineal family structure is nothing but a social construct that was crafted by men to consolidate their power in society. This finding raises important questions about gender roles and the need to revisit ‘scientific’ notions that propagate patriarchy.Kaveri Raj, Ernakulam Slim chances Sir — Opinion poll results for the West Bengal assembly elections have started rolling in and all of them reveal huge gains for the Bharatiya Janata Party, while still predicting Mamata Banerjee’s return to power by a small margin. This is worrying given the horse-trading that has become part and parcel of electoral politics in Bengal. The saffron party undoubtedly has more power and money than the regional outfit and since ideological affiliations mean less than nothing these days, chances are the BJP can undermine the popular vote by buying off winning legislators. Yet, there may be hope. Even in 2016, the opinion polls had predicted a slim margin for the Trinamul Congress, while the party actually won 211 of the 294 seats. The already inexact science of psephology is made even more inaccurate in a large and vibrant democracy like India. One is forced to wonder why a majority of opinion polls get it so wrong. This is not specific to India either. In 2016, the opinion polls got the election results of the United States of America terribly wrong. The thing is, when it comes to opinion polls few people — if they do speak — actually reveal the truth. In a country like India, where political parties now rule by muscle power, people are scared to express opinions that might get them into trouble. Stories about people being harassed and even beaten up for swearing allegiance to one political party are not unheard of. As such, it would be foolish to trust the results of the opinion polls. But if what is being predicted does come true, then the future of West Bengal seems very dark indeed.A.K. Sen, Kalyani, Nadia Take a stand Sir — The two-day nationwide bank strike on March 15 and 16 is laudable since it aims to send a strong signal to the Central government. Bank employees are letting the government know that they will not consent to the privatization of the public sector, which will no doubt affect the general people adversely. While the top echelon of the banking hierarchy is not part of this strike, this will not have a huge impact as this section only comprises 20 per cent of total bank employees. Unless the other 80 per cent of employees agree with the Central government, the banks cannot run smoothly. Since the BJP came to power, they have introduced one anti-public policy after another, crippling the life of the common people. Some of the government’s policies — demonetization, goods and services tax, and the merger of some public banks into one Union bank are just some instances — have brought disastrous results, breaking India’s economic backbone. The government has also failed miserably in controlling the price hikes of essential commodities of daily use, adding to the woes of the poor and the middle classes. As if these economic difficulties were not enough, crimes against minorities have also risen significantly. This is a matter of great concern. If Indians want to go back to living in a peaceful country that was prospering economically, then they must dethrone the saffron party and defeat its communal intentions. People should teach a lesson to the party using the power of the ballot in the forthcoming assembly elections. These leaders should not be allowed to lead our country into the pit of darkness and ignominy because of their self-serving agenda which is to please a handful of capitalists.Iftekhar Ahmed, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand girls crush Odisha 5-0 in semifinal of national hockey meet||Hosts Jharkhand thrashed Odisha 5-0 in a semifinal tie at the 11th sub-junior women’s national hockey meet underway in Simdega district on Wednesday to set up a summit clash with Haryana in the finals on Thursday. For Jharkhand, Nisha Minj and Fulmani Bhengra scored two goals each while the fifth goal was scored by Purnima Barwa. Right from start, the hosts went on to play their natural attacking game and netted goals at regular intervals. The first goal for Jharkhand came in the 7th minute while the rest came in 21st, 35th, 43rd and 50th minutes of the game. Wednesday’s semi-final saw a massive turnout at the Astroturf stadium that has the capacity to accommodate 4000 people. Since noon, fans from different parts of the district, and even from neighbouring Odisha, turned up to watch the game, which was also beamed live by International Hockey Federation through its social media platforms to over 150 countries. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh said it was a momentous occasion for a remote district like Simdega to host a national tournament for the first time, that too flawlessly, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “The state hockey association is thankful to the district administration and state government for making elaborate arrangements for the conduct of the games while ensuring Covid protocols. All players and team officials maintained the highest standards of precautions to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said. Sub-junior women's teams from 22 states are taking part in this tournament, which began on March 10. Next month, Simdega is scheduled to host junior national women’s championships from April 3 to April 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Doctor tests positive 18 days after vaccination in steel city||A 62-year-old doctor tested Covid positive 18 days after he received the second dose of the Covishield vaccine, but his symptoms are mild, district health officials here have said. The doctor, who is posted at the MGM Medical College Hospital, tested positive along with his 56-year-old wife and 27-year-old son after nasal swab samples were taken from them on Sunday, March 7. The wife and son aren’t vaccinated. All three are all in isolation at their residence at Sakchi now. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon A.K. Lal confirmed the finding but refused to share further details of the doctor who has comorbidities. "This case came to our notice on Tuesday night. We are carrying out further tests. We are closely monitoring the case,” he told The Telegraph Online. The East Singhbhum district health department has so far administered Covishield vaccines to over 8,000 people.  But this is the first case of an inoculated person testing positive. Experts worldwide say immunity or “best protection” should kick in around 15 days after the second dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Britain’s National Health Service says there will also be a “significant level” of protection even after the first dose. But doctors globally also say there can be a small chance of getting Covid-19 even after both doses but that the vaccine is likely to reduce the severity of the symptoms. AstraZeneca says Oxford-led clinical trials from the UK, Brazil and South Africa confirmed that the vaccine was 100 per cent protective against severe disease, hospitalisation and death more than 22 days after the first dose. A Lancet study showed that Covishield’s efficacy against contracting Covid-19 was only 55.1 per cent when the two doses were administered less than six weeks apart. If the vaccinations are administered 12 weeks apart, the vaccine has 81.3 per cent efficacy against the coronavirus, according to Lancet. In the UK it is being given after an interval of three months. In India, the second dose is being given with a gap of about 28 days. That’s exactly when the Jamshedpur doctor got his second dose. "I had got the first dose of Covishield on January 19 and the second dose on February 16. But about 10 days ago, my wife complained of fever and cold. I treated her but her fever did not come down. Then I arranged for a Covid test on Sunday. She tested positive," the doctor told The Telegraph Online. The doctor added that he and his son got tested just to be doubly sure. But while his symptoms are mild, both his wife and son have been severely affected. "I have comorbidity. I was down with mouth cancer two years ago. I have also had open-heart surgery. But despite that I have been mildly affected, possibly because I have taken the vaccine,” the doctor said. The doctor revealed that his wife had visited a beauty parlour at Aambagan in Sakchi a fortnight ago. Based on this information, the local civic authority, the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), sealed the parlour on Wednesday. "We sealed the parlour as two cases of Covid-19 reported from the Sakchi area had visited it," said Ravi Bharti, JNAC city manager. According to the district civil surgeon, East Singhbhum has been reporting very few fresh Covid cases. Currently, only 24 patients are undergoing treatment for the killer virus at home and in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand mulls Holi curbs in wake of a surge in Covid cases||Jharkhand is contemplating stricter restrictions on Holi festivities in the wake of a rise in Covid-19 cases in the state lately, officials of the home, prison and disaster management department said on Wednesday, adding that Holi Milans (gatherings) are likely to be allowed only for limited people this time around. A highly placed official said that ministers were likely to meet officials and take a call on restrictions for Holi. The meeting, he said, was likely to be held before March 25, and the government may issue guidelines for Holi celebrations on the same day. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal, however, said that Jharkhand was following guidelines set by the Centre, adding that a prohibition on processions during festivals was already in force as per the Centre’s guidelines. “No decision has been taken regarding restrictions during Holi as of now. The restrictions, as per the last order by the state government, are already in place, and any decision of imposing additional restrictions would be taken by the top most authorities in the state,” said Kaushal. Neighbouring Bihar recently imposed a ban on Holi Milan fearing a second wave of Covid-19 in the state. Several thousand Jharkhand residents also return home from Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana and New Delhi for Holi. These states have witnessed a spike in the cases of Covid-19 infection, and people returning home for the festival could become carriers of the virus, officials said. Holi Milan events usually include cocktails and lunch. Doctors fear that Holi festivities may trigger a spike in cases as the festival of colours cannot be celebrated while maintaining social distancing. “If people smear colour on each other and come in close contact, then there is obviously a fear of transmission. We need to be extra careful during Holi,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, coordinator of the Covid Task Force at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). The count of active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand has jumped from 466 on February 17 to 577 on March 17, as per data with the health department. Ranchi has been the worst-affected district in the state. The district alone has contributed almost 70 per cent of the spike in Jharkhand, and active cases here have jumped from 247 on February 17 to 346 on March 17. The rising number of active cases indicates that fresh cases outnumbered recoveries during the past one month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant hints at stricter curbs in spike zones    ||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday said that Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand was very much under control, but hinted that his government may initiate additional measures in places with a higher rate of infection, like, for instance, in Ranchi and Jamshedpur. Speaking with reporters after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with chief ministers to counter the surge in some states, Hemant said Ranchi and Jamshedpur were the two concern areas for the state government. “In both these places, the numbers of daily cases are more than other districts. In fact, out of 500-odd active cases at the moment, Ranchi and Jamshedpur together account for more than 90 per cent. This is a concern at the moment. It looks as though some more stringent measures are required to arrest the situation," he said, adding that overall Covid situation was not immediately worrisome. Hemant , however, advised the people of the state to not ignore safety norms. “Please don’t move out without masks and follow all safety precautions,” he said, adding that his government was maintaining regular vigil on the situation. At Wednesday's interaction with the Prime Minister, Hemant did not get a chance to speak. “The PM mainly spoke with those states that are seeing a surge. Covid-19 is still not over. From our end, we have been already taking a restricted approach in allowing lockdown relaxations. For example, we still haven’t allowed reopening of schools up to class 7, and gatherings of more than 1,000 people,” he said. About vaccination, Hemant said the state goovernment was focusing on expanding it at the grassroots. “We are now starting vaccination drives at panchayat levels to cover as many people as we can. On the other hand, plans are afoot to also increase the testing rate for early detection, tracking and curing cases,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||JSCA T20 institution league set to begin from Saturday  ||Eleven outfits will vie for top honours in the Jharkhand State Cricket Association's (JSCA) T20 Institution League (Office League) to be staged at separate venues in Jamshedpur from March 20 to 27. Matches will be held at Keenan stadium, Co-operative College ground and Telco ground. Two matches will be conducted daily, one in the morning and another in the afternoon, a JSCA functionary said. The teams in group A comprises RSB Transmission, Rungta Mines, Tata Motors, Mecon Limited and Gurudev Construction while Tata Steel, Pawan Auto, SAIL, Ramson Developers, Jain Group and Nag Motors are part of group B. RSB Transmission will clash with Tata Motors at Keenan Stadium on the opening day while Rungta Mines will take on Mecon Limited in the second outing at the same venue. Both the semi-finals will be played on March 26 while the final is scheduled on the following day at Keenan Stadium. The institutional league is an old fixture which is continuing from Bihar Cricket Association days. All the venues are in good shape since JSCA's local league was conducted on these grounds. Meanwhile, the JSCA inter-district event for under-14, 16 and 19 age groups will be played from next month. Registration of players is underway at different districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Online portal to book OPD appointments at Dhanbad sadar hospital||With an aim to upgrade the Dhanbad sadar hospital into a superspeciality facility, the district administration has opened an online portal of the hospital management, from where patients can book appointments for OPD consultations without having to go to the hospital. The list of doctors along with their disciplines and qualifications are being uploaded on the website, the process of which is likely to be completed within two days. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh made a surprise visit at the hospital in this regard, where he asked nodal officer Dr Rajkumar Singh to make separate chambers for the doctors and arrange necessary medicines. He also asked the authorities to make drinking water facilities available for patients and make the seating arrangement better, so that the aim of making the facility a superspeciality hospital within six months can be achieved soon. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Singh said that these surprise inspections are necessary to take stock of the progress. “We instructed the nodal officer of the hospital to make separate parking arrangements for two wheeler and four wheeler vehicles, and refurbish the hospital as a whole,” he said. As per plans, development of a small garden, a children’s park, an auditorium for holding meetings, demolition of some old and dilapidated structures, solar system arrangement are also to be made. Rajkumar Singh said that the hospital is trying to take in renowned specialist doctors and talks are going on between both the sides at the moment. This is aimed to help people of the economically weaker sections to get better availability of medical facilities at lower rates. “Once the doctors are engaged the procurement of necessary equipment as per their requirement will be made,” the nodal officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Seniors' tourney brings back offline chess in Jharkhand ||Offline chess in Jharkhand is set to be back after more than a year. The global pandemic had forced the players to make virtual moves but the wait has ended with All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) switching gears to organise the senior championship in Ranchi. The 20th edition of the Aditya Birla Memorial State Senior Chess Championship - 2021 is going to take place from March 20 to 23 at Sarala Birla University, Birla Knowledge City, Mahilong, Ranchi. According to AJCA secretary, Neeraj Kumar Mishra, the state senior women and under-25 team will be selected on the basis of ranking obtained during the championship. "As the national senior meet has been declared from April 12 at Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, we are required to organise this event in a very short notice," he added. Players can go through the events brochure and enroll themselves online on AJCA's official website www.jharkhandchess.in. The entry fee is Rs 500 for players having ELO Rating and selected from their respective districts. For others, it is Rs 700. The entry fee is exempted for BPL card holders. A total of Rs 69,000 will be distributed amongst the top twenty finishers and the best two veteran (above 55) players. Mishra, an International Master who was recently elected secretary of Chess Players Forum, said that the state senior chess championship will be the first offline event being organised by them since the global pandemic broke out last year. Interested players can contact Neeraj Kumar Mishra (9471190041),Deepak Kumar, chief arbiter (9934465516), Vishal Kumar Minz, deputy chief arbiter (8797356009) and Baisakhi Das (8240803028).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Expect a weekend of rain, storms and lightning  ||A western disturbance passing through north-west India is likely to trigger rain and thunderstorms over Jharkhand this weekend. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert on Wednesday, warning of rain and thunderstorm activity over north-west, southern and central Jharkhand on March 20 and 21( Saturday and Sunday). The Met office also issued a lightning alert in several districts of the state. "The passing western disturbance is expected to trigger an induced cyclonic circulation extending 0.9 km above mean sea level. The induced cyclonic circulation would result in adverse weather over Jharkhand this weekend," explained Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre. He went on to say that dry weather with mainly clear sky was expected to prevail over Jharkhand during the next two days. A wind chart analysis and satellite pictures at Ranchi weather office suggested that cloudswould start to form in isolated pockets of Jharkhand from March 19. The IMD forecast suggested that there wouldn't be much changes in both day and night temperatures over Jharkhand during the next 72-hours. Met data suggested that Ranchi and its adjoining areas recorded a maximum temperature of around 33 degree Celsius on Wednesday while the night reading was around 18 degree Celsius. Jamshedpur recorded a day reading of around 37 degree Celsius while the night reading hovered around 19 degrees. Daltonganj recorded a day reading of 36 degree Celsius while the minimum temperature was around 18 degree Celsius on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Diploma engineers protest for jobs in Dhanbad  ||More than 400 diploma engineers from the across the country on Wednesday carried out a day-long demonstration at the headquarters of mines regulator, Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) in Dhanbad today demanding jobs in various subsidiaries of Coal India Limited (CIL) and Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL). The agitators, who even underwent post diploma practical training but have been unemployed for several years, carried out the agitation under the banner of All India Diploma Engineers and Officials Association (AIDEOA). They also held a meeting with chief inspector of mines of DGMS, Prabhat Kumar demanding him to put pressure on coal companies to carry out immediate recruitment on statutory post of mining sirdar, overman and surveyors, claiming the mines operation without required manpower on statutory posts may endanger the safety of mines. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dulal Mahto, a protestor who completed his mining diploma in 2015, underwent one year post diploma practical training and cleared the DGMS certification exams in 2017, said, “Several thousand diploma engineers from the across the country who have obtained DGMS certificates since 2017 are unemployed. We are compelled to carry out the protest today as the maximum age for recruitment may expire permanently for several candidates who will be deprived of the job.” “Our parents have invested their hard earned money on our education and training to see us succeed but they are also losing patience off late due to the lack of vacancy and appointment,” Mahto, a native resident of Katras in Dhanbad, said. “Even the coal companies are facing huge shortage of manpower on the statutory posts of Mines suveryor, overman and mining sirdars but instead of recruiting new persons to fill up the positions, they have been putting strenuous pressure on existing limited workforce,” said an overman of a coal company requesting anonymity, adding that they are also participating in demonstration today along with job seekers to ensure the filling of vacancies. “We chose to carry out the protest at mines regulator DGMS office today because being the regulator, they are entrusted with the task of carrying out the risk assessment of mining activities of the coal companies” said the protestor. The mines surveyors are entrusted with the task of making maps and plans of mines with accurate measurement and also to carry risk assessment and viability study of the potential mine sites. The mining overman coordinates and supervises the drilling and blasting work in mines within the budgeted cost while the mining sirdar assists the overman in supervising the drilling work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 5 lakh Jharkhand residents now vaccinated||The count of Jharkhand residents vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus crossed the 5 lakh mark on Tuesday as the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 25,000 beneficiaries on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The total number of people administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand form around 1.5 per cent of the state's total population of 3.29 crore, as per the 2011 Census. However, only 1,71,845 of the over 5 lakh vaccinated residents have also received the second jab, thereby completing their course of vaccination, NHM figures reveal. On Tuesday, as many as 18,180 senior citizens and 2,490 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of the vaccine, taking the total count of senior citizens vaccinated so far to 1,39,481 and those of vaccinated middle-agers to 22,612, a report released by the NHM stated. The state achieved only 7 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers on the day by inoculating 3,772 of over 50,000 beneficiaries. The second dose was administered to 10,887 healthcare and frontline workers, hardly 12 per cent of the beneficiaries registered for the second jab on the day. So far, the state has achieved 88 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers and 70 per cent for the second dose. The vaccination campaign for senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions was launched on March 1. The second dose of the vaccine will be administered to senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions after Holi, which is likely to be celebrated on March 28 and March 29, health officials said. Meanwhile, the Covid toll reached 250 in Ranchi as the district reported one more casualty on Tuesday, a bulletin from NHM stated. The count of active cases also jumped to 577 in the state and 362 in Ranchi alone as fresh cases of infection outnumber Covid recoveries on the day, the bulletin added. Ranchi reported 45 of the 76 fresh cases and 29 of the 54 Covid recoveries on Tuesday. The count of active cases have been on the rise in Jharkhand lately, forcing the government to take precautionary measures and intensifying testing, officials said. As per government data, over 1.20 lakh people have been infected in the state so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The state has reported 1,094 Covid fatalities so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Work for migrant who walked 7 months to reach home||The Sahebganj district administration in Jharkhand has identified the labour contractor who had allegedly duped a tribal worker who had to walk for seven months to return from Delhi after all his money was snatched and he was assaulted. Berjom Bamda Pahadiya, 54, from a primitive tribal group (PTG) who speaks only Santhali, had started walking along railway tracks during the coronavirus-induced lockdown in August and reached home at Amarbitha village in Sahebganj district on March 13, covering more than 1,200km. Sahebganj deputy commissioner Ram Niwas Yadav said The Telegraph report on March 14 on Pahadiya had left him shocked. “It was shocking to read the news…. I directed the block development officer (of Pathna) on Monday to locate the PTG member and also trace the middleman labour contractor who committed the inhuman act. We also received a directive from the chief minister’s office to ensure all social security benefits are given to the victim,” Yadav said. On Tuesday afternoon, Pathna BDO Suman Sourav identified the labour contractor as Rajesh Thakur, a resident of the same panchayat area where Pahadiya lives. Thakur is absconding since Pahadiya returned to the village. “I have lodged a report at Ranga thana against Rajesh Thakur, who had taken villagers to Delhi and assaulted and harassed the victim. We will find out who else were involved. We have asked all panchayat representatives to be alert and ensure that harassment of migrant labourers by middlemen are reported to the administration,” Sourav said. Thakur had allegedly promised good money to Pahadiya. Once in Delhi, Thakur allegedly withheld all his payments and snatched whatever meagre amount the migrant had been carrying. Pahadiya had no option but to walk all the way home, wearing a pair of torn slippers. He had to beg for food and water at villages on the way. Pahadiya says he had not eaten for a fortnight when an NGO worker spotted him at a railway crossing in Dhanbad district on March 11, about 240km from his home. The NGO worker arranged for food, clothes and also a vehicle to take Pahadiya to his village on March 13. BDO Sourav visited Pahadiya’s village on Monday evening and met him. “They are a primitive tribal group belonging to the Pahadiya community which is on the verge of extinction. They live in hills and forest areas in isolation. However, with the help of the village head I was able to trace the victim and his wife (Nandi Pahadin) on Monday evening,” Sourav said. The BDO found out that Nandi had a ration card with the name of her husband and children on it. They receive pension and ration every month. The administration has given work to the couple with the Ajeevika self-help group so that they can receive financial benefits from the government. “We also sent a recommendation to the Sahebganj district administration under the rural housing project (Birsa Awas Yojana) for the tribal couple. They will have a house by March-end or April. We have also ensured that they have a job card and their names are added under the MGNREGS,” Sourav said. The district administration also gave 50kg ration to Pahadiya while an NGO has provided them Rs 5,000 as immediate relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand youths to join farmers’ agitation||In an attempt to involve youths in a massive way with the farmers’ agitation in response to the call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity has decided to organise Yuva Kisan March in all block headquarters in the state on March 23. “March 23 is observed as Shahadat Diwas (Martyrdom Day) to mark the death anniversary of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Raj Guru and Sukhdev. Following the call given by the Samyukta Kishan Morcha, we have decided to observe the occasion by taking out Yuva Kisan March in all the 260 blocks headquarters in the state aiming to involve youths in huge numbers with the farmers’ protest,” said Sufal Mahato, state convener of the Samity and a farmer from the Tamar area of Ranchi. The Samity, which is the umbrella organisation coordinating the farmers agitation’ in Jharkhand, has been holding kisan panchayats in different districts and blocks of the state to prepare for the programme on March 23. “We have held kisan panchayats in almost all the blocks of Jharkhand in the run-up to the March 23 event. We are expecting youths to come in large numbers to join hands with the farmers and like-minded supporters of political parties during the rally and express solidarity with the farmers who have been agitating for 111 days against the draconian new farm laws despite oppressive tactics adopted by the central government,” said Mahato. The farmers are also involving youths as they feel their involvement is crucial for the agitation as they brace for a long stand-off with the government. “The government is using all tactics to intimidate the farmer leaders agitating near Delhi since November 26. We fear that it would be a long agitation and the active involvement of youths is necessary for any such agitation. “We have been informing youths about the shortcomings of the three new farm laws and hope that they come in large numbers to take part in the padyatra to show their solidarity with the farmers’ agitation in Delhi,” added Mahato. Sources in the Samity said that apart from the farm laws, they would also be raising their voice and protesting against the government’s failure to keep in check rising fuel prices which has reached an all-time high in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren sets example on House dignity||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren paid an exemplary tribute to democratic institutions when he chose to speak at the state Assembly for making some cabinet decisions public. “Since the House is in session, it would not be proper to announce the people-friendly decisions the state cabinet took in its meeting of March 12 outside,” he told the Speaker, adding his government was respectful towards democratic norms and the dignity of the House. “We (the leaders) will come and go and the governments will change but the House will always remain there,” Hemant further said, adding it was of utmost importance that everyone maintained and enhanced sadan ki garima (the dignity of the House). “It was like observing the model code of conduct followed during election time,” the chief minister later told media persons, explaining why he thought it would not be proper to make public announcement about those cabinet decisions and added that policy decisions should not be announced publicly when the House is in session. The decisions of the cabinet that Hemeant announced in the Assembly were, however, already known. The chief minister announced in the Assembly that the government decided that 75 per cent of jobs available in private factories and companies would be kept reserved for the local candidates. He also declared that the government would consider road accidents as a disaster and pay Rs 1 lakh to the next-of-the-kin or dependents of the victims. He further announced that such youths who were technically trained but unemployed would be paid an annual assistance of Rs 5,000. Though the details of those decisions were to be worked out by the departments concerned, it is gathered that only such jobs with a monthly salary limited to Rs 30,000 would be reserved for the local candidates. “The decision of reserving three-fourths of such jobs for local candidates is fine but the government should also skill such youths in the trades that are required for the local industrial units,” said Praveen Jain Chabra, president of the state’s apex trade body Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries. “The state government has schemes for providing skill development training and they should skill the youths after identifying the proper trades that are required for the industrial units located within the state,” he further said, adding that would actually be helpful for both the youths and industrial units of the state. There were about 634 such units that were lying idle in the state at present, Chabra further pointed out, adding those could also accommodate many such youths if those were reopened as the state government was also wanted to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
