18-03-2021||Calcutta||Slogan pits Khudiram against Nathuram at Indian Coffee House||Time and again it has been said that the Opposition cannot match the messaging of Narendra Modi. If so, the Opposition should have been at Indian Coffee House on College Street on Monday and taken lessons from the young. A group of feisty youths led by a woman at Coffee House had this message for a group of saffron-attired BJP supporters censoring “No Vote to BJP” posters: “Khudiramer ei Banglay Nathuramer thain nei (Nathuram has no place in Khudiram’s Bengal).” The slogan delivers a sledgehammer blow with a feather touch: it recalls Khudiram Bose and the freedom struggle the Sangh parivar would rather forget, it is direct and simple, and it does not leave room for defamation suits to be filed by those who seek now to distance themselves from Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi. The youths chanted “Tomar bukey Nathuram/ Amar bukey Khudiram (Nathuram in your heart/ Khudiram in mine)” and followed it up with “Khudiramer ei Banglay Nathuramer thain nei.” Another arrow flew from the youths’ bow and hit home: “Rabi Thakurer matite dangabajer thain nei (There’s no place for rioters in the land of Rabindranath Tagore).” The BJP group had no answer other than shouting: “Jai Shri Ram” and “Jai jai jai jai jai jai mata, Bharat Mata, Bharat Mata.” Nehru, the usual whipping boy when the BJP is stuck for answers, was not mentioned. The BJP supporters had earlier snacked at the Coffee House and on their way out blackened the word “No” from the “No Vote to BJP” posters. A video shared widely on social media on Wednesday showed the woman (a college teacher) leading the protesters and chanting the slogans as the staircase separated them from the larger group of BJP supporters. The woman’s voice rose above the crescendo and there was little doubt who was winning the argument. She was joined in the chorus by several others. They continued till the BJP supporters were seen walking down the stairs and leaving. Madhurima Bakshi, whose vocal power was unmatched in the video, told The Telegraph on Wednesday she had asked the BJP supporters not to deface or tear the “No Vote to BJP” posters. “They did not listen. They said we had done our job, they were doing theirs. I told them they could paste posters beside ours but they were busy defacing our posters,” the 33-year-old college teacher said. Madhurima said the slogan invoking Khudiram, who was hanged at the age of 18 for throwing a bomb at a carriage in which he suspected a British judge was travelling, had been in use for quite some time. “We chant slogans naming icons of Bengal and India who fought against authoritarianism. Khudiram, Tagore, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar represent Bengal, something that the BJP does not understand,” she said. Some Calcuttans who saw the video said the image of a woman standing up to a male group of BJP supporters was something the saffron camp would find hard to understand. Many of the party’s leaders have made comments that suggest women are subservient to men, they said. Earlier on Monday, BJP supporters in saffron T-shirts had parked themselves around several tables inside Coffee House. The picture had been shared by some BJP supporters to project a symbolic takeover of a bastion of Bengali culture. Subhas Chakraborty, a retired professor of history from Presidency College, said the uniformed BJP brigade smacked of a kind of fascism. “Anyone can walk into Coffee House. But people wearing some kind of uniform, arriving in a group and sitting inside Coffee House is like a symbolic takeover of the place. This entire methodology smacks of a naked form of fascism,” he said. Rajesh Roy, a Twitter user, wrote: “So proud!! The might of men being challenged by the lady standing right on that stairs and the unified war cry slowly dissipating away!!! This is Bengal! The might of a woman will always be saluted here!!” The content of the video drew admiration from political leaders, too. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted: “BJP goons rampaged the iconic Coffee House on College Street, Kolkata, legendary venue that hosted history changing meetings of revolutionaries during the freedom struggle. Tagore renounced his Knighthood here. Kolkata’s youth gave a befitting reply.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
18-03-2021||Calcutta||IIHM presents The Telegraph She Awards 2021 ||JW Marriott’s ballroom came alive with thunderous applause as IIHM presents The Telegraph She Awards 2021 powered by JD Birla Institute in association with Kutchina on Wednesday evening. (From left) Swastika Mukherjee (films), Swatilekha Sengupta (theatre), Tilottama Majumdar (literature), Supriya Roy (entrepreneur), Jayasri Burman (creative arts), Indrani Sen (music), Mouma Das (sports), Amita Dutt (dance) and Usha Uthup (Hall of Fame; not in picture) were feted for their contribution in their respective fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Post-Covid survey by ID hospital||The Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital, which has treated close to 2,000 Covid-19 patients, has started a survey on how they are. Each person will be called up and asked how she or he has been doing and whether there are any post-Covid complications. The respondents will be asked whether they are suffering from breathing problems, heaviness in the chest and continuous palpitation, a doctor of the hospital said. “The respondents will also be asked whether they are suffering from joint pain, general sense of exhaustion and fluctuating levels of blood sugar and blood pressure. The survey will cover all organs. We will also try to ascertain the psychological well-being of the persons,” the doctor said. The first call, as part of the survey, was made on Wednesday to a person who was admitted to the Beleghata hospital on this day a year ago. “The doctors who have been treating Covid patients will be making the calls and noting down the responses in a format,” an official of the hospital said. Senior doctors of the hospital said that after collating the responses, they would try to find out how the coronavirus has affected the various organs at various stages of the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Save rivers’ meet urges political action||More than 1,000 people from all over Bengal assembled at the Ramlila Maidan in central Calcutta on Wednesday to demand appropriate action from political parties to save rivers, and wetlands and other water bodies across the state. The public meeting, with the theme slogan “Save rivers, water bodies and wetlands; save the state”, organised by the green platform Sabuj Mancha with Dakhinbanga Motsyojibi Forum (DMF), was attended by those who have been fighting for the cause for a long time. Rajendra Singh, called the Waterman of India, sent his solidarity message from Rajasthan, highlighting the threat to the Adi Ganga. The Adi Ganga, the internationally acclaimed East Calcutta Wetlands, the Saraswati river in Howrah, the Ichamati and the Churni in North 24-Parganans, and the Atreyee, Mahananda and the Phuleswari in north Bengal were highlighted by the speakers as some of the vulnerable rivers. “People representing nearly 30 rivers, water bodies and wetlands have come today, including many from north Bengal. In north Bengal, we are also concerned about the trans-boundary rivers like the Teesta and the Atrai,” said Tuhin Suvra Mondal, one of the conveners of Sabuj Mancha’s state-level river committee. “We have organised this meeting to publicly highlight the sorry state of most rivers, water bodies and wetlands in the state, and to demand immediate and appropriate action from all political parties,” said Naba Dutta, the secretary of Sabuj Mancha. Dutta claimed that around 30 to 35 rivers across Bengal have either already been lost or are in the process of being lost. “It is unfortunate that none of the parties gives any importance to this enormous resource the state harbours. Can we imagine a Bengal without rivers?” he asked. “Illegal encroachment, rampant sand mining, 24X7 pollution, rivers in the state are being violated as a routine, often with the overt or covert support of politicians,” said Biswajit Mukherjee, a former chief law officer of the state environment department and a national award winner for environment, who was at the meeting. Sasanka Dev of DMF pointed out that rivers needed to be protected to save the livelihoods of millions of fishermen across the state. Dev complained that though the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered the state pollution control board (PCB) to reduce pollution and restore 17 rivers, nothing had been done on the ground. “The PCB has submitted the pollution abatement plan for all the rivers to the NGT, but has no role in execution,” said Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the board. “The work requires a huge budget and there is no plan about where the money will come from,” said a PCB official. “We have got some success by mobilising the community in restoring rivers in Nadia. A ‘nodi songsod’, a decentralised network to look after the rivers, has been formed and is working well so far,” said Jyotirmoy Saraswati, from Nadia. “Fishermen are now used to getting much less fish in the Sunderbans because of pollution in the rivers, be it plastic or otherwise,” said Pabitra Mandal, from the Sunderbans’ Gosaba block. “Sabuj Mancha will soon approach political parties with our demands that have come up in today’s meeting and urge them to include these on their agenda,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta airport fines fliers without masks||The Calcutta airport has since Monday been penalising passengers found without masks. In the first three days of the drive, which coincides with a fresh rise in the number of Covid cases in Bengal and other states, the airport authorities asked hundreds of passengers to wear masks and fined four of them Rs 100 each, officials said. Almost all passengers spotted without masks had the face covering in their pockets or handbags. Public health experts and state government officials have expressed worries over the growing violation of Covid-19 safety protocols in public places. The main problem is the aversion to wearing masks. Apart from the airport authorities, the Central Industrial Security Force, which looks after security of the airport, is involved in the drive launched by the directorate general of civil aviation to enforce the mask mandate. “Passengers who are not wearing a mask are telling us that they felt uncomfortable wearing it. Some said they find it difficult to breathe wearing a mask for too long,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. “Almost all these passengers are keeping the masks in their pockets or handbags.” A number of passengers without masks said they forgot to put on the face covering after entering the terminal. “Those who are putting on the mask after being told to do so are being allowed to go. Those who are refusing are being fined,” said the official. Most of the people without masks are being spotted in the departure area of the terminal, where passengers spend a lot of time. On Wednesday afternoon, Metro found many passengers entering the terminal without masks. This newspaper reported on Wednesday that health officials and public health experts were worried about the rise in Covid cases because of rampant violation of the safety protocols at public places, including at election rallies. Metro Railway has alsodecided not to allow any passenger without a mask at stations. “No passenger will be allowed to enter the station premises without a mask. Punitive action will be contemplated against those not wearing masks,” said a Metro official on Wednesday. “Despite regular announcements through the public address system asking people to wear masks, many passengers are found without one.” Many passengers arriving from cities like Mumbai and Bangalore have alleged that the airlines were not asking for the Covid-19 RT-PCR test reports before boarding flights to Calcutta. The Bengal government has made it mandatory from February 27 for all passengers arriving on flights from Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana to produce a negative RT-PCR report before boarding the aircraft. The test has to be performed within 72 hours before the departure of a flight. A doctor from Calcutta who returned from Mumbai on March 15 said: “My wife and I underwent the RT-PCR test 72 hours before boarding the flight and the result was negative. At the airport, when we approached the check-in counter, the woman at the counter said there was no need to provide the test result. At the boarding gate, too, no one asked for the Covid test report. Same at the Calcutta airport.” Another passenger who recently came from Mumbai said no airline personnel sought to see the report. An official at the Calcutta airport said they were receiving verbal complaints from passengers about airlines not scanning RT-PCR reports. “However, a few others complained that airlines did not allow them to board flights without the report,” the official said. A state health department official said they had counters at the arrival area of the airport's domestic section but checking RT-PCR reports of all passengers might not be possible because that would lead to huge queues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Food aid continues beyond lockdown  ||An NGO that had started giving  ration to old people amid the lockdown in May 2020 is unable to stop the distribution because many of the beneficiaries are yet to get back their livelihood even after almost a year. Some of the aged are alone, left to fend for themselves. Some are abandoned by their families because their sons or daughters can barely manage to earn a living. Among them is 67-year-old Subhadra Mondal, who worked as a help in a pre-primary school, and 61-year-old Om Prakash Shaw, who would drive a rented taxi and bring back home money that was enough for him and his wife. Subhadra’s visit to her former place of work has not yielded any result because the gates of the school are closed. Om Prakash has developed a cataract and will not be able to drive till he gets operated. The NGO, Calcutta Social Project, provides ration to these people every week and is unable to “abandon them who are already abandoned,” by fate or family. The NGO had made attempts to wind up the project in December-January but the needs of such people and their abject misery forced them to make a fresh appeal to donors so that they could continue with the food aid. “We started the food aid for people impacted by Covid-19. I was told that we cannot keep feeding people indefinitely but they are poor, old people and we cannot abandon them,” said Arjun Dutta, the president of the NGO. But the help is not for anyone who queues up outside the NGO’s office. A survey is conducted, as part of which NGO teams visit the houses of potential recipients and assess their living conditions, before distributing ration. Bharati Rajak, 70, would bring home some ration because her son, a washerman, barely earns anything now. He has to feed a family of four. “Before my health failed, I would do the same work. Prior to the lockdown there would be 50 to 60 clothes a day, but now no one wants to give us clothes for washing. We barely get eight to 10 clothes a day. The lockdown has taught them to wash their clothes themselves and they don’t need us anymore,” said Rajak. Then there is 58-year-old Keshto Samanta, a make-up artist with theatre groups and dance troupes whose earnings have gone down to almost nothing. “Earlier, there would be 18 to 20 shows in a month. Now there are two or three. It is becoming difficult to make ends meet,” said Samanta, whose son works in an electrical goods shop. Pushed by their situation, some of them, despite their age and failing health, have tried to get some work. Lakshman Das, 61, worked at a roadside eatery before the lockdown. “They would give me Rs 6,000 a month but the hotel closed down following the lockdown. When it reopened, they did not take me back. Right now, I ferry drinking water to some of the houses in my area. I earn Rs 1,000 a month. But it is not enough for the two of us,” said Das, who lives in a Beltala slum. The NGO has reduced the number of beneficiaries to about 500 (250 couples) from 1,200 to 1,300 till December. The cost of providing ration comes to Rs 31,900 a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta civic bodies open more vaccination sites||The civic bodies in Calcutta and Bidhannagar are increasing the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres to speed up immunisation against the disease. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will start Covid-19 vaccination in 17 more ward health clinics from Thursday, taking the total number of vaccination sites to 61. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) opened six new vaccination sites on Wednesday. The BMC is running 12 vaccination sites. The increase in the number of sites comes at a time when Covid-19 cases have started rising again and public health officials said faster vaccination was a key to preventing another surge. The bulletin published by the state health department on Wednesday evening stated that 303 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours and 96 of them were from Calcutta. “The focus will be on people who are 60 and above and those above 45 with comorbidities. Our target is to inoculate 100 such people every day at each clinic. That apart, we will carry on inoculating healthcare and frontline workers,” a CMC official said. “Covid-19 vaccination was being run from 51 clinics till Wednesday. From Thursday we will conduct vaccination in 68 ward health clinics,” said the CMC official. The CMC has 144 clinics in the city, one in each ward. The official could not say whether the CMC would open vaccination sites in all 144 clinics. The 17 civic clinics where Covid vaccination will start on Thursday are located in the wards 4, 8, 17, 24, 28, 36, 51, 64, 69, 78, 92, 112, 102, 119, 129, 141 and 143. The vaccination sites of the BMC are spread across Salt Lake, Baguiati, Narayanpur and Rajarhat. “We want to maximise our outreach and are trying to ensure that more people get vaccinated," said a BMC official. The centres in the BMC area that are already functional include Matrisadan Hospital in Salt Lake’s EE Block, Deshbandhu Nagar Hospital in Rajarhat, Vidyasagar Matrisadan in Rajarhat and primary health centres in Jhautala and Ashwininagar. Pranay Kumar Ray, a member of the board of administrators of the BMC who is in charge of the civic health department, said they had increased the number of sites to 12 following a spurt in the number of cases. “Recipients need not be from the same ward as where a vaccination clinic is located. Anyone can come and get vaccinated,” said an official. “Someone who has not registered on the Co-Win portal can walk in, too, for the jab. We will register them at the spot and administer them doses.” The identity cards that are required to register include Aadhaar, PAN, passport, driving license, electoral photo identity card and pension document with photograph. Each recipient must carry a mobile phone because a one time password (OTP), which will be required for registration, will be sent to the number. Residents of Salt Lake and adjoining areas said they did not know where the vaccines were being administered as the civic body had not undertaken any drive to spread the information. "The news that the corporation has opened vaccination clinics has only spread by word of mouth,” said Shatarupa Ghoshal, 64, a resident of BD Block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Stricter charges in Rashika Jain case||A court has slapped the stricter charges of death due to dowry and criminal breach of trust on the husband and in-laws of Rashika Jain, who had died after a purported fall from the terrace of her in-laws’ Alipore house last month. The two charges were added following a prayer by Calcutta police, who are probing the death and had initially started a case under IPC sections 498A (cruelty towards married women) and 306 (abetment to suicide). It was only after Rashika’s family submitted a fresh complaint seven days after the first complaint, mentioning the alleged demands from her in-laws’ family, that the investigators submitted a prayer to add the charges. The court recently granted the prayer. Sections 304B (dowry death) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) have been added to the existing charges. The charge of causing dowry death, in less than seven years of marriage, could lead to a maximum punishment of life imprisonment. Rashika got married to industrialist Kushal Agarwal in February last year. No one has yet been arrested in connection with the young homemaker’s death. A criminal lawyer not attached to the case said the charge of abetment to suicide is a “relatively wide section, while proving dowry death is easier”. “In the absence of a suicide note with any specific mention, abetment to suicide charge becomes a wide section and it is relatively difficult to prove the involvement (of the accused) in the victim’s death. On the other hand, the charge of dowry demand is more subjective and easier to prove,” said the lawyer. The charge of causing death due to dowry demand, he said, is considered stringent especially if the death occurs within seven years of marriage. “In this case, they (the couple) had spent only one year into marriage. This increases the gravity of the charges,” the lawyer said. Investigators have examined the staff and drivers at the Agarwals’ house to ascertain the sequence of events before and after Rashika’s purported fall on February 16. The police said they had seized CCTV footage from the cameras at the Agarwal residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Hi-tech road signs for Salt Lake Sector V ||Roads across Sector V will get signs that will display street numbers and a small map of the area, and will also have in-built CCTV cameras as well as QR codes that can be scanned on a smartphone to get point-to-point directions. The signboards will also tell motorists about traffic restrictions and various no-entry points. The new signage will be installed by the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA), an official said. “We have consulted police and will place the new boards where they are clearly visible,” an NDITA official said. Debashis Sen, the chairman of the authority, said the signage would help motorists and commuters and also boost surveillance capabilities. “There are 119 CCTV cameras in Sector V. We are planning to have one camera per signboard and this will boost surveillance capabilities…. They will also help everyone who has to visit Sector V and is not too familiar with the area and the traffic restrictions,” said Sen. According to the plan, boards made of flexible material will be placed inside a transparent fibreglass casing that will be backlit by LED lighting systems and attached to 10ft high poles. The smaller of the two boards at each site will mention the street number. Following the global practice of identifying a street by number, Sector V roads have recently been numbered 1 to 38. The north-south roads have odd numbers and the east-west ones have even numbers. The bigger, 4ft-tall board — placed at the eye level of an average pedestrian — will display the map of the area, the distance of important crossings and landmarks from the spot and how long a pedestrian might take to walk there. The mention of distance is primarily meant to help drivers. Care will be taken so that digits and markings are legible and bright enough for motorists to read from a distance, said an NDITA official. “The signage has been designed to guide people through physical environments and help enhance their understanding of the space using visual cues and symbols. We want to make travelling through the township easy,” Sen said. The signage will also denote whether a street is one-way or not. Hundreds of office-goers are using their personal vehicles to commute to workplaces in order to avoid public transport amid the pandemic and the lack of road signage or directions have led many into no-entry zones as well as dead ends. Neelotpal Chatterjee, a techie, said he drove for around 500m from the College More intersection towards the SDF crossing before cars coming his way made him realise his mistake. “I somehow managed to reverse and turn the car around towards College More, from where I took a right turn and ended up in front of Godrej Waterside before finally reaching my office,” said Chatterjee. In 2017, several roads in Sector V were made one-way. All vehicles entering the main road from the SDF crossing and going towards EP-GP Block can now enter only through Infinity, Oxford and TCS crossings. No vehicles are allowed to take the right turn and enter from Webel or College More crossings to reach EP-GP Block. However, there are no signs to warn motorists headed to the SDF crossing not to take a right turn from the College More intersection. On Wednesday, Metro found several vehicles trying to take a right turn there, only to find other cars coming at them through both flanks. The road between the SDF and Technopolis crossings was made one-way around three years back but no signage informing motorists has been installed. To add to the worries of those new to the tech township, the old signs have not been removed. Motorists, especially those who are not Sector V regulars, often follow these signs and end up in lanes from where there is no easy way out. The Sector V Ring Road that runs parallel to water bodies had also been made one-way. Vehicles can move from Mahisbathan towards Nicco Park but not in the opposite direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur  plan to recall 300 final-year undergraduate students to campus from April 16||The IIT Kharagpur director, V.K. Tewari, has announced that they have a plan to recall about 300 final-year undergraduate students, “whose labs require physical presence”, from April 16. The announcement  through a Facebook post came two days after undergraduate and postgraduate students boycotted online classes to protest the alleged lack of planning by the administration in reopening and calling back students to the campus. “From April 16th onwards, we have a plan to recall about 300 final-year UG students whose labs require physical presence. About 800 first-year M.Tech. and Law students etc will be able to join starting in the middle or end of May. Before arrival, all students are required to submit the undertaking as mentioned above,” the director has said. Since practicals cannot be held online, students in the fourth-year BTech programme have become wary. Study in engineering remains incomplete without formal training in practical classes that are known as sessionals. A BTech student said their anxiety heightened after the director had announced on Monday (again through a Facebook post) that they were hoping to call back the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students so that they would be able to complete their lab classes by May-June. “The IIT Kharagpur administration had decided in February following a meeting with the students’ senate that all final-year students were to report to the campus between April 18 and 21. On Monday, the director said this would be pushed back to May-June. What would we learn then?” the student said. Another BTech student wrote on the director's March 15 Facebook post: “What is the logic behind calling them after May (only to vacate their rooms and say goodbye to the campus)?” The students’ senate adopted a resolution on Tuesday urging the administration to keep the students posted about their plan to call the pre-final year students and the ones who face resource constraints back to the campus. “Recalling PhD students will be expedited as well,” director Tewari posted on Wednesday. Repeated calls to director Tiwari went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Business||FDI worth Rs 26,000 crore received in insurance sector since 2015, informs Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said India received FDI worth Rs 26,000 crore in the insurance sector after 2015 when the foreign investment limit was raised to 49 per cent from 24 per cent. Replying to a debate on the Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Sitharaman said insurance companies are facing liquidity pressure and that is why the government was proposing to increase the FDI limit further. She said the foreign direct investment (FDI) is aimed at supplementing the domestic long term capital. Sitharaman said hike in foreign investment limit to 74 per cent will help meet the growing capital requirement of insurance companies. The minister stressed that the bill to hike FDI limit in insurance has been brought after extensive consultations by sector regulator IRDAI. The bill seeks to increase the FDI limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent. The announcement regarding it was made by the minister while presenting the Union Budget on February 1. Currently, the permissible FDI limit in life and general insurance stands at 49 per cent, with ownership and management control with Indians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||Markets track losses for 5th straight session||Extending its losing streak to the fifth consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex tanked 585 points on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, RIL and TCS. After rallying nearly 500 points earlier in the day, the 30-share BSE index gave up all gains to end 585.10 points or 1.17 per cent lower at 49,216.52. The broader NSE Nifty slumped 163.45 points or 1.11 per cent at 14,557.85. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Infosys, Dr Reddy's, TCS, Reliance Industries, Tech Mahindra and NTPC. On the other hand, ITC, Bajaj Auto, M&M, Maruti and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. "Having seen a brisk gap-up opening on positive global cues, domestic equities fell sharply for the fifth consecutive day as sharp rise in coronavirus cases in the country made investors jittery," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. A sharp rise in daily COVID-19 cases in India has raised apprehensions about sustainability of ongoing rebound in corporate earnings, he noted, adding that the mounting concerns of possible fresh economic restrictions made enthusiasm of dovish commentary from Federal Reserve short lived for domestic markets. After its two-day policy meeting, the US Fed reassured investors that it expects to keep its key interest rate near zero through 2023. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended with gains in the overnight session. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Bourses in Europe were also trading higher in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent lower at USD 67.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 400 points  in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Thursday, led by gains in ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries amid positive cues from global markets and foreign fund inflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 436.79 points or 0.88 per cent higher at 50,238.41, and the broader NSE Nifty was up 131.55 points or 0.89 per cent at 14,852.85. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by ONGC, M&M, Maruti, ICICI Bank, SBI, HFC twins and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Infosys and Dr Reddy's were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 562.34 points or 1.12 per cent lower at 49,801.62, while Nifty slumped 189.15 points or 1.27 per cent to finish at 14,721.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Wednesday as they bought shares worth Rs 2,625.82 crore, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the outcome of the US Federal Reserve's policy meet is very positive for equity markets. "The Fed's accommodative monetary stance is appropriate and will continue through 2023 mean the ample liquidity condition and the low-interest rate will sustain for an extended period of time. "The better than expected news is the Fed raising US GDP growth to 6.5 per cent and signal at inflation above 2 per cent will be tolerated for some time - Very good news for the bulls," he noted. After its two-day policy meeting, the US Fed reassured investors that it expects to keep its key interest rate near zero through 2023. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended with gains in the overnight session. A concern in India, however, is the second wave of Covid-19 attacks in parts of the country, particularly in Maharashtra. But, going by experiences this is unlikely to impact the market much, he said, adding that the second wave in the US and Europe (much less in intensity) didn't impact markets. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.76 per cent lower at USD 67.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||Vodafone adds subscribers first time since October 2019||For the first time since October 2019, cash-strapped Vodafone Idea Ltd has added subscribers. It added 1.7 million wireless customers in January, taking its wireless user base to 286 million. Bharti Airtel led the gain in subscriber base, adding 5.9 million users in January. Reliance Jio Infocomm was hit by slowing subscriber growth, adding around 2 million customers. Despite the addition, Vodafone Idea’s market share shrunk marginally to 24.58 per cent month-on-month, while Airtel expanded 29.62 per cent as on January 31. At 35.30 per cent, Reliance Jio remains India’s largest telco by market share. It is the No. 1 player with 410.7 million wireless subscribers, followed by Airtel’s 344.6 million and Vodafone’s 286 million. “All service areas except Mumbai showed growth in wireless subscribers during January. Uttar Pradesh (west) service area showed maximum growth of 6.45 per cent in its wireless subscriber base during the month,” Trai said in its monthly data. But, in terms of active subscribers, Bharti continued to be the leader with 97.44% or 335.8 million active users, while only 79.01% base of Jio was active with 324.5 million users, at the end of January 2021. Vi trailed behind with an active user base of 256.3 million users, which is 89.63% of its total base. Tariff hike Analysts said telcos are looking at the option of increasing the average revenue per user (ARPU) and some of the measures being considered include a reduced validity period of postpaid plans or even cutting down on data and voice allowances on existing prepaid plans without changing the pack value. This could drive customer migrations to higher-value plans or even to booster packs once their allowances expire, both of which would be tariff accretive for incumbent operators. Airtel has said that industry average revenue per user (ARPU) needs to rise to Rs 200 in the near-term, it has repeatedly said it won’t take the lead in raising tariffs but would definitely follow if either Vi or Jio raises rates. Vodafone Idea which had an ARPU of Rs 121 – lower than Airtel’s Rs 166 and Jio’s Rs 151 – in the December quarter, was slated to raise tariffs by the March-end. But that plan seems to have been shelved after Jio last month launched offers on its 4G feature phone – JioPhone – seemingly to target the country’s remaining 300 million feature phone user.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||BPCL share price falls 5 per cent after declaring second interim dividend||Shares of Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) on Wednesday fell around 5 per cent as the Street was left disappointed by its second interim dividend. The oil refiner on Tuesday announced that it will be paying an interim dividend of Rs 5 per share. This fell short of market expectations of a payout of anywhere between Rs 30 and Rs 60 per share based on the proceeds from the sale of its stake in Numaligarh Refinery and the recent liquidiation of some of its treasury shares. Earlier this month, BPCL had announced that it will exit Numaligarh Refinery in Assam by selling its entire stake to a consortium of Oil India Ltd and Engineers India Ltd for Rs 9,876 crore. The sale of the refinery would clear the way for the privatisation of India’s second-largest fuel retailer. Its board had also given the nod to sell treasury shares, which came after the merger with Kochi Refinery, held by BPCL Trust.  Thereafter, close to Rs 5,500 crore of treasury shares, or 5.81 per cent of its equity, were liquidated. Among brokerages, Emkay had expected a one-time special dividend of Rs 40-50 per share and its analysts said that the sale of the Numaligarh refinery is an important event in its divestment process. On Tuesday, Dipam secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey had said the BPCL stake sale would be completed in the second quarter of the next fiscal. The government owns 114.91 crore shares, or 52.98 per cent, in BPCL. On the BSE, the BPCL scrip fell 4.83 per cent, or by Rs 21.90, to settle at Rs 431.90.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||EPFO urges Bengal govt to extend PF benefits to casual employees||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has urged the Bengal government to consider extending the benefit of Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 to casual employees working in various ministries, departments and autonomous bodies under the control of the state government. All direct employees of state government departments and organisations get the benefit of provident fund. However, certain activities involving casual workers such as watch-ward, house-keeping, data entry operators, para teachers, anganwadi sevikas and others who are either outsourced from other agencies and contractors or employed on ad-hoc or contractual or daily wage basis directly by different departments of the government do not have social security benefits such as provident fund, pension and insurance coverage. “We have requested the government to consider extending various benefits under EPF and MP Act to these workers and issue suitable statutory directions. This will be a great help towards widening the social security benefits to each and every working person in the state,” said Navendu Rai, regional PF Commissioner – I, Calcutta. However, government sources said a key headwind in this case is the fiscal situation of the state exchequer. In the case of EPF, both the employee and the employer contribute equally. Bengal’s neighbouring state Bihar has taken a step towards providing EPF benefits towards teachers and librarians posted in panchayat institutions and civic bodies and officials said that a similar move could also benefit employees in Bengal to have a social security cover from the organisation. Bengal government has budgeted salary expenditure of Rs 59,166.09 crore and pension and retirement benefits of Rs 21,262.79 crore in 2021-22, both growing by 4.45 per cent and 8.35 per cent respectively over the revised estimate of 2020-21. Home guards appointed by the state under the West Bengal Home Guard Act, 1962 also do not have access to such benefits. The social security bulwark has accordingly approached the state government to tap into this segment of contractual and casual workers and requested the latter to issue requisite directions to all departments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||Equity info in income tax department lacks clarity||Analysts have expressed concern over the income tax department’s move to actively start tracking capital gains arising from the sale of mutual funds and shares and dividend received on shares. The information will be provided to the income tax department beyond a limit but without any ceiling. The details will now come pre-filled in the tax returns to ensure ease of filing, according to the latest income tax department notification. Certain entities, including financial institutions such as banks, mutual fund houses, registrars and bond issuers are required to report transactions beyond a specified limit in the financial year to the tax department. These transactions are known as specified financial transactions under the 114E of the Income Tax Act 1962. “These details will be captured in the pre-filled income-tax forms and any discrepancy may invite queries. It will be interesting to see how ‘capital gains’ reporting actually pans out as it includes certain finer nuances,” Vinita Krishnan, director of Khaitan & Co, said. Narayan Jain, tax advocate and chairman, CCI Professionals Forum, said: “The monetary limits should be prescribed under the newly inserted sub rule (5A) in Rule 114 E of Income Tax Rules for reporting of capital gains, dividend and interest. Such limits are there, for instance, in case of cash deposit in a bank or post office limit if an amount aggregates to Rs 10 lakh or more in a fiscal”. “The reporting agency may not be in a position to compute capital gains or loss in the absence of cost of listed securities or units of mutual fund and date of its acquisition. In case of LTCG, one may claim the benefit of indexation. These issues need to be addressed.” “The new rule prescribed multiple agencies for reporting capital gains, it should be specifically prescribed to avoid unnecessary duplication of reporting,” Jain said. The notification said for making pre-filled income tax returns, agencies like stock exchanges, depositories, clearing corporations, registrars, banks, companies, Post Master General and non-bank lenders have to issue statements of financial transactions by their clients “in such form, at such frequency, and in such manner, as may be specified" by a designated official. Principal Director General of Income Tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income Tax (Systems), are authorised to seek such information with the approval of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), said the notification.  The change brought out by the Income-tax (4th Amendment) Rules, 2021, is effective immediately, the notification said. Narayan Jain, Tax Advocate and Chairman, CCI Professionals Forum said “the monetary limits should be prescribed under newly inserted sub rule (5A) in Rule 114 E of Income Tax Rules for reporting of capital gains, dividend and interest. Such limits are there for instance, in case of cash deposit in a bank or post office limit is an amount aggregating to Rs. 10 Lakhs or more in a financial year.” “The reporting agency may not be in a position to compute capital gains or loss in absence of cost of listed securities or units of mutual fund and date of its acquisition. In case of LTCG one may claim the benefit of indexation. These issues need to be properly addressed. The new rule prescribed multiple reporting agencies for reporting capital gains, it should be specifically prescribed to avoid unnecessary duplication of reporting,” Jain added. Till now around 16 kinds of high-value transaction such as cash deposited to saving bank accounts, purchase of shares, debentures, mutual funds, buyback of shares worth more than Rs 10 lakh on an aggregate basis during a financial year, credit card payments of Rs 1 lakh or more in cash or in any mode of Rs 10 lakh or more during a financial year, were reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||India to rely less on Saudi oil imports||Indian state refiners are planning to cut oil imports from Saudi Arabia by about a quarter in May, in an escalating stand-off with Riyadh following Opec’s decision to ignore calls from New Delhi to help the global economy with higher supply. Two sources familiar with the discussions said the move was part of the government’s drive to cut dependence on crude from West Asia. Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum Corporation, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals are preparing to lift about 10.8 million barrels in May, the sources said on condition of anonymity. State refiners, which control about 60 per cent  of India’s 5 million barrels per day (bpd) refining capacity, together import an average 14.7-14.8 million barrels of Saudi oil in a month, the sources said. India, the world’s third-biggest oil importer and consumer, imports more than 80 per cent of its oil needs and relies heavily on West Asia. Hit hard by rising oil prices, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan has repeatedly called on the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) and its allies, known as Opec+, to ease supply curbs. He has blamed Saudi’s voluntary cuts for contributing to a spike in global oil prices. Opec+ decided this month to extend most cuts into April. Responding to Pradhan’s request, Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman suggested India dip into strategic reserves filled with cheaper oil bought last year. India’s oil ministry responded by asking refiners to speed up their diversification of crude sources and reduce reliance on West Asia. Indian refiners could not cut April oil imports from Saudi Arabia as nominations were placed before the Opec+ decision in early March, the sources said, adding that plans for May were preliminary and final May nominations would be known in early April. Saudi Arabia has cut April oil supplies for some Asian refiners but has maintained average monthly volumes for Indian refiners. The Kingdom has, however, rejected demand from Indian companies for extra supplies. The West Asia’s share of India’s overall imports has already plunged to a 22-month low in February. In February, the United States emerged as the second biggest supplier to India after Iraq, while Saudi Arabia, which has consistently been one of India’s top two suppliers, slipped to No. 4 for the first time since at least January 2006. Two Indian refiners — IOC and MRPL — have also issued tenders seeking oil for delivery in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
18-03-2021||Business||Aditya Birla board approves IPO of Birla Sun Life AMC||Aditya Birla Capital Ltd on Wednesday announced that its board has given in-principle approval for  an initial public offering (IPO) of its arm Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC Ltd, the investment manager of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, is a joint venture between the Aditya Birla group and Sun Life Financial Inc of Canada. ABCL is the holding company for the financial services businesses of the Aditya Birla group. The company did not share any other details. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC has total domestic assets under management of over Rs 2,38,000 crore and over 70 lakh investor folios for the September quarter of 2020. It has a pan-India presence of more than 300 locations. Sun Life has operations in various markets worldwide, including Canada, the US, the UK, Ireland, Hong Kong, the Philippines and Japan. At present, HDFC AMC, UTI AMC, Nippon Life India AMC and Shriram AMC are listed on domestic bourses. Nazara Tech The IPO of gaming firm Nazara Technologies opened for subscription on Wednesday. The share float with a price band of Rs 1,100-1,101 a share will conclude on March 19. At the upper end of the band, the IPO is expected to fetch Rs 583 crore. On Tuesday, the company said it has mopped up a little over Rs 261 crore from anchor investors. The firm’s IPO decided to allocate 23,73,395 shares to 43 anchor investors at Rs 1,101 per share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
18-03-2021||Business||Benchmark indices come under pressure for fourth straight session||Benchmark indices came under pressure for the fourth straight session as investors remained cautious ahead of the Federal Reserve policy outcome even as factors such as an uptick in inflation and rising number of Covid-19 cases weighed on the sentiment. While the Sensex tumbled 562.34 points, the broader NSE Nifty slumped 189.15 points, or 1.27 per cent, to 14721.30. Experts feel that share prices are likely to face hurdles such as rising bond yields and dearer commodity prices which could have implications on the RBI’s monetary policy. On Wednesday, Standard & Poor’s (S&P) said India and the Philippines are the most vulnerable during the current times of “reflation trade” that have seen a rise in US bond yields even as it warned that these economies could also see capital outflows which could lead to central banks hiking interest rates. The rating agency recalled events during the taper tantrum of 2013 since India and Indonesia had to hike key policy rates then as their currencies plunged against the dollar. “In our view, India and the Philippines are the most vulnerable at the current juncture. Both economies have seen inflation rise in recent months. Real policy rates are below long-run average levels, eroding the return buffers,” the rating agency said. “Capital may be quicker to leave and the central banks may have to raise policy rates. One mitigating factor for both countries is that current accounts are stronger relative to normal levels,” S&P noted. While the stock markets were on a bullish phase after the unlock began last year and roll out of the Covid-19 vaccine, it has faced obstacles in recent times like rising US bond yields which has led to apprehensions that FPIs could take money out of riskier assets in emerging economies like India. In today’s trade, investors awaited outcome of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. The focus remains on whether the Fed will indicate any unwinding of its low-interest rate policy. "Caution descended on markets on Wednesday with world stocks holding below recent record highs as investors waited to see whether the U.S. Federal Reserve tonight would signal a faster path toward policy normalisation than previously expected’’, Deepak Jasani, Head of Retail Research, HDFC Securities said. The 30-share Sensex displayed volatility as it opened higher at 50,436.02 and hit a day’s low of 49718.65. it thereafter tanked 562.34 points or 1.12 per cent to close at 49,801.62. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, declining around 5 per cent, followed by NTPC, Sun Pharma, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, ITC, Infosys, TCS and HDFC were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
18-03-2021||Business||Centre set to continue with current inflation target of 4 per cent||The Centre is reportedly set to continue with the current inflation target of 4 per cent with a band of plus and minus 2 per cent — in what should come as a respite to the Reserve Bank of India which has been vehemently arguing for a status quo on the target. Speculation is rife about the Centre raising the threshold to 5 per cent with the review of the flexible inflation target (FIT) framework which was adopted for five years in 2016 and a new mechanism due from April. As part of the framework, the government had fixed the 4 per cent target inflation band with the upper tolerance limit of 6 per cent and the lower tolerance limit of 2 per cent. A higher band of 5 per cent would have given the central bank more room to cut interest rates, thereby supporting the economy. However, the central bank led by governor Shaktikanta Das on various occasions called for retaining the current target. The RBI had held price stability was a necessary pre-condition to sustainable growth. A Bloomberg report on Wednesday quoted government sources and said the Centre was likely to leave the target band unchanged so that the monetary policy committee (MPC) retained its primary objective to maintain price stability while keeping in mind the objective of growth. The report added that the Centre was mulling a few other changes which include a relaxation on the definition of “failure” of the role of MPC if inflation was beyond the targetted levels. The inflation targeting framework has come under stress as retail inflation is inching up because of higher food prices. Retail inflation rose to 5.03 per cent in February, while core inflation — a price index stripped off the food and fuel components — stood at 5.8 per cent. Liquidity in the system is also under strain because of the higher-than-expected amount of government borrowings announced for this fiscal and the next fiscal amid fears of the RBI tightening its monetary policy. Yields on government securities have risen to over 6.20 per cent. The benchmark 10 year G-sec settled at 6.18 per cent on Wednesday. The RBI in its report on the monetary policy framework released last month said during the period October 2016 to March 2020, headline CPI (consumer price index) inflation averaged 3.9 per cent with a decline in inflation volatility, which was within the targeted range and showed the success of the targeting framework  in terms of its primary mandate. Besides, the trend inflation, which is the path of actual inflation after a shock, provides an appropriate benchmark for targeting. Trend inflation has fallen from above 9 per cent before flexible inflation target to a range of 3.8–4.3 per cent, indicating 4 per cent is the appropriate level for the economy, the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
18-03-2021||India||Maharashtra reports highest one-day spike since pandemic began||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 25,833 new coronavirus cases, the highest one-day spike since last March when the first coronavirus infection was detected. It took the caseload to 23,96,340, said a health official. With 58 fatalities, the death toll jumped to 53,138. The earlier record was 24,886 cases, reported on September 11 last year. The state is at the beginning of the second COVID-19 wave, a central team report had said earlier this week. On Thursday, 12,764 patients were discharged from hospitals, the highest in single day this year. The total of recoveries now stands at 21,75,565. There are 1,66,353 active cases in the state. Nagpur city on the second consecutive day recorded highest number of new COVID-19 cases at 2,926, followed by 2,877 in Mumbai and 2,791 in Pune city. Pune division comprising civic bodies of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad as well as districts of Pune, Solapur and Satara reported cumulative 5,583 new cases, highest among the divisions. Mumbai's COVID-19 tally increased to 3,52,851 and eight deaths took the fatality count to 11,559. Mumbai division reported 5,190 new cases and 14 deaths. With 1,21,335 tests carried out on Thursday, the state has so far tested 1,79,56,830 samples for coronavirus. There are 8,13,211 people in home quarantine while 7,079 are in institutional quarantine. Out of 58 deaths, 38 occurred in the last 48 hours and 15 in the last week. Remaing five deaths are from the period before the last week. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 23,96,340, new cases: 25,833, death toll: 53,138, discharged: 21,75,565, active cases: 1,66,353, people tested so far: 1,79,56,830.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
18-03-2021||India||Tying 'rakhi' as bail condition in sexual offence unacceptable, rules SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday termed as wholly unacceptable the Madhya Pradesh High Court order setting 'rakhi' tying as a condition of bail to an accused in a sexual offence case, saying it transforms a molester into a brother, by a judicial mandate. The apex court also issued a slew of directions to be followed by judges while dealing with sexual offence cases, saying certain attitudes such as references to survivors' previous consent, promiscuous behaviour, clothing and so on should "never enter judicial verdict". The top court's judgement came on a plea by nine citizens against the high court verdict imposing bizarre bail condition of 'rakhi' tying on the accused by the victim. They had also sought clear directions to all courts to refrain from imposing irrelevant, freaky or illegal bail conditions . A bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and S Ravindra Bhat set aside the HC verdict and said, "This court...holds that the use of reasoning/language which diminishes the offence and tends to trivialize the survivor, is especially to be avoided under all circumstances. "Using rakhi tying as a condition for bail, transforms a molester into a brother, by a judicial mandate. This is wholly unacceptable, and has the effect of diluting and eroding the offence of sexual harassment. The act perpetrated on the survivor constitutes an offence in law, and is not a minor transgression that can be remedied by way of an apology, rendering community service, tying a rakhi or presenting a gift to the survivor, or even promising to marry her, as the case may be." "The law criminalises outraging the modesty of a woman. Granting bail, subject to such conditions, renders the court susceptible to the charge of re-negotiating and mediating justice between confronting parties in a criminal offence and perpetuating gender stereotypes," said Justice Bhat who wrote the judgement. The apex court also directed the Bar Council of India to work on training and sensitization of judges and lawyers, including public prosecutors. Giving some illustrations, the verdict said the language and reasoning trivializing the survivor should be avoided under all circumstances. "Thus, the following conduct, actions or situations are hereby deemed irrelevant, e.g. -- to say that the survivor had in the past consented to such or similar acts or that she behaved promiscuously, or by her acts or clothing, provoked the alleged action of the accused, that she behaved in a manner unbecoming of chaste or 'Indian' women, or that she had called upon the situation by her behaviour, etc. "These instances are only illustrations of an attitude which should never enter judicial verdicts or orders or be considered relevant while making a judicial decision; they cannot be reasons for granting bail or other such relief, it said. The greatest extent of sensitivity is to be displayed in the judicial approach, language and reasoning adopted by the judge, it said. "Even a solitary instance of such order or utterance in court, reflects adversely on the entire judicial system of the country, undermining the guarantee to fair justice to all, and especially to victims of sexual violence, it said, adding the role of all courts is to make sure that the survivor can rely on their impartiality and neutrality, at every stage in criminal proceedings. "Bail conditions should not mandate, require or permit contact between the accused and the victim and such conditions should seek to protect the complainant from any further harassment by the accused," the bench said in its direction. Where circumstances exist for the court to believe that there might be a potential threat of harassment of the victim, the nature of protection shall be separately considered and appropriate order made, in addition to a direction to the accused not to make any contact with the victim, it said. In all cases where bail is granted, the complainant should immediately be informed that the accused has been granted bail and copy of the bail order made over to him/her within two days, it directed. "Bail conditions and orders should avoid reflecting stereotypical or patriarchal notions about women and their place in society , and must strictly be in accordance with the requirements of law," it said. "In other words, discussion about the dress, behaviour, or past 'conduct' or 'morals' of the prosecutrix, should not enter the verdict granting bail, it said, adding the courts while adjudicating cases involving gender related crimes, should not suggest or entertain any notions towards compromises between the victim and the accused to get married, suggest or mandate mediation between the accused. "Sensitivity should be displayed at all times by judges, who should ensure that there is no traumatization of the prosecutrix, during the proceedings, or anything said during the arguments," it said. "Judges should not use any words that undermine or shake the confidence of the survivor," it said. A huge controversy had erupted and an appeal was filed by lawyer Aparna Bhat after the Madhya Pradesh High Court granted anticipatory bail to a married man in a case related to outraging the modesty of woman. "The applicant along with his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with Rakhi thread/ band on 3rd August, 2020 at 11:00 am with a box of sweets and request the complainant...to tie the Rakhi band to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come..," it had ordered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Arun Govil, Lord Ram of TV show Ramayan, joins BJP||Days before assembly polls begin in West Bengal and three other states, actor Arun Govil, who played the role of Lord Ram in the famous TV serial Ramayan, joined the BJP on Thursday, saying his decision was triggered by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's "irritation" to the chant of Jai Shri Ram. Govil joined the BJP in the presence of its general secretary Arun Singh and Union Minister Debasree Chaudhuri after the party announced the names of 148 candidates for the West Bengal assembly polls. "West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's irritation to Jai Shri Ram was a trigger point for me to join the BJP. And there is nothing wrong in saying Jai Shri Ram....it is not a slogan, not even a political slogan. It is a way of life for us, it represents our culture and ethos," he told the media at the BJP headquarters here. Govil, who essayed the role of Lord Ram on Ramanand Sagar's superhit 1987 series Ramayan, also said the BJP will give him a "platform" to do his bit to serve the nation. The phrase 'Jai Shri Ram' is being widely used and heard at BJP rallies and events in poll-bound West Bengal, where the party has emerged as the main opponent to the ruling TMC and is aiming to form its government this year. Govil, 63, has acted in films in several languages including Hindi and Bhojpuri. The multi-phased elections to West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry will end on April 29 and the results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Mallya, Nirav and Mehul Choksi all coming back to face law, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that fugitive businessmen Vijaya Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi are "coming back" to India" to face the law. The government is persuing extradition of Mallya and Modi from the UK while Choksi is believed to be in Antigua. Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi are all coming back to face law of the land, Sitharaman said in the Rajya Sabha while replying to a debate on the insurance amendment bill. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. Nirav Modi and his maternal uncle Choksi fled the country allegedly after committing fraud in the public sector lender Punjab National Bank. Modi is accused of committing a fraud of USD 2 billion (around Rs 14,500 crore) in the PNB.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||SC puts lawyers ahead of journalists in vaccination priority list||The Supreme Court on Thursday said journalists' work can be done without coming in contact with people unlike lawyers and asked the Centre to consider the legal fraternity's request for priority in Covid-19 vaccination saying their livelihood depends on direct interaction with their clients. The Centre opposed creating a separate class of lawyers and said that though it is not opposed to the legal fraternity members but tomorrow journalists and banking sector employees may also come forward seeking priority in vaccination. A bench of Chief Justice Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked the Centre to consider the request of lawyers for priority in vaccination as their livelihood depends on contact with people and their apprehension of getting the infection is genuine. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre said, "I need to have instructions on this. I don't have anything against the lawyers. Even I am not vaccinated, as I don't fall in the criteria but a vegetable vendor whose livelihood also depends on coming in contact with other peoples, why should he not be given priority in vaccination." Mehta further told the bench, If tomorrow journalists come forward that their livelihood also depends on coming into contact with other people and they are also a separate class and need to be vaccinated on priority. Then what should we do? We cannot create a separate class on the basis of profession? The bench said, We don't know exactly how journalists go about their business but what we do know is that journalists' work can be done even without coming in contact with people unlike lawyers. Mehta also said that then there can be a category of banking people, who will say they need the vaccination on priority as they come in contact with people every day and the list can go on. The bench said that it understands the apprehension expressed by some classes of people but it also appreciates the fact that India is leading in the vaccination drive. There are certain categories of people like lawyers and doctors who need contact for their livelihood. Will the expert committee see that these categories of people are vaccinated, the top court said. Mehta said the expert committee is looking at how vaccination is taking place in the country and it has to take a holistic view of the situation and he will have to seek instructions on the view of the court. The top court was hearing a PIL seeking priority vaccination of lawyers, judges and court staff and two petitions of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech seeking transfer of cases related to vaccines to the top court. It posted the matter for further hearing next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Ready to vaccinate all in Delhi in 3 months, says Kejriwal||Asserting that the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital was not a cause of worry, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced the number of people vaccinated in Delhi each day will be raised from around 40,000 to 1.25 lakh. In the last three days, the number of daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi has increased to over 500, he said, adding that though it was a "negligible" rise, his government has directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases. Kejriwal said the number of vaccination centres in Delhi will be doubled and they will be open from 9 am to 9 pm. The chief minister, in a press conference, said it did not add up while vaccination was going on cases of viral infection were rising. Appealing to the Centre to open vaccination for all instead of prescribing who were eligible to get it first, Kejriwal asserted that all the people of Delhi can be administered the Covid-19 vaccine in three months if the restrictions were lifted and enough supply of vaccine was ensured. He appealed to the Centre to decentralise vaccination process so that states can carry out immunisation on a war footing. Kejriwal said that due to a decrease in cases, laxity had crept in the system but now measures like using masks will be strictly enforced. The Delhi government is in consultation with experts of its own and the Central government and taking all possible measures to check the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Government keen to develop own app store, says minister||The government, while encouraging private players to host apps, is equally keen to develop and strengthen its own mobile app store, Parliament was informed on Thursday. India's first indigenously developed app store, ‘Mobile Seva Appstore’, hosts more than 965 live apps from various domains and categories of public services, Minister for Electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. "While the government encourages private players to host apps, it is equally keen to develop and encourage its own mobile App Store," Prasad said. The response has been good and the government wishes to strengthen it further, he added. The minister was replying to a question on whether in the absence of the country's own digital application store, dependence on Google and Apple for digital services is creating problems in the digital ecosystem and if the ministry would consider having either a single or separate digital store for Government and private apps, for self-reliance. Prasad informed that India is the largest user of mobile apps, and mentioned that the Digital India programme coupled with encouragement being given to Indian innovators to create apps has become a big movement. Citing India App Market Statistics report 2021, he said that around 5 per cent apps on Android are from Indian Apps developers. "The government also noted that there has to be a proper Indian App Store for hosting apps free of cost in the initial stages," he said. Accordingly, the `Mobile Seva App Store' was started which besides hosting Government apps is also encouraging private apps to come on board, he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Gadkari underlines benefits of vehicle scrapping policy||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said the vehicle scrapping policy will be a "win-win" policy that will help improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollution. Making a statement regarding the vehicle scrapping policy in the Lok Sabha, the Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister said the policy will also lead to an increase in the country's automobile industry turnover to Rs 10 lakh crore from the current Rs 4.5 lakh crore. According to the statement tabled in the Lok Sabha, the "scrap value for the old vehicle given by the scrapping centre, which is approximately 4-6 per cent of the ex-showroom price of a new vehicle". Besides, state governments will be advised to offer a road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent for personal vehicles and up to 15 per cent for commercial vehicles. As per the statement, vehicle manufacturers are also advised for providing a discount of five per cent on the purchase of a new vehicle against the scrapping certificate. Also, the registration fees may also be waived for the purchase of a new vehicle against the scrapping certificate, it added. Noting that the policy will be a "win-win" policy, the minister said it will help improve fuel efficiency, reduce pollution and GST income will also rise due to the purchase of new vehicles. According to him, the policy is aimed at reducing the population of old and defective vehicles, bringing down vehicular air pollutants, improving road and vehicular safety. Besides, it will help in achieving better fuel efficiency, formalising the informal vehicle scrapping industry, and boost the availability of low-cost raw materials for the automotive, steel and electronics industry. With the scrapping of old vehicles, raw materials such as plastic, copper, aluminium, steel and rubber will be recycled. This will bring down the cost component and help the industry become more cost-competitive. The Road Transport and Highway Ministry will publish a draft notification for stakeholders' comments in the next few weeks. The scheme will provide strong incentives to owners of old vehicles to scrap old and unfit vehicles through registered scrapping centres, which will provide the owners with a scrapping certificate. Under the policy, tentatively, rules for fitness tests and scrapping centres are likely to be applicable from October 1, 2021, while scrapping of government and PSU vehicles that are older than 15 years will be from April 1, 2022. The mandatory fitness testing for heavy commercial vehicles is likely to be in force from April 1, 2023, and the same will be in place in a phased manner for other categories from June 1, 2024. The minister said that there are 51 lakh light motor vehicles that are older than 20 years and 34 lakh light motor vehicles that are older than 15 years. Around 17 lakh medium and heavy commercial vehicles are older than 15 years without a valid fitness certificate, he said, adding that older vehicles pollute the environment 10 to 12 times more than fit vehicles. A vehicle failing the fitness test or failing to get a renewal of its registration certificate may be declared as End of Life Vehicle. The ministry has proposed that commercial vehicles be de-registered after 15 years in case of failure to get the fitness certificate. As a disincentive measure, increased fees for fitness certificate and fitness test may be applicable for commercial vehicles 15 years onwards from the date of initial registration, according to the minister. Another proposal is that private vehicles be de-registered after 20 years if found unfit or in case of a failure to renew the registration certificate. As a disincentive measure, increased re-registration fees will be applicable for private vehicles 15 year onwards from the date of initial registration. The ministry will promote the setting up of Registered Vehicle Scrapping Facility (RVSF) and will encourage public and private participation in opening such centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||AirAsia offloads two flyers for not following Covid norms||AirAsia India offloaded two middle seat passengers from its Goa-Mumbai flight on Monday, while IndiGo handed over two flyers to security officials during the last three days for not following the COVID-19 rules in flights, said senior government officials on Thursday. While action was taken against two passengers on the AirAsia India flight for refusing to wear PPE gowns, IndiGo handed over two passengers of its two different flights to security officials at the destination airports for refusing to wear masks, the officials noted. Aviation regulator DGCA had on Saturday asked airlines to de-board passengers who do not wear their masks "properly" despite repeated warnings. The aforesaid incidents came to light after media reported on Wednesday that four passengers were handed over to security agencies on Tuesday for not wearing masks properly onboard Alliance Air's Jammu-Delhi flight despite repeated warnings by the cabin crew. The government officials said on Thursday that a middle seat passenger on IndiGo's Delhi-Goa flight on Monday first created fuss on the issue of wearing PPE gown, and then she kept taking off her mask during the flight even after repeated warnings by the cabin crew. The crew handed her over to the security authorities once the flight landed in Goa, they added. A similar incident happened on Wednesday on IndiGo's Delhi-Hyderabad flight where a passenger refused to wear mask even after repeated warnings by the crew members, they said. The passenger was handed over to the security officials once the flight landed in Hyderabad, they added. The officials also said AirAsia India offloaded two middle seat passengers from Goa-Mumbai flight on Monday for not wearing PPE gowns before take off. When asked, AirAsia India spokesperson confirmed the incident and said, "Despite repeated requests, on observation that two guests refused to comply with the safety protocols laid out by the health and governing bodies, AirAsia India deplaned the guests from its Goa-Mumbai flight. The guests were escorted from the flight for further procedures." "We place safety and security foremost in all aspects of our operations and apologise for any inconvenience caused to other guests," the spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||All toll booths to be removed within a year, says Gadkari ||India will do away with toll booths and implement complete GPS-based toll collection within one year, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday. He said 93 per cent of the vehicles pay toll using FASTag, but the remaining 7 per cent have still not taken it despite paying a double toll. "I want to assure the House that within one year all physical toll booths in the country will be removed. It means that toll collection will happen via GPS. The money will be collected based on GPS imaging (on vehicles)," Gadkari said in the Lok Sabha during Question Hour. The minister said he has instructed police inquiry for those vehicles which do not pay toll using FASTags. There are cases of toll theft and GST evasion cases if FASTags are not fitted in vehicles. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016. From February 16, vehicles without FASTag are required to pay double toll fee at electronic toll plazas across the country. Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas, as the fee payment would be done electronically. Gadkari said new vehicles have FasTags fitted in them, while the government has said it will give free FASTags for old vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Over 35,000 fresh Covid cases in India, biggest spike in 102 days||India on Thursday recorded 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in over 100 days, which took the infection tally to 1,14,74,605, according to Union health ministry data. Registering an increase for the eighth consecutive day, the active caseload reached 2,52,364, which accounts for 2.20 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 96.41 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The death toll increased to 1,59,216 with 172 daily new fatalities, it stated. The single-day spike of 35,871 cases is the highest in 102 days. As many as 36,011 new infections were recorded on December 6. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,63,025, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.39 per cent, according to the data. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 23,03,13,163 samples had been tested up to March 17 with 10,63,379 being tested on Wednesday. The 172 new fatalities include 84 from Maharashtra, 35 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. So far, 1,59,216 deaths have been reported in the country including 53,080 from Maharashtra, 12,564 from Tamil Nadu, 12,407 from Karnataka, 10,948 from Delhi, 10,298 from West Bengal, 8,751 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,186 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
18-03-2021||India||Bihar governor nominates 12 MLCs||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan on Wednesday nominated 12 MLCs — six each from the Janata Dal United and the BJP. They all took oath in the Legislative Council later in the day. Building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary, Upendra Kushwaha, Sanjay Singh, Lalan Kumar Saraf, Sanjay Kumar Singh and Ram Vachan Rai were nominated from the JDU. On the other hand, mines and geology minister Janak Ram, Rajendra Prasad Gupta, Devesh Kumar, Pramod Kumar, Ghanshyam Thakur and Nivedita Singh from the BJP were present in the list of nominated MLCs released by the governor’s office. Kushwaha’s name was unexpected and sources said that the move indicated chief minister Nitish Kumar’s plan to induct him as a minister in his cabinet. These 12 seats in the Legislative Council were vacant since May last year. The nominations show that Nitish’s JDU has managed to wrest an equal number of seats compared to the BJP despite being a junior partner in the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. The JDU had managed to win just 43 seats in the Assembly elections held in October–November last year while ally BJP won 74 seats. The JDU’s tally has gone up to 44 since then as the lone Bahujan Samaj Party legislator joined it. The 12 members the governor nominates, usually eminent people from the field of art, science, literature and social service on the recommendation of the state cabinet, were a bone of contention between the JDU and the BJP. While the former wanted to divide them equally, the BJP wanted to get a larger slice. Sources said Nitish moved to get the nominations accepted at a time the BJP is busy preparing for elections in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The BJP also decided to play safe at this juncture and let Nitish have his say in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Ruckus in Odisha Assembly over  BJP MLA'a ‘suicide attempt’||The Odisha Assembly on Wednesday failed to transact any business and was adjourned till the post-lunch session as BJP, Congress and BJD MLAs created a ruckus over alleged mismanagement in paddy procurement and the suicide attempt by a lawmaker in the House. The members of the ruling BJD, Opposition BJP and Congress for the fifth day on Wednesday raised slogans in the well making their respective demands as soon as the House assembled for the Question Hour at 10.30am. While the BJD members demanded an unconditional apology from BJP’s Deogarh MLA Subhas Panigrahi for making a suicide bid by attempting to drink sanitiser in the House, the BJP and Congress members sought a statement of assurance from chief minister Naveen Patnaik for lifting of paddy from mandis across the state. Unable to run the proceedings, Speaker S.N. Patro adjourned the House several times till the post-lunch session at 4pm. As soon as the House was adjourned, the ruling party members, including women MLAs marched to the Raj Bhavan and submitted a memorandum to governor Ganeshi Lal seeking his intervention to upkeep the dignity of the House. They alleged that Panigrahi’s act of suicide attempt has brought a bad name for the Assembly as well as the state. Terming Panigrahi’s suicide attempt as “irresponsible”, the BJD members in their memorandum to the governor said: “We bring to the kind notice the shameful, cowardly, illegal criminal, cheap and immoral act of the BJP lawmaker in the August House on March 12.” Noting that Panigrahi had indulged in a shameful act, the BJD said it is the responsibility of a national party like BJP to counsel him, treat him and make him realise his mistake and apologise to the people. “Instead the support being rendered by the state party including their party observer and glorifying this act has shocked the conscience of the people of Odisha. It is an insult to the emotions and suffering of those who have lost their loved ones to this cowardly act,” the memorandum said. Panigrahi should apologise to the people of Odisha and set the precedent for future, the BJD said, adding that politics cannot and should not be done by anyone on the lives and sentiments of people and any act that defeats the human spirit should be condemned by every civilised human being. The BJP leadership and its state in-charge D. Purandeswari on Tuesday said that the party is proud of Panigrahi for being prepared to sacrifice his life for the interest of farmers, who have been a victim of government apathy. BJP’s deputy leader in the Assembly B.C. Sethy said: “Why should Panigrahi apologise? Instead the government should tender an apology for the parliamentary affairs minister and cooperation minister misleading the House by stating that all the paddy of eligible farmers lifted in mandis. There is no question of Panigrahi tendering an apology.” Congress whip Taraprasad Bahinipati who led the party in the agitation in the well by showing placards, however, said that Panigrahi tendering apology or the government making regret is secondary. The government must ensure that the farmers’ paddy was lifted immediately. Earlier attempts by Speaker Patro to resolve the issue through all-party meetings have failed to yield any result. The Opposition is protesting against introduction of token system in the paddy procurement in Odisha as part of which farmers are given a token for a fixed period of time during which they have to sell their grains in mandis. The BJP has alleged that farmers have to wait for a longer period to sell their produce due to which the time limit of the token lapses. Congress Legislature Party leader Narasingha Mishra in a letter to Patnaik said that it was his responsibility to intervene for smooth conduct of the House. Attempts by the Speaker to bring the House in order has failed, he said. In democracy, ruling party is not supposed to create pandemonium in the House demanding action against a member of the opposition party, Mishra said. “If the Speaker feels that, member has committed a breach of privilege, action can be taken against him as per Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Odisha Legislative Assembly,” Mishra said. When the government has already assured the House through the minister for parliamentary affairs to purchase paddy from genuine farmers, the minister in charge of cooperation should not give confusing statements, he said. To give confidence to farmers that their paddy will be purchased, your intervention is a must. I therefore appeal to you to call an all-party meeting to assure that no farmer will suffer while procuring paddy, Mishra wrote in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Odisha government to sell Lord Jagannath's land||The Odisha government has initiated the process to sell over 35,000 acres of land belonging to Lord Jagannath of Puri. The move is aimed at enhancing the Rs 650 crore corpus fund of the 12th century temple to Rs 1,000 crore by 2023. Making a statement in the Assembly in response to a question by BJP legislator Mohan Majhi, law minister Pratap Jena said: “The process to sell the land has been initiated on the recommendation of a committee formed under the chairmanship of former governor B.D. Sharma. The step to sell 35,272.235 acres of the temple land has been taken with the approval of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA).” Jena added: “We have so far identified 60,426.943 acres of land belonging to the Shree Jagannath temple. Of this, 395.252 acres is located outside Odisha in states like Bengal, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Steps are being taken to recover the land and regularise the land records.” According to Jagannath temple officials many devotees had donated land in the name of the Lord as a last wish. But over the years, people have encroached on such land in many areas. While land in the name of Lord Jagannath is spread over 24 districts of Odisha, 395.252 acres have been found in six other states. According to the Jagannath temple’s official records, 17.02 acres is in Andhra Pradesh, while 322.93 acres is in Bengal and 28.218 acres in Maharashtra. Similarly, 25.11 acres is located in Madhya Pradesh, 0.274 acres in Bihar and 1.70 acres in Chhattisgarh. “We are in touch with the respective district collectors to get back these lands. The land will be sold and money earned from this will be put in a fixed deposit in the Lord’s name. We have planned to reach the target of a Rs 1,000 crore corpus in the name of the Lord by 2023,” said a senior temple official. Those in possession of the land in Lord Jagannath’s name for more than 30 years, 20 years and 12 years, will get the opportunity to record it in their names by paying Rs 6 lakh, Rs 9 lakh and Rs 15 lakh per acre respectively. Meanwhile, chairman of the Shree Jagannath Temple Management Committee and Puri King, Gajapati Dibya Singh Deb, has spoken to non-resident Odias and sought their cooperation for the overall development of the shrine. The Odisha government has been working on transforming Puri into a world heritage city at an estimated cost of over Rs 3,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||BJP minister barb at Bihar Speaker over online answers during Question Hour||The Bihar Legislative Assembly witnessed unprecedented scenes on Wednesday after panchayati raj minister and senior BJP leader Samrat Chaudhary rebuked Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, who then adjourned the House and walked out. Though the adjournment was supposed to end after around 30 minutes at noon, it had to be extended till 2pm because Sinha refused to come to the House and stayed back in his chamber, while several ministers of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) tried to assuage him. The crisis was diffused after Chaudhary apologised in the Assembly. The unthinkable happened in the morning during Question Hour while Chaudhary was replying to a question by a fellow BJP legislator Vinay Bihari. The Speaker, who has been trying to streamline Assembly proceedings to save time spent in reading the answers in the House, sought to know why online answers were not being provided on the Assembly’s website. Chaudhary was adamant that 14 out of 16 questions related to his panchayati raj department have been answered online, but Sinha pointed out that his office had received online answers of only 11 or 69 per cent of them. The minister was unwilling to accept the Speaker’s contention. Sinha then asked Chaudhary to review the matter in his department at which the minister retorted: “Bahut vyakul nahi hona hai (Don’t become restive).” As Chaudhary’s words stunned the Assembly, Sinha asked him to take back his words at which the minister flared up, pointed his index finger at him and said: “Aye! This is not the way. This is not how it is done. Such directions are not given. You cannot give such directions.” Sinha, who also hails from the BJP and is an MLA from Lakhisarai, told Chaudhary that he cannot question the Speaker inside the House and cannot use such words. Sinha then adjourned the proceedings till noon and went to his chamber. Several ministers and senior leaders from the BJP and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) also rushed to placate Sinha. The adjournment was extended till 2pm as no apology came from Chaudhary. However, Chaudhary apologised when the session resumed at 2pm and said that he did not intend to lower the prestige of the Speaker’s position. Senior JDU leader and parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that the statements of the minister had hurt the honour of the Speaker’s post and such things should not be repeated in future. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said he was “deeply pained over the way the government was lowering the prestige of the House and the importance of the Speaker’s position. What kind of people have become ministers…” Several other Opposition legislators also attacked the NDA over undermining the legislature, legislative practices and decorum. Speaker Sinha has faced flak from several ministers during the ongoing budget session, who have accused him of being harsh on them while going soft on the Opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Congress takes on Centre's tall talk on vaccine diplomacy||Rome was not built in a day. Neither was the “Pharmacy of the World” that is India but the Narendra Modi government is loathe to admit it. At a time the Modi government has been talking up its Covid vaccine diplomacy, the Centre was given a crash course on Wednesday in the Rajya Sabha on how the country became the “Pharmacy of the World”. When Congress member Jairam Ramesh listed these factors, Benoy Viswam of the CPI said: “I would like to remember the late Shrimati Indira Gandhi and the role she played in making India the ‘Pharmacy of the World’. Here, that ideology, that political wisdom of this great country needs a mention.” Which should have set the stage for a gracious response from the government of the day. But Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, the current foreign minister who is among those who benefited most in an India that the Modi government wants to airbrush now, came up with a churlish response: “Success has many fathers. I am delighted to see today so many fathers claiming success.” The minister sidestepped a request from Opposition MPs to recognise, in the continuity in the vaccine diplomacy achievement, also the contributions of Indian scientists, epidemiologists and vaccinologists — and not just the policymaking of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as projected by the government. Jaishankar said: “I take it as a statement that they really want to praise the Vaccine Maitri initiative, except they are going about it in a very roundabout way. So, it is done in good spirit. “I take it once again as a very generous compliment to the government’s efforts from the other side. I also take it, Sir, as a great affirmation of the Make in India programme, which this government has pursued so strongly and with such great focus.” Earlier, in his statement, the minister had said: “More than the vaccines themselves, our policies and conduct have emerged as a source of strength for the stressed and vulnerable nations of the world.” Making his intervention, Ramesh of the Congress detailed the three defining factors behind the success in the pharma industry. He underlined that the adjuvant — the crucial element of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — was developed at the Hyderabad-based Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, a 60-year-old publicly funded organisation. “And, Bharat Biotech itself owes its origin to the department of biotechnology that was established in 1986, and the Technology Development Board that was established in 1996,” Ramesh said. “So, while we pat ourselves in the back for being ‘Pharmacy of the World’ and for being a major vaccine manufacturer, let us recognise that there has been a lot of continuity in these policies and the foundations that have been laid in the past few decades has led to a situation where we can take legitimate pride in our achievements.” Jaishankar said the Made in India vaccines had been supplied to 72 nations. “Even in the midst of a global crisis, the Prime Minister’s initiative of such deep friendship has raised India’s standing and generated great international goodwill for us,” he added. He reminded the House that before delivering the vaccines, India had also met a considerable amount of the world’s demand for hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other relevant drugs as the pandemic peaked. “This approach is not only in keeping with our age-old tradition of vasudhaiva kutumbakam... It is also the contemporary outlook of this government to utilise India’s growing capacities for the benefit of humankind. As a prominent nation in an increasingly multi-polar world, the international community has great expectations of us, and we, in turn, are prepared to demonstrate our willingness to shoulder greater responsibilities.” Later, noting the “deep appreciation” of Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute, he took a swipe at the Covaxin doubters. “Many people perhaps don’t wish to remember it now, but I am proud to say I got vaccinated with Covaxin. So, I think, I made my statement that day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||India needs to take first step for improving bilateral relations: Pakistan PM||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday said India will have to take the first step for improving bilateral relations, indicating that after the August 5, 2019, changes in Jammu and Kashmir, the onus is on New Delhi. This is the first time Imran has spoken publicly after the two countries committed themselves once again to uphold the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control on February 24 after two years of almost daily shelling across the contested border. Addressing the Islamabad Security Dialogue, Imran said: “There is basically one issue that is stopping us (from improving relations) at this time. We will try but India must take the first step because after August 5, till they take the first step, unfortunately we cannot move forward.” Reiterating that Kashmir is the only issue between India and Pakistan, Imran said the August 5, 2019, moves of India led to a complete breakdown in relations; adding that it is also holding back regional cooperation and uplift of the region in general. As always, he also flagged Pakistan’s long-standing support for Kashmiris’ right to self-determination||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Farmers' protest to continue through harvest season||The farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders plan to keep the movement alive during the upcoming harvest season with the help of supporters from other walks of life in an example of building solidarities across professions. With the harvest season upon them, farmers from Punjab and Haryana are under pressure to return to their fields. But Darshan Pal of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said that various unions and groups had already committed to sending people in batches to occupy the protest sites during this period. This is just one instance of the broader coalition sought to be built, against not just the three contentious farm laws but also the labour codes and bank privatisation. It is with this end in view that progressive mass organisations, including trade unions and student associations, participated in a meeting organised by the SKM at the Singhu border on Wednesday to ensure the success of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers on March 26. The farmers’ unions, particularly from Punjab, are up in arms also over a new order from the Food Corporation of India asking peasants to furnish land records for direct transfer of the minimum support price to their bank accounts for the rabi marketing season. The SKM has asked farmers not to provide the documents to the government in a show of non-cooperation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Bribe items totalling Rs 331.47 crore seized from poll-bound states and UT||Ten days before voting begins, bribe items totalling Rs 331.47 crore have been seized in the four poll-bound states of Tamil Nadu, Bengal, Kerala and Assam and the Union Territory of Puducherry, already eclipsing their cumulative haul before the last elections in 2016. Among the items seized are cash, liquor, drugs, precious metals and gifts. Tamil Nadu tops the list with seizures worth Rs 127.64 crore, followed by Bengal at Rs 112.59 crore. Bengal tops the seizures of drugs, valued at Rs. 47.4 crore, and freebies worth Rs 29.42 crore. The most amount of liquor, worth Rs 17.25, has been seized from Assam. The chief election commissioner had rapped excise officials in Tamil Nadu last month for not seizing enough suspected bribes meant for voters. Indian Revenue Service officer K.G. Anurag was transferred out of the state. The Election Commission said on Wednesday: “After due assessment, 259 Assembly constituencies have been marked as expenditure sensitive constituencies for more focussed vigil…. Distributing cash and gifts during the electoral process is not permitted under the law, e.g., distribution of money, liquor, or any other item disbursed and given to the electors with the intent to influence them. This expenditure comes under the definition of ‘bribery’, which is an offence both under 171B of IPC and under R.P. Act, 1951.” Polls to a Lok Sabha seat in Tamil Nadu had been postponed in 2016 due to the massive seizure of bribe items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||CPI (Maoist) media release terms citizens march a 'government conspiracy'||A purported media release of the banned CPI (Maoist) on March 12 has termed a march by victims of the conflict between the party and the security forces a “government conspiracy”. However, a journalist who is organising the march saw a glimmer of hope for the talks process in the note that specifically calls for the release of Markam Gopanna, a leader of the CPI (Maoist)’s Peoples Liberation Guerrilla Army who has been behind bars since 2007. The peace march from Dantewada to Raipur in Chhattisgarh by Bastar-based NGO New Peace Process (NPP) was flagged off by Congress leader Arvind Netam on March 12 — the 91st anniversary of the beginning of the Dandi Salt March. It has reached Puri in Kanker district, and is expected to arrive at Raipur on March 23, where a public meeting of victims is planned the following day. The Congress is in power in Chhattisgarh. The release signed by Vikalp, a nom de guerre of the spokesperson of the Maoists’ Dandakaranya special zonal committee, says: “Personally, some people in civil society may have good intentions and we welcome them, but they must be careful of people like Shubhranshu, as a ‘human mask’ of corporate plunder and government repression, under the guise of peace, are covering up corporate loot, the brutality and war by governmental armed forces, and human rights violations in the conflict areas. Shubhranshu’s peace process is a hoax and it’s a part of a government conspiracy.” Shubhranshu Choudhary heads the Bastar-based Bluetooth community radio CGNet Swara, as well as the NPP. Maoists have shunned the former BBC journalist after his 2013 book Lets Call Him Vasu quoted Maoists who claimed that Chhattisgarh-based health activist Binayak Sen, out on bail since 2011, was a courier for the party. The Dandakaranya zone covers a large swathe of forests spread over Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, parts of which are under the parallel administration of the CPI (Maoist). The party said: “If civil society is honest about peace, they should demand that central and state governments should immediately stop the counter-revolutionary suppression.” A litany of woes against multiple projects across India that would require displacement of populations, the farm laws, labour laws and the release of jailed Maoists are part of the suggested causes that civil society should take up. These include “the foisting of new cases despite repeated acquittals of our comrade Markam Gopanna, who has been stripped of his rights under the Constitution, and the laws made by government…” Choudhary, the journalist, pointed out that the Maoist statement specifically calls for the release of Gopanna. “He is in Jagdalpur jail (in Bastar) and under the rhetoric this is an indication that the Maoists are putting forward a condition for talks. This is a good sign and I am happy that they respect the overwhelming majority of local respondents in our survey last year who are in favour of talks. Talks were in the manifesto of the ruling Congress and I hope their government will be creative enough to use this opportunity, as their leader Rajiv Gandhi had done with the Assam Accord,” he told The Telegraph. The Chhattisgarh government has distanced itself from Choudhary’s efforts, and has focused on its own police-led carrot-and-stick initiatives to directly attract Maoists for talks, while also encouraging the surrender of their cadres and increasing trust in the State among the local population. Choudhary added that the fear of the Maoists, who had issued public threats to him and four other journalists last month, has kept most tribals away from the march although they have been generous in offering food to the marchers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Covid: Narendra Modi expresses concern at spread beyond big cities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked states to help stop India’s Covid-19 epidemic’s “emerging second peak” amid sharp rises in daily new cases in 125 districts over the past two weeks. Modi, in a videoconference with the chief ministers of various states, expressed concern about the latest epidemic assessments indicating a 150 per cent or greater rise in cases in 70 districts and 100 to 150 per cent rise in 55 districts. The “confidence” that India gained while battling the coronavirus epidemic during the first wave should not turn into “negligence”, Modi warned amid signals from multiple states that laxity in public health responses are likely contributing to the surge. The Prime Minister called on the states to take “quick and decisive steps” to stop the emerging second peak through the standard public health measures such as efficient testing, tracking and treating and efforts at containment. India’s count of daily new cases has increased from around 11,000 in mid-February to over 28,000 on Wednesday after a steady decline since the peak of the first epidemic wave in mid-September marked by 96,000 daily new cases. The epidemic has grown in at least 12 states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan — since March 1 but several states are conducting fewer RT-PCR-based diagnostic tests than required. RT-PCR tests, for instance, make up only 50 per cent tests in Gujarat, 40 per cent in Chandigarh and 34 per cent in Chhattisgarh, and 64 per cent in Delhi. Alternative so-called antigen tests can yield false negative results and miss cases. Modi stressed the need for local health authorities to ensure that RT-PCR tests make up at least 70 per cent of diagnostic tests conducted as recommended by the health ministry. Public health teams sent by the Union health ministry to Maharashtra and other states have also expressed concern that after cases are detected, local health authorities have not been tracing and quarantining their contacts in an efficient manner. “It has been observed that in some cases, contact tracing is confined to members of the household,” a senior health official said. The health ministry has directed states to ensure that for every case at least 20 to 30 contacts are traced and quarantined. The latest assessments by the health ministry suggest that sharpest increases in daily counts over the past two weeks have occurred in tier-2 and tier-3 cities and not in the largest towns or metros that were among the hardest hit in 2020. Some of the highest increases in daily new cases, for instance, have occurred in Nanded (385 per cent) in Maharashtra, Yamunanagar (300 per cent) in Haryana, Ratlam (500 per cent) in Madhya Pradesh and Ropar (256 per cent) in Punjab. In contrast, the rise since March 1 has been 76 per cent in Ahmedabad, 25 per cent in Bangalore and 15 per cent in Gurgaon. “This pattern is in line with forecasts that when it gets an opportunity, the virus will spread into tier-2 and tier-3 towns and rural areas,” a community medicine specialist said. In large cities, the virus has already infected large fractions of people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
18-03-2021||India||Banaras Hindu University denies inviting Nita Ambani as visiting professor||The Centre for Women’s Studies and Development at Banaras Hindu University on Wednesday denied having invited Nita Ambani to be a visiting professor, a day after students posted an image of the purported invitation letter on social media and protested on the campus. The students said they had heard that apart from the wife of Mukesh Ambani, the study centre also planned to invite the wives of industrialists Gautam Adani and Lakshmi Mittal, and questioned their credentials for the post of visiting professor. Ambani and Adani are perceived as close to the ruling BJP. Media reports said Ambani’s Reliance Industries Limited had denied that Nita Ambani had received any such invitation letter from BHU. K.K. Mishra, dean of the BHU social science department under which the women’s study centre functions, too denied any such invite after the department held a meeting on Wednesday afternoon. “The BHU has cleared its stand. The university administration never discussed any such issue and never sent any invitation to any of the wives of the industrialists,” Mishra told The Telegraph over the phone. Asked about the student-circulated WhatsApp image of the purported invitation letter to Nita Ambani, Mishra hung up. Nidhi Sharma, coordinator of the women’s study centre who had attended the afternoon meeting, was more opaque. “We withdraw ourselves from any such controversy. We are withdrawing ourselves,” she told this newspaper. Asked whether she was talking about “withdrawing” the purported invitation letter, Sharma said: “No, I don’t want to speak much. I am not into it.” Asked why the students had protested then, she hung up. The student-circulated document is dated March 12, addressed to Nita Ambani and written on the letterhead of BHU. It carries the purported signatures of Mishra and Sharma. The protesting students have said that only academics or women achievers like Mary Kom should be visiting professors. “We came to know about the invitation to Nita Ambani from a copy of the letter signed by Mishra and Sharma and posted its images on social media,” a student of the history department who was part of Tuesday’s protest said, asking not to be named. “Later, we heard from some of the professors that Lakshmi Mittal’s wife Usha Mittal and Gautam Adani’s wife Priti Adani would also be invited as visiting professors.” Requesting anonymity, a faculty member from the women’s study centre said: “The post of visiting professor is very prestigious and I don’t think these wives of industrialists are qualified for the job.” She added: “We had held a meeting in the department on Women’s Day and discussed many subjects. The dean of social sciences and the coordinator of the study centre were present but nobody told us about such a proposal. We learnt about it only when a group of students organised the protest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||SC issues notices to Centre on cancelled ration cards||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Centre on a mother’s allegation that her 11-year-old daughter and many others had died of starvation after the government cancelled four crore ration cards, mostly of tribals, for apparent non-linkage to Aadhaar. “The matter is too serious. We have to hear it. We expect you not to treat it as adversarial,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde told the Centre and gave it four weeks to file its response to Koili Devi’s petition. Additional solicitor-general Aman Lekhi pleaded that beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act are allowed to furnish alternative identity proof if they have no Aadhaar cards, but the court brushed the contention aside. “It’s our order,” said the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. Devi’s petition says her daughter Santhoshi Kumari died on September 28, 2017, after the family’s ration card was cancelled on the ground of not being linked to Aadhaar. The petition cites seven other alleged starvation deaths. It says what prevented the Aadhaar linkage was not always the absence of Aadhaar cards but problems with “the technological system based on iris identification, thumb prints... functioning of the Internet in rural and remote areas”. It says ration cards were cancelled “without notice to the famil(ies)”. Devi’s counsel Colin Gonzalves said the Centre was continuing to insist on Aadhaar linkage despite the apex court having laid down, in K.S. Puttaswamy vs Union of India 2019, that Aadhaar can be made mandatory for welfare schemes but not statutory entitlements. “Insistence on Aadhaar and biometric authentication had led to the cancellation of nearly 4 crore ration cards in the country, according to the Union of India. The Union of India casually gives an explanation that these cancelled cards were bogus,” Devi’s petition says. “As usual, government officials come up with excuses like illness, diarrhoea and malaria — in fact anything but lack of food. This cruel exercise deprived millions of Indians living below the poverty line of food and led to starvation deaths in Jharkhand, UP, Odisha, Karnataka, MP, Maharashtra, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and other states.” The petition complains that several states have failed to implement the Food Security Act’s mandate of establishing district and state-level grievance redress mechanisms that are to feature call centres, helplines and nodal officers. Initially, the court had expressed reservations about issuing notices, Justice Bobde saying: “You are asking for an omnibus kind of relief. You should have it investigated by the jurisdictional high court.” He had added: “This kind of thing (petition) will not help us or anybody. If you make an allegation about the entire country, this court cannot go into that.” But Gonzalves said the top court needed to deal with the matter as the Union government and not the states had cancelled the ration cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Media in dilemma over disclosing identity of grieving and wronged mother contesting against Pinarayi Vijayan||A grieving and wronged mother’s decision to contest elections in Kerala has landed the media in an unusual dilemma — how to strike a balance between concealing her identity and reporting on her with the intensity that a poll in India demands, while at the same time drawing attention to her story of pain. The mother of two minor girls who committed suicide after being raped by multiple men has decided to contest against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the upcoming Assembly elections, accusing him and his government of presiding over a botched-up investigation. The media has tied itself in knots on whether to identify her, which would run counter to the law that prohibits the disclosure of any information that would reveal the identity of a victim of sexual abuse who is a minor. If the woman is not identified, then it would mean not drawing attention to her unusual story of grief and helplessness that drove her to challenge the might of the chief minister in the electoral ring. Malayalam television channels have for now been showing blurred visuals of the woman without naming her. She is being referred to as the “mother of the Walayar sisters”. The Telegraph is not publishing the name of the woman, accepting legal opinion against taking editorial decisions that would reveal the identity of her daughters. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, prohibits the disclosure of any information that could lead to identification of victims who are minors. The woman, who will take CPM veteran Vijayan on as an Independent from the Dharmadom Assembly constituency in Kannur district, told this newspaper that she had no problem in being identified or photographed. “I am not a murderer that I would walk around with my face covered. I haven’t cheated anyone that I would have to conceal my identity,” she said over phone from Palakkad where she was busy collecting necessary documents to file her nomination. The Dalit woman alleged that the state government’s laxity in nailing the culprits and punishing erring police officers who botched up the probe had compelled her to take the decision. The police administration reports to Vijayan who is also the home minister. Her daughters — aged 13 and 9 — were found dead 52 days apart in January and March 2017 at their shanty in the industrial town of Walayar. The children died by hanging, unable to bear the torment of multiple men — known to the family — including a minor, raping them over a period of time. Forensic reports had shown that they had also been subjected to unnatural sex. As the parents are daily wage earners, they had to go out for work frequently, leaving their daughters alone at home. To the horror of an entire state, two years later a special court acquitted the four accused for want of evidence. It led to a massive outpouring of anger in Kerala. The state government in January handed over the case related to the deaths of the siblings to the CBI after Kerala High Court ordered a retrial, observing there had been a “miscarriage of justice” due to “serious lapses” in the investigation. The court also set aside the acquittal of the accused. The aggrieved mother last week tonsured her head in protest against the “denial of justice”. “I am engaged in a fight seeking justice for my daughters. So I want people to know what I am fighting for,” she said. The woman had recently said she had “cried and begged” before the chief minister to ensure the culprits were brought to book. The woman said that in her electoral bid she was open to support from any political force other than the Sangh parivar. While the fourth accused in the case of brutality against the girls, Pradeep Kumar, died by suicide in November 2020, Valiya Madhu and Shibhu have been re-arrested and sent to judicial custody following the reopening of the case. Another accused, Cheriya Madhu, obtained an anticipatory bail after the high court ordered a retrial. The juvenile has not been re-arrested considering his age. Senior lawyer P.V. Surendranath, who practises in the Supreme Court, told this newspaper that the provisions of the Pocso Act would not be violated if the woman was identified without connecting her to the children. “You cannot say she is the mother of the two girls (victims). Otherwise the law does not hinder the publication of the mother’s identity, especially because she is said to be contesting an election.” Advocate K.R. Subhash Chandran, who too handles Pocso cases, said Section 23 (2) of the act clearly states that no information can be published if it leads to revealing the identity of the victim. “No reports in any media shall disclose the identity of a child, including his name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of the identity of the child,” states Section 23 (2) of the act. But the law makes an exception in instances allowed by a competent court when “such disclosure is in the interest of the child”. “This is a unique situation where the mother is going to contest an election, which means her identity has to be revealed. Perhaps this kind of a scenario did not come up while drafting the law,” Chandran said. Social activist C.R. Neelakantan, who is assisting the woman, said publicity materials would certainly carry her name and picture. “How can anyone contest an election without telling the voters who you are? Even the ballot papers will have her picture. So there is absolutely no restriction in disclosing her name,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Kerala Assembly elections 2021: Congress cries voter list ‘fraud’||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday alleged massive manipulation of the voters’ list with multiple entries for the same person. However, much to his embarrassment, a person he named to prove his allegations said she was a Congress supporter. Chennithala cited the example of a woman named Kumari in Uduma constituency of Kasaragod whose name figures five times in the list with different numbers. “This voter has been added five times with the same name, address and photograph. She has been issued five electoral ID cards,” he said, adding it was not an isolated incident. But Kumari later told reporters that she is a Congress supporter. “I am from a family of Congress supporters. It is the Congress party that helped me get the voters ID,” she told reporters who thronged her modest home in Uduma. “This appears to be some mistake and it is for the officials to rectify it,” Kumari’s husband, Raveendran, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM's 'creepy' message on women in ripped jeans||New Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat has berated women who wear ripped jeans, speaking at a meeting of the state commission for the protection of child rights in Dehradun on Wednesday. “Once I was going to Jaipur by flight. A behenji (sister) sat next to me. I saw she was wearing gumboots. When I looked above, I saw her jeans were ripped at the knees. She had two children with her,” he said. “She told me she managed an NGO. She moves in society. What kind of message was she giving to society? What culture will she impart to the children?” As the video circulated on social media, Twitter users pointed out that there was no doubt about the “creepy” message the chief minister had sent out. More than one woman said he had revealed himself to be someone who “checks out women” in airplanes and asked if there was any hope of a woman victim in Uttarakhand getting justice. Rawat, who became chief minister on March 10, said: “Ripped jeans are a status symbol here.” Historians say that torn or ripped jeans signified the working class in the 1970s but came to symbolise a subculture phenomenon in America in the 1990s, with many considering it a statement of rebellion against established trends. Eventually, it turned into a fashion statement. Suryakant Dhasmana, a Congress politician in Uttarakhand, advised the chief minister not to shoot off his mouth. “He should keep his tongue in check. He should learn not to insult people’s choice of clothes,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath promises justice for BJP workers in Bengal, not UP ||On Tuesday in Purulia, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath breathed fire over the murders of three BJP workers in the Bengal district in 2018 and promised justice to their families. Adityanath has, however, never expressed any concern at the murders of over a dozen Sangh parivar leaders and activists in Uttar Pradesh since he became chief minister in March 2017. When some of the families alleged political motives behind the murders and sought CBI probes, the administration largely ignored them. (While the BJP blames Trinamul for the Purulia murders, Bengal police have not acknowledged any political motives. All three cases are with the CID, and three suspects have been arrested in one of the cases.) Snapshots of a few murders of parivar members in Uttar Pradesh over the past year and a half: Oct. 18, 2020 Dayashankar Gupta, 45, divisional vice-president of the BJP’s Tundla town unit in Firozabad, is shot dead. Motive: Land dispute, say the police. Accused: Neighbour Ishwar Dev Gupta, who the police say hired a contract killer, is arrested with six others. Sept. 17, 2020 Sanjay Singh Bhadauria, 45, a medical doctor and district vice-president of the Hindu Yuva Vahini who ran a small hospital in Bareilly town, is stabbed to death. Motive: A love triangle, say the police, who have ignored Vahini Bareilly president Anuj Pratap Singh’s claims of a political motive. Accused: Two men arrested. One of them, Mohammad Imran, loved the same woman as Bhadauria, the police say. Aug. 11, 2020 Sanjay Khokhar, RSS member and former president of the BJP’s Baghpat unit, is shot dead on his farmland. Motive: Land dispute, the police say. Khokhar’s son Manish met Adityanath, claimed a political murder and demanded a CBI inquiry — all in vain. Accused: Six men — Shravan Khokhar, Sagar Balyan, Sagar Goswami, Nitin Dhankar, Mayank Dollar and Vinit Sharma — arrested. Feb. 2, 2020 Ranjeet Bachchan, Vishwa Hindu Mahasabha president, shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants in Hazratganj, Lucknow. Motive: Bachchan had remarried without divorcing his wife, say the police. Accused: Bachchan’s wife Smriti Verma, her friend Deependra, driver Sanjeet Kumar and alleged killer Jitendra Singh arrested. Oct. 18, 2019 Kamlesh Tiwari, leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and national president of the Hindu Samaj Party, murdered in his Lucknow office. Motive: The police say Kamlesh had made anti-Muslim statements, provoking three youths from Gujarat to come and kill him. Kamlesh’s mother Kusuma Devi accused a BJP politician from Mahmoodabad in Sitapur district of killing her son to grab a temple there, but the government dismissed her claims. Accused: Uttar Pradesh police and the Gujarat anti-terrorist squad arrested three men from Surat. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty from Birbhum||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||IAF group captain dies in MiG crash||An Indian Air Force group captain died in an accident while his MiG-21 Bison aircraft was taking off on Wednesday morning. The “fatal accident” involving Group Captain A. Gupta took place when the aircraft was taking off for a combat training mission. The air force did not disclose the location of the airbase, except for saying it was in central India. The news agency PTI put out a picture of the wreckage from Gwalior. “A MiG-21 Bison aircraft of the IAF was involved in a fatal accident this morning while taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India,” the IAF said. “The IAF lost Group Captain A. Gupta in the tragic accident. The IAF expresses deep condolences and stands firmly with the family members. A court of inquiry has been ordered to determine the cause of the accident.” In recent times, the IAF has witnessed a series of crashes involving fighter jets and choppers. A MiG-21 was shot down by Pakistan in an aerial engagement in February 2019. Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman, who was flying the jet, had ejected safely and his parachute had drifted into Pakistan-occupied Kashmir where he had been taken into custody by the Pakistan Army. He was later released. The Soviet-origin Mig-21 Bison is an upgraded version of the Mig-21 aircraft that the IAF began inducting in the 1960s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||BJP MP from Himachal Pradesh found hanging at Delhi residence||A BJP MP from Himachal Pradesh, Ram Swaroop Sharma, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his residence in Lutyens’ Delhi on Wednesday morning, police said. Prima-facie, it appears that the Mandi MP had committed suicide, police said, adding that no suicide note had been found. News agency PTI reported that Sharma, 62, had been suffering from several ailments. Sharma is the second MP to die allegedly by suicide in less than a month. Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, an Independent serving his seventh term, was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel on February 22. A purported suicide note written in Gujarati had accused top administrative officials in Dadra and Nagar Haveli and a top politician of harassment. Speaking on the death of Sharma, a Delhi police spokesperson said: “Prima facie it looks like suicide and an inquiry is underway. The exact cause of his death will be known after the post-mortem report.” According to the police, an aide of Sharma called up the police control room around 7.45am on Wednesday after the parliamentarian did not respond to knocks on his door. A police team rushed to the house and forced open the door and found Sharma hanging from the ceiling fan. He was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival. Sharma was alone at home as his wife had gone on a pilgrimage. He is also survived by his three sons. Born in 1958 in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district, Sharma was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 2014. He was re-elected from Mandi in the 2019 general election. Sharma was a member of the standing committee on external affairs and the consultative committee of the ministry. The BJP cancelled its parliamentary meeting scheduled for Wednesday morning after learning about Sharma’s death. The Lok Sabha was adjourned till 1pm after expressing condolences over his death. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to offer his condolences. “Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise.” Last week the Congress had suggested that Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Delkar could have been saved had Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla responded to his desperate pleas for help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India||Maharashtra government  transfers Mumbai top cop in aftermath of Mukesh Ambani explosives case||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in the aftermath of the recovery of explosives from a car in front of the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani that led to the arrest of a controversial police officer. Singh, who has been accused of “mishandling” the case, has been posted as the head of the state home guard, home minister Anil Deshmukh said. Senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, holding additional charge of Maharashtra director-general of police, will be the new Mumbai police commissioner. Deshmukh, who met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier in the day, made the announcement on Twitter amid speculation in the media over Singh’s handling of  the episode of Sachin Waze, the assistant inspector in National Investigation Agency custody after he purportedly admitted to his role in the placing of explosives in front of Ambani’s home. “Big decision of the government. Shri Hemant Nagrale will be the new Mumbai Police Commissioner. Shri Rajnish Seth will have the additional charge of the post of Director General of Police, Maharashtra,” Deshmukh tweeted. “Shri Sanjay Pandey will have the responsibility of Maharashtra State Security Corporation. Shri Param Bir Singh will have the responsibility of the Home Guard,” the home minister added. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s move comes in the wake of a series of meetings among leaders of the ruling Shiv Sena- NCP-Congress alliance. Questions have also been raised on the police investigation into the alleged suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. Waze, arrested in the explosives case on March 13, had been attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of Mumbai police’s crime branch till recently. He was suspended after the NIA arrested him. The transfer of Singh follows Monday’s talks between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar, amid reports that Waze had stage-managed the bomb scare. The NIA had recovered some “incriminating” documents and electronic evidence such as a laptop, an iPad and mobile phones from Waze’s office, an official of the agency had said on Tuesday. A black Mercedes car, being used by Waze, was also seized from a parking lot near the CSMT station, and Rs 5 lakh in cash, a note-counting machine, two number plates and some clothes were recovered from it, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||India|| I will speak even if I am not a governor, says Satyapal Malik||Satyapal Malik, the Meghalaya governor, supported the farmers’ protest and criticised the BJP in a series of provocative comments on Wednesday. Malik also predicts that the BJP might lose support in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana because of the four-month-old agitation outside Delhi's borders, reports NDTV. In an interview with NDTV, the governor said, “Even when a dog dies it is condoled but 250 farmers have died, yet no one expressed condolences.” "If this movement continues like this then in the long term, BJP will lose out in western UP, Rajasthan and Haryana," he said. Malik claimed he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah on the protest. "The farmers should not be sent back empty-handed. The government should open talks with them soon," he remarked. When asked whether he was worried at all about his controversial statements as governor, Malik was defiant. "If the government thinks I am harming them then I will step aside. I will speak even if I am not a Governor," he said. "I cannot bear to see the state of these farmers. BJP leaders are unable to leave their villages as people are beating MLAs. Those who want to harm the government, they are the ones who do not want a resolution. My statements will not harm the party - rather the opposite as the farmers will feel that someone is speaking up for them." Malik, who joined the BJP in 2004 after stints in the socialist camp and the Congress, was picked as governor of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2018, a move indicative of his proximity to Modi and Shah. It was during his stint as governor that the Centre decided to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Later, he was transferred to Goa and then to Meghalaya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Two leaders refuse BJP offer to contest||The BJP announced the names of 148 candidates for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal on Thursday evening but two candidates refused to contest saying they were fielded without their consent. The two leaders are Shikha Mitra, wife of late Congress leader Somen Mitra, and Tarun Saha, husband of Mala Saha, a sitting  Trinamool MLA. The BJP named Tarun Saha as its candidate from the Kashipur-Belgachia seat, and Shikha Mitra as candidate from the Chowringhee constituency. But Mitra said her name was announced without consent and that she will not enter the poll fray. She also downplayed speculations of her joining the BJP, which were doing the rounds following her meeting with saffron party leader and family friend Suvendu Adhikari. "No, I am not contesting from anywhere. My name has been announced without my consent. Also, I am not joining the BJP," she told reporters. Her son, Rohan Mitra, shared the video statement on Twitter and hoped that the record was set straight once and for all, adding, "keep my mother out of this rubbish" Tarun Saha also categorically denied any possibility of him contesting the upcoming assembly elections on a BJP ticket. He told journalists that he is with the TMC and that the BJP named him on its list without even consulting him. Mala Saha had won the Kashipur-Belgachia seat consistently for the TMC in both the 2011 and 2016 state assembly elections. However, this time, the party fielded Calcutta deputy mayor Atin Ghosh from the seat. It is not yet known if the BJP naming Mala's husband, Tarun, from the seat had any relation to these recent developments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP comes up with a list of 148 candidates for Bengal polls||The BJP on Thursday announced 148 candidates for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal, including the party's vice-president Mukul Roy and its former state unit head Rahul Sinha. The party continued with its strategy of fielding personalities from different walks of life and sitting MPs as it named folk artiste Ashim Sarkar from the Haringhata assembly seat and scientist Gobhardhan Das from the Purbasthali Uttar. The party has fielded its former state unit chief Rahul Sinha from Habra and former Union minister and ex-TMC leader Mukul Roy from the Krishnanagar Uttar seat. The BJP has so far announced five sitting MPs including an Union minister as its candidates for assembly polls in the state. Elections for the West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases, with first phase on March 27 and the last on April 29. The results will be announced on May 2. Before announcing the candidates for assembly polls, actor Arun Govil, who played the role of Lord Ram in the popular Ramayana serial, joined the BJP in the presence of senior party leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: 725 CAPF companies to be deployed for polls in West Bengal||As many as 725 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) will be deployed in West Bengal for the conduct of the forthcoming eight-phase assembly elections, CRPF chief Kuldiep Singh said on Thursday.  Addressing a press conference on eve of the 82nd raising anniversary of the country's largest paramilitary force, Singh said that 495 out of the 725 companies have already reached the state while the rest are on their way.  "One CAPF company has an operational strength of about 72 personnel," he told the reporters.  The CRPF is the nodal force for the deployment of central forces during elections.  West Bengal will have eight-phased polling for its 294-member assembly beginning March 27.  Asked about the threat assessment in the state, Singh said: "Threat assessments are done by state authorities in different areas and they decide the deployment of forces on that basis."  "We do not have any such assessment that which phase would be more challenging," the 1986-batch IPS officer of the West Bengal cadre said.  Singh was recently appointed as the head of the over 3.25 lakh personnel-strong CRPF. He has been serving as a Special DG in the CRPF before taking up the top post.  "We provide support to the state authorities so that peaceful and successful elections could be held under the directions of the Election Commission."  "We are committed for peaceful, free and fair elections. We provide support, we do not gather intelligence," the CRPF DG said, adding deployment in the different phases of elections are being worked out.  The DG also added that the paramilitary provides its VIP security cover to 13 people in the state.  West Bengal is likely to witness a triangular contest this time among the TMC, the Congress-Left alliance and the BJ.  Due to COVID-19 distancing norms, the Election Commission (EC) has scaled up polling stations in the state to 1.1 lakh.  On average, over 12,000 polling stations would go to polls in each of the eight phases.  The total number of polling stations in these elections in the state is 1,01,916, compared to 77,413 in 2016 -- an increase of 31.65 per cent.  The number of voters, due to coronavirus spread, per polling station has been brought down to 1,000 from 1,500, resulting in an increase in the number of polling booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||ED summons Jorasanko TMC candidate in Saradha scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), probing the money laundering aspect of the multi-crore Saradha scam, on Thursday summoned Vivek Gupta, the Trinamool Congress candidate from Jorasanko assembly constituency. Sources said that Gupta has been asked to depose before ED officials on Monday. Meanwhile, businessman Swapan Sadhan Bose who was asked to appear on Thursday in connection with the Saradha scam, is yet to turn up at the CGO complex here, sources said. Former Trinamool Congress minister Madan Mitra has been asked to appear before the directorate in connection with the same scam on Friday, according to sources. Gupta had earlier been summoned by the economic offences wing of CBI in relation to financial transactions which had allegedly taken place between him and the Saradha group. Thousands of investors have been duped by the Saradha group by means of the fraudulent schemes floated by the firm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses BJP leaders of luring voters with bagful of cash ||Admitting that the relief doled out after Cyclone Amphan by her government might have missed out "one or two" beneficiaries, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said BJP leaders were nowhere to be seen during the crisis. Addressing a rally here in Paschim Medinipur, the TMC supremo claimed that BJP leaders "arrive here in choppers and planes from outside with bagful of cash to lure voters and loot votes" just ahead of elections. "Thousands of crores of rupees were doled out by the TMC government for the cyclone-affected. There could have been one or two exceptions... But we rushed to be on the side of people. Where were BJP leaders then? At the time of human miseries, they are always absent," she said. Asserting that the TMC will never allow the NPR exercise in West Bengal, Banerjee alleged, "The BJP will omit names of voters if they are not found at home during the visit of enumerators. They will just evict you (people). But we would not allow them to update the register here. "Not a single member of any family, no citizen of the country can be evicted from Bengal," she stated. National Population Register (NPR) is a document containing names of the country's "usual residents". Branding the BJP as "a party of rioters", she said "We don't want violence, we don't want bloodshed, and we don't want the politics of retaliation to enter Bengal."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s ‘khela’ will be over, says Modi at Junglalmahal rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Thursday attacked Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for pursuing "appeasement and vote bank politics" which were responsible for infiltration. Addressing an election rally here in the tribal Jangalmahal region of the state, he alleged the ruling TMC never considered Dalits, backwards and adivasis its own, and these sections were the worst victims of cut money culture and 'Tolabaji' (extortion) by the state's ruling party. He also accused the Mamata government of patronising underground Maoist rebels. "The single-most important reason for infiltration is appeasement and vote bank politics being pursued by didi's government," he said. He said on May 2, the day the votes for assembly elections will be counted, Mamata's "khela" (game) will be "shesh" (over) and development will start. Repeatedly accusing the TMC supremo of trying to appease a section of people for vote bank politics, Modi said, "People of Bengal have a strong memory. Bengal remembers who accused the army of plotting a coup, whose side you took during the Pulwama attack and the Batla House encounter." The prime minister hit out at the TMC government on the issue of corruption even during the Covid-induced lockdown. Referring to a slew of central schemes which the TMC government is yet to implement, Modi said,"We believe in Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) while TMC believes in Transfer My Commission." "The TMC has created a new breed of Maoists in Bengal who loot public money. The money meant for poor people. Didi's government has patronised Maoist violence," he alleged. The prime minister said Purulia's industrialisation was neglected during the erstwhile Left rule and the current TMC dispensation. "The TMC government has given Purulia only water crisis, forced migration and administration that discriminates," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee announces universal basic income in Trinamul manifesto||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday promised to put cash directly in the hands of 1.6 crore households in Bengal if voted back to power, announcing a universal basic income (UBI) scheme in the Trinamul Congress manifesto that seeks to build on the ruling party’s welfare narrative. “If there is a will there is a way. It’s not a political manifesto, it’s a development-oriented manifesto,” said Mamata, suggesting that giving a monthly dole was fiscally feasible. In principle, UBI means paying citizens an unconditional monthly sum. The concept has gained popularity among various political schools of thought worldwide — especially during the pandemic — for its potential to eliminate poverty while also insulating workers from the impact of job loss. According to the manifesto released by Mamata, a monthly amount of Rs 500 (Rs 6,000 a year) to general category households and Rs 1,000 (Rs 12,000 a year) to SC/ST category households will be directly deposited in the bank accounts of the female heads of 1.6 crore families in the state. Such families are estimated to account for 60 to 70 per cent of the total households in the state. All SC/ST households will be eligible for the UBI scheme. For general category, the income support will be provided to all households except those with at least one tax-paying member and those who own more than 2 hectares of land. The budget outlay for the plan, according to the manifesto, will be Rs 12,900 crore. If the UBI proposal is implemented, Bengal will be the first state in the country to do so. Mamata also announced a credit card scheme for students with a credit limit of up to Rs 10 lakh at 4 per cent interest, a hike in annual support for farmers from Rs 6,000 per acre to Rs 10,000, 5 lakh low-cost houses in urban areas, 25 lakh low-cost houses in rural areas and piped drinking water for an additional 47 lakh households. The resolve to roll out the UBI scheme seems part of Mamata’s strategy to corner the BJP on a welfare initiative that the saffron camp’s think tank has ruled out although the Economic Survey of India 2016-17 had advocated it as an alternative to various social welfare schemes as a means of reducing poverty. Before the 2019 Lok sabha polls, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had promised an UBI scheme of Rs 12,000 a year for over 250 million of the poorest Indians if his party was voted to power. The BJP leadership had mocked the idea saying it was not feasible. Mamata stressed the financial feasibility of the scheme, saying the state’s own income was rising -– despite lower economic activity because of the pandemic — in comparison with other states. Trinamul sources said the guiding principle of the manifesto — prepared under Mamata’s direct supervision — has been welfare measures so that the chief minister can announce these populist initiatives in her campaign meetings. The focus was decided following reports that the various pension schemes for SC/ST senior citizens and the widow stipend were helping the ruling party recover ground in various parts of the state. Aware that job creation has been an Achilles heel, Mamata said: “We shall increase the number of MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) by 10 lakh and add 2,000 big industrial units every year over the next five years.” The manifesto promises a hike in health expenditure from 0.83 per cent to 1.5 per cent of the state GDP, a jump from 2.7 per cent to 4 per cent of the state GDP for education, and delivery of free food grains at people’s doorstep. Asked whether a welfare-oriented manifesto would influence the poll outcome, Mamata said: “Elections will come and go but people will stay. If there is a democratically elected government, it has to deliver on development.” Mamata’s assertion may be true on paper, but till now the political slugfest ahead of the Bengal polls has revolved around themes like “outsiders”, polarisation along religious lines and the credibility of the injury she suffered in Nandigram. Some BJP sources said they would add another dimension to the campaign with some serious corruption cases to be exposed. Trinamul sources, however, said they were not worried as the party’s twin narratives -- Bangla nijer meyekei chai (Bengal wants its own daughter) and khela hobe (the game is on) – had caught the people’s imagination. Apart from economic measures, the manifesto includes proposals to address community concerns, something that observers think is aimed at social engineering of the vote bank in an election where caste issues are expected to play an important role for the first time in Bengal. “A special task force will be set up to examine and propose OBC status for all communities like the Mahisya, Tili, Tamul and Saha, who are not recognised as OBCs,” Mamata said. Nandigram deal: The manifesto claims that Nandigram, from where Mamata will take on Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, will be developed into a model town with better infrastructure, including well-connected roads, affordable electricity 24x7, and piped drinking water for all. The East Midnapore village is also likely to get a new university, the manifesto says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Revolt hits Trinamul campaign in 2 Nadia seats||Growing dissidence over party nominations in at least two Assembly seats in Nadia has nearly stalled Trinamul’s campaign in those constituencies. Sources said sections of the local Trinamul leadership had been showing “utter reluctance” to undertake poll campaigning for candidates nominated for Kalyani (SC) and Chapra seats and demanded that they be replaced. On March 5, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced Ramendranath Biswas and Rukbanur Rahaman as party candidates for the Kalyani (SC) and Chapra Assembly constituencies, respectively. Both Biswas and Rahaman are two-time MLAs and are known for their proximity to the chief minister. However, the announcement of their nominations angered local party leaders and workers last week. The dissidence over the nomination was violent in Chapra, where party workers in large numbers publicly burned tyres and blocked traffic on Karimpur-Krishnagar road demanding the nomination of local leader Zeber Seikh. In Kalyani, the local leadership preferred to protest in silence skipping campaigning programmes of the official nominee. “Since the dissidence has remained unresolved with the top leadership yet to intervene, rebels are all set to nominate Zeber Seikh to fight the polls as an Independent in Chapra. They have also begun drawing wall graffiti seeking votes for Zeber,” said a source. “The nomination of Rukbanur has hurt us since he is never available to serve any purpose. We all wanted a local person to fight from Chapra. Hope the party will respect this sentiment and act accordingly,” Zeber Seikh said. In Kalyani, sources said, party nominee Biswas having a difficult time as a major section of the local leadership had been refusing to campaign for him. On Monday, he had to call off a party workshop scheduled at the Ritwik Sadan auditorium. On Tuesday, at least three prominent leaders, including Kalyani town committee president Arup Mukherjee, Gayeshpur town president Sukanta Chatterjee and Kalyani block president Pankaj Singh skipped an internal organisational meeting called by Biswas. Party workers have been refused to draw wall graffiti seeking votes for Biswas, whereas the door-to-door campaigns are yet to begin. A local leader, on condition of anonymity, said: “Ramenbabu has become a matter of embarrassment to the party. He has little connection with the people. We have appealed to the top Trinamul leadership to replace him. The IPAC team was also apprised about him being an inactive MLA. It will be tough for him to win the Kalyani seat, where we had trailed the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls.” Talks about Biswas being replaced with a new candidate started doing the rounds on Wednesday, but most senior party leaders in the district did not wish to comment on the issue. Asked about the issue, Kalyani town president Arup Mukherjee said: “I have heard Ramenbabu has been directed to return the party symbol, but I am yet to receive any official communication in this regard.” A senior state-level Trinamul leader, who did not want to be named, said: “We know about the problems in Kalyani and Chapra. We will hold talks to sort out the issue.” “There is little scope of replacing the candidate in Chapra. But about Kalyani, Mamata Banerjee will take the final call.” Biswas, however, appeared calm and refused to comment on the controversy surrounding him. “Let the people say whatever they feel. I have no comment to offer,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata asks Left backers to vote for Trinamul to keep BJP out||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged Left-leaning people twice to cast their votes in favour of her party, instead of the CPM, in a bid to keep the BJP out of power in Bengal. The Bengal chief minister made the first appeal at the Trinamul Congress’s rally in Jhargram’s Lalgarh. Later in the day, she said it during the release of Trinamul’s manifesto for the Assembly elections. “Those friends of mine who still remain Leftist, I congratulate them and whoever else is saying “No Vote to BJP”,” said the chief minister during the manifesto release at her residence in Calcutta. “But they (the Left-leaning voters) know this, that they (the Left Front or the Sanyukt Morcha of which it is part now) won’t be able to come to power. They shouldn’t waste their important votes for other (non-BJP) parties. They should all vote for Trinamul. This is my plea before all Leftist friends,” added Mamata. Wednesday was the first time since she came to power in 2011 that the chief minister was so direct in asking Left-leaning voters to vote for her instead. At the rally in Jhargram, Mamata said: “There were very good activities by the Left Front in areas like Gopiballabhpur. Along with Gopiballabhpur, I will request my Left friends from Jamboni, Lalgarh and Binpur, who want to fight against the BJP, please cast your votes for us. Please don’t waste your valued votes in favour of the CPM.” Trinamul trailed the BJP in three of the four Assembly segments in Jhargram in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, purportedly because of Left-leaning people voting for the BJP in order to defeat her party. “I request all of you to come together to stand united (against the BJP), because in the last Lok Sabha polls, Jhargram (the Lok Sabha seat) was won by the BJP. They won it, but did not do anything for the people, compared to what our government did,” Mamata pleaded. Trinamul had a very poor show in all four Jungle Mahal districts where the party lagged behind in 31 out of 40 Assembly seats in the last general election. Mamata, however, accused the BJP of attacking her in the style of the CPM, and alleged that CPM leaders had switched sides to become the saffron camp’s goons now. “In the CPM regime, I was beaten in the head, hands, stomach and eyes, which necessitated numerous surgeries. All that remained were my legs. Now they attacked there to keep me from the campaign. Earlier, the CPM used to beat me up, and now the BJP has acquired that role,” she said at Lalgarh. After Mamata’s appeal, the CPM lambasted her. “Out of her fear of defeat, she did not even think twice before making such an outrageous proposal. Her party systemically tried over the years to break the Left’s back in Bengal, to eliminate the Opposition. Now, she is unable to handle a natural consequence of a process she started,” said Pulin Bihari Baske, the CPM’s district committee secretary in Jhargram. “Anyway, Left voters will not vote for her,” he added. Mamata’s appeal made the BJP anxious, sources in the saffron camp admitted. “She is trying to grasp at straws now. But these appeals won’t make a difference to the people, who have made up their mind to bring the BJP to power, for true poriborton (change) here,” said Chandaneswar Sengupta, the Jhargram chief of the BJP’s youth wing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams move to curtail Delhi govt’s power||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday lashed out at the Narendra Modi government for further empowering the lieutenant-governor in Delhi while curbing the authority of the elected administration there. In an interaction with journalists after the release of the Trinamul Congress’s manifesto for the Assembly polls, the Bengal chief minister said she felt “very bad”. “Because of what happened today…. What we saw, powers of the chief minister (of Delhi) were curbed and the lieutenant-governor was made (more) powerful in Delhi. Then, what is the need for an elected government?” Mamata asked, apparently referring to the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Moved by the Union home ministry under Amit Shah, the legislation gives overarching power to the lieutenant-governor of Delhi. According to the legislation, the “government” in Delhi would mean the lieutenant-governor in the context of any law to be made by the Assembly. “That means the Modi government… I’m sorry to say this, Prime Minister, I respect your chair… but it is very unfortunate. That you want the lieutenant-governor to be more powerful than the elected government. I condemn this. I think every democratic citizen of this country will oppose this,” Mamata said. “I support (Delhi chief minister and AAP chief) Arvind Kejriwal’s elected government, but I cannot support nominated persons. Between elected and nominated persons, there are differences,” she added. “Nominated persons… yes, we respect the chair as that, too, is a constitutional post. But please see to it that democratic governments are not made weak.” The legislation makes it mandatory for Delhi’s state government to take the opinion of the lieutenant-governor before any executive action in the national capital. The Trinamul Congress chief went on to attack the BJP over a number of issues, pertaining to how the nation was being run under it. Yet again, she accused the BJP of trying to exert undue influence to win the Bengal Assembly polls. “The BJP is a party akin to a most high-load virus, playing all nasty, dirty games. We don’t want to do it. We want to play a fair game. Everybody knows who is running the Election Commission…,” she said. “Who is guiding them (the commission)? The Union home minister. Who is he? A BJP leader. What has he been doing? Interfering in every business (of the commission),” added the chief minister. She reiterated her allegation that railways minister Piyush Goyal was trying to pack trains with hordes of lootera (looters) from around the country and send them to Bengal. “I will complain to the Election Commission. I came to know that the railway minister told officials that all the lootera, from everywhere, will come via trains here to rob votes. This is not correct. Borders should be sealed. The elections should be free and fair, for which we would appeal to the commission,” said the Trinamul chief. Asked about the communal line of the campaign in Bengal by Hindutva hardliner and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Mamata said she wouldn’t take lessons on religion from the likes of him. “Our Durga Puja started here thousands of years ago. Where was Yogi (Adityanath) then? We will not take any lessons from Yogi. Tell him to tackle the problems with women’s safety (in his state) first,” she said. Adityanath has been trying to attack her government here over law and order, while being conspicuous in his silence on the same in his own state, especially in terms of crimes against women. “What happened in Hathras? What happens (in Uttar Pradesh) to Dalit girls, children…. He didn’t take any action there, but he comes and talks big. Bengal is a peaceful state, tell him not to bring that kind of politics here. We know religion better than them,” said Mamata of the Hindutva poster boy. “We will not take any lessons from them on the dirtiness and hatred they believe in. We believe in the real Indian religion and philosophy.” The Bengal chief minister vowed to take the saffron bull by the horns, fighting the BJP politically to the finish. “The ultopalta (topsy-turvy) things the BJP says… the unfortunate things they say. Scandals, really,” she said. “Let the BJP get as many of its leaders as it pleases, I will not stop them. It has brought thousands of its leaders from elsewhere already. From their yogis (monks) to bhogis (hedonists), who is not here already?” she asked. “I will fight this politically…. Khela Hobe (A game is afoot), till the very end.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar research aspirant found dead||A 26-year-old student from Cooch Behar’s Mathabhanga, who had aspired to join a research programme at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai, was found hanging at the rented accommodation of his friend here on Tuesday night. Police said Ajoy Kundu had come to meet his friend, an IISER-K researcher, last week and had been staying with him for the past few days. The police seized the body of Ajoy after breaking down the door of a rented room at a multi-storied building located near the IISER-K campus, shortly after Kundu’s friend had found it locked from inside after returning in the evening. The deceased youth, a resident of Siktibari area of Mathabhanga, was rushed to JNM Hospital where he was declared brought-dead. Police sources said they had begun a case of unnatural death. They also found a suicide note, apparently written by the deceased. However, investigators refused to divulge its content. They said the youth appeared to be “mentally disturbed because of problems at home”. The body was handed over to family members on Wednesday afternoon after the post-mortem in Kalyani. A student of IISER-K, who also lives at the same residential building and had known the youth, said: “Since the hostel is closed owing to Covid-19, most researchers have been staying at rented accommodations. I had seen the youth on a number of occasions staying with a fellow IISER students. We found him in a jovial mood and there was no indication of any depression in him.” “It was quite shocking to find him hanging last night at our building,” the student added. One of the family members of the deceased student, who came to receive the body from Kalyani morgue, said: “Ajoy was a very meritorious student. He was trying to join TIFR and was also preparing for the Joint Entrance Screening Test, an examination for joining PhD and integrated PhD programmes. He left home last week for an entrance test at TIFR in Calcutta and told us about meeting his friend at IISER. But we could never imagine that he had other plans on his mind.” IISER-K’s dean of student affairs Balaram Mukhopadhyay said: “We have heard about the incident. However, we have nothing to do since it occurred outside the campus. But we spoke to our students and they were quite shocked. We have tried to provide all possible mental health help to the roommate so that he can overcome the shock.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Clerics in north Bengal to campaign against NRC||An apex body of Muslim clerics and intellectuals in north Bengal has decided to highlight the consequences of the National Register of Citizens and campaign against “a political force that believes in religious polarisation”. The Uttarbanga Imam Muezzin Muslim Buddhijibi Aikya Mancha also said it would campaign in such a way that votes of the minority community went to the party that could thwart the proponents of the NRC. The Mancha’s campaign is perceived to be against the BJP and in favour of the Trinamul Congress. “A political force that believes in religious polarisation is active in Bengal. It has planned to introduce the NRC in Bengal after if it is voted to power. In the neighbouring Assam, names of 19 lakh residents are not on the NRC. All of them are not Muslims but several people are Bengali Hindus. That is why we feel it is necessary to explain to the people in Bengal the consequences of the NRC so that they can thwart this political party,” Abdul Jalil, the president of the Mancha, told journalists here on Wednesday. The organisation, the office-bearers said, comprises representatives of different apolitical organisations which are working in north Bengal. In north Bengal, Assembly elections will start on April 10, that is the fourth phase. The region has 54 Assembly constituencies. Muslim votes determine verdict in around 20 seats. “We are not associated with any political party but would request common people to cast their votes in such a manner that the political force that we want to stop does not get any benefit through division of votes. They should consider political parties which are vocal against the NRC. Our focus will be on minority-dominated areas,” said Bazlur Rehman, the vice-president of the Mancha. The move, political observers said, can benefit Trinamul. They said a section of the Nasya Sheikhs (Rajbanshi Muslims) was aggrieved as Trinamul didn’t field any candidate of the community in the elections. “People living in districts like Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar, which are close to Assam, can easily understand the NRC’s consequences. Their relatives stay in Assam and have not made it to the NRC. A campaign by the organisation can help in mollifying the aggrieved Rajbanshi Muslims and make them side with Trinamul,” said an observer. The Trinamul Congress has showcaused six office-bearers in the Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar district, asking them to explain why they are abstaining from election campaigns. They have been asked to reply within three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: I am not contesting Assembly elections, says Dilip Ghosh||BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday ruled out the possibility of contesting the forthcoming Assembly polls in Bengal, while sources in the saffron camp said Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy had been asked to fight from a seat in Nadia district. “I’m not contesting in the polls,” Ghosh told journalists after emerging from a daylong meeting at party’s national chief J.P. Nadda’s residence in Delhi on Wednesday. Although Ghosh didn’t explain why he was unwilling to contest the polls, party insiders said the Midnapore MP didn’t want to take any risk. Ghosh evaded answers as he was in a hurry to reach the party’s headquarters where the central election committee met in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In other BJP ruled states, none of the state chiefs, who later became chief ministers, had contested the polls. Once they were made chief ministers, they fought byelections within six months and became MLAs. “Dilipda wouldn’t take a risk of fighting the polls. If he is made the CM, he will get elected in a bypoll,” a source close to Ghosh said and added that leaders, including Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and his Karnataka counterpart B.S. Yediyurappa, had taken the byelection route. Although Ghosh ruled out fighting polls, Roy, who is 66-years-old and underwent a major eye surgery last year, might have to contest elections. He might be nominated from any of the three seats — Krishnanagar North, Krishnanagar South or Karimpur. Former state chief and former national secretary Rahul Sinha and state general secretary Sayantan Basu are also expected to contest polls. Ghosh, Roy, Sinha and other key state leaders attended the meeting at Nadda’s house that went on for over seven hours. Other state leaders, including general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty and Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee, were present at the meeting. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah would address a rally in Nandigram on March 21. The discontent amongst party workers at the grassroots over the selection of some of the candidates was discussed at the meeting, a source said. To ensure that such instances weren’t repeated, the leadership had a prolonged meeting where multiple names were debated upon for one constituency. At the end of the meeting, only four names were finalised for the four seats that will go to polls in the third phase and were not yet announced. Chandan Mandal has been nominated from Baruipur East, Bidhan Parui from Falta, actor Paapia Adhikari from Uluberia South and Anupam Ghosh from Jagatballavpur. The last date of filing nomination for these seats is Friday. Candidates for eight seats for the fourth phase of polls remain to be announced. Protests over choice of candidates were reported on Wednesday as well. Sayantan Basu, who is also the observer for the party’s north Bengal zone, was gheraoed in Alipurduar while he was at a meeting with the district leadership. Workers in Alipurduar have been protesting against the nomination of a Gorkha Janmukti Morcha turncoat Bishal Lama from Kalichini. “I met district leaders and the issue has been resolved,” Basu told The Telegraph. Trinamul turncoat and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari ran into protests by Trinamul-backed villagers at Bhekutia in East Midnapore’s Nandigram block 2 on Wednesday evening. Suvendu had gone to visit the house of a BJP supporter and on his way back, around 50 villagers, mostly women, blocked his convey and demonstrated with brooms and shoes. They raised “go back” slogans and accused Suvendu, who is the BJP’s candidate from Nandigram, of betraying the cause of the anti-land acquisition movement. The seeds of Wednesday’s protest lay in the judiciary, prompted by a BJP leader, preventing the withdrawal of two murder cases, with 63 accused between them, from the time of the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram. Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC), the umbrella body of the movement with representation from the major non-Left political forces, believes that BJP’s decision to challenge the withdrawal of cases against their leaders were done at the behest of Suvendu. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata corners Modi on Covid jab promise||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused Narendra Modi of not allowing the state government to buy Covid-19 vaccines for all people in Bengal even though she had written to the Prime Minister on the issue a month back. Mamata made the charge on a day Modi addressed a virtual meeting, which was attended by several chief ministers and senior government functionaries, in the wake of rising number of Covid cases in a few states. The Bengal chief minister, however, skipped the meeting and was represented by the chief secretary as she was busy campaigning at Gopiballabhpur and Lalgarh in Jhargram, one of the four Jungle Mahal districts where her party had fared very badly in the last Lok Sabha polls. “I have sent a letter to Narendra Modi a month ago, asking him to send Covid vaccines for all and saying our state government would buy those. We have no way to get the vaccines as the same are not available in the open market. I requested them to allow us to buy Covid vaccines for all but he rejected our plea,” the chief minister told her rally in Lalgarh. Trinamul leaders said by referring to the Prime Minister’s refusal to allow the state to  buy vaccines for all in Bengal, Mamata had tried to send a message that BJP leaders were not concerned about the health of the people. She made the comment a day ahead of Modi’s scheduled rally in Purulia, which is 95km away from Lalgarh where Mamata addressed her second rally on Wednesday. Mamata also referred to Modi’s campaign during the Bihar Assembly polls and reminded the people that BJP leaders had never kept promises made during election campaigns. “Keep in your mind that they are liars. He (Modi) went to Bihar just before the polls and promised that he would provide free Covid vaccines to all residents of the state after the election. But people in Bihar are yet to get the free vaccines... Remember they never do what they promise and they do what they did not say. They are like oppressive kings and outrageous zamindars who are snatching the rights of farmers, women and Dalits,” Mamata said. Sources said the BJP had fielded a dozen of senior party leaders starting from Modi to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to launch attacks on Mamata on various issues with a set of assurances for all. “The people of the Jungle Mahal were convinced by different assurances of BJP leaders, including the Prime Minister. Didi tried to send a message to us not to trust them as they will make a lot of promises. Addressing the rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta, the Prime Minister had spoken about a plan to develop Bengal. She asked the people not to believe what the PM says in the run up to the polls,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Jhargram. “It’s natural that the BJP will release its manifesto soon. The BJP will try to lure the people with attractive projects but our leader has asked us not to trust the saffron camp,” he added. Mamata also asked the people to recall her role to combat the pandemic and accused the BJP of not doing anything for the people of Bengal. “You ask the BJP where they were when Didi was drawing circles on roads and helping us during the pandemic. Now he (Modi) has come like a doctor to alert us,” said Mamata referring to the Prime Minister’s advice to the chief ministers during the virtual meeting. Superintendent of police (Howrah Rural) Soumya Roy has been transferred by the Election Commission, citing his wife Lovely Moitra’s candidature from Sonarpur (South) Assembly constituency on behalf of the Trinamul Congress. The commission has said the transfer was based on general principle that close relatives of active public representatives may not be assigned such duties during the polls. Roy has been replaced with 2011-batch officer Shrihari Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: active cases rise for sixth day in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday — exactly a year since the first Covid-19 case was detected in the state — reported the sixth consecutive day of rise in the total of active cases, by 30, to 3,188. The state seems to have become part of the wider pan-India trend of rise in active cases — amid apprehensions of another wave — after the 136-day stint of fall in the total of active cases since Vijaya Dashami last year snapped on Thursday. Prior to the rise since Friday, the total of active cases had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 last year to 3,110. The state on Wednesday reported 272 recoveries, but 303 new infections were found, besides one death that occurred in North 24-Parganas. “This is now beginning to look less like an aberration, given six consecutive days of rise. However, the rise over the six days has only been by a total of 78. There still are enough positives, so there is no need yet to be alarmist,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Showcause to six over TMC revolt in Cooch Behar||The Trinamul Congress has showcaused six office-bearers in the Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar district, asking them to explain why they are abstaining from election campaigns. “They have been asked to reply within three days and if the response is not satisfactory, the party will take action against them,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul president. Mir Iqbal Kabir, Milan Sen, Babla Nandi, Ajay Roy, Sabir Saha Choudhury and Taranikanta Burman were showcaused. “There is a clear instruction that all party workers and leaders should join the election campaign in their respective areas. These people seem to be reluctant to campaign for our Dinhata candidate Udayan Guha,” said a district leader. Guha was fielded by Trinamul in Dinhata for the second time. After his name was announced, there have been protests by party supporters against his nomination. Taranikanta, a member of Dinhata 2 panchayat samiti, however, appeared nonchalant. “The district president has made some posts in social media about the showcause. Once we receive it, we will give the apt reply,” he said. Congress supporters demonstrated in front of the party’s district headquarters in Cooch Behar on Wednesday, demanding that Rabin Roy be replaced with Debendranath Burma as the Tufanganj candidate. Keshab Roy, the district Congress chief, said the state leadership had been intimated about the revolt. In the neighbouring district of Alipurduar, posters sprang up across Alipurduar town on Tuesday night, demanding a son of the soil as a BJP candidate. The BJP fielded economist Ashok Lahiri in the Alipurduar seat. Ever since the announcement was made, protests in different forms have been witnessed in the district. Some BJP supporters also want the party to field a new candidate in the Kalchini seat of the district. Bishal Lama, a former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader, was fielded by the BJP in Kalchini.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: No joint campaign with Trinamul in Darjeeling, says Binay||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided not to hold any joint election campaign programme with ally Trinamul Congress in the Darjeeling hills. “In the hills, we will not hold any joint meeting or organise campaigns with the TMC. Our party workers will, however, support the TMC candidates in the plains,” Tamang said on Wednesday. The decision, sources said, is an attempt to de-link the Tamang camp from Trinamul. “There is now a feeling among many in the party that the public has not yet forgotten the 2017 statehood agitation,” said a leader of the Tamang faction. As the Trinamul government had firmly crushed the agitation, 13 hill people had died and over 100 had been jailed and many displaced for fear of arrest. An analysis of the Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly by-election defeat in 2019 by the leaders of the faction had also thrown up a similar inference. “The sentiment has not changed much in the past two years,” said a source in the Tamang camp. The Tamang camp had of late slowly started trying to stamp its separate identity and creating an impression that the party was not being controlled totally by Trinamul. “That is why the party had coined the slogan hamro ghar afnai bhar (build you house on your own strength) for the Assembly elections,” another leader in the Tamang camp pointed out. The other reason for coming up with the slogan was also to lay stress on “regionalism”. The BJP-GNLF camp which is at loggerhead with the Trinamul-Morcha combine has already started raising the 2017 agitation issue. “L.B. Rai daju (hill TMC president) seems pained at the leg fracture of Miss Mamata Banerjee. But did he feel the pain when 13 people were killed in 2017?” Prabhaskar Blone, the spokesman for the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, had asked recently. Images of the 2017 agitation days are also resurfacing in social media. “Under these circumstances, the Tamang camp has little option but to try and de-link itself from Trinamul. However, whether they will be successful in projecting this image is another issue,” an observer said. The prevailing sentiment makes the battle tough even for the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, said the observer. Gurung, too, has allied with Trinamul for the Bengal Assembly elections. “Gurung has not yet made an impact on Trinamul’s strategists,” said the observer. Gurung, however, claims he will not only win the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong but also influence the results in “10 to 15” seats in the Dooars and the Terai. Gurung will announce his candidates for the three hill seats on March 23. Tamang will declare the nominees on Sunday at a public meeting in Mungpoo, about 35km from Darjeeling. “We have identified 52 issues that will be mentioned in our election manifesto which will be released at the Mungpoo public meeting,” said Tamang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Bista raises hill solution in LS ahead of Assembly polls||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista raised two issues concerning north Bengal in Parliament in the past two days with observers projecting his speeches as his efforts to woo voters ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections. “Gorkhas have contributed a lot to the country and the permanent political solution is their major demand and is associated with their identity. Around 1.5 crore Gorkhas live in India and the Union home minister should consider their demand,” Bista said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the BJP MP spoke about the alternative bridge proposed over the Teesta near Sevoke Bazaar (around 20km from Siliguri). He said the Coronation Bridge that had been built over the Teesta in 1937 had suffered damage in an earthquake in 2011. He has said the bridge is not fit for heavy vehicles. “Since then, traffic has been regulated along the bridge and on August 19, 2020, the state public works department (NH 9 division) passed an order saying vehicles weighing 10 tonnes and above could not move through the bridge,” said Bista. With the restriction, heavy vehicles bound for the Dooars have to take a detour along NH27, that is, via Jalpaiguri. “The bridge is in the critical Chicken’s Neck and connects the Northeast. The new bridge is necessary and the Union ministry of road transport and highways should declare it as a project of national importance,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
18-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul candidate Mitali meets elephant Mitali||Dhupguri MLA Mitali Roy on Wednesday performed a puja before her namesake, a pet elephant of the Bengal forest department, as she kick-started her campaign as a candidate of the Trinamul Congress in the same seat. Wearing a tracksuit, the MLA reached the Garialtari forest beat in the Nathua range of Jalpaiguri district in the morning. Besides performing the puja, she offered the other Mitali a marigold garland and fruits and burnt incense sticks. “We venerate elephants and consider it as Mahakal Baba (a deity). There is a belief that if puja is offered to elephant before a mission, it would succeed. That is why I performed the puja before launching my election campaign,” the Trinamul candidate said. The pet elephant was brought to the Garialtari beat about three months ago for patrolling and other purposes, said foresters. “The elephant, too, seemed to have enjoyed the puja and devoured the fruits offered by the MLA. It was indeed an offbeat manner in which she started her campaign,” said a forest officer. When Mamata Banerjee had announced Mitali as the Trinamul candidate in Dhupguri, a section of party leaders and workers expressed discontent and sought a change in the nomination. Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president KK Kalyani intervened to quell the revolt and Kalyani herself held a meeting with the disgruntled lot on Tuesday to calm them down. Mitali had won the seat with a margin of 19,501 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls. However, the result of the Jalpaiguri Lok Sabha seat in 2019 showed that the BJP secured a lead of 17,766 votes in Dhupguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
18-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Yogi Adityanath makes historical and cultural faux pas at rally||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday credited Srimanta Sankardev, the Vaishnavite saint, scholar and reformer, with warning Assam against infiltration as long back as the 15th century, seeking to hijack him for power politics. “This is the land of Sankardev.… I admire and respect the mahapurush for his role in saving this land.… I bow to this land of Sankardev. Srimanta Sankardev had warned us against the problem of infiltration. That is why the Congress could not tolerate him ever because the Congress’s policy was never development or peace.… Its policy was give-and-take to grab power and for which Assam had to pay a price for long in tackling atankwad (terrorism) and algawbad (separatism),” the first-time chief minister said at a poll rally at Hojai in central Assam. Adityanath, the BJP’s Hindutva poster boy, in his apparent exuberance to blame the Opposition Congress for allowing ghuspetiyas (infiltrators) who are “a threat to national security”, not only got his “history” wrong but repeated the claim at his next rally at Kalaigaon in Baksa district. At the Baksa event he also said the Congress had tied up with the AIUDF that had always “encouraged” infiltrators. The Congress was swift to pounce on Adityanath’s faux pas, “amazed” at his linking the revered saint with the problem of influx confronting Assam, an issue that attracted attention after the Partition in 1947 and the creation of Bangladesh in 1971. Influx has remained an emotive issue in Assam, triggering a six-year-long movement in 1979 that resulted in the signing of the Assam Accord in 1985 that fixed March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners. The ruling BJP has made infiltration a key plank for the Assembly polls in Assam starting on March 27, with senior party leaders  invoking the issue to attack the Congress’s alliance with the AIUDF, a party the BJP sees as the protector of infiltrators. The BJP has been projecting the alleged infiltrators as a threat to the culture and identity of Assam. The Congress tore into Adityanath’s claim, questioning the BJP’s knowledge of Assam’s history and culture. “This proves how much they know about the culture they claim they are going to protect. He (Adityanath) is trying to make the saint a part of the BJP’s divisive politics. While Yogiji talks about a much revered 15th century saint, Sri Srimanta Sankardev, fighting against infiltrators, he should know exactly what Srimanta Sankardev fought against. “Srimanta Sankardev was against the exploitation of people by those who followed the ideologies and dogmas laid down by Manusmriti and also idol worship. He believed in the assimilation of society and was against caste system. “So Yogi needs lessons in history as does the Prime Minister who had said Lachit Barphukan was a freedom fighter. Lachit Barphukan was actually an Ahom general who had fought the famous battle of Saraighat in 1671,” Assam Congress media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma told The Telegraph. Modi had paid tribute to Barphukan during his speech at the nationwide launch of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav on March 12. The event commemorates 75 years of Independence from the British. Barphukan passed away in 1672.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
18-03-2021||Opinion||Think again||Sir — Many people, especially in India, tend to believe that children are a source of ‘pride and joy’ and berate those who choose to be child-free. However, research indicates that having kids does not necessarily make people happier. For many, having children can result in the loss of financial, emotional or physical well-being. Raising children is a tremendous responsibility and the decision must be taken willingly after careful consideration. It is also time that we learn to respect the decisions of those who choose not to have children and refrain from pressurizing them to conform.    Arin Sengupta, Calcutta Sir — The article, “Those Sunny days” (March 14), by Mukul Kesavan was a glowing tribute to the legendary Indian opener, Sunil Gavaskar, on the occasion of him completing 50 years of his Test debut against the West Indies at Port of Spain, Trinidad on March 6, 1971. The cricketing journey of the original Little Master — it lasted for 16 years — is a glorious chapter in the annals of Indian cricket. Gavaskar played in an era where fast bowling was at its best. When batsmen from around the world would flounder while facing such powerful bowlers, he would always be a picture of calm and self-assurance. His stance was always perfectly balanced. In those days, perhaps no other international batsman could have stamped his authority on and propagated the ‘straight drive’ the way Gavaskar did — the ball, hitting a portion of the bat, would race down to the fence as straight as an arrow, leaving the spectators in awe. There might have been a few disconcerting moments during his illustrious career, like when an angry Gavaskar asked his fellow opener, Chetan Chauhan, to walk off the ground with him at Melbourne in 1981, following a controversial leg before wicket decision, and his infamous 36 not out in his inaugural World Cup in 1975. Nevertheless, Gavaskar took Indian cricket to newer heights, paving the way for the country’s current position as a cricketing superpower. In multiple ways, Gavaskar is a legend in Indian cricket. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai Sir — Sunil Gavaskar is a cricketer that I admire even to this day. I consider him to be one of the most prolific opening batsmen in the history of the sport. He achieved extraordinary feats during his career, setting the bar high for generations to come. Gavaskar faced some of the most fearsome fast bowlers of his time but always kept a cool head. He was a fine fielder as well. Gavaskar was charismatic both on and off the field. Even today, when I hear him lending his voice to cricket commentary either on television or on the radio, it is abundantly clear that he has an unparalleled grasp over the finer aspects of the game. I was still in school when Sunny Days was published, and I requested my father to buy me a copy of the book. After reading Mukul Kesavan’s article, “Those Sunny days”, I felt the urge to revisit the book. Indian cricket has produced very few athletes of his calibre. Today many excel in the short version of the game, but struggle when it comes to Test cricket. Gavaskar excelled in Tests. The new generation of cricketers have much to learn from a batsman like the Little Master.Alok Ganguly, Kalyani, Nadia Sir — It was wonderful to read the article by Mukul Kesavan on Sunil Gavaskar within a few days of the 50th anniversary of his Test match debut. Gavaskar is not only my all-time favourite cricketer, but I am also a fan of his excellent commentary and writing. I remember that it was on my 11th birthday that my parents gifted me Gavaskar’s memoir, Sunny Days, after noticing my love for the Little Master. Before that, I was only a fan of his batting skills, but after I read the book, I instantly became a huge admirer of his writing as well. Since then, I have read many memoirs written by renowned sports personalities, but Sunny Days remains the closest to my heart.Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — As Indian cricket becomes increasingly commercialized, it is good to remember players like Sunil Gavaskar who loved the game just for the sake of the sport and contributed to its growth without prioritizing personal gains. Many of us long to return to those golden days.Rakesh Sharma, Gwalior||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Opinion||Daily blood: community based violence||Crime figures and categories provided by the government give a partial, even if alarming, picture. The target, site, background, level of cruelty and aftermath of each crime must be laid out for the whole picture to emerge. That would show that intensely violent incidents have become a part of everyday life in India. A man mercilessly beat up a teenage boy for drinking water from a tap within a temple precinct in Ghaziabad because the boy was from the minority community. The fact that a video clip of the incident was uploaded with expressions of support before it became viral indicates that the practices of hatred are confident and mutually inspiring. The clip led to arrests, but the temple had recently put up a notice warning members of the minority community to keep out, demonstrating how exclusion is being institutionalized at every level. Neutrality and fairness have grown elusive. A 2019 study by a non-governmental organization and the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies indicated that half the police personnel surveyed showed community bias. Everyday violence is experienced by other groups as well. It is now flourishing, as though dominant sections of society and institutions are thumbing their noses at the law. In 2019, the 46,000 crimes against Dalits showed a 7 per cent rise since 2018. Rajasthan had the highest crime rate under this head but Uttar Pradesh topped the absolute numbers. It is routine: last June, four men shot and killed a Dalit teenager for entering a temple. The law does not matter when the establishment — UP thrives on ‘encounter’ killings — endorses violence. The police themselves were implicated in more than one crime in UP just this month; in one, the father of a rape survivor was allegedly pushed under a truck in their presence. The murder of family members of victims is now common — evoking Unnao and Hathras — while government data show that out of 88 women and girls raped daily, 10 are Dalits even after reported police reluctance to register their complaints. Women in general have grown 44 per cent more vulnerable to rape in the last 10 years. This is apart from the 1.26 lakh domestic violence cases recorded in 2019. Large sections of Indians live with cruelty and fear, whether outside the home or within it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Opinion|| In the dark: racism in India||The residents of the proverbial glass house are vulnerable creatures. They should, as the old adage advises, desist from taking aim with stones. It is doubtful whether India’s external affairs minister, S. Jaishankar, agrees with such wisdom. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha, hours before a scheduled meeting with the British minister of state for the Commonwealth and the United Nations, Mr Jaishankar assured the House that New Delhi would take up the issue of racial discrimination in the United Kingdom, adding that the land of Mahatma Gandhi cannot afford to turn its eyes away from racial prejudice. Ironically, it appears that the external affairs minister has been looking the other way. For India, like the UK and other parts of the world, is equally plagued by the spectre of racial discrimination. The list of related transgressions is despairingly long. Bangalore had witnessed the gory spectacle of an African woman being stripped and paraded in public; in Bengal, notwithstanding its claims of a progressive agenda, two teachers had been suspended after using a text book in which the illustration of a black man accompanied the description of the word, ‘ugly’; incidents of racial taunts, humiliation and assaults against India’s northeastern citizens are worryingly commonplace. The prejudice has infected the State and the market. A Bharatiya Janata Party leader had courted controversy after making a pejorative remark on the skin shade of the people of South India; India’s cosmetic industry flourishes by turning fairness into some sort of a virtue. Of course, the Indian variant of racism has its own template. What makes racism in this country unique and complicated is its indisputable link with casteism, ethnicity as well as the colonial experience. Modern indigenous research has indicated that caste distinctions, instead of being premised on a code of division of labour, can be traced back to differentiations along genetic lines. It is possible that the coating of racism on caste has prevented affirmative action, such as reservation, from having its desired effect. The burden of colonialism has also aggravated the bias. While pre-colonial India was welcoming of the Siddis of African descent, post-colonial India is notorious for its intolerance of the principle of racial and ethnic equality. What India needs is a spirited public mobilization against such bigotry; something that the West, including the UK — Mr Jaishankar’s target of scorn — has in the form of Black Lives Matter and other movements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Opinion||A sinking island of political pawns||“How long can we keep our faith in words? I feel that not only have I been betrayed, but I have also betrayed my people. What else can I do except boycott the party gatherings [referring to the TMC] and withdraw from all this?” Walking alongside the river, as one observes the landscape that evinces the reality of the shrinking island, Minarul expresses his resentment. A 34-year-old resident of Ghoramara island of the Sunderbans, Minarul has been committed to the Trinamul Congress. In the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, West Bengal is poised at a historic juncture with the Bharatiya Janata Party making steady inroads with the hope of coming to power by uprooting the TMC. Ghoramara, Minarul’s home, is the poster-child for the sinking Sunderbans. From the 1980s, local governments have been resettling its population in neighbouring Sagar island. Minarul explained how, in recent years, after much effort, he had managed to negotiate with the higher echelons of the TMC, including the MLA, and had received an assurance of rehabilitating 40 families. In exchange for their rehabilitation, he would guarantee that these families vote for the TMC. He says, “Nowadays when it is even difficult to bring consensus among three brothers, I brought 40 families to agree with each other.” He continued: “But, even with our best attempts in the last 7-8 years, not a single rehabilitation has taken place from the government's end.” Dejected, he says, “I have lost face; how can I return to ask for votes again? Even if five families would have been rehabilitated I could have understood that there is at least an honest attempt but to my despair we don’t see any movement... just the same old empty promises.” As per the 2011 census, 1095 households still remain on the fast-sinking island. Current proposals for planned retreat and resettlement away from the Sunderbans are immensely problematic, not just because of the narrow cost-benefit analysis with which economic value is put on investing in lives and livelihoods but also because on other Sunderbans islands there are several push and pull factors, a diversity of desires and a lack of consensus among residents in the same village or even between two brothers of the same household, as Minarul suggested. Ghoramara’s case is different: all its remaining residents aspire to leave. So what is stopping the government from relocating these 1095 households? The major impediment to rehabilitating residents is the very specific vote-bank politics in light of the upcoming elections. Ghoramara belongs to the Sagar constituency. Sagar island is where many of the households were previously rehabilitated. However, over the years, there is no space left on Sagar for an ingress of another wave of climate refugees. Moreover, sea-level rise is threatening the existence of Sagar too. This means that the remaining islanders of Ghoramara would have to be relocated to other islands, that is, other political constituencies. There is a proposal to rehabilitate them in Kakdwip and, as per the islanders, Kakdwip constituency is willing to offer them the requisite place and support to resettle. As it happens, both these constituencies — Sagar and Kakdwip — are currently under the TMC. But such a shift of populations would dilute the vote bank of the candidate who would contest from Sagar. With elections coming up, the Sagar constituency is not ready to let go of this vote bank. Ghoramara has 3800 voters. In the last Vidhan Sabha elections in 2016, the TMC won the Sagar constituency by a margin of 18,000 votes. Hence, the rehabilitation of Ghoramara islanders to Kakdwip means that Sagar constituency will lose voters that almost equal one-fifth of its last election vote margin. TMC leaders from Sagar do not want to risk tilting any vote bank that they have already secured through their promises of rehabilitation. With the BJP making inroads, the TMC is doubly cautious about not disrupting its winning margin. As a result, there is no interest in maintaining, improving or sustaining any infrastructures that will protect Ghoramara’s islanders. Ghoramara’s residents acknowledge that they receive enough aid from the government in terms of food, water, and other essential items. But Subala, a 37-year-old woman, reveals that this is not the kind of welfare they want to continue living on: “each spring tide or every monsoon, our farmlands and homes are engulfed; how can we survive? We don’t need subsidized food. If the government rehabilitates us we can farm, work hard and earn to make both ends meet. We want to live a dignified life.” However, the government values these lives only in the form of 3800 crucial voters and is not keen to rehabilitate them on the off-chance that such a move will unsettle its already tenuous vote bank. In one sense, these are ‘surplus populations’; in another sense, each of these individuals is an integral voter and is, therefore, seen as essential in these upcoming elections. What is often glossed over in conversations around climate change among the new aristocracy of experts and in the corridors of power is the politics at the local level. Ghoramara’s residents are seen as important political actors. The choice, it seems, is to keep them afloat as long as they can vote. [The names of individuals in the article have been changed in order to protect their identity]||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Opinion||Emerging patterns||In 1957, Isaac Asimov published The Naked Sun, a science-fiction novel about a society in which people live on isolated estates, their needs provided by robots, and they interact only by video. The plot hinges on the way this lack of face-to-face contact stunts and warps their personalities. After a year in which those of us who could worked from home — albeit served by less fortunate humans rather than robots — that sounds about right. But how will we live once the pandemic subsides? Of course, nobody really knows. But maybe our speculation can be informed by some historical parallels and models. First, it seems safe to predict that we won’t fully return to the way we used to live and work. A year of isolation has, in effect, provided remote work with a classic case of infant industry protection, a concept usually associated with international trade policy that was first systematically laid out by none other than Alexander Hamilton. Hamilton asserted that there were many industries that could flourish in the young United States of America but couldn’t get off the ground in the face of imports. Given a break from competition, for example through temporary tariffs, these industries could acquire enough experience and technological sophistication to become competitive. The infant industry argument has always been tricky as a basis for policy — how do you know when it’s valid? And do you trust governments to make that determination? But the pandemic, by temporarily making our former work habits impossible, has clearly made us much better at exploiting the possibilities of remote work, and some of what we used to do — long commutes so we can sit in cubicles, constant flying to meetings of dubious value — won’t be coming back. If history is any guide, however, much of our old way of working and living will, in fact, return. Here’s a parallel: what the internet did and didn’t do to the way we read books. A decade ago, many observers believed that both physical books and the bookstores that sold them were on the verge of extinction. And some of what they predicted came to pass: e-readers took a significant share of the market, and major bookstore chains took a significant financial hit. But e-books’ popularity plateaued around the middle of the last decade, never coming close to overtaking physical books. And while big chains have suffered, independent bookstores have actually been flourishing. Why was the reading revolution so limited? The convenience of downloading e-books is obvious. But for many readers this convenience is offset by subtler factors. The experience of reading a physical book is different and, for many, more enjoyable than reading e-ink. And browsing a bookstore is also a different experience from purchasing online. I like to say that online, I can find any book I’m looking for; in fact, I downloaded a copy of The Naked Sun a few hours before writing this article. But what I find in a bookstore, especially a well-curated independent store, are books I wasn’t looking for but end up treasuring. The remote work revolution will probably play out similarly, but on a much vaster scale. The advantages of remote work — either from home or, possibly, in small offices located far from dense urban areas — are obvious. Both living and work spaces are much cheaper; commutes are short or non-existent; you no longer need to deal with the expense and discomfort of formal businesswear, at least from the waist down. The advantages of going back to in-person work will, by contrast, be relatively subtle — the pay-offs from face-to-face communication, the serendipity that can come from unscheduled interactions, the amenities of urban life. But these subtle advantages are, in fact, what drive the economies of modern cities — and until Covid-19 struck these advantages were feeding a growing economic divergence between large, highly-educated metropolitan areas and the rest of the country. The rise of remote work may dent that trend, but it probably won’t reverse it. The revival of cities won’t be entirely a pretty process; much of it will probably reflect the preferences of wealthy Americans who want big-city luxuries and glamour. “The main problem with moving to Florida is that you have to live in Florida,” one money manager told Bloomberg. But while cities thrive in part because they cater to the lifestyles of the rich and fatuous — like it or not, their wealth and power do a lot to shape the economy — cities also thrive because a lot of information-sharing and brainstorming takes place over coffee breaks and after-hours beers; Zoom calls aren’t an adequate substitute. Or as the great Victorian economist, Alfred Marshall, said of his own era’s technology centres: “The mysteries of the trade become no mysteries; but are as it were in the air...” So the best bet is that life and work in, say, 2023 will look a lot like life and work in 2019, but a bit less so. We may commute to the office less than we used to; there may well be a glut of urban office space. But most of us won’t be able to stay very far from the madding crowd. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Jharkhand sees highest single-day spike in March||As many as 97 people were found to be infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Thursday, the highest single-day-spike in the month of March, as per the figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). The count of active cases of infection also jumped to 624 on the day as the state reported only 72 Covid recoveries against the close to 100 fresh cases, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. However, the number of patients dropped to 363 on Thursday with the district reporting 48 recoveries against 38 cases in the past 24 hours. As per government data, swab samples of over 13,000 people were tested, of which less than 1 per cent were found to be infected. The state administration has, however, launched special drives to check the sudden rise of Covid-19 cases this week. So far, over 1.20 lakh people have been infected by the contagious virus in Jharkhand while over 98 per cent have recovered. So far, the virus has claimed around 1094 lives in the state, however, no fresh cases of deaths were reported on Thursday. Meanwhile, over 18,000 Jharkhand residents, including 12,597 senior citizens and 2604 middle-aged individuals with co-morbid conditions, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine on Thursday, while 8648 healthcare and frontline workers got the second jab, highlighted the NHM report. The state after failing to achieve more than 10 per cent of vaccination target for the first dose since March 10, it successfully managed to inoculate 33 per cent of healthcare and frontline workers registered for the jab on Thursday, stated a report released by NHM. However, only 11 per cent of over 80,000 beneficiaries registered for the second dose got the jab on the day. Ranchi alone saw 2506 people being vaccinated on Thursday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. With 174 jabs administered, Koderma was the worst performer for the day. As many as 3194 healthcare and frontline workers got the first jab on Thursday. As per government data, over 5.7 lakh people have already been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand so far. The state plans to vaccinate more than 10 lakh rural residents, especially senior citizens, in a special Panchayat level drive starting Saturday, officials said. Of the over 5.7 lakh people vaccinated so far, at least 1.75 lakh were senior citizens and more than 27,000 were middle-ages individuals with comorbid conditions. As many as 1,93,196 beneficiaries have also been administered the second dose of the vaccine so far in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Forest clearance a hurdle to Adityapur water project||The mega drinking water project in Adityapur has yet another hurdle to clear - forest clearance as the construction of the master balancing reservoir and one of the water treatment plants fall under the forest area of Krishna Nagar in the NIT area and Sapra village. The drinking water project worth Rs 395 crore which began in the Adityapur municipal corporation (AMC) in May 2018 is yet to get the forest department clearance. The residents of the densely-populated Adityapur area were anxiously looking forward to getting tap water this summer but will have to bear with the perennial drinking water crisis this year as well. The project which is being carried out by the Urban Development Department was to provide tapped water to over 50,000 households in the AMC area. For the project, the executing agency, Jharkhand Urban Development and Infrastructure Corporation (JUDICO) has planned to set up 11 water towers, two water treatment plants and a mass balancing reservoir (MBR) besides laying a 500 km pipeline in the project area. Construction work of the water towers are in progress but work for the MBR and one of the water treatment plants is yet to begin due to a lack of forest department clearance. Ajay Kumar, city manager of AMC, who looks after the drinking water project on behalf of the JUDICO said as the sites for the MBR and one of the water treatment plants fall under the forest area of Krishna Nagar in NIT area and Sapra village, they had submitted a petition for the forest department clearance six months ago, but are yet to get the go-ahead. “In absence of the forest department clearance, the executing agency is not being able to begin the construction work. The forest department clearance is affecting the ambitious drinking water project effectively,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. It may be mentioned here that of the 50,000 households, only 7,000 households get tapped water from the Drinking Water & Sanitation Department. The rest of the residents have to manage from the borewell. But as the water table of the area has depleted considerably, most of the borewells have gone defunct, leading the affected residents to arrange drinking water from the adjoining steel city. Significantly, several residents are seen carrying drinking water in bottles back home from the Bistupur locality of the steel city. Divisional forest officer, Seraikela, Aditya Narayan said, “We are yet to receive any petition from the JUDICO or AMC concerning the forest clearance. We will be able to process the petition for the forest clearance only after we receive it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Haryana retain title, Jharkhand finishes second in women's national meet||Jharkhand ended up with the runner’s up trophy after being defeated by Haryana 3-4 in an exciting penalty shootout in the finals of the 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Women National Championship-2021 in Simdega on Thursday. The first half ended goalless in a closely contested final. The deadlock continued in the second half with neither Haryana nor Jharkhand coming close to scoring. Haryana’s captain Nidhi thereafter starred in the shootout, denying Jharkhand’s trio—Edlin Bage, Sweety Dungdung, Nisha Minj’s attempts on goal. Ritika, Kanika Siwach, Manisha and Sakshi Rana scored in the shootout for Haryana. Haryana coach Kuldeep Siwach was full of praise for his side for successfully defended the title. “I am proud of the way my girls performed throughout the tournament. It was a close battle today (Thursday). Hockey Jharkhand played very well and showed good fitness levels. Even when the match went to a shootout, I was confident that the girls could get the job done,” he said. “Our strike partnership of Kanika Siwach and Tamanna Yadav, who finished top scorers of the 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Women National Championship 2021, was the key for us throughout the event,” Siwach added. Earlier in the day, Uttar Pradesh finished third in the tournament by edging out Odisha 3-1. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh hailed the state team’s performance. “Winning or losing is part of the game but our girls have exhibited great spirit throughout the series. Today, they missed out by a slender margin but they still deserve the accolades for storming into the finals by winning all their matches,” he said thanking the state government and the local district administration for their support in organising the prestigious tournament in Simdega, known as the state's hockey cradle. The Astroturf stadium in Simdega, which can accommodate 4,000 people, witnessed a massive turnout for the second consecutive day on Thursday in spite of the blazing sun. Next month, Simdega is again set to host the junior national women’s championship from April 3 to 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma witnesses arrival of elephants from Bengal||Herds of elephants have started their journey back to their home in Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary. The trip back to their habitat is also good news for tourists who have started visiting the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary after the sprawling jumbo abode reopened earlier this month post-Covid pandemic. Forest guards spotted three separate herds of about 35 elephants, including tuskers, near Bijli Ghati (watering hole) on Wednesday afternoon. Some more jumbos moved into the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, in the wee hours of Thursday. The elephants, which had migrated to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in Bengal, last year, had been anchored on the fringe pockets of Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary for over two months. Their entry to the sanctuary was imminent. Some elephants had returned home from Bengal early in December last year and owing to the cold uphill had subsequently moved downhill. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed the presence of elephants near Bijli Ghati. "In all, about 80 elephants have moved into the sanctuary from neighbouring Bengal. We welcome the elephants back home," he added. According to Chandra, they had arranged drones for taking pictures of the elephants but the effort came a cropper as the jumbos did not come near the watering hole. "The elephants moved into the core area and pictures from drone were not possible," the range officer informed. Dalma authorities have made elaborate arrangements – from mending road to trimming bushes – to ensure a hassle-free entry of jumbos into the sanctuary. Besides getting the forest better, roads had been mended at all the six beats of the sanctuary – Bhadodih, Nutandih, Dalma, Mango, Dalma and Patamda – for swift movement of forest patrol. The effort was to minimise man-animal conflict. A forester said all the elephants should be home in a day or two. There are about 152 elephants at the scenic reserve. The jumbos had caught the migration corridor to Bengal in August-September last year. They usually return after the harvesting season in the neighbouring state, in February-March. Elephants follow two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka and the other from Burudih. The first one leads to Nutandih while the second passes through Narsingpur (Ghatshila range), Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Both the corridors merge at Mirjadih from where the elephants cross Haludbani, Bhadodih, Bota and Dimna to reach Dalma. Tourists, mostly from Bengal, flock to the sanctuary in summer and winter to spend quality time amid natural surroundings. With the watering holes and check dams brimming, they will get ample opportunity of clicking pictures of the jumbos. Elephants take bath and quench their thirst at the watering holes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi shooter is technical official at international meet ||Tara Shahdeo is excited and raring to go as she gets ready to officiate as a technical official at the ISSF (International Shooting Sports Federation) World Cup which began at Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range in New Delhi on Thursday. The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) has appointed the former Ranchi-based national-level shooter as one of the technical officials for the World Cup. It is for the first time Tara will be officiating in an international competition. “”I am very excited to have been appointed as a technical official and I am looking forward to learn new things. It will also be the right exposure for me," Tara said over phone from Ranchi. She is among 10 former shooters from India who have been appointed as a technical official for the World Cup. A shooting coach at Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS), she is flying to New Delhi this evening. "I am leaving for the venue this evening to attend the official meeting. The competition begins on Friday morning. Thursday was earmarked for assembly of participants as well as meetings. I will be on duty at the 50 m shooting range," Tara informed. According to her, she came back home a couple of days ago after officiating as a technical official at the East Zone Shooting Championship in Asansol. “Änd now I am required to officiate in a big-ticket event. It would be a learning curve for me," Tara said. Tara has also officiated as a technical official at the Khelo India Games in Assam last year, All India Inter-school Games in Bihar in 2019 as well as Senior National Shooting Championship in Madhya Pradesh, also in 2019. The ISSF World Cup was supposed to be held last year but was postponed due to the global pandemic. It will be the first international event of 2021 for 13 of 15 Indian shooters who have already won a quota place for the Tokyo Olympics. Three hundred men and women shooters from 53 countries will be seen in action during the event which concludes on March 29. Fifty seven shooters from India are part of the World Cup.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad LIC staff join national protest against FDI, IPO||More than 100 employees of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India, Dhanbad, on Thursday took out a rally and carried out demonstrations in front of their respective branches as part of the nation wide strike of LIC employees. The employees of all eight branches, who were protesting against the government's decision to bring IPO of LIC of India, increase of FDI in insurance sector and inordinate delay in pay revision later, also held a general meeting on Randhir Verma Chowk near the district collectorate. The protestors, who took out rally from Zila Parishad ground to Randhir Verma chowk, claimed that a loss of Rs 10 crore has been caused in Dhanbad due to closure of all eight branches during the strike. Talking to media at Randhir Verma Chowk,  Hemant Mishra, general Secretary of Hazaribagh division of Insurance employees association, said, “The trade union representatives of district have also extended support to our strike and participated in the meeting held today as they are in principle against the government measures” “The union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, during her budget speech of 2021-22 announced funds worth Rs 1.75 lakh crore through disinvestment of PSUs out of which some amount is also to be generated through bringing IPO of LIC which is totally wrong and unconstitutional. “A nationwide protest in going against the plan to bring IPO of LIC as the organization established in 1956 with an investment of Rs 5 thousand crore has developed asset of Rs 32 lakh crore through the accumulation of small savings of the investors and provided insurance cover to more than 40 crore people” said Mishra. “We will protest against the privatization drive of the central government as the government has announced to increase FDI in insurance sector from 49% to 74%,” claimed Mishra and added that FDI in insurance sector is not foreign investment but rather foreign interference and an attempt to loot the savings of common people. “The pay revision of LIC of India employees is pending since August 2017 and pay revision is akin to denying the basic rights of the employees” said Prabhulal, a protestor. He also pointed out that the growth rate of LIC is much more than that of the GDP of India but LIC employees, who have played an important role in this success, are being denied the revised pay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Minor sentenced to life for 2019 gang rape of Ranchi student||A special POCSO court sentenced a minor to a life in prison and a fine of Rs 60,000 for his involvement in the gang rape of law college student in Ranchi Kanke area in 2019. Public prosecutor A. K. Rai told reporters here on Thursday that the court of K.M. Prasad convicted the accused on the basis of scientific evidence submitted by police and the victim’s testimony during the trial.  “A total of 12 people were accused in the case of which 11 are already serving life terms,” he said. The incident took place on the evening of November 29, 2019, when a gang of 12 youths, including the minor, tookturns to rape the 25-year-old student. Nine of them had kidnapped the woman from a bus stop when she was returning to the campus from nearby Sangrampur village. Then they called up three more of their friends, took her to a secluded place in Kanke and took turns to rape her. As news of the crime broke, massive protests broke out across Ranchi and elsewhere in the state with various social and civil rights groups joining in. Ranchi police acted swiftly and formed a special investigation team that ensured the arrest of all the culprits from various parts of Kanke within 24 hours. After investigations, police also filed a charge sheet and put the case on fast track. On March 2, the court of judicial commissioner of Ranchi Navneet Kumar concluded the hearing, terming the case as "rarest of rare" before holding 11 persons guilty of the crime and sentencing them to rigorous imrisonment for life. The 11 guilty are Kuldeep Oraon, Sunil Oraon, Sandeep Tirkey, Ajay Munda, Rajan Oraon, Naveen Oraon, Basant, Kacchap, Ravi Oraon, Rohit Oraon and Sunil Munda. They are lodged in Birsa Munda Central Prison. The case of minor was later transferred to juvenile justice board (POCSO court) for trial, which ended on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi steps up mask vigil, 16 shops slapped notices for flouting Covid norms||The Jharkhand government launched a special mask-checking drive on Thursday to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour, especially in Ranchi district, where the administration also slapped notices on at least 16 shops for not adhering to Covid-19 protocols and warned their owners of strict action if they are caught violating the rules again. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan launched the drive at GEL Church Complex on MG Road in the morning and urged the people to follow the thumb rule of “SMS – social distancing, mask and sanitiser”. Ranjan said the administration would run the mask-checking drive throughout the district and any person caught without a facemask would be fined Rs 500 on the spot as per provisions of the law. “As Covid cases are on the rise in our city, I request all citizens of Ranchi to wear facemasks whenever they move out of their homes and follow social distancing in public places,” Ranjan said. Ranchi police had already slapped fines of Rs 500 on over 100 peopel for flouting Covid norms on streets by the time this report was filed, sources said. Most of the violators admitted their mistake and vowed to wear a mask whenever they moved out for any work, police said. As per government data, Ranchi alone accounts for 373 of the 599 active  Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. The count of active cases here had dropped to as low as 198 in February, and almost doubled by mid-March, according to government data. Ranchi sub-divisional officer (SDO) Sameera S inspected shops in malls and shopping complexes across the city on Thursday and found that at least 16 shops were not following the Covid-19 precautions mentioned in the guidelines of the Centre and state. At least three shops in Nucleus Mall, four in Panchvati Plaza, three in Atal Vendor Market, three shops in Hari Om Tower and three shops on Circular Road were served notices by the administration. The SDO also visited various mobile repair shops on Circular Road and asked them to follow social distancing and other Covid-19 precautions. “Most of the shops that were served notices did not provide sanitisers to customers and did not maintain a register of address and contact details of  customers who visited them,” said Sameera, adding that these shops would be sealed if they were found to be violating rules again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders swear by Covid norms amid surge in cases||In deference to directives issued by the district administration, traders of the coal town have decided to adhere to all Covid protocols, including wearing of masks by shopkeepers and customers,  maintaining social distance and using sanitisers at all their establishments. Federation of General secretary of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCII) Ajay Naryan Lal has sent messages to this effect to all 50 branches of the trade association to ensure compliance. Prabhat Surolia, president of the organisation, also held a meeting with the execute members of the committee where it was decided that they would adhere to the guidelines of the administration. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Surolia said that all shopkeepers in the meeting were told to adhere to the guidelines, as per instructions issued by Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. “No customer will be allowed to enter in shops without wearing masks while the shopkeepers, salespersons and other staff will also have to wear them. Provisions for the use of hand sanitisers in shops have also been made mandatory,” Surolia said. Lal said that the decision was taken keeping in mind the safety of the traders in the market, as well as to curb the sudden spread of the virus. Sub-divisional Surendra Prasad said that it was communicated to the business chambers to follow the guidelines by Friday as regular checks will be done by the authorities, who will impose fines if any norm is violated. “Checking drives for masks at public places has already been launched from today (Thursday) itself. We have carried out checking near City Centre Chowk  and imposed fines on those who were flouting the norms. This will be extended to other parts of the district in the upcoming days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren keeps promise, provides job letters to 39 needy sportspersons||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday handed over job letters to 39 sportspersons who clinched medals at national and international tournaments in the past but were battling economic issues for years. The chief minister personally handed over the letters to 27 players at a low-key ceremony at Project Building, Ranchi at noon while the rest, who couldn’t make it on the day, will be provided their appointment letters by the department. All the players have been inducted in the police departmrent as inspectors. Speaking on the occasion, Hemant assured other players to not feel disheartened stating that such recruitment was just the beginning. “I am glad to finally give you jobs for your service to the state and the nation on the playing arena but at the same time others, who are pinning hopes on the government, may feel disheartened. I want to assure all players that this government is sensitive towards you and your concerns. Soon, we are coming up with a fool proof plan for overall promotion of sports and players,” he said. Conceding that the majority of the players made a mark on their own mettle more than government support, he promised to change that in the coming days. “I often feel sad when I come across news reports of players selling pakora or tea. I had helped many such players even before coming into active politics and have always wanted to do something for you all. Now that I have got the mandate and responsibility, this government will work for your benefits,” he said, adding that it was also for the first time that his government hired district sports officers since the creation of Jharkhand in 2000. After coming to power, the Hemant Soren government had promised direct employment to players, as a part of which 40 people have so far been formally inducted. On December 29 last year, hockey player Birsi Munda was given a job at a state ceremony. Earlier during the programme, sports secretary Pooja Singhal said that of the 39 players, 27 would receive their letters at the function. “Of the total players, 17 are women and 10 are men. All are inducted in the police department (home) on the post of inspectors,” she said. Ram Kumar Bhatt, a noted cyclist of Dhanbad, looked relieved after getting his job letter. “Other governments made several promises but to no avail. Because of lack of proper support and poverty, I had to work as a watchman for years to run my family and pursue my sport. I am happy today that I will work with dignity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records 82 cases of Covid-19, active number of cases near 600||As many as 82 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection against 60 recoveries took the count of active cases in Jharkhand close to 600 on Wednesday, revealed government data. The active caseload in the state reached 599 on the day from 466 a month ago, indicating that fresh cases outnumbered recoveries by more than 100 in the past one month, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi reported 45 cases against 33 recoveries on Wednesday, and the number of patients here jumped to 373, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, government data highlighted. As per NHM data, Ranchi alone accounts for more than 60 per cent of active cases in the state. Meanwhile, more than 22,000 Jharkhand residents, including 16,634 senior citizens and 2,434 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine on Wednesday, taking the total count of those vaccinated in the state so far above 5.5 lakh, figures compiled by the NHM highlighted. As many as 8,967 healthcare workers and frontline workers were administered the second dose of the vaccine, taking the total count of Jharkhand residents who have completed the vaccination course to 1,84,685, stated a report released by the NHM. The state, however, achieved only 6 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers. The second dose was administered to only 9 per cent of the registered healthcare and frontline workers, the NHM report further stated. Over 2,000 people were vaccinated in Ranchi as well as Giridih on the day, while only 147 people got the first jab of the vaccine in Koderma – the lowest among Jharkhand districts. Over 1,300 people in Bokaro and more than 1,100 people in East Singhbhum received the jab on Wednesday. Senior citizens in Giridih have outdone their Ranchi counterparts in getting the first dose of the vaccine, reveals government data. As per data with NHM, as many as 20,442 have got the first dose of the vaccine in Giridih, while 16,420 have got the jabs in Ranchi. Around 8,000 senior citizens have been vaccinated in East Singhbhum so far and close to 12,000 in Bokaro. As per government data, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 1.55 lakh seniors since March 1. As per government data, more than 1.20 lakh people have been infected in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The doubling rate in Jharkhand has dropped to 1,516 days from over 2,500 days in the past one week, but it is still lower than the national average of 359 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Government jobs for 27 Jharkhand players under quota||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday gave direct appointment to 27 meritorious sportspersons under the sports quota in government jobs, for the first time since the creation of a separate state from Bihar. Chief minister Hemant Soren handed over the appointment letters to the sportspersons (17 women and 10 men) at the cabinet auditorium in Ranchi. Addressing the sportspersons, he said: “The selected sportspersons have won laurels despite infrastructure constraints and the government will try to involve them in governance and encourage them by making them economically stronger. The handing of appointment letters is just the beginning and we will be seeing similar joining letter distributions in future.” Soren said that those sportspersons who have not received appointment letters should not be disheartened as the government is working on an action plan for all of them. All sportspersons will be given an opportunity to showcase their skills and get job opportunities, he added. “We will be hosting more international and national competitions of different sports in Jharkhand to enable our talents to showcase their skills,” said the chief minister. All the 27 sportspersons have been given jobs as constables in Jharkhand police. The sportspersons who were handed over appointment letters are Lakhi Mandal, Jailaxmi Laguri, Tulsi Hembrom, Sumanlata Murmu and Sukmati Purty (all archery), Kumari Priyanka, Indu Munda, Rahul Minz, Jyoti Kumari and Deepak Bahadur Titung (all wushu), Aparna Kumari, Devanand Baskey, Sima Kumari Sinha and Vimla Munda (all karate), Kavita Kumari, Alok Lakra, Mohammed Abutalib Ansari, Rajiv Kumar Sahu and Nutan Manju Minz (all lawnball), Manisha Singh, Fani Bhusan Prasad, Parvin Akhtar and Priti Kumari (all taekwondo), Navin Kumar and Ramkumar Bhatt (cycling), Wasiul Hassan (handball) and Sangeeta Khalko (boxing). Earlier this year, the government had appointed sports officers in all 24 districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Deoghar bypoll beckons touring BJP campaigners||Senior BJP leaders from Jharkhand currently campaigning in Assam and Bengal for the Assembly polls, including Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda and party’s national vice-president Raghubar Das, will have to make a hasty return to their home state in the next few days to prepare to wrest the Madhupur seat from the JMM. The Election Commission declared on Tuesday that byelection to the Madhupur Assembly seat (which falls under Godda Lok Sabha constituency in Deoghar district) will be held on April 17 and the result will be declared on May 2. The last date for filing nominations is March 30. After losing the 2019 Assembly election, the BJP further lost face in the Dumka and Bermo bypolls and is desperate to wrest the Madhupur Assembly seat. “We are confident of wresting the Madhupur Assembly seat this time as we will be having the support of Ajsu (All Jharkhand Students Union). The core committee of the BJP will be announcing the party candidate in a few days. Soon after, senior party leaders who are campaigning in Bengal will be asked to shuttle between Madhupur and the neighbouring state for canvassing,” said BJP state spokesperson Pratul Sahdeo. The BJP’s confidence stems from the 2019 results in which its voting percentage (28.34 per cent) and Ajsu’s (19.88 per cent) taken together (48.22 per cent) was higher than the JMM (38.4 per cent). However, party insiders revealed that it would not be easy to persuade Ajsu’s probable candidate Ganga Narayan Ray to leave the field for the BJP’s possible nominee Raj Paliwar. “Ganga Narayan Ray has already started campaigning in his circles for the election and it would be very difficult to persuade him to withdraw. He has already made his intention clear that if the BJP wants to win the seat, it should give him the ticket, making his ambitions clear,” said a party insider. The BJP is in a sticky position as it does not want to upset former cabinet minister and state vice-president Paliwar who has also expressed his interest to contest from the Madhupur seat and has the backing of the RSS think tank. The ruling JMM, on the other hand, is unperturbed. “We had already made our candidate for the Madhupur seat clear in February itself by making Hafijul Hassan, son of our senior leader Haji Hussain Ansari, a cabinet minister. It is a tribute from our part to our senior leader who passed away in October due to Covid-related complications. The people of Madhupur know what Haji Sahab has done for them and also know what the current government has done in the last one year despite battling the Covid-19 pandemic. We are confident of retaining the seat and the victory margin would only increase,” said JMM national general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee. The Madhupur seat fell vacant after the death of cabinet minister and JMM legislator Ansari in October last year and his son Hafijul was allocated the minority welfare department in the Hemant Soren government on February 5 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
