19-03-2021||Calcutta||Ethics of clicking in the wild ||Did you know that it’s unethical to mimic the call of a bird while trying to click it? Or that it’s not right to click bird nests? Did you know that offering bait to attract turtles to the surface of the water is a complete no-no for a wildlife photographer worth his salt? A webinar on ethical wildlife photography was organised by the AE Block-based Ganga Prahris, West Bengal, which explained the dos and don’ts of the popular hobby. Ganga Prahris are a volunteer group set up by the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to protect the Ganges. Sharing the ethics was Saurav Gawan, conservation biologist at WII. “Photographers must remember that nature comes first, not them. You are entering the habitat of an animal and you must respect the rules of its home,” said Saurav. Here’s what all he shared - Conservation- Your aim should be conservation, not winning photography contests. So click a frame that will tell the story of the animals’ depleting habitat or endangered status. For instance, Saurav shared the picture of nilgai he had clicked, being chased into the Ganga by farmers (picture on Page 4). It told the story of the animal-human conflict. “Since conservation is the goal, the most established of wildlife photographers allow you free access to their pictures if it is for educational purposes,” said Saurav. Be invisible- Your photography must not interfere with the animals’ activities. If you’re heading to a national park, read the rules. Take a local guide. Leave nothing behind — no food or leftovers. Treat rare and common species equally- For instance, Nubian flapshell turtles are rare and highly sought after by photographers. But if enthusiasts ignore the more common Indian flapshell turtles these may get endangered next. So click both and create awareness about both. Wear colours that blend into the environment- Do not wear bright shades of red and orange, for instance. They make you visible from afar and may make the animal feel threatened. Gharials, for instance, are used to farmers working at a distance but if a photographer dressed in a bright red outfit approaches, the reptiles will feel threatened and withdraw into the water. Not only will you not get your snaps but the gharials, that need to bask, will also be deprived of the sun. Avoid crowding- At times, large photography groups set out and upon a sighting, gherao the animal. This makes the creature uncomfortable. If it’s a carnivore it may even attack. Do not mimic their calls- Photographers are known to hire guides who can mimic the call of birds. This is selfish and interferes with the birds’ natural life. Do not use torch/flash/ shutter sound- Some animals are so soft-hearted that they can get heart attacks even from sound of your camera’s shutter. There have been cases when deer have died simply hearing gunshots that were fired to scare away monkeys. Shut the shutter sound on your camera and shut your mobile phone when on field. Do not chase animals- Since animals like turtles are harmless, photographers are known to pick them out of the water, wash them if they are muddy and place them in poses that will yield good shots. This breaks the cardinal rule of not interfering with the animals’ lives. Do not use bait to draw animals- Photographers are known to lure turtles and birds this way to get close-ups but it isn’t ethical. Safety first- Never handle reptiles and amphibians without the supervision of a herpetologist. This is for your own safety too. A lot of snakes, for instance, look similar and you don’t want to touch a venomous one. Picture composition- Mahisin Khan, a professional photographer, explained the technical aspect of photography - aperture, shutter speed, ISO and picture composition. “The following are commonly used types of compositions but always be ready to deviate,” he explained. “On the field you will have seconds to decide how to click but if you know the rules it will help you subconsciously. Sometimes composition can be altered during post-production too.” 1. Rule of third- Used most often. This is when you mentally draw two equidistant horizontal and vertical lines across the frame. Now, instead of placing the subject bang in the centre of the photo, place it at any corner of the inner-most box formed by the imaginary lines. The off-centre composition looks more natural. So popular is this method, that several cameras and mobile phone cameras show these grids on the screen these days. 2. Centered composition- Use this if, for instance, there are two V-shaped paths meeting at a point ahead. 3. Isolated subject- You may want to focus on your subject and blur out the rest. This will make it stand out in this environment. 4. Fill the frame- If, say, you see a tiger yawning, you could click a close-up of its face and show nothing else on screen. 5. Negative space- This is when instead of a tight portrait you allow breathing space. If the subject is looking at a far-away hill you could show the subject and some open space in the direction it is looking. 6. Left to right rule- Since we are used to reading from left to right, our minds are wired to search for the same grammar in a photograph too. You could tell a story in you frame where the climax is in the right corner. 7. Rule of space- This is when your picture follows your character to show his movement. Mahisin also shared some tips for beginners- 1. Study the animal’s behaviour to determine its active season and active hours. For instance, birds are usually active in the morning. 2. Be patient- When Mahisin went to click finger-sized tree frogs in north Bengal, he found the creatures two days and a leach attack later. “Be ready to stalk the animal — without disturbing or intimating him to get the best shots. Unlike in the case of people, you can’t ask animals for a retake. The moment will not return. You need to be ready and patient for the right time,” he said. 3. Golden hour- The quality of your pictures depends greatly on ambient light so try to shoot two hours after sunrise and two hours before sunset. Known as “golden hour”, this is the best time for photography. 4. Beginners can try to focus on the eye of the subject and try to click from its eye level. They can also try to click the animal along with its habitat. Since wildlife photography is an expensive hobby, Mahisin suggested that beginners start by clicking birds nearby. “But be responsible about it. For instance, it is unethical for amateurs to click nests. Once a photographer shares these pictures it prompts hundreds more to do the same. Inadvertently, they end up harming the chicks in the nest,” said Mahisin. And Sourav answered a question on many a mind in the audience. “Viewers are asking for tips on mobile phone photography but my advice is to simply not use it for wildlife,” he said. “This is because phones don’t allow that much zoom and as we have understood, it is not advisable to go too close to animals to shoot.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||A corner of Eco Park only for birds||A portion of Eco Park has been recently inaugurated as a bird sanctuary. Pakhibitan is a three-acre space opposite the golf course that is now allowing in birdwatchers. Guided tours are being planned for novices too. Many birds have been spotted and recorded across the grasslands of New Town and Rajarhat in the past. However these grasslands, especially those around Action Area II, are not expected to be free from construction much longer. Keeping this in mind, Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), has developed Pakhibitan into a protected habitat that birds that can always call their home. The execution of the sanctuary has been carried out by Nature Mates, an NGO that works for conservation. The NGO also runs the butterfly dome at Eco Park. “We have spent more than a year planting grass reeds and fruit trees here, creating mud banks and preparing a man-made water body. We have also been documenting the birds coming over,” said Arjan Basu Roy, who heads the group. Debasis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Hidco, said it was exciting to see that they had managed to attract birds to a place that was completely man-made. “Unlike at a zoo, these birds are free to choose the place of their roosting. The fact that more than 130 species of birds have already been recorded at Pakhibitan shows that we have been successful in drawing them,” said Sen. Walk-through The three-acre plot, near the golf course and deer park, has a wooden pathway cutting across an expanse of tall grass, with some trees along the perimeter. There is a water body and feeding bowls with grains placed at regular intervals. The chirping of birds is hard to miss. “Check out that spotted dove! It’s feeding on the grains in the bowl,” pointed out Lina Chatterjee, a Nature Mates member, as The Telegraph Salt Lake took a tour. There was also a Eurasian Collar Dove and Red Vented Bulbull. Although not as densely populated as Rabindra Sarobar, Santragachhi Jheel and other popular bird destinations in town, Pakhibitan has recorded over 130 species of birds over the past year. Birds like Acorbian Cuckoo, Yellow Wagtail, Black-tailed Godwit and Red-Wattled Lapwing are all visitors. Migratory birds come too, such as the Common Snipe, a trans-Himalayan migrant that spends the cold winter months in marshes and grasslands of temperate areas. The Red Avadavat and Verditer Flycatcher have been recorded too. It is easy to see why the birds like it here. While the other sections of Eco Park are bustling with people clicking selfies, enjoying picnic lunches and playing music from bluetooth speakers, this zone is tranquil. The silence is interspersed only by calls of birds and the occasional quack from a family of ducks that calls the waterbody its home. “Besides planting a grass variety, we have planted wild flowers with climbers and herbs that mimic the Rajarhat habitats. We have also planted fruit trees to attract fruit-eating birds. These trees will take time to grow but we are hopeful that more birds will start coming,” said Basu Roy. To attract birds that prefer water and marshy areas, a mudflat has been created with bird boxes, floaters and wooden logs for them to rest in the water. They are also offering birds grains, seeds and worms on feeders and Basu Roy says the birds love it. In fact, it is not only just birds making the space their home. More than 20 Indian flapshell turtles and softshell turtles that were rescued by the forest department have been released in the waterbody here. Bird walks planned Basu Roy has submitted a proposal to Hidco to organise bird walks for birders in the morning twice a week, preferably on the weekends round the year. If approved, this will be a two- hour activity covering Pakhibitan where birders will be allowed access to see and photograph the birds. Apart from this, they plan to have bird walks of 45 minutes each from 2.45pm and 3.45pm with a group of no more than five persons who are new to the world of birding. “We are also planning a breakfast with birds where we will have story-telling sessions about the avians over breakfast,” said Basu Roy. But no visitors will be allowed in without supervision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Two councillors switch to BJP||A ward co-ordinator each from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and the South Dum Dum Municipality joined the BJP on Sunday. Swati Banerjee, the ward co-ordinator of Ward 5 comprising areas under the erstwhile Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality, joined the BJP at their joining event held at Dum Dum Park. Banerjee was previously the councillor of a ward of the Bidhannagar Municipality before it was accorded corporation status. Mriganka Bhattacharya, the co-ordinator of Ward 28 of the South Dum Dum Municipality, also joined the BJP at the same event. Bhattacharya is credited with stopping the use of plastic bags in Bangur as well as taking up various beautification projects in his ward. He had also spruced up several parks during his tenure as councillor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Eastern Drainage Canal blocked for Metro piers ||The flow of water has nearly stopped at the Eastern Drainage Canal that skirts Salt Lake due to ongoing construction work of pillars of the Airport-Garia Metro line. As a result of this the entire canal waters has turned into a breeding ground for mosquitoes forcing residents of several complexes, including Jal Vayu Vihar, Mahavir Vikas, blocks like IC, KB-KC, FF, EE, and SA to keep their windows and doors tightly shut. These problems are likely to continue as, according to a Metro official, construction of the pillars could take at least one more year to complete by conservative estimates. Woe vs utility Some residents are not even taking off mosquito nets. To add to the woes, people are also dumping garbage and waste comprising thermocol trays, plates, used plastic glasses as well as liquor bottles in the canal waters. To aid construction work and to prevent the canalbank road from sinking in due to the piling work being done for the pillars, the agency building the pillars has constructed wooden barriers along the banks of the canal. According to an engineer working at the site, the wooden stakes have been sunk into the loose clay of the canal bank to prevent sinking of the road due to the high pressure impact arising out of piling work. “If we don’t put up the stakes the entire canal bank road may sink in. We have put up the wooden stakes to improve stability of the construction site as well as to ensure that the concrete road survives,” said the engineer. An official at the state irrigation department said that Metro has taken all requisite permits for working on the canal and said that the water is likely to remain stagnant till construction is over as any release of water from the lockgate in the Hooghly river near Baghbazar may prove catastrophic for the construction of the pillars. “We can hardly do anything about it. We cannot release fresh water as it will hamper construction. We can only hope that the water in the canal dries out. Once work is completed, the entire canal will need proper restoration,” said the official. Residents who live in blocks along the canal on the other hand said that the construction work is taking a regular toll on their lives. They cite a long list of problems that started ever since the construction of the Metro piers started. The list includes narrowed down roads to dumping of construction materials, including iron rods that are difficult to spot at night, on the canal bank road to the problem of swarms of mosquitoes descending at sundown. “Mosquitoes are breeding in the canal waters right in front of our housing complex. We are trying to keep the area clean by asking our sweepers but it is an uphill task as people continue to dump garbage,” said Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, vice- chairman of the board of the Jal Vayu Vihar co-operative housing society. They are even facing problems in driving out of the complex as the area in front of their main gate has narrowed considerably due to the ongoing construction activities. Dilip Singh, a resident of IC Block, said that random construction materials, including large chunks of concrete and even iron roads on the side of the road, have turned it into a potential death trap. “As it is, the canal bank road plunges into darkness as most of the lights have stopped working. To add to our worries, workers are dumping construction materials that are difficult to spot at night. Two of my neighbours have been involved in accidents in February,” said Singh. Several residents said they had complained to both the contractor building the pillars and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to take action but to no effect. “We have notified the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation as well as the contractor’s men but nothing has worked till date,” Singh said. Minu Das Chakraborty, the ward co-ordinator, said the onus was on the Metro Railway authorities to keep the area clean. “We are trying our best but they too should take some responsibility,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Garbage piles up across Salt Lake||With the elections around the corner, the garbage-lined streets and overflowing drains across Salt Lake have sparked fear of an outbreak of enteric diseases and are forcing many residents to keep the windows and doors of their houses firmly shut. Residents said most of the 150 tonnes of the garbage Salt Lake generates every day is accumulating across the 33.5sq km township. “At this rate, Salt Lake will soon become Dhapa. This is happening at a time the authorities as well as residents need to focus on hygiene to combat Covid and dengue,” said a resident. This has come at a time when Devasish Jana, the erstwhile board member of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, has resigned and joined the BJP. A senior civic official said that as of now, no member of the board of administrators has been asked to head or supervise the solid waste management and road sweeping mechanism of all 41 wards the fall under the jurisdiction of the Corporation. An engineer of the civic body admitted that garbage as well as construction waste and fallen leaves were accumulating on the pavements across all three sectors of the township.“It is true that garbage has accumulated in some places. We are clearing it and will carry out more intensive drives soon,” the engineer. Jana, the former mayoral council member in charge of solid waste management at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation who is now a ward co-ordinator, said that it was evident that he had worked during his tenure. “If the headmaster is there in school then all classes take place like clockwork. But now there is nobody heading this crucial department, we can see all that there is to see," said Jana. He added that it saddened him to see newly constructed walkways littered with garbage and areas in front of playgrounds and green verges piled with dead leaves and garbage. “Accumulated garbage gives ample opportunities for mosquitoes to breed. This is one of the reasons why Salt Lake is facing such a hard time in terms of mosquitoes,” said Jana. For five days a week, Ishanjit Choudhury,  a resident of IB Block, is having to dump household waste at the neighbourhood vat behind IC block that is overflowing with garbage. He doesn’t have a choice. His neighbours, too, are doing the same.“Civic workers would previously collect garbage from our doorstep every day. Now they come hardly twice a week. They are not even taking away garbage from near the compactor station. The entire area stinks,” the 72-year-old said The Telegraph Salt Lake drove around the township on Tuesday and found scarcely any block or compactor station that did not have a heap of garbage lying around. The areas near City Centre and the CGO Complex looked the dirtiest. The situation was similar in AE, AB, BC, BB, CJ CE and IC blocks. A 20-metre stretch from the City Centre Metro station till Bidhannagar College was littered with garbage. The entire area had flies swarming around, while several dogs and cows were seen rummaging through the garbage for food. Passers-by were seen holding handkerchieves to their noses despite wearing masks.“The stench from the garbage in front of our house is so overpowering that we keep the windows of our house shut,” said Prakash Agarwal, a resident of EC Block. A civic official blamed the combination of staff shortage and defunct garbage collection trucks for the sorry state of affairs.  “Many men are not reporting for work out of fear of contracting the coronavirus and also because local trains are not running,” the official said. “There used to be 250 sweepers. Now, there are only half that number,” he added. Another official said  many workers who were involved in collection of garbage were now selling vegetables or involved in other activities. “We are trying to hire personnel but the pandemic is coming in the way,” he said. To add to the problem, sources said, many handcarts and vans have broken down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Let’s football: CA Block hosts inter-block tourney ||Eight teams from different blocks of Salt Lake faced off in a football tournament organised by CA Block at the BA-CA grounds on February 21. This was the first time that the block’s youth had been entrusted with organisation of a programme. “They took charge of sending out invitations and getting sponsorships. Teams from neighbouring blocks, such BA and BD, came because of their initiative,” said Jibadip Bhadury, the secretary of CA Block Citizens’ Association. The eight teams were divided into groups of four in a round robin format. The winner of each group would face the second-ranked team of the other group in the semi-finals. Each team could field four players, with one substitute. The ground was reduced and the goals were made smaller. No player could get into the opponent’s penalty box, and doing so would result in a free kick or penalty. Each half of a match consisted of eight minutes. The top team from Group A, BF-CF Veterans, faced and overcame Comrade FC in the first semi-final by 1-0. The top team from Group-B, CA1, faced Team BA in the second semi-final, winning with an identical scoreline. The kick-off for the final happened immediately after the second semi-final. Right from the start, BF-CF Veterans pressed hard but CA1 dribbled in tight spaces to move ahead. A couple of chances were created by both but not converted. With three minutes left before half time, CA1 got a free kick in their own half. Rohan Biswas went for the goal despite the distance. The ball went up in the air and bounced once before finding the back of the net. The BF-CF Veterans were stunned and some even walked up to Soutam Pathak, the referee, to confirm if a goal scored from a direct free-kick was valid. In the second half, BF-CF Veterans pressed harder than before. CA1 was finding it tough to retain possession and went for swift counter attacks. During a clearance, Saikat Chowdhury, the captain of BF-CF Veterans, stepped inside his own penalty box, gifting a penalty to CA1. Bidhannagar Champions Cup had a different norm for penalty. The kick-taker would have to take the shot from the centre of the field, aiming for the empty net. Amrit Sinha stepped up and took a slow shot. The audience gasped on seeing the ball bounce and roll in-between the posts. Now CA1 was up by two goals. The remaining two minutes saw relentless attacks by BF-CF Veterans as CA1 players focused on defence. Soon the game was up. CA1 had won the Bidhannagar Champions Cup. As the prizes were being handed out, spectators were busy discussing the brilliance of the free-kick. “I guess it was a mixture of practice, precision and luck,” smiled Rohan, the scorer. Captain of the losing team, BF-CF Veterans, Saikat Chowdhury was philosophical. “Losing is a part of sports but it was hard as we had an unbeaten run to the final. Just one bad match cost us the title. We are looking forward to participating next year as well,” he said. Amrit Sinha, the player of the tournament, was the top scorer, having found the net five times. “I practised taking penalty kicks customised for this tournament. That improved my accuracy. We were intent on not letting the game go into extra time,” said Sinha. The captain of CA1, Archit Kundu, said his team performed better in the later stages of the tournament. “We won two out of the three group games and that one loss hurt our morale. We maintained consistency in the semi-final. But we were running out of energy in the final as we were playing matches back to back. In the end, we managed to score twice,” he smiled. Organising the tournament was more satisfying as it took place after a pandemic-hit year. “Life was returning to normalcy so we thought, why not play football? During the lockdown, all we did was stay indoors. We kept a close watch on the players for a week before the tournament to see if they stayed fit. Even though the BA-CA ground is a huge open field, we did not want to risk having infected players on-field,” said Bhadury, who had himself contracted Covid-19 last October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town block homage to home-made sweets||It was an occasion to enjoy the fruits of and, in the process, encourage the culinary talents of neighbours. It ended up being a race to pick up the dishes of choice before the stock finished. CE Block hosted a Pithe Puli Utsav one winter afternoon where 10 stalls had been set up by women of the block who had knack for preparing traditional sweets that carry the taste of the season. Barely had the chief guest, Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, completed a tour of the stalls after opening the festival that swarms of the sweet-toothed descended. The first casualty was Athrayee Das’s Shahi Gur and Badam Phirni at the extreme left table, which finished in under half an hour. As yet another irate neighbour complained for not saving a couple of cups for her to buy, Athrayee tried to reason with her: “I had made 50 cups. People started depositing cash in advance even before the inauguration took place. What could I do?” Seated behind an empty table, Athrayee lamented: “I did not even give one to my daughter to taste though she helped me. Looks like I should have made a few more.” Kanakanjali Roy too had a similar experience. “Kouto ta khultei nimeshe sesh,” she said of the Dudh Puli made by her mother-in-law Anindita Mitra. “We did not even taste any at home other than the broken pieces.” The duo sold patisapta and rose cake too. “We made 45 pieces of each,” Roy added. But Mitra would not have made more even if she foresee the huge demand. “This is about enjoyment, not about making money,” she said. Prospect of enjoyment is what made Anisha Das volunteer in manning the cash transaction of a stall with her friend Ritwika. Ritwika's mother Shyamali Sengupta had prepared the dishes. “Nonta Pithe and Moog Dal Pithe sold the quickest,” the friends affirmed. In fact, so happy was Sengupta at her dishes being sold out that she suggested that such a pop-up sale be hosted every two or three months in the block. Sumona Jana and her husband Ranadwip Saha had come home from Bangalore for the lockdown and has stayed on, working from home. While her husband was helping her run the counter, she found an assistant in her father At home. “He chopped 2kg carrots for my Gajorer Halwa. He also pasted the daal and grated coconut for rosbora and dudhpuli,” said the girl. Several innovative items were on offer. Nita Banerjee had made Jhal Bhapa Roll. “Diabetics can take this. I make this with sweets too for non-diabetics,” she pointed out. Nandita Chatterjee had made Rajma Kheer. Kanakanjali was selling vegetable patisapta, in which vegetables were used in place of narkel kheer. Gopa Sarkar's Gokul Pithe Cheese Cake triggered curiosity. “Cheese cake on top, gokul pithe under it, a layer of biscuit beneath, more cheese cake at the bottom,” she explained. The stall-owners had no chance to budge from their posts. But some were lucky to have friendly neighbours like Sanchita Mitra who picked up items of choice from other tables in time for them to taste after they sold off their own dishes. The event was planned on the basis of a suggestion from Sen, the Hidco chief. “When he came on Christmas to inaugurate our park, he had asked us to organise community events here. So we thought of starting with a celebration of pithe, which is part of our tradition,” said Alok Das, secretary of CE Block residents association. Pictures: Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Meet the man who grows fruit trees in limited space||Who says New Town is a concrete jungle? Thanks to enthusiasts like Kali Prasad Saha, the township enjoys a fair share of greenery on balconies and terraces. Saha, an eye surgeon, has planted exotic fruits, rare flowers, herbs and spices that are rather difficult to grow in our conditions. His home seems like an oasis of colour and a source of fresh air. It all started when, living in Malda, we appointed a new art tutor for our daughter. The teacher was also a horticulturalist and invited us to a flower show. Once there, I was enthralled and before I knew it, there were 300 potted plants on our terrace. Gardening became such a passion that I would hijack the teacher for tips whenever he came to teach art. My daughter would get livid! We moved to New Town in 2018 and am thoroughly enjoying gardening here. My driveway has Palms and Crotons, Salvias and Cosmos, while the backyard has Amra, Gandharaj Hibiscus and a Rose garden. I could never image Cherries and Litchis growing in pots but they are thriving on our terrace. There are also Strawberries, Blackberries, Kul, Mausumbi, Oranges and several kinds of Mangoes. The potted Grape plant bore lots of fruits last year but Cyclone Amphan ravaged it. I’m trying to grow potted Jackfruit now. I’m always on the lookout for rare plants and have an interesting collection of these. You’ve heard of Kaalo Jaam but for a taste of Shaada Jaam you’ll have to visit my house. Same with Sweet Tamarinds, Blue Mangoes, Red Guavas and Red Batabi Lebus. Most of these fruits taste like their regular counterparts but their unusual colours add an exotic appeal. I’m rather fond of cooking and so a kitchen garden is a must for me. Besides vegetables like Tomatoes, Capsicums and Palong Shak, we have a Tej Pata tree, whose leaves we dry and use in cooking. Whenever I cook Cauliflower, I toss a few Gandharaj leaves in the bowl before pouring in the dish. It adds a lovely aroma that enhances the eating experience. After my daughter got married, I realised we had some leftover turmeric from her Gaaye Holud ceremony. Happily, I planted them and now we have a Turmeric plant in the terrace. My other hobby is playing badminton but it’s gardening that takes up most of my time. I’m with my plants from 6 to 8am, 11 to 11.30am and again from 4 to 6pm. I couldn’t be happier. •If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or call 22600115 after 4pm on Tuesdays and Wednesdays or email to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Consumer forum tips to thwart frauds ||A businessman in Malda was assured of Rs 90 lakh as a “jackpot insured amount”. He was even given a tablet as a gift by the agents. In good faith, he paid Rs 75,000 in premium within a year. However, when the time arrived for the insured amount to mature, the company stopped taking his calls. When he came to the office in Calcutta, they said they had no idea what he was talking because the person who had called him had quit his job. After making repeated attempts to convince the manager about his claim, the man was thrown out of the building. “That is when some of his friends got him in touch with us,” Iman Mukherji, assistant director, Directorate of Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices, government of West Bengal, said. He was speaking at a programme to commemorate National Consumer Day, organised by consumer affairs and fair business practices department, in association with Consumers' Association, Bidhannagar, and the Rotary Club of Salt Lake Central, at Prakash Bhavan. With advocate Subir Chatterjee, a resident of FD Block, by his side, he spoke at length about how fraudsters across the city have been targeting citizens over the phone to reveal their monetary details and duping them of lakhs of rupees. “In the case of the insurance fraud, we sent notices to the office and launched litigations. Finally, we sat for multiple negotiations till the entire amount was repaid to the poor man,” he said. He advised audience members to read the entire offer document and consult a lawyer while signing up for an insurance policy. “Do not reveal any password or even birthday or other personal details to anyone on the phone. While buying electronic goods, read the literature provided carefully. Also, be very careful about products where you have to pay EMIs. We have seen cases where insurance premiums are also being added to EMIs for a particular electronic product. The money is deducted every month but the client has no idea at all about the add-on policy for the product,” he added. Advocate Chatterjee explained the Consumer Protection Act. “The Act came into force in 1986 to protect the interests of consumers in India. It was replaced by the Consumer Protection Act, 2019. It was made for the establishment of consumer councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumer's grievances and matters connected there with it. This Act is regarded as the Magna Carta in the field of consumer protection for checking unfair trade practices, defects in goods and deficiencies in services in India. It has led to the establishment of a widespread network of consumer forums and appellate courts all over the country,” he said, adding how it has significantly impacted how businesses approach consumer complaints and have empowered consumers to a great extent. Mukherji pointed to a pattern that has been noticed in fraudulent activities. “People are called up at random by frauds who pose as insurance policy agents and told that they would need to reveal passwords of their net banking accounts by luring them with higher interests and insured amounts for minimum premiums. One should only talk to people they know for sure are agents.” He also cautioned against online purchase of clothes from companies that are outside one's city. “In that case, there is no option to go and re-check or ask for refund. For a product that costs Rs 5000, one could be wary of fighting a case in a consumer court, spending Rs 50,000. If you happen to live in Salt Lake, order from a company based in Rajarhat. Avoid ordering from companies based far from your area or city, because if anything goes wrong travelling to and fro could be unviable.” Another kind of duping takes place in the real estate market, he warned. “There are hundreds of people who take advance payment and promise to hand over a complete flat within two years. But in most cases that does not happen. So, if you are booking a flat remember to have a legal contract for handover, and, if things go awry, keep required documents ready to sue the company. Also check if the land sale records are in order and all taxes have been paid by the promoter or builder. At times, the consumer has already started paying EMIs but the builder has not handed over the keys. That is completely illegal,” Mukherji said. Dos and Don’ts • Talk only to people you know for sure to be insurance agents. • While signing up for an insurance policy, read the entire offer document and consult a lawyer. • Do not reveal passwords of your net banking accounts • Be very careful about products where you have to pay EMIs. Insurance premiums are added to EMIs without knowledge of the buyer. • While buying property check if the land sale records are in order and all taxes have been paid by the builder. • Get a legal contract to ensure timely handover of apartment||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Coming soon: Three church-run colleges in Calcutta||Three church-run colleges will come up in the next couple of years, Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, said on Thursday. The three colleges are — St James’ College, St John’s Diocesan College and a law college at St Thomas’ (school) in Kidderpore. St James’ College and the one at St Thomas’ will be co-educational, while St John’s Diocesan will be a girls-only institution. “We are working on St James’ and maybe within the next one-and-a-half years we will be able to start a degree college… for a degree college at St John’s Diocesan, paper has been submitted and I think within a year we will be able to start. And we have identified a place at St Thomas’ Kidderpore to start a law college there...,” the bishop said during a programme on Thursday afternoon. “These places are in the heart of the city...,” the bishop later told Metro. “In Oxford Mission, Behala, we want to create an educational hub (school and later college and university),” he added. During the programme the bishop also spoke of starting short courses in hotel management, hospitality on the Bishop’s House campus. “Our plan is to start from August so that the youth who cannot go for further study can come here and do the short course (six months theory and six months practical). If they qualify they will get diploma certificates,” he said. The bishop also said if the diploma courses work well, the next step would be to have a degree course on hospitality and hotel management. “We have huge space and we can utilise it,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Street corner meeting in Garia bares anxieties||Disrespect for women. Threat to take away citizenship. Indifference to livelihood problems. A chat with some people in the audience at a street-corner meeting in Garia on Wednesday evening and a few bystanders revealed the anxieties on their minds. A bustling market near the taxi stand at the Garia crossing was the stage for the meeting called by a group campaigning for “No vote to BJP”. A man stood around 30 metres away from the dais near a series of yellow cabs parked in the stand, listening to the speakers, occasionally nodding his head in approval. A local resident, he is a computer science teacher at a private engineering college. The 40-year-old said he stopped by on his way home from work because the speakers on the dais were “talking about his fears”. A couple of years ago, he and other teachers of the institute had visited the home of a colleague who had become the father of a girl. One of the visiting colleagues happened to be a “member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh”. “We wish all the best to your daughter. But next time, when a boy is born in the family, I want a bigger treat,” the man remembered his colleague telling the new father. “The colleague is now a leader of sorts, leading local BJP rallies and giving fiery speeches,” said the teacher. He gave another recent example of the “looming threat”. Two weeks ago, he had attended a virtual conference, billed as a “faculty development programme”. A senior official of an Indian Institute of Technology was the keynote speaker. While discussing “optimisation”, the speaker gave what he called a “relevant example”. “If an Indian man earns a foreign degree, his worth as a groom goes up several times. He can demand a hefty dowry,” he quoted the IIT official as saying. “These are not isolated incidents. It is not only the BJP that is making electoral gains, the right-wing majoritarianism is rearing its ugly head in all spheres of our lives,” the man told this newspaper. Stores selling everything from shoes to lottery tickets dotted the area where the meeting took place. The owner of an optical store stepped out and stayed put for almost 30 minutes, listening to the speeches. The 46-year-old man, burly and wearing a thick pair of glasses, was hesitant to talk at first. “I don’t support any party,” he said. Asked about his business, he said with a wry smile: “I stepped out because not a single customer had entered my store. That is how business is like these days. Forget profit, I can barely meet fixed costs like power bills and trade license fees.” The man, a physics graduate, used to give private tuitions to secondary students till March 2020. The pandemic has almost robbed him of the additional income. Business is going south but the man is more worried about something else. “We (he is unmarried and lives with his parents) are genuinely scared of the National Register of Citizens. My grandfather came from Bangladesh in 1946 but we don’t have any proof of that. He lived in Jadavpur before shifting to Garia in 1955,” the man told Metro. A few metres away, a shoe seller was busy with two customers. A woman, part of the organisers of the meeting, was distributing leaflets among the shopkeepers. The shoe seller refused to take one. But the customers left soon, without buying anything. The man then took the leaflet from his neighbouring shop and started reading it. “I don’t know about religion. But business is very, very bad and the government does not seem bothered. Ten years ago, I was thinking of buying or renting another store. Now, I am not sure if I will be able to continue running this store,” the 54-year-old man said. The main problem, according to him — “people are afraid to splurge. They are uncertain of the future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Social gatherings drive Covid surge in Calcutta||Attending social gatherings, including wedding receptions. Not wearing proper masks in public places. Going on leisure trips outside Calcutta. These are some of the probable causes of a fresh rise in Covid-19 cases in Calcutta, doctors and officials of several private hospitals have said, based on what most patients have told them. These patients, when they got admitted to hospital, were asked by doctors about their recent activities that might have resulted in the infection. Since end-February, there has been a steady rise in the number of Covid cases in Bengal, prompting public health experts to urge people to wear masks in public places and avoid gatherings as much as possible. Several private hospitals said many patients who got admitted over the past few days had told the doctors that they had attended social gatherings recently. Peerless Hospital had 22 Covid patients on Thursday. The number was much lower in the middle of February, said officials. “About half the patients have told us that they had attended social gatherings, mostly marriage ceremonies, six to seven days before admission,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria has 18 Covid-19 patients. The number was seven or eight in the middle of February. Four to five patients are being admitted to the hospital every day this month. Among the Covid patients admitted is a family of four. “All of them, along with relatives, had recently attended a marriage ceremony at a star hotel in Calcutta. They could have contracted the virus there,” an AMRI official said. Another Covid patient in the hospital has told doctors that she had gone to Sikkim recently. Doctors said attending social gatherings without masks is one of the prime causes of Covid infection. “Banquet halls, where marriage receptions and other gatherings are held, are mostly air-conditioned. It is more important to wear masks at those places than in open areas,” said intensive care expert Ajoy Krishna Sarkar. “Also important is to increase health surveillance of air passengers coming to Calcutta. The protocol that people from certain states will not be allowed to board Bengal-bound flights without a negative RT-PCR report must be strictly implemented.” The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 18 Covid patients. Till last week, the average was 10. “Most of the patients admitted now said they travel daily to their workplaces in public transport such as bus and Metro,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. “None of the patients is in the intensive care unit.” Covid patients at multiple hospitals have told doctors that they didn't wear masks “properly” in public places. “They wear the mask below the chin. When our doctors asked them why they did not wear the mask properly, they said they could not breathe with the mask on,” said the CEO of a private hospital. A senior health department official said they had asked the transport department to ensure that passengers without masks be barred from boarding buses. “It’s difficult to maintain social distancing in buses now. So wearing a mask is the only solution,” said the official. The Telegraph has reported over the past few days that people were not adhering to basic safety norms such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distance from each other at public gatherings like election rallies. This newspaper reported on Thursday that Calcutta airport was slapping fines on passengers refusing to wear masks. Metro Railway has said passengers without masks would not be allowed to enter stations. “We can see that across the city, hundreds of thousands of people are not wearing masks and social distancing is not maintained. At election rallies, those who are not speakers should wear masks. That is the only thing we can do because another lockdown in a country like India is not feasible,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, public health expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Church of North India project to help cope with lockdown impact||A homemaker in the city said she often has to switch to the more difficult earthen oven because she doesn’t have enough money at home for an LPG cylinder. Pompa Mondal said she books a cylinder when the family has money but the double blow of the Covid pandemic and rise in prices has made survival hard. “Money runs out quickly and it takes longer to earn now. When we have some money we book a cylinder, otherwise we let it be,” Pompa said. At times, she has to manage with the clay oven for two weeks to a month because the mother of two has to prioritise other family expenses, which include her husband’s medical bills. Her husband Amiya has a chicken shop in the interiors of Kestopur, off VIP Road, and business hit an all-time low during thelockdown last year. “There were not many customers during the lockdown and there are very few even now, when everything has opened. We don’t see customers coming back in the same numbers,” Amiya said. Earlier, on a Sunday, his shop would have 30 customers. Now, there are barely five. “We are yet to recover from the loss of the lockdown,” he said. “We do not have capital to invest. In our business, we need to get fresh stock. We are in debt,” said Pompa. On Thursday, Pompa and Amiya went to Bishop’s House in central Calcutta to get financial help that could infuse some capital into their business. The Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India (CNI) has initiated a project, “The Neighbour”, to help people get back on their feet. As many as 175 families, irrespective of their religion, are getting help through the project that was launched on Thursday. Money, goods, cycles or cycle vans are being provided to people to ferry items and earn a living. Each family is getting money and goods worth Rs 10,000-15,000. “During the lockdown, Cyclone Amphan and the pandemic, there was no food in many homes. Jobs were lost and people didn’t know what they would do. We tried to address their needs and reach people with food, clothes and money but we thought about how to support them after that,” said Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the CNI. Apart from immediate support, there will also be skill development for others, he said. “We have created a corpus and if the project is successful, we can arrange for more funds and continue this beyond a year, in a different form,” said Ritesh Sarkar, the secretary (finance) of the Diocese of Calcutta. The need is acute. Many, like Sagarika Sardar, 28, who would go door-to-door selling apparel, and Mohammad Ibrahim, in his 30s, who worked as a salesman, have lost their livelihood. “I used to work in a garments shop and my salary was Rs 10,000. Since losing that job, I haven’t been able to find another one. I’m yet to recover from the impact of the lockdown,” said Ibrahim, who dreads another spell of shutdown. Sardar said she did not want to recall the kind of hardship she went through. “I used up the little savings I had to somehow buy food and I have no money left,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Circular on safety protocols for Good Friday and Easter||The veneration of the Cross in Roman Catholic churches is to be done by joining hands, instead of “kissing or touching the Cross,” on Good Friday, archbishop Thomas D’Souza has said. The archbishop has also called for steps to ensure that the places of worship are not crowded. A circular on safety protocols for Maundy Thursday (April 1), Good Friday (April 2) and Easter Vigil (April 3), signed by archbishop D’Souza, was sent to all churches and institutions in the archdiocese of Calcutta late on Wednesday. “...during the veneration of the Cross, kissing or touching the Cross is to be replaced by veneration by joining hands,” the circular says, referring to the protocol for Good Friday. It further says: “The Way of the Cross may be held in public, but avoiding crowding. All participants are requested to wear masks, and maintain distance from others during the liturgy/Way of the Cross.” The Easter Vigil Liturgy, followed by Easter Mass around midnight (or earlier), may be held in the churches. “However, care is to be taken not to crowd the places of worship, and to follow the Covid-19 protocol at all times very strictly,” the circular states. The circular mentions that on Maundy Thursday there will be no “washing of the feet ceremony this year too”. Instead, it says, “those assigned for the washing of the feet, will be led to sanctuary, and as the hymn is sung, each will greet the Celebrant with joined hands, and then return to their places.” The archdiocese of Calcutta has 65-odd churches. “All churches will have to follow the circular compulsorily,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta. The Year of the Family will be inaugurated on the Solemnity of St Joseph (March 19) at St Joseph’s Church, Bongaon, by archbishop Thomas D’Souza at 8.30am and at St Joseph’s Chapel, Market Street, Calcutta, by Father Dominic Gomes at 6pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Dubai fliers with UK strain discharged from Beleghata hospital||Three fliers from Dubai who had tested positive for the UK strain of the Covid-19 virus on arrival were discharged from the Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital on Thursday, officials of the health department said. “We discharged the three after each tested negative in two confirmatory tests,” said an official. “All of them have been handed over certificates saying they are no longer Covid-19 positive.” A few days ago, a flier found to be carrying the South African strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus had been discharged from the hospital. “There are now six patients in the special ward that has been set up for such fliers from abroad,” said a doctor at the Beleghata hospital. The fliers discharged on Thursday had reached Calcutta in late February and tested positive in the RT-PCR test, the samples for which were collected at the airport. Since these fliers, mostly in their late 30s and early 40s, were asymptomatic, the health department allowed them to go home with specific instructions for home isolation. The swab samples of the fliers, who worked as labourers in Dubai, were later sent for a different test, which revealed they were carrying the UK strain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Film crew’ held for pornographic video in Salt Lake||A group of men who had allegedly pretended to be the crew shooting a Bengali web series and duped a woman into enacting “bold scenes” has been arrested. The cyber police station of the Bidhannagar city police rounded up the five after they allegedly violated the pur-ported contract and posted the footage as pornographic video on social media, police said. The accused are Subhanjan Roy, 35, Milton Ghosh, 27, Umesh Chandra Nath, 26, Abhijit Basak, 33 and Debojyoti Sarkar, 26. The 25-year-old complainant was reportedly told that her face would be blurred in the video. “A few days after the shooting, the accused contacted her again and requested a second shoot in the hotel room where the first shooting was done. This time, she smelt a rat and refused,” said an officer. Days later, a relative told her that her video had been uploaded on social media. The woman lodged a complaint with the Bidhannagar police, based on which a case under the Information Technology Act was started. “Pursuing the leads we got from the victim, we zeroed in on the gang and arrested the five,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||IIEST to recall students in April||IIEST Shibpur will bring back to the campus in April postgraduate students of the final semester who require laboratory/experimental work, said an official of the institute. The institute’s senate has decided to recall the 370-odd outgoing postgraduate students in a phased manner. At a virtual meeting the of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) director, Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, explained to the students’ representatives that the institute cannot decide on bringing undergraduate students on the campus on its own as the state government has not allowed as yet reopening of any higher education institutes across the state. Demands to recall students and reopen the campus for in-person classes both at undergraduate and postgraduate levels have been raised in recent times. “It has been decided that the outgoing batch of postgraduate students would be recalled now following the Unlock-V directive issued by the Centre. We have already recalled the research scholars. Any further assembly at this moment when a surge of active cases is being witnessed would not be advisable,” said an official of IIEST. The Centre in its Unlock-V directive last year had said higher education institutions could reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental work. The detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) that would have to be followed while recalling the students of masters’ fourth-semester would be announced soon. Asked why other students were not being recalled, an official said: “We are sure that the Bengal government which has not reopened its colleges and universities because of the pandemic will disallow IIEST to reopen.” The state government has allowed reopening of schools for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12 and one of the objectives behind reopening was to let students about to write their board exams can attend some practical classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Pamela Goswami bail rejected in cocaine case||BJP youth wing leader Pamela Goswami, her friend Prabir Dey and her private guard Somnath Chatterjee were produced in court on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody for another 14 days. They had been arrested on February 19. Police submitted a prayer before the court to record the statement of Amrita Singh before a magistrate in the cocaine case. Amrita has been held for allegedly supplying the cocaine to arrested BJP leader Rakesh Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Lessons from mild post-vaccine cases in Calcutta||A number of doctors, hospital officials and other healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19 even after taking two doses of a vaccine against the disease. However, all of them are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, doctors and health department officials said. There are also a few reports of people above 60 testing positive for Covid-19 after getting the first dose of a vaccine. Health department officials and doctors said a vaccine could not have 100 per cent efficacy and so one should not drop guard even after getting two doses. A senior doctor at the Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research-SSKM Hospital tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago and is being treated at the Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital. She had earlier tested positive for the coronavirus in November. “She took two jabs of a Covid vaccine at SSKM Hospital and didn’t report any strong after-event of immunisation,” said a health department official. A few days back, she started complaining of weakness and shortness of breath and decided to go for a second test for the virus. The test returned positive on Thursday morning and she was admitted to the Beleghata hospital in the afternoon. In the evening doctors said her condition was stable. “We will carry out genomic sequencing and several other tests of her swab sample,” the official said. Senior officials said they were in talks with the Indian Council of Medical Research over whether the doctor’s samples would be sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani or some other institute. Apart from those who received both doses of a vaccine, there are people who got infected with the virus after getting the first dose. Four or five persons who tested positive for Covid after getting the first dose of a vaccine have been admitted to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria since March 1, the day vaccination of senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities started. “None of them had to be admitted to the intensive care unit and all have been discharged,” an official of the hospital said. “One of our healthcare workers had tested positive for Covid after getting the first dose of a vaccine. The person was asymptomatic and stayed at home.” A senior official of a private hospital who had taken both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine in February tested positive for the virus and is now in home isolation. The official, who has comorbidities, is asymptomatic. In India, two Covid vaccines have been granted emergency use approval — Covishield and Covaxin. The efficacy of Covishield, manufactured in the country by the Serum Institute of India, varies between 63 and 70 per cent, experts said. The manufacturers of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech, have said the vaccine has 81 per cent efficacy. “It has been established that around 70 per cent of the people who received both doses of a vaccine can still be infected but will have mild or no symptoms. The rest 30 per cent of the vaccine recipients can get mild to severe symptoms,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services. “That means, even after taking both doses of a vaccine, one should not drop guard and keep wearing masks and maintain social distancing,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Business||Centre sells 10 per cent stake to exit Tata Communications||The government on Friday said it has exited Tata Communications after selling 10 per cent stake to Tata Sons' arm Panatone Finvest in an off-market trade. The Government of India held 26.12 per cent stake while Panatone Finvest had 34.80 per cent, Tata Sons 14.07 per cent and the remaining 25.01 per cent was with the public before the transaction. "We wish to inform you that we have 2,85,00,000 equity shares held by us in Tata Communications Limited representing 10 per cent of the total shareholding of the company, to the buyer on March 18, 2021 by way of an off-market trade," the Department of Telecom on behalf of the President of India said in a regulatory note. According to the regulatory filing, the government has sold 10 per cent stake to Panatone Finvest Limited. The government has already sold 16.12 per cent stake through an offer for sale to retail and non-retail investors at the floor price of Rs 1,161 per equity. The government has reserved a minimum of 25 per cent of the offer share for mutual funds and insurance companies subject to valid bids and 10 per cent for retail investors. The OFS was subscribed 1.33 times. Tata Communications was formed after Tata Group acquired stake in 2002 in erstwhile Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited set up by the government in 1986. The stake is part of the government's disinvestment process. The government has set a target to realise Rs 32,000 crore in this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Market stages sharp recovery, Sensex rebounds 642 points||Snapping its five-session losing streak, equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 642 points on Friday, led by gains in index majors RIL, HUL and ICICI Bank despite negative cues from global markets. After opening with significant losses, the 30-share BSE index made a U-turn to end 641.72 points or 1.30 per cent higher at 49,858.24. The broader NSE Nifty surged 186.15 points or 1.28 per cent to finish at 14,744. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by HUL, PowerGrid, Reliance Industries, ITC, UltraTech Cement and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, L&T, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto and Titan were among the laggards. "Despite weak global cues, domestic equities recovered sharply today after five days of back-to-back fall," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, a sharp recovery in FMCG, pharma, metals and Reliance Industries helped benchmark indices to recover from initial losses. Moderate contraction in bond yields offered support to domestic equities despite prevailing concern of rise in daily COVID-19 cases, he said, adding that the recent spike in new infections is unlikely to dent the improved prospects of economic recovery meaningfully. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.36 per cent higher at USD 64.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||India has till mid-April to appeal against Cairn award||India has time till mid-April to file an appeal against an international arbitration tribunal ordering it to repay UK's Cairn Energy Plc USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and cost, but the challenge can only be on limited grounds such as procedure not being followed. The award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague invalidating India's Rs 10,247 crore tax claim on Cairn Energy and ordering the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld, was registered in the Netherlands on January 8, two people aware of the matter said. The registration of the arbitration award was acknowledged by New Delhi on January 19, they said adding an appeal against the award can be filed in 90-days of those two dates. Under Dutch law, the grounds for setting aside an arbitral award are extremely narrow, tax experts said. An arbitral award may only be set aside if the panel had not followed due process such as not giving enough opportunity to either side to present their case. In the Cairn arbitration case, the tribunal, which constituted of one neutral judge and the other two being named by Cairn and India, concluded formal hearings and submissions in 2018 and allowed parties to make written counter-arguments for more than a year thereafter and for months studied claims and counterclaims before delivering the judgment on December 21, 2020. They said the award, under Dutch law, can also be set aside on grounds of there being no valid arbitration agreement, rules for the composition to the tribunal not being observed, tribunal exceeding its mandate, the award not being signed or not reasoned, and the order or the manner in which it is arrived at is contrary to public policy or public morals. The Cairn award runs into 582 pages giving detailed reasons as to how the company wasn't in violation of any prevalent law when it 2006-07 it reorganised its India business prior to its listing, and how the government used a 2012 retrospective tax legislation to raise the tax demand. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier this month indicated of government's intent of appealing against the award on grounds of it questioning the sovereign powers of India to levy taxes. Her ministry feels taxation is not a subject of bilateral investment treaties, like the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty under which Cairn had sought rescinding of the tax demand raised, and so the award should be appealed. It is of the opinion that Cairn set up a tax abusive structure and did not pay taxes anywhere in the world on the gains that it made in India, they said adding India had made an unsuccessful case of tax not being part of the treaty before the arbitration panel as well. The arbitration award specifically made it clear the base of the judgment was not a challenge to the 2012 law or India's sovereign right to tax. "The issue at stake is thus not a matter of domestic tax law, it is rather whether the fiscal measures taken by the state, valid or not under its own tax laws, violate international law," the tribunal had said in a unanimous verdict. The Hague panel found that a 2012 law passed by the Indian Parliament was a new tax, not a clarification of prior law that could be applied to earlier years. Tax experts said the award may be revoked if after the award is made it is discovered that the order was based on fraud committed during the arbitral proceedings or was based on forged documents, or a party obtained documents that would have had an influence on the tribunal and which were withheld as a result of acts of the other party. Cairn has moved courts in nine countries to enforce the award against India. The award has already been recognised by courts in the US, the UK, Netherlands, Canada and France and the same is in the process in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and the Cayman Islands. The registration of the award is the first step towards its enforcement in the event of the government not paying the firm. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can then petition it for seizing any Indian government assets such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, to recover the monies due to it, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 600 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 600 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in HDFC Bank, L&T and Reliance Industries amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 617.10 points or 1.25 per cent lower at 48,599.42, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 201.35 points or 1.38 per cent to 14,356.50. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slumping around 5 per cent, followed by L&T, Bajaj Finance, M&M, Maruti, SBI, Titan, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel and PowerGrid were the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 585.10 points or 1.17 per cent lower at 49,216.52, and Nifty slumped 163.45 points or 1.11 per cent to 14,557.85. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Thursday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,258.47 crore, as per exchange data. Domestic equities do not look inspiring for the day. Intensifying concerns pertaining to the recent surge in coronavirus cases in various parts of the country have clearly dented investors' sentiments in domestic markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, a sharp spike in USA treasury yields and inflationary concerns also weighed on sentiments, he noted. "US equities finished sharply lower yesterday as investors dealt with twin threats of rising bond yields and sliding oil prices. 10-Year US Treasury yield surged 9 bps on Thursday to 14-month high to 1.73 per cent despite Federal Reserve maintaining its dovish stance on interest rates," Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.16 per cent higher at USD 63.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Edelweiss shares tank after MCA orders inspection of its books||Shares of Edelweiss Financial Services (Edelweiss) were locked in at the lower circuit on Thursday on reports that the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) has ordered an inspection of the books of Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company (EARC) after a whistleblower wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) alleging fraud at the firm However, in a clarification to the stock exchanges, Edelweiss said EARC has not received any intimation of any inspection being conducted by the MCA. “We deny each and every allegation, contention, statement and/or assertion against us, as contained in the article. EARC is in full compliance with the applicable laws, and has been conducting its business and operations in a fair and transparent manner. We have always acted responsibly and discharged our fiduciary responsibilities, and these allegations seem to be motivated,” it said. “EARC is an RBI regulated entity and hence the activities carried out are under regulatory purview. The equity investments made in EARC are specifically approved by the RBI. EARC’s dealings are completely above board and compliant with applicable law,’’ it added. However, the stock remained in the lower circuit and ended 5 per cent lower at Rs 80.20. The Moneycontrol report said the whistleblower — Paras Kuhad, a former additional solicitor general of India, alleged that Edelweiss Group, the controlling shareholder of the asset reconstruction company along with its partner Canadian pension fund Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ), diverted at least Rs 1,800 crore from EARC. Kuhad and his family own about 14 per cent in EARC, which manages Rs 45,000 crore in assets. The report added that the MCA has asked its Mumbai branch to inspect the books of the ARC. According to the report, Kuhad alleged that Edelweiss Group allotted 20 per cent equity in EARC to CDPQ for less than the fair value. This was done by allowing CDPQ to convert its compulsorily convertible preference shares (CCPS) to equity at no additional cost apart from the Rs 500 crore which was paid by CDPQ at the time of allotment. Kuhad reportedly wrote that the fair value of EARC’s 20 per cent equity is at least Rs 800 crore even as also alleged that a registered valuer has not determined the price for the CCPS conversion as required by law. However, Edelweiss added in the clarification that CDPQ continues to hold the CCPS and it pointed out that “wild, grossly inaccurate, unsubstantiated, fabricated and clearly motivated allegations have been selectively published’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Lenders likely to face challenges in their incremental bond issuances||Lenders are likely to face challenges in their incremental bond issuances, following the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (Sebi) revised norms on investment by mutual funds in Basel-III debt instruments issued by banks, says a report. In the last week’s revised norms, the capital market regulator said mutual funds across all the schemes would not own more than 10 per cent of the Basel-III instruments issued by any bank. The norms also mention that no more than 10 per cent of the net asset value (NAV) of the debt component of the scheme shall be issued in Basel-III instruments and no more than 5 per cent of the NAV of the debt component of the scheme shall be issued in Basel-III instruments of a single issuer. Also, the valuation of perpetual debt instruments, henceforth, shall be based on a maturity of 100 years from the date of issuance instead of the current practice of valuing them on the time left for the next call-option date. Icra Ratings group head (financial sector ratings) Karthik Srinivasan said the proposals to limit the composition of the Basel-III bonds in overall asset under management (AUMs) could affect the incremental investment appetite of AMCs which are closer to 10 per cent of the NAV threshold limit for investments in these bonds. “As mutual funds are large investors in additional tier-I (AT-I) and tier-II bonds issued by banks, it could possibly make it challenging for the banks to raise their desired quantum of debt capital,” Srinivasan said in the report. According to the rating agency, mutual funds hold 30 per cent of the outstanding tier-I bonds and 14 per cent of the outstanding tier-II bonds as of February 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Rising US rates, fresh Covid wave hit stocks||A rise in US bond yields and the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the country on Thursday caused the benchmark indices to slip for the fifth consecutive session. The 30-share Sensex tumbled 585 points taking its cumulative loss to around 2063 points during this period. The lower close came despite dovish comments from Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell indicating that it would continue with its current regime of near-zero interest rates at least till 2023 amid apprehensions that it could start unwinding its accommodative policies. However, rising US bond yields played spoilsport, leading to fears that this could see outflows from emerging markets such as India. On Thursday, the 10-year US treasury yield touched almost 1.75 per cent — a 14 month high. There were other reasons as well. The rising number of coronavirus cases in the country and apprehensions that some regions may be facing the risk of a second wave has re-ignited concerns about the resulting partial lockdowns, its adverse impact on economic activity and consequently on India’s economic growth. In a report on Wednesday, Nomura said that the rising number of cases could lead to near-term growth concerns, though its impact would be limited over the medium term as vaccination gathers pace. Further, with various IPOs vying for investor attention this week, this has affected inflows into the secondary markets. “The Indian equity markets continued to grind down despite opening in the green on the back of positive global cues at the beginning of the session. The sentiments were affected by the sudden firming up of the bond yields in US along with another day of surge in new Covid cases to 38,500 — the highest in past four months in India. The clubbing of IPOs in the already tight advance tax payment season also seem to have added the underperformance by Indian markets compared with its Asian peers and European markets,’’ said Gaurav Dua, SVP, head of capital market strategy, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. Meanwhile, the RBI has announced a special open market operations which involved the simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs 10,000 crore on March 25. The central bank has been trying to cool down long-term yields, which have defiantly stayed around 6.20 per cent recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||TPG’s Rise Fund to invest $200 million in Airtel Africa’s mobile money business||Investment firm TPG’s Rise Fund will invest $200 million (around Rs 1,450 crore) in Airtel Africa’s mobile money business, Airtel Mobile Commerce BV, at a valuation of $2.65 billion, Airtel said on Thursday. With this transaction, Rise Fund is estimated to get a 7.5 per cent stake in Airtel Mobile Commerce (AMC) BV which is currently the holding company for several of Airtel Africa’s mobile money operations. The transaction will close in two stages. An amount of $150 million will be invested at the first close, once the transfer of sufficient mobile money operations and contracts into AMC BV has been completed, with $50 million to be invested at the second close upon further transfers. Airtel Africa is also in discussions with other potential investors in relation to possible further minority investments into Airtel Money, up to a total of 25 per cent of the issued share capital of AMC BV, the statement said. Spectrum payment Operators Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea have made upfront payments to the telecom department for the spectrum they acquired in the recently-held auctions, industry sources said on Thursday. Sources said that Reliance Jio has made an upfront payment of about Rs 15,019 crore, while Bharti Airtel has paid around Rs 6,323 crore as the immediate upfront amount. Vodafone Idea has paid about Rs 574 crore, as stipulated, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
19-03-2021||Business||Govt announces scrappage scheme for vehicles older than 15 years||The scrappage scheme for vehicles older than 15 years with incentives was announced by the government on Thursday. The scheme is expected to boost the automobile industry and attract investments of Rs 10,000 crore and create 35,000 job opportunities, Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday. While making a statement about the vehicle scrappage policy in the Lok Sabha, the minister termed it as a win-win situation and said, “The policy will help improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollution.” Gadkari has also requested finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to consider a GST cut for such vehicles. The finance ministry has not responded to the request yet. “It will be an added incentive. The finance ministry is looking into this request but there is no decision yet… The GST income will also rise by Rs 30,000 crore–Rs 40,000 crore on account of higher vehicle sales.” “The headwinds for implementation would be in the form of having more infrastructure in place to build organised scrapping centres, which India does not possess,” Care Ratings said. V.R. Sharma, MD of JSPL, said: “The country should have a uniform power tariff for the vehicle scrappage to be cost effective and for such centres to come up across the country, otherwise vehicles would move to lower tariff states such as Odisha and Chhattisgarh, which would defeat the purpose.” “India has 51 lakh light motor vehicles which are older than 20 years, 34 lakh light motor vehicles which are older than 15 years, and 17 lakh medium and heavy commercial vehicles which are older than 15 years and without valid fitness certificates,” Gadkari said. FASTag Gadkari informed the Lok Sabha that the government is looking to do away with toll booths in the next year, which will be replaced with GPS imaging-based toll collection. FASTag has been made mandatory for all vehicles, and double toll is levied if a vehicle does not have FASTag. “I want to assure the House that within one year all physical toll booths in the country will be removed...The toll will be collected based on GPS imaging (on vehicles)," Gadkari said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
19-03-2021||Business||Delhi HC restrains Future Retail Ltd from striking Rs 24,713cr deal with Reliance Retail||The Delhi High Court on Thursday upheld an order by the emergency arbitrator (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from proceeding with its Rs 24,713cr deal with Reliance Retail. Justice J.R. Midha on Thursday held that the Future group wilfully violated the Singapore arbitrator’s order and directed FRL not to take further action on the deal. The court directed the Future group and its directors to deposit Rs 20 lakh  in Prime Minister's Relief Fund for providing Covid-19 vaccines to senior citizens in the BPL category. The court also directed the presence of Biyani and others before it on April 28 as also the attachment of their properties. A show cause notice was issued to Biyani and the others  as to why they will not be detained in civil prison for three month for violating the emergency arbitrator's order. Officials from the Future group did not offer an immediate reaction to the development, saying they will only be able to comment after receiving a copy of the order. US retail giant Amazon which has been objecting to the deal between the Future group and Reliance had approached the high court seeking direction to order the enforcement of the award of the Singapore arbitrator. Amazon had also sought to restrain the Future group from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. In February, the high court had reserved its order on the main petition and directed all other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matter which are in violation of the emergency award and to file a report with regard to the present status within 10 days. While pronouncing the interim order, Justice Midha had upheld the role of the Singapore arbitrator. The arbitrator was right in proceeding against Future Retail and its order was not in nullity. Justice Midha said it was clear the October 25, 2020 order of the Singapore  arbitrator  was enforceable and appealable under the relevant provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. This interim order was appealed by the Future group and subsequently, a division bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh had stayed the direction to FRL and various statutory authorities to maintain status quo on the deal. Following this, Amazon had moved the Supreme Court against the Delhi High Court. Lawyers said the interim direction of the single judge is a binding order. The order likely to be challenged immediately for a  stay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
19-03-2021||India||First night flight takes off from Srinagar airport for Delhi||The first ever night flight took off for Delhi from the Srinagar international airport on Friday, officials said. The first night flight from Srinagar was operated by GoAir and it took off from the airport at 7.15 pm for New Delhi, they added. Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce, Ranjan Prakash Thakur, who was present on the occasion, greeted the crew of the flight and other ground personnel, the officials said. Speaking on the occasion, Thakur said the start of the night flight operations from Srinagar marks the dawn of a new era as it will improve air connectivity to Jammu and Kashmir. He said this significant development will boost the tourism sector of the Union Territory as it will increase the tourist footfall in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM 'apologises' for ‘ripped jeans’ comment but says wearing torn jeans not right||Facing flak over his "ripped jeans" comment, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday said he apologises for the remark if it has hurt anybody. But at the same time, he repeated his objection to ripped jeans, saying he has no problem with jeans with but wearing "torn" ones is "not right". Referring to his remark made earlier this week, Rawat told the media that he had commented that nowadays children bring a costly jean home and then cut it with a scissor. He had only talked about the environment at home and this applies to him as well, Rawat said. If we inculcate good values and discipline in children, they will never fail in future, the CM added, stressing that he had made the comment at a programme held to keep the children away from intoxicants and other evils. Describing himself as a man from a rural background, Rawat on Friday said whenever his pant was torn in schooldays, he feared that his teacher would scold him. Due to discipline and values, we used to cover it with a patch, he said. Rawat had drawn flak after at an event earlier this week he said youngsters follow strange fashion trends due to a lack of values and consider themselves to be big shots after wearing jeans ripped at the knees. Women also follow such trends. Rawat then went on to describe the attire of a woman who sat next to him on a flight. He described her as wearing boots, jeans ripped at the knees, bangles in her hands and two children travelling with her. He also said she runs an NGO, goes out in society and has two children and wondered what values she would give them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Delhi records 716 new Covid infections, 4 deaths||Delhi recorded 716 new coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest daily count this year, while four more people died from the pathogen, the Health Department said. The number of active cases rose to 3,165 from 2,924 a day ago and 6.32 lakh people have recovered so far. The positivity rate jumped to 0.93 per cent from 0.76 per cent, according to a bulletin. The 716 new cases took the tally to 6,46,348, while the toll rose to 10,953 with four more deaths, the bulletin said. Delhi had reported 607 and 536 cases on Thursday and Wednesday respectively. The daily count was 425 on Tuesday. A total of 77,352 tests, including 47,078 RT-PCR, were conducted on Thursday and the number of people under home isolation rose to 1,624, it said. Health experts and doctors have attributed the surge in cases to people turning complacent, not following COVID-appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now". A total of 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. Asserting that the recent rise in cases was not a cause for worry, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced on Thursday that the number of people vaccinated in Delhi each day would be raised from around 40,000 to 1.25 lakh. He added that the Delhi government had directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Thrilled to be here in India, says US Defence Secretary on his three-day India visit||Beginning his three-day India visit, US Defence Secretary Lloyd J Austin on Friday said the breadth of Indo-US cooperation reflected the significance of "major defence partnership" as they work together to address the "most pressing" challenges facing the Indo-Pacific region. Austin arrived here as part of his three-nation first overseas tour as the Defence Secretary and the visit is seen as a reflection of the Joe Biden administration's strong commitment to ties with its close allies and partners in the region. Austin visited Japan and South Korea before India. In the evening, Austin called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Thrilled to be here in India. The breadth of cooperation between our two nations reflects the significance of our major defense partnership, as we work together to address the most pressing challenges facing the Indo-Pacific region," he tweeted. Welcoming Austin, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said his visit to India is definitely going to further deepen the cooperation and partnership between two countries. "Looking forward to our meeting tomorrow," Singh tweeted. The US official was received at the Palam airport by senior Indian military officials and diplomats from the American embassy. Ways to further accelerate India-US strategic ties, boosting cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, China's aggressive behaviour in eastern Ladakh, challenge of terrorism and the Afghan peace process are expected to be focus of the talks between Austin and Singh, people familiar with Austin's visit said. They said India's plan to procure around 30 multi-mission armed Predator drones from the US for the three services at an estimated cost of over USD 3 billion is also expected to figure in the talks. The medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) Predator-B drones, manufactured by US defence major General Atomics, are capable of remaining airborne for around 35 hours and can hunt down targets at land and sea, they said. India's plan to acquire 114 fighter jets at a cost of around USD 18 billion could also figure in the talks as American defence majors --Boeing and Lockheed -Martin-- are eyeing it, the people said. His visit to India came days after the top leadership of the Quad grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia vowed to expand their cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. Ahead of Austin's visit, Senator Robert Menendez, Chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee, wrote a letter to the US Defence Secretary, urging him to take up with Indian leaders the issue of New Delhi procuring Russian S-400 missile defence system. Though democracy and human rights issues do not come under the domain of the Pentagon, Menendez also urged Austin to raise these concerns with Indian leaders. In October 2018, India signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. Recently, the US imposed sanctions on Turkey under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for purchase of S-400 missiles from Russia. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. The visit is also taking place at a time when India and China are looking to achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points in eastern Ladakh after completing withdrawal of troops in the North and South banks of Pangong lake areas. Austin and Singh had a telephonic conversation on January 27. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner". The two countries have also inked key defence and security pacts over the past few years, including the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two sides have also signed COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. In October last year, India and the US sealed the BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The pact provides for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Maharashtra logs 25,681 new Covid cases, 70 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 25,681 new COVID-19 cases, the second-highest one-day rise since the pandemic began last year, a health official said. The caseload in the state crossed the 24 lakh-mark to rise to 24,22,021. With 70 fatalities, the death toll reached 53,208, the official said. On Thursday, Maharashtra had set a new record of daily rise with 25,833 new infections being reported. On Friday, 14,400 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total recoveries to 21,89,965. There are 1,77,560 active cases now. Mumbai recorded 3,063 new cases (3,062 as per the city's civic body), followed by 2,872 in Pune city and 2,617 in Nagpur city. Mumbai's COVID-19 tally increased to 3,55,914 while 10 deaths took the fatality count to 11,569, as per the state government's data. Mumbai division reported 5,737 new cases and 19 deaths, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,82,316 and the death toll to 20,028. With 1,27,147 tests carried out on Friday, the state has so far tested 1,80,83,977 samples for coronavirus. There are 8,67,333 people in home quarantine while 7,848 are in institutional quarantine. Out of 70 deaths, 43 occurred in the last 48 hours and 15 in the last week. Rest 12 deaths are from the period before the last week. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 24,22,021, new cases: 25,681, death toll: 53,208, discharged: 21,89,965, active cases: 1,77,560, people tested so far: 1,80,83,977.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||ISRO to set up Space Technology Incubation Centre at NIT-Rourkela||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will establish a 'Space Technology Incubation Centre' (S-TIC) at the National Institute of Technology in Rourkela to carry out research and product development in space technology and applications, officials said on Friday. The ISRO and NIT signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Thursday for setting up the centre which will enable start-ups to build applications and products that could be used in future space missions. "Space technology-related research and the products from the S-TIC will be utilised in future space missions and will help nation building through Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' in space technology and applications domain," said ISRO Chairman K Sivan. "Students and research scholars will execute real projects given by ISRO of NIT-Rourkela taking guidance from expert faculties, mentors from ISRO and relevant industries," he said. As per the MoU, NIT-Rourkela will provide its state-of-the-art laboratories, facilities and expert faculties to meet these objectives. The upcoming centre will promote startups, capacity-building, innovations and research in space technology in Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand besides the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Animesh Biswas, Director, NIT-Rourkela, said, "We thank ISRO Chairman and Director of CBPO (Capacity Building Programme Office) for selecting NIT, Rourkela in the eastern region for setting up of S-TIC. NIT-Rourkela's sponsored research and industrial consultancy is one among the best in the country. ISRO's support will further enhance our research infrastructure". ISRO will provide an annual grant-in-aid of Rs 2 crore for a period of up to two years to NIT-Rourkela as seed money for setting up the S-TIC. The seed money would be utilised for facility augmentation to carry out the research projects and product development taken from ISRO. NIT-Rourkela will provide the required infrastructure inside its academic campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Lockdown is an option, says Uddhav amid Covid surge||A day after Maharashtra witnessed the highest one-day spike of 25,833 COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said lockdown is an option but he trusts people to follow the norms on their own. Talking to reporters in Nandurbar, Thackeray also appealed to people to get vaccinated against the virus without fear. The COVID-19 situation has become grimmer as the number of new cases on Thursday crossed the earlier highest rise which was recorded in September, he conceded. "I see lockdown as an option going ahead. But I trust people of the state to cooperate (and follow the COVID-19 norms voluntarily) like the last time," he said. When the pandemic began last year, there was nothing to fight the virus with, Thackeray said. "But now at least we have vaccines as a shield. The priority now is to ensure that everyone is vaccinated. People should come forward to take the vaccine," he said. The Union government has assured that there would be no shortage of vaccines, he said. There have been a few instances where a person caught infection after vaccination, but such cases are not "life-threatening", the chief minister said. "Everyone should get vaccinated without fear," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Covid hits India’s middle class harder, swells poverty more than in China||The human cost of the Covid-19 pandemic in terms of lost livelihoods keeps rising. But India experienced the biggest fall in its middle class and a much sharper increase in poverty than neighbouring China due to the economic downturn caused by the virus, a new study by the Washington-based Pew Institute says. Some 32 million Indians tumbled out of the middle class and another 75 million plunged into poverty, defined as earning less than $2 a day, last year due to the pandemic-induced economic slide. That’s because while India fell into a deep recession in 2020, China, where the virus originated, was able to head off a contraction. India and China, combined, account for almost one-third of the world’s population so what happens in these two countries “will have a substantial effect on changes in the distribution of income at the global level,” says senior study researcher Rakesh Kochhar who wrote the Pew report. As a consequence of China’s faster economic rebound, only 10 million Chinese fell out of the middle class, just a tiny share of the 504 million who were middle class ahead of the pandemic, the study estimates. Some 30 million Chinese were forced into the low-income ranks, earning between $2-and-$10 a day, bringing the total number of people in that category to 641 million. The fact that large numbers of people in India were pushed into poverty triggered by job losses is backed by the rise in the spike in numbers of people who took part in MNREGS, the rural employment programme. More than 100 million people from 70 million households participated in the scheme between April 1, 2020 and mid-February, 2021. Reflecting the slide into poverty for many millions of Indians, in June 2020, when lakhs of workers had returned to their homes in rural India, there was an 80 per cent rise in the people who applied for MNREGS. Even when the economy began to pick up in November, the number applying for MNREGS was 47 per cent higher than in the same year-ago month. The rural employment scheme entitles people to a maximum of 100 days of employment in a year. In China, by contrast, the report says, “poverty was virtually unchanged.” The contrast in how living standards have evolved in India and China amid the pandemic is starker in the context of where they stood prior to the pandemic,” says Kochhar. There have always been conflicting calculations about the true size of India’s middle-class with calculations by economists and analysts putting the figure in a wide range of 80 million to 600 million people. The Pew report goes with more conservative estimates of India’s middle-class total. It reckons about 99 million people were expected to be part of the Indian middle class by 2020 and that the middle-class numbers have now been slashed by a third to 66 million. Pew counts people earning between $10 and $20 daily as being part of what it calls the middle-income tier. The Pew study divides people into five groups: poor, low income, middle income, upper-middle-income and high income. It says the poor survive on less than $2 daily and low-income people survive on between $2-$10. Anyone who earns between $20 and $50 daily is reckoned to be part of the upper-middle-income group. The report says, “all dollar figures are expressed in 2011 prices and purchasing power parity dollars”. According to the report, around 500 million people in China belonged to the middle-income group before the pandemic and this number is down only slightly now. India’s economy is forecast to contract by 8 per cent in the latest financial year to March, according to the latest official figures. But analysts expect India’s growth to expand by at least 12 per cent in the next financial year thanks to the low base effect. China, meanwhile, was the only major country to experience economic expansion in the last calendar year, squeezing out 2.3 per cent growth. It’s projecting growth of “over 6 per cent” this year. The Pew report notes the pandemic has reversed the strides made in reducing poverty in India. In India between 2011 and 2019 the number of poor is estimated to have fallen to 78 million from 340 million. Because economic growth in China remained positive, even if slower than anticipated, the limited impact on its middle class helped to cushion the effect on the global middle class.  In China, there had been a sizable addition of 247 million people to the middle-income tier from 2011 to 2019. The upper-middle-income population had nearly quadrupled, from 60 million to 234 million. Importantly, China accounted for 37 per cent of the global middle-income population heading into 2020. Globally, the research centre found that the ranks of the middle income and upper middle income slid by 90 million people to just under 2.5 billion last year. Given that India and China also account for more than a third of the global population, “the course of the pandemic in these two countries – and how each recovers – will have a substantial effect on changes in the distribution of income at the global level,” concludes Kochhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Every vaccine doesn't require universal immunisation, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the COVID-19 vaccination drive will be extended in the coming days and asserted that there should not be any misconceptions about the two Indian vaccines being administered in the country. During the Question Hour in Lok Sabha, Vardhan said India has vaccinated 3.5 to 4 crore people so far and side effects of the vaccines have been recorded at 0.000432 per cent. "Every vaccine doesn't require universal immunisation and all these priority groups whom we are vaccinating today like healthcare staff first and then senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 years, it will be extended in the coming days all these are based on experts' opinion. "Not only Indian experts, but we have also consulted WHO guidelines regarding priority groups," he said. Serum Institute's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin have been currently approved for restricted emergency use in India. Replying to a question by NCP MP Supriya Sule on whether the government is aiming at universal immunisation of COVID-19 vaccine, Vardhan said it is not scientifically necessary to administer the vaccine to each and every person in the country. "Not each and every person in the world will be vaccinated. The prioritisation process is a dynamic process. "The behaviour of the virus is also dynamic. All things are based on scientific facts, scrutiny and vision of the overall scientific and health community," he said. The minister said under India's present universal immunization programme, free vaccines are provided against 12 vaccine-preventable diseases, including Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus, Polio, Measles, Rubella, severe form of Childhood Tuberculosis, Hepatitis B and Meningitis, among others. Replying to a question by Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu about the fear in people that the COVID-19 vaccine will harm them in the future, Vardhan asserted that taking vaccines is the way to get rid of vaccine-preventable diseases. "We got victory over polio and chickenpox due to the vaccination," he said. There are detailed pre-clinical and clinical trials, which get thoroughly studied by the experts before a vaccine gets the nod, the minister said, adding that "There should not be any misconception regarding the COVID-19 vaccines and the people should avail themselves the facilities given by the government get themselves vaccinated." Vardhan further noted that there is a well-defined group of experts called the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC)). "What you are seeing today is the hard work of the people in the ministry and this group, which was set up by the prime minister in August. "Since then, they have been working closely regarding all scientific developments related to this," he said. The minister also pointed out that the Subject Expert Committee has cleared two Indian vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) after examining the data provided by these companies. Data provided by two Indian companies were also examined by the World Health Organisation, he added. Replying to questions on Thalassemia, Vardhan, "Not a single thalassemia patient was deprived of blood during the COVID-19 pandemic period," he noted and said blood is provided free of cost to these patients. Thalassemia major and the severe form of Thalassemia Intermedia (TI) constitute the major burden of disease and both are commonly managed by regular lifelong blood transfusions and iron chelation. These syndromes are caused by inheritance of abnormal (beta) thalassemia genes from both parents or abnormal beta-thalassemia gene from one parent and abnormal variant haemoglobin gene (HbE, HbD) from the other parent. The minister said in the last one year, 75 medical colleges have been sanctioned by the government. "A total of 30,000 Health and Wellness centres were opened under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in the last one year during the COVID-19 pandemic period," he said. Vardhan also said during the last six years 24,000 new postgraduate medical seats have been created.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
19-03-2021||India||Private offices, theatres to operate at 50 per cent capacity till March 31 in Maharashtra||In light of the rising number of coronavirus cases, the Maharashtra government on Friday imposed restrictions on drama theatres and auditoriums in the state, asking them to operate only at 50 per cent of their capacity till March 31. Similarly, private offices, except those related to health and other essential services, will be allowed to function only at 50 per cent of their capacity, a government notification issued on Friday said. In the case of government and semi-government offices, the head of the office will take a decision regarding staff attendance and ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocols. The order comes a day after the state saw a single-day rise of 25,833 coronavirus cases, the highest daily surge since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. As per the notification, drama halls and auditoriums will not be used for religious, political, cultural and social gatherings. If the order is violated, the drama theatres and auditoriums concerned will have to remain closed for a period until the COVID-19 pandemic stays notified as a disaster by the central government, it said. Violations shall attract penalties under the law for the owner of the premises. On March 15, the state government had notified that cinema halls, hotels, restaurants and offices, except those related to health and essential services, will function at 50 per cent of their capacity. But Friday's order has included drama theatres and auditoriums as well. The order, however, allowed the manufacturing sector to function at full capacity, but advised that the workforce be reduced to ensure adequate social distancing on the production floor. For the purpose of maintaining social distancing, manufacturing units may be allowed to increase working shifts as approved by local authorities. No entry will be allowed without proper wearing of masks, temperature measuring devices to be used to ensure no one with fever gets an entry, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Railways infrastructure will never be privatised, says Goyal||The government on Friday said in Rajya Sabha that railways infrastructure will never be privatised but it plans to monetise its assets to generate resources to boost growth. Railways Minister Piyush Goyal also said that passenger train operations taken up through Public Private Partnership (PPP) is targeted to bring a total investment of about Rs 30,000 crore. The Ministry of Railways plans to monetise assets including through Eastern and Western Dedicated Freight Corridors after commissioning, induction of 150 modern rakes through PPP, station redevelopment through PPP, railway land parcels, multi-functional complexes (MFC), railway colonies, hill railways and stadiums, Goyal said during the Question Hour. "Asset monetisation would help in generating more resources towards infrastructure creation. Passenger train operations taken up through Public Private Partnership (PPP) is targeted to bring a total investment of about ? 30,000 crore," Goyal said. Replying to a supplementary asked by Jairam Ramesh of the Congress, Goyal said he felt the Opposition member was not able to understand the difference between privatisation and monetisation. "When you privatise, you sell off the assets permanently and it no more remains a part of the government ownership. In the railways, the plan is to monetise in terms of how it will generate resources, further investment and growth. The infrastructure of Indian Railways will never be privatised," Goyal said. The Railways Minister said dedicated freight corridors are a separate corporate entity and the railways is supporting them. "The Railways is supporting but is not the owner of tracks that the DFC is laying If we raise funds by leasing them, giving them out to private sector to use in the interim period we are doing a service to the nation," the minister said. The Ministry of Railways is committed towards enhancing the pace of infrastructure development, which is vital for the national economy as a whole, he said. The railways would always be a key economic driver in the strategy of investment-led economic growth, he said. The minister said assets monetisation involves various transaction processes, and the investment expected depends on the outcome of bidding process open to public and private sectors. "Therefore, the actual investment expected from private and public sectors cannot be ascertained as of now," he added. Goyal said modern train is the need of the day, and the railways has got historic Rs 2.15 lakh crore allotment under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If a road is built, everyone uses it, similarly if a pipeline is built by GAIL and they only use it, it will be misused, he said. "Similarly, if new rail tracks are laid and private people are invited and encouraged to operate there, it will be run by locopilots, there will be caterers, so it will generate employment and not lead to job losses," he said. In reply to a supplementary raised by the leader of the opposition in the Upper House Mallikarjun Kharge about a proposal to merge three divisions of Gulbarga in Karnataka, Goyal said the Railways Board did not find it feasible. He said proposals made by Zonal Managers are sent to the Board for a holistic view with an all-India perspective. He, however, added that he will discuss the issue with Kharge separately. In a reply to another supplementary, he said for seven routes dedicated to semi-high speed passenger corridors, the government is talking to state governments and added that there has been good response from the Uttar Pradesh government which is cooperating on the Delhi-Varanasi route, mostly elevated along the highways. He said under PM Modi's leadership instead of just haphazard announcements, which he alleged used to be the case earlier, committed plans are being made and it is being ensured that the rail infra is augmented in the entire country instead of just a few places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Should world leaders be subject to same rules as others, asks Twitter||Twitter has sought public opinion on whether world leaders should be subject to the same set of rules as others on the microblogging platform and appropriate enforcement action in case of violation of norms by them. Twitter said it is "reviewing" approach to world leaders as it wants its policies to remain relevant to the ever-changing nature of political discourse on the platform, and protect the health of the public conversation. "Generally, we want to hear from the public on whether or not they believe world leaders should be subject to the same rules as others on Twitter. And, should a world leader violate a rule, what type of enforcement action is appropriate," the microblogging platform said in a blogpost. Towards this, starting Friday, Twitter will seek responses to a public survey that would help define the policy framework. The survey will close on April 12. The questionnaire will be available in 14 languages -- Hindi, English, Arabic, Chinese, Farsi, French, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Tagalog, and Urdu. Twitter informed that it is in the process of consulting with a range of human rights experts, civil society organisations, and academics worldwide whose feedback would be reflected in forthcoming changes to the policy framework. "We want to serve the public conversation and allow the public to hear from and engage with leaders around the world. Ultimately, our aim is to have a policy that appropriately balances fundamental human rights and considers the global context in which we operate," it said. Twitter, Facebook and other platforms globally have come under lens for the manner of treatment of accounts of global leaders, and politicians. It is pertinent to mention here that Twitter had banned Donald Trump's account in January, citing "risk of incitement of violence" after the US Capitol Hill siege.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Delhi HC refuses to stay summons issued to Mehbooba Mufti by ED||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to stay summons issued to former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said they are not granting any relief to the PDP leader. The court asked the ED to file a short note of submission along with compilation of judgements relied upon by them before the next date on April 16. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the ED, said Mufti just has to appear before the officials. The ED, which had earlier summoned Mufti for March 15, has not been issued summons for March 22. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister has been summoned for March 22. Senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing Mufti, urged the court to ask ED not to insist for her personal presence as was done earlier. To this, the bench said, "We are not giving any stay. We are not granting any relief." Mufti has sought quashing of summons issued to her by the ED in a money laundering case. She has also sought to declare section 50 (power of ED officer to record statement) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act as void and inoperative, being unfairly discriminatory, bereft of safeguards, and violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. She has also sought an interim stay on the summons until the question of law in relation to constitutionality of Section 50 of the Act is decided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Shiv Sena questions NIA probe in Ambani bomb scare case||Two days after Param Bir Singh was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police commissioner, the Shiv Sena on Friday defended him saying that his transfer does not make him a criminal, and alleged that a "particular lobby in Delhi" was upset with him as the TRP scam came to light during his tenure. The ruling party in Maharashtra also questioned the move of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) taking over the probe into the explosives-laden SUV found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house last month, saying that the agency generally investigates terrorism-related cases, but there was no terror angle involved in this episode. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Singh, who was under fire over handling of the Ambani-SUV case, and appointed senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale in his place. "A vehicle containing 20 gelatin sticks was found on Mumbai's Carmichael Road, which has triggered blasts in the state politics and administration in the last few days. Param Bir Singh was removed as Mumbai police commissioner and senior officer Hemant Nagrale was appointed in his place. These are not routine transfers," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. The explosives-laden SUV found near Ambani's house and the suspicious death of Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the vehicle, are worrisome. The opposition BJP has raised some questions over it, but while the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) was probing the Hiran death case, the NIA took over the investigation (into the vehicle found near Ambani's house), it said. Hope its motive is not to malign the state government, it added. "The NIA generally probes terrorism-related cases. But there is no terror angle involved in this case and still it stepped in. However, the outcome of the agency's probe into the terror attacks of Uri, Pathankot and Pulwama is still a mystery. The 20 gelatin sticks found in Mumbai appears to be a big challenge for the NIA," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. It said that Param Bir Singh had taken over as Mumbai police chief during the difficult time of the coronavirus pandemic and boosted the morale of the police force. "During his tenure, the television rating points (TRP) scam came to light. A particular lobby in Delhi was upset with him over that," it said. Now, Singh has been transferred, but it does not make him a criminal, the party added. It also accused the opposition of politicising the death of Hiran and lowering the morale of the state police. "At least considering the prevailing situation, no one should commit such a sin. If the opposition feels it can gain power through such means, it is wrong," the Sena said. The opposition seeks to know the political bosses in the Hiran case, it said, adding that they should themselves find it out. "There are no political bosses in such cases. This is not the culture of Maharashtra," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||India records 39,726 new Covid cases, highest spike in 110 days||India saw 39,726 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest single day rise recorded so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,14,331, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. Registering an increase for the ninth day in a row, the total active caseload has reached 2,71,282, which now comprises 2.36 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.26 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections (39,726) was the highest recorded in 110 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,370 with 154 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 41,810 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 29. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,83,679, while the case fatality rate has further declined to 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,13,70,546 samples have been tested up to March 18 with 10,57,383 samples being tested on Thursday. The 154 new fatalities include 58 from Maharashtra, 32 from Punjab and 15 from Kerala. A total of 1,59,370 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,138 from Maharashtra, 12,573 from Tamil Nadu, 12,415 from Karnataka, 10,949 from Delhi, 10,300 from West Bengal, 8,753 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,186 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||‘Political liability’ upheaval  in Ashoka University||The resignation of political scientist Pratap Bhanu Mehta and economist Arvind Subramanian as teachers of Ashoka University prompted a students’ sit-in at the elite private and liberal varsity on Thursday afternoon amid allegations the management had yielded to “external pressure”. Mehta, who has been sharply critical of the Narendra Modi government and the BJP in his newspaper columns, put in his papers on Monday saying the institution’s founders had made it clear to him that he was a “political liability”. Subramanian, former chief economic adviser to the Modi government, resigned two days later as professor of economics at the university, located at Sonipat in Haryana near Delhi’s northern boundary. Regretting the way Mehta was “compelled to leave”, Subramanian said it was “ominously” disturbing that “even Ashoka — with its private status and backing by private capital — can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom”. In an online meeting with the university administration on Thursday evening, some 1,400 students and teachers urged it to encourage both academics to stay. A student who had attended the meeting said no explanation or assurance had come so far from vice-chancellor Malabika Sarkar, who earlier headed Presidency University in Calcutta. The founders of Ashoka University did not accept the demand from students and alumni that they attend the meeting. A student told this newspaper that at the end of the meeting, several students chanted: “Not My Ashoka!” Mehta said in his resignation letter: “After a meeting with founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the university may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university.” Contacted by The Telegraph, he declined comment on his resignation but denied claims — by Right-wing Twitterati — that it was linked to Sweden’s Varieties of Democracy Institute downgrading India’s rating to “electoral autocracy” in its Democracy Report 2020. “I am not on their advisory board since 2007,” Mehta said. A student-run campus newspaper, The Edict, cited an unnamed source on Wednesday to say: “The resignation of Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta was endorsed by the founders of the university. This endorsement, according to a senior faculty member with whom our source spoke, was motivated by an understanding that if Prof. Mehta resigned, the university’s efforts to acquire a new plot of land to expand the campus would get much smoother. “Additionally, formal recognition for the fourth-year postgraduate diploma, Ashoka Scholars’ Programme, was also hinted at being part of the deal.” Historian Ramachandra Guha, who teaches at the similarly elite and liberal Krea University in Sri City, Andhra Pradesh, tweeted: “In its journey thus far, Ashoka University had shown much promise. They may have frittered all that away by the spinelessness of their trustees, who have chosen to crawl when asked to bend.” Neither Sarkar nor chancellor Rudrangshu Mukherjee have responded to queries emailed by this newspaper. The university’s founders include individuals and companies such as the Central Square Foundation’s Ashish Dhawan, Deutsche Bank, Citibank, Bajaj Group, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Havells. Subramanian’s resignation letter said: “However, the circumstances involving the ‘resignation’ of Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta, who is not just a dear friend but a truly inspirational national figure, have devastated me. I am acutely aware of the broader context in which Ashoka and its trustees have to operate, and have so far admired the university for having navigated it so well. “But that someone of such integrity and eminence, who embodied the vision underlying Ashoka, felt compelled to leave is troubling. That even Ashoka — with its private status and backing by private capital — can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom is ominously disturbing. Above all, that the university’s commitment to fight for and sustain the Ashoka vision is now open to question makes it difficult for me to continue being part of Ashoka.” Subramanian will remain a part of the university till the end of the academic year in May, but Mehta has requested to be relieved immediately. Neither attended Thursday’s online meeting. The Ashoka University Student Government and the varsity’s Alumni Council had issued a statement in the morning demanding transparency from the trustees and asking that Mehta be offered his position again and that his resignation be made public with his consent. “We express our unconditional support to Professor Mehta who always taught us to be critical of the structures we live around and question what is taken for granted,” the statement said. “The events that have transpired point to a failure on the chancellor and vice-chancellor’s part in protecting the university faculty from external pressures, and more importantly, also point to the failure of the founders to ensure the same. “We are also concerned about the larger implications this has on the freedom of speech for Ashoka’s students and faculty. This is not the first time that professors have come under fire for their opinions and/ or their course content. We are worried about the support they will have in the future, whether it will force them to self-censor, and what this means for the quality of our education.” The university faculty issued a statement requesting Mehta to withdraw his resignation. “Even more troubling is the possibility that our university may have acceded to pressure to remove Professor Mehta or to request, and accept, his resignation,” it said. “This would fly against the principles of academic freedom on which Ashoka University has been set up — and which Professor Mehta, in his time as vice-chancellor and university professor, has so scrupulously fought to defend. It would also set a chilling precedent for future removals of faculty, curtailing our sense of who we are as researchers and teachers.” Author Amitav Ghosh tweeted: “It is deeply troubling that @pbmehta had to resign from one of India’s leading private universities because of his ‘support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens, is perceived to carry risks for the university’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||SC issues important directives on sexual violence cases||The Supreme Court on Thursday told the country’s courts not to comment on the conduct or character of victims of alleged sexual violence, nor to condone or dilute such offences by mandating mediation or marriage or setting trivial bail conditions such as apologies, rakhi-tying or gifts. The bench passed several directives, including one on gender sensitisation programmes for judges, public prosecutors and law students. It deplored a Madhya Pradesh High Court order that had granted bail to a molestation accused after having him tie a rakhi on the alleged victim and give her Rs 11,000, her child Rs 5,000 and the family a box of sweets. “Using rakhi-tying as a condition for bail transforms a molester into a brother by a judicial mandate. This is wholly unacceptable, and has the effect of diluting and eroding the offence of sexual harassment,” the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and S. Ravindra Bhat said. It asked the courts to avoid reasoning or language that diminished the offence and trivialised the survivor’s grievance. In this context, the bench said, the following claims would be irrelevant to the assessment of the gravity of the alleged offence and the rationale for granting bail: ⚫ Claims that the survivor had in the past consented to such or similar acts; ⚫ Claims that she had behaved promiscuously; ⚫ Claims that she had by her acts or clothing provoked the alleged action of the accused; ⚫ Claims that she had behaved in a manner unbecoming of a chaste “Indian” woman; ⚫ Claims that she had brought the situation upon herself by her behaviour. The bail conditions imposed by the high court had prompted activist advocate Aparna Bhat and others to challenge the order before the apex court. The high court order comes at a time Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde has been enmeshed in controversy for asking a rape accused whether he would marry the alleged victim. Justice Bobde later alleged “misreporting”, saying he had only asked a question and not ordered the accused to marry the girl. Writing Thursday’s apex court judgment, Justice Bhat said: “The act perpetrated on the survivor constitutes an offence in law, and is not a minor transgression that can be remedied by way of an apology, rendering community service, tying a rakhi or presenting a gift to the survivor, or even promising to marry her....” The judgment forbade imposing conditions that it said implicitly condoned or diminished the harm caused by the accused and potentially exposed the alleged victim to secondary trauma, such as: ⚫ Requiring or permitting the accused to get in touch with the alleged victim; ⚫ Mandating mediation processes for non-compoundable offences (those where the law does not allow the two parties to enter into a compromise); ⚫ Suggesting or encouraging marriage between the alleged victim and the accused; ⚫ Mandating community service as part of the bail conditions; ⚫ Requiring one or more apologies from the accused. “The law does not permit or countenance such conduct, where the survivor can potentially be traumatised many times over or be led into some kind of non-voluntary acceptance, or be compelled by the circumstances to accept and condone behaviour what is a serious offence,” Justice Bhat said. The bench listed these dos and don’ts for courts hearing cases of gender crime: ⚫ The bail conditions should not mandate, require or permit contact between the accused and the alleged victim; they should seek to protect the alleged victim from any harassment by the accused; ⚫ If the court feels there’s a threat of harassment of the alleged victim, it should separately consider the nature of protection and pass an appropriate order in addition to directing the accused not to make any contact with the alleged victim; ⚫ Whenever bail is granted, the alleged victim should immediately be informed and given a copy of the bail order within two days; ⚫ The bail conditions and orders must not reflect stereotypical or patriarchal notions about women and their place in society, and must adhere to the requirements of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Sensitivity “Sensitivity should be displayed at all times by judges, who should ensure that there is no traumatisation of the prosecutrix during the proceedings or anything said during the arguments, and judges especially should not use any words, spoken or written, that would undermine or shake the confidence of the survivor in the fairness or impartiality of the court,” the judgment said. It asked the National Judicial Academy to evolve a curriculum to conduct gender sensitisation programmes for judges, and directed the Bar Council of India to include in the all-India Bar exam a chapter on gender sensitisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Meghalaya governor: Can quit but will back farmers||Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik asserted on Thursday that he was ready to step down but would not stop speaking in favour of the agitating farmers. He said he was talking “unofficially” to the farmers and the government to press for an early solution to the stalemate over the contentious agriculture laws, adding that there was a growing understanding in the two sides that a resolution needed to be found at the earliest. “If the government thinks and tells me that I am harming, then I will not take even a minute to step down,” Malik told NDTV, exhibiting defiance over his repeated comments slamming the central government over the farmers’ protest. Malik, whose earlier stints had been in Jammu and Kashmir and Goa, had been asked if he was scared that he could face action for speaking against the government as a governor. “I will speak even if I’m not a governor,” Malik said. Malik, who hails from western Uttar Pradesh and had been handpicked by the Narendra Modi dispensation for gubernatorial assignments, had recently pitched for a law on minimum support price and warned the Centre of consequences if it tried to act tough with the protesting farmers. He said during Thursday’s interview that the death of protesting farmers at Delhi’s borders had pained him and he couldn’t stop himself from speaking. “Even when a dog dies it is condoled but 250 farmers have died on (Delhi’s) borders, yet no one has expressed condolences,” Malik said. He said he wanted the farmers’ issue to be resolved in the interest of the BJP. He even warned of electoral consequences for the party, flagging raging anger among the peasants. “If this movement continues like this, then in the long term the BJP will lose out in western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana,” he said. “My statements won’t harm the party, rather the opposite as the farmers will feel that someone is speaking up for them,” Malik said, adding that those who did not want the issue to be resolved were harming the government. He said there was considerable anger among the farmers, and BJP MLAs were scared to leave their villages. He claimed that since he himself hailed from a farmer family, he was aware of the ground situation. Malik, however, said he was optimistic the deadlock would be resolved soon, claiming that both the farmers’ union leaders and the government were ready to adopt a reasonable approach. “The union leaders don’t want to stretch the protest and the government too wants to resolve the issue. So I am hopeful,” Malik said. “I am talking unofficially to both sides, pressing for an early solution. There is a growing understanding within the farmer community that a solution needs to be found at the earliest, as well as the government,” Malik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||SC to hear plea on stopping Rohingya deportation from J&K||The Supreme Court will take up on March 25 a plea to stop the alleged imminent deportation of hundreds of Rohingya Muslims from Jammu and Kashmir. The plea by Samiullah Khan, a Rohingya, has argued that if deported the refugees could face “genocide” in Myanmar, their country of origin. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde posted the matter for hearing to next Thursday upon a request from the petitioner’s advocate, Prashant Bhushan. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta said he had no objection. While making an oral plea for urgent listing, Bhushan told the bench that if the deportation was not stayed immediately by the court, the Rohingya Muslims would be expelled. “The detention is illegal and if they are deported then they face genocide. We have filed an application,” Bhushan told the court. The application has cited news reports to plead that since March 7 this year, 150-170 Rohingya refugees in Jammu have been illegally detained at the Jammu sub-jail that has been converted into a holding centre. He reminded the court that Myanmar was now back in the hands of the military junta. Mehta said the statement made by Bhushan was “wrong” on merits but he had no objection to urgent listing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
19-03-2021||India||Odisha: CM assured that paddy of farmers will be lifted from mandis, claim BJP MLAs||There was high drama on the streets of the Odisha capital on Thursday as BJP legislators marched towards Naveen Nivas, the chief minister’s residence, followed by the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) lawmakers. The two parties are locked in a stalemate in the Assembly since BJP legislator Subhas Panigrahi allegedly attempted to commit suicide in the House on March 12 by consuming sanitiser to protest against the state government’s failure to buy paddy brought by farmers to the mandis. While BJD legislators have been stalling the Assembly proceedings demanding an apology from Panigrahi for having lowered the dignity of the House, the BJP continues to insist that the government lift all paddy from the mandis. The BJP has also taken exception to the chief minister’s continued absence in the Assembly. The Congress too has accused the government of failing to procure the paddy of farmers. The Assembly failed to transact any business for the sixth consecutive day on Thursday with the BJD insisting on Panigrahi’s apology and the BJP demanding lifting of paddy and questioning Naveen’s continued absence in the House. Soon after the House was adjourned by Speaker Surya Naryan Patro, the BJP legislators set off for Naveen Nivas on foot in search of the “missing” chief minister. The ruling BJD legislators followed them on the pretext of guiding them to the chief minister’s residence while they continued to insist on an apology from Panigrahi. The BJP maintained that its legislator had done nothing wrong as he was only trying to highlight the farmers’ problems and the failure of the government. The BJP lawmakers claimed that they were searching for the chief minister who turns up at all the programmes of his party but remains absent in the Assembly. “We tried to meet the leader of the House in the Assembly and at the Lok Seva Bhawan (state secretariat). We could not find him there. So we went to Naveen Nivas in the hope of finding him there and discussing with him the issue of farmers’ plight,” said BJP legislator Mohan Majhi. The entire 2km route from the Assembly to Naveen Nivas was jampacked with police and activists of the ruling BJD and the BJP, which is the principal Opposition party. Police had a tough time handling the situation as the lawmakers of both the parties marched to the chief minister’s residence. The situation turned tense as soon as the BJP legislators reached Naveen Nivas and sat on a dharna demanding that the chief minister should come out to talk to them. Though ministers, including Bikram Keshari Arukh, Samir Ranjan Das, Tukuni Sahu and government chief whip Pramilla Mallick pleaded with the BJP leaders to go inside Naveen Nivas for a discussion, the Opposition leaders refused to oblige and continued to demand that the chief minister should come out and meet them. As the drama continued, pressure mounted on the government to resolve the stalemate. Finally the chief minister came out of Naveen Nivas and requested the leader of Opposition Pradipta Naik and other BJP legislators to come to his house for a discussion. The BJP lawmakers were given a warm welcome. After the meeting, Naik said: “The chief minister assured us that paddy of farmers will be lifted from the mandis. Besides, he assured to take steps to end the ongoing stalemate in the House. Following his assurance, we decided to leave.” Naik said they also urged the chief minister to come to the Assembly and sit in his chamber. The BJD legislators, on the other hand, said the chief minister had shown the character of a true statesman by coming out of his residence to meet the agitating BJP lawmakers. “It was a fruitful discussion. We are hopeful of normalcy being restored in the House,” said parliamentary affairs minister Arukh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||National Security Guards team reviews Puri temple security||An expert team of the National Security Guards (NSG) on Thursday flew drones around the 12th century Shree Jagannath temple in Puri to review the security around the shrine. The three member team has been camping in the Odisha pilgrim town for the last two days to examine the security of the temple. Earlier the team had conducted a recce of the world-famous shrine. Security officials of the Jagannath temple briefed the NSG team about the traditional practices observed by the local police and other security agencies. The NSG team also visited the 13th century Sun temple at Konark and examined the security arrangements there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||Assembly polls: Supreme Court to hear plea to stay electoral bonds||The Supreme Court will take up on March 24 a plea by an NGO to stay the issue of electoral bonds from April 1 ahead of the Assembly elections in Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian listed the matter for next Wednesday after advocate Prashant Bhushan appearing for the Association for Democratic Rights, the NGO, insisted on an urgent hearing. “New bonds are set to be issued from April 1 for the coming elections. We need our case to be heard urgently. The Election Commission had already said that these bonds allow illegal funds to be diverted to shell companies,” Bhushan told the bench on Wednesday. He mentioned the EC had said these bonds were detrimental to the Indian democracy. In its application, the NGO had urged the apex court to direct the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India “not to open any further window for sale of electoral bonds under the Electoral Bond Scheme, 2018” as it apprehended that it would otherwise lead to an increase in illegal political funds during the upcoming elections. According to the organisation, the ruling party has received more than 60 per cent of the total electoral bonds issued till date. The NGO claimed that so far more than Rs 6,500-crore worth of electoral bonds had been sold with the majority of donations going to the ruling party. It said almost 99 per cent of the bonds purchased were of Rs 1 crore and Rs 10 lakh denominations, which showed that it was not individual citizens but large corporations that were buying them with a view to receive kickbacks from the government. “There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks that no further opening of window for the sale of electoral bonds be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition,” the application, jointly filed through advocates Bhushan and Neha Rathi, stated. The NGO had earlier on September 4, 2017, filed a PIL citing alleged corruption and subversion of democracy through illicit and foreign funding of political parties and lack of transparency in the accounts of all parties. In that plea, it had urged the apex court to strike down certain amendments made through Finance Act, 2017, and Finance Act, 2016, both passed as money bills, and which according to the NGO had “opened doors to unlimited political donations, even from foreign companies and thereby legitimising electoral corruption at a huge scale, while at the same time ensuring complete non-transparency in political funding”. According to the NGO, the Electoral Bond Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies, which could have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||Kerala: BJP’s lone MLA claims Congress helped him win in 2016||The BJP’s lone lawmaker in Kerala has claimed the Congress helped him win the Nemom Assembly seat in 2016, handing ammunition to the ruling Left which is being accused of a deal with the BJP over three seats for the April 6 state elections. O. Rajagopal told the pro-Left Kairali TV on Thursday the Congress had supported him in 2016 because it knew it was going to lose the election anyway and wanted the state to have a lawmaker from the party that governed the country. “A lot of Congress supporters voted for me,” the 91-year-old, whose victory in 2016 made him the first BJP candidate to win an Assembly or Lok Sabha election from Kerala, said. “They (the Congress) were anyway (going to be) the main Opposition party and one seat wouldn’t have made any difference,” Rajagopal, who is not contesting this time, added. “So (they would have thought) a man named Rajagopal has been trying for a long time and it’s good to have in the state Assembly a person from the party that rules India.” Rajagopal said senior Congress leaders knew about the arrangement. He absolved the Left of having helped him: “No, the communists won’t do that. They wanted power.” Rajagopal has made back-to-back claims about secret Congress support for BJP candidates since a Sangh parivar veteran, peeved at being denied a nomination, on Tuesday alleged a Left-BJP deal over three seats, embarrassing the ruling front. On Wednesday, Rajagopal had told another TV channel that the Congress, its ally Indian Union Muslim League and the BJP had worked together to defeat Left candidates in the 1991 Assembly polls. The Congress had wrested power from the Left in that election, winning 90 of the state’s 140 seats. Rajagopal did not say how many seats the 1991 understanding covered but said it helped the BJP win votes in several constituencies and eventually aided its growth in the state. “There was a time when we thought: why waste our votes since we were not going to win? So we wanted to defeat the communists (by joining hands with the Congress and the IUML). Now the BJP has grown,” he said. On Tuesday, R. Balashankar, a parivar insider with close ties to the BJP central leadership and the RSS, had alleged a BJP-CPM deal to help state BJP president K. Surendran win the Konni seat. He alleged the BJP had in exchange fielded weak candidates from Chengannur and Aranmula. Balashankar is understood to have been disappointed at being denied nomination from Chengannur. Balashankar’s allegation has put the CPM in a spot, with speculation already swirling about a secret Left-BJP understanding over many seats. While the CPM has denied the allegation, the UDF has used it to attack the ruling front. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday seized on Rajagopal’s claims and hit out at the media. “Many of you are pretending not to have heard what Rajagopal said. This is not news for many media outlets,” he told a questioner at a news conference in Malappuram. “He’s the person who benefited from Congress votes in Nemom, and said they (the BJP) had an understanding with the Congress.” Vijayan dismissed Balashankar’s allegation of a CPM-BJP understanding at Konni. “The last time we defeated the current BJP president in Konni,” he said. The CPM had won a by-election from Konni in 2019, pushing Surendran to third position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||Covid: India’s need delays supplying Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine to UK||India is delaying supplying the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine to the UK because the doses are needed at home to tackle rising Covid cases and is not seeking to punish Britain for the recent debate held by its MPs on the farmers’ dispute, media reports have said. A Daily Telegraph report confirmed there would be a delay in Britain receiving 5 million doses of the vaccine from the Serum Institute of India but added: “British MPs’ criticism of the Indian government’s alleged use of force against peacefully protesting farmers was not behind the delay, according to a source, with exports to other countries also being held.” In Britain over 25 million people have received their first dose but the speed of the vaccination rollout may be affected if the Indian supply does not arrive soon. The Daily Mail’s headline — “India ‘blocks UK jabs’” — was not calculated to improve relations between London and Delhi. The paper said: “The UK was expecting 10 million doses of the Oxford-made vaccine from the Serum Institute of India, the world’s biggest vaccine maker, but the company has only delivered five million so far.” It summed up: “A row is developing over Britain’s vaccine shortage that will see first doses mostly halted in April as the UK points the finger at India and accuses it of delaying a shipment of AstraZeneca jabs.” The trouble began on Wednesday with the “shocking” disclosure that the National Health Service had asked doctors to stop offering vaccination to people under 50 next month because of a problem with supplies. At first, the entire media assumed this was because supplies from the European Union were being blocked because of a row over a number of issues with the UK. But then in the early hours of Thursday, the BBC broke the news that the anticipated shortage had nothing to do with the EU, but with India. “Covid vaccine: India shortfall behind UK’s supply delay,” it said. The BBC reported: “An expected reduction in the UK’s Covid vaccine supply in April is partly due to a delay in a delivery from India of five million Oxford-AstraZeneca doses. The shipment, produced by the Serum Institute of India, has been held up by four weeks, the BBC has been told.” The BBC got a statement from Serum Institute: “Five million doses had been delivered a few weeks ago to the UK and we will try to supply more later, based on the current situation and the requirement for the government immunisation programme in India.” The chief executive of the Serum Institute, Adar Poonawalla, who has had a flattering press in Britain — until now — both for his good looks and his socially conscious policies, is clearly angry he is being blamed for a delay that is not his fault. In an interview on Thursday with The Daily Telegraph, he hit back: “We have supplied 5 million doses to the UK. I don’t know what are they (his detractors in the British media) talking about.” He confirmed that a shipment of 5 million doses “was supplied to AstraZeneca and they gave it to the UK few weeks ago, I think. There was media coverage of it.” As for the other half, “it is solely dependent on India. It has nothing to do with the SII. It is to do with the Indian government allowing more doses to the UK.” He emphasised that “there is no stipulated contract period and time in which I am supposed to deliver these doses. I am helping as I can and when I can AstraZeneca and the UK to supply these doses. “There is no vaccine shortage. There was never a commitment to supplying doses to the UK in any stipulated time. We just said we would offer our help. India has allowed 5 million doses to go to the UK. The balance doses will be decided to be given to the UK at an appropriate time by the Indian government. While balancing India and all its needs at the same time. “This clarifies the point that we are not delayed at all giving anything to the UK because there was nothing stipulated that in any finite amount of time were we supposed to deliver 10 million doses. And of course, don’t forget we are primarily supplying the CoVax to poorer nations as they are the ones who have not got the doses. So there is really no question of any delay to the UK from Serum Institute.” In a separate interview with Bloomberg, Poonawalla said he was waiting for a directive from a “cautious” Indian government and did not want to anger New Delhi, which was requesting more vaccine doses than the SII had initially allocated. “We had to dedicate a lot of our capacity, which was not originally planned for India. We’re trying to balance it out as much as possible, but again for the first few months we have been directed to prioritise supplies to India and certain other countries that have a high disease burden,” said Poonawalla. The Indian government had objected to a group of British MPs debating the farmers’ dispute and press freedom in India. This debate did not take place in the House of Commons but in a committee room in Portcullis House, an overflow building which is not part of the Palace of Westminster. It may be the debate was fast-tracked but that was a decision made not by the British government but the “petitions’ committee”. This organises debate on petitions that attract more than 100,000 signatures from members of the public. The accusation that the MPs were engaging in “vote bank politics” is also not entirely accurate. It was, in fact, the other way round. The MPs had pressure put on them mainly by their Punjabi constituents with links to India’s farming communities. Boris Johnson and Narendra Modi are expected to sort out bilateral issues when the British Prime Minister flies to India on April 26. “I am delighted to announce that I will visit India next month to strengthen our friendship with the world’s biggest democracy,” Johnson said. Even though he suffered a critical bout of Covid last year, the 56-year-old has had to wait his turn for a vaccine. Johnson is mindful that several European countries have paused the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine over blood clot fears even though the regulatory authorities and the WHO have declared it as safe. Not to miss the chance of a photo opportunity and make a political point, Johnson has announced: “I think perhaps the best thing I can say about the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine programme is that I finally got news that I’m going to have my own jab... very shortly I’m pleased to discover. It will certainly be Oxford/AstraZeneca that I will be having.” Health secretary Matt Hancock said vaccine supply was “always lumpy, but were on course”, while the communities secretary, Robert Jenrick, asked by the BBC if India was to blame, replied diplomatically: “It would not be right to pin blame on any one manufacturer, they are working incredibly hard.… It is to be expected there will be some ups and downs. A number of global manufacturers are experiencing issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||Lucknow University witnesses campus fury at shorts ‘ban’ ||A notice at Lucknow University’s Tilak Girls’ Hostel banning boarders from wearing “shorts or dresses above knee length” triggered a student protest on Thursday, but campus authorities claimed it was a “fake” circular. The notice, handwritten on one half of an A4 sheet and put up on Wednesday evening, bore no signature. But students said many official hostel notices were unsigned. The notice was removed on Thursday after students began mobilising support to organise a sit-in and many of them gathered outside the university’s administrative building. Bhuvaneshwari Bhardwaj, provost of the girls’ hostel, said: “We have not issued any such notice. Somebody played mischief. There is no signature of any official on the so-called notice and it is not on any letterhead.” Nalini Pandey, chief provost of the hostel administration, said: “We never discussed any such issue. It was a fake notice.” A student said on the condition of anonymity: “Most notices put up on the notice board are written on white sheets without any signature. So, we believed it and decided to oppose it. But the university administration has assured us they wouldn’t ever restrict our right to dress as we like.” An image of the purported notice circulating on social media reads: “No girl should roam outside their respective blocks in shorts or dresses above knee length. Coming outside in spaghetti or vulgar tops is also not allowed. If any girl found violating rules shall be liable for fine of Rs 100.” Below the text is written “Provost, Tilak Hall” but there is no signature. The university’s All India Student Association unit, affiliated to the CPIML Liberation, condemned the “anti-women and derogatory notice”. Tirath under fire Tirath Singh Rawat, chief minister of neighbouring Uttarakhand, too faced flak on Thursday after allegedly criticising women who wear torn jeans. Students and women burnt effigies of the BJP chief minister in Dehradun and Haridwar and asked him to apologise. Rawat had told an event that sometime ago, a woman travelling with two children and wearing “jeans ripped at the knees” had sat next to him on a flight. "She told me she managed an NGO.... What kind of message was she giving to society? What culture will she teach to the children?" he had said. Criticised widely on social media, Tirath has issued neither a clarification nor an apology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||Farmers launch ‘MSP loot calculator’||The protesting farmers have launched an “MSP loot calculator” to counter the Centre’s narrative on the minimum support price for crops, using official data to show how the farming community is being paid way below the rates announced by the government. The “calculator” is an initiative of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a constituent of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is spearheading the farmers’ movement across the country. It is primarily aimed at the middle class which, the protesters feel, is buying into the government’s narrative that farmers are receiving the MSP and so their movement is unjustified. Announcing the calculator’s launch at a news conference, the Andolan’s Yogendra Yadav cited data relating to the daily procurement and modal price of the Bengal gram in all the mandis as published on agmark.net — a government website — between March 1 and 15. Yadav said the MSP had been fixed at Rs 5,100 per quintal but the farmers received an average price of Rs 4,663 — a loss of Rs 437 a quintal. Similar data will be released daily across social media platforms to show that the Bengal gram story repeats itself with most of the 22 other crops for which MSPs are announced. This “loot”, Yadav said, is not new. “Farmers were (robbed of) Rs 884 crore in 2020-21 for their gram crop; they got Rs 800 less than the MSP,” he said. “In 2019-20, the farmers were robbed of Rs 957 crore. This trend continues every year as the government has not made any arrangement for the purchase of gram.” The already agitated farmers are now up in arms against the new specifications proposed by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for procurement of food grains for the central pool. An FCI committee on Monday recommended a reduction in the moisture content and foreign matter — and in slightly damaged grains and shrivelled and broken grains — in the food grains procured for the central pool, arguing this would improve shelf life and marketability. The SKM deliberated on these proposals along with the requirement of furnishing land records for the direct transfer of procurement payment into bank accounts. It termed these moves by the FCI an “attack on the ongoing movement, and on Punjab which is in the forefront of the struggle”. Since the FCI procures wheat and rice at MSP for the central pool, Punjab and then Haryana will be affected the most by these proposals. The 32 Punjab farmer unions have decided that the state’s farmers will refuse to submit land-record-related papers in a mark of solidarity with the many farmers who only till the land and do not have ownership documents to show. They have appealed to the farmers of Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states to also refuse to furnish these documents to the FCI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Centre mulling above-45 vaccine||The Centre’s advisers are discussing a proposal to offer Covid-19 vaccines to people 45 years or older amid fears of a second nationwide wave and demands from health experts and state authorities to widen vaccination coverage. A proposal to extend the vaccination campaign to all people above 45 years is “under consideration in addition to coverage for elderly and those not elderly but living with comorbidities (chronic illnesses),” an adviser to the Centre told The Telegraph. The vaccination campaign is currently open to people 60 years or older and to those between 45 and 60 with certain chronic illnesses, but seeks to eventually cover about 300 million people above 50 years and those below 50 with chronic illnesses. The epidemic’s resurgence — marked by over 35,000 new cases nationwide on Thursday, the highest in over three months, after steady rising counts since early February — have prompted calls on the Centre from Delhi and other states to expand vaccine coverage. But experts guiding the Centre on vaccination strategy have cautioned that any expansion plan would need to synchronise a triad of factors — vaccine supply, the country’s capacity to deliver them and their quick uptake. The vaccination campaign has picked up momentum after it opened up for priority groups from the general population since March 1, but advisers underline that the current pace of the campaign is still below expectations. On Thursday, for example, vaccination centres across India had collectively administered around 1.78 million doses up to 7pm. “Given the number of the vaccination centres active and the amount of vaccines supplied, the number administered could have been twice higher,” a senior doctor and adviser to the government told this newspaper. Health experts also caution that a plan to expand vaccination to 45 years or lower would significantly increase demand for doses at a time when India is relying on two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin, both also pledged to global markets. Neither health officials nor vaccine makers have specified how many doses of the two vaccines — Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech — are available to the government each month. A Serum executive had indicated to The Telegraph last year that the company could supply up to 50 million doses a month by March, while a Bharat official told a webinar earlier this month the company could supply about 40 million doses a month. At a supply of 90 million doses a month, the campaign could take six months, experts said. “Trying to do too much too quickly might compromise on the efficiency and quality of the vaccination campaign,” an adviser to a state government said. Maharashtra Maharashtra, and Mumbai and Nashik registered their highest-ever coronavirus case counts on Thursday. Maharashtra reported 25,833 cases and 58 deaths. Mumbai clocked 2,877 cases while Nashik registered 2,421 cases. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked divisional commissioners to ensure that restrictions announced to curb the spread of the virus are implemented strictly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||India||Rajasthan State Textbook Board, owner of publishing house booked for hurting religious sentiments||The Rajasthan State Textbook Board and the owner of a publishing house have been booked for hurting religious sentiments over a reference to Islamist terrorism in a political science textbook, police said on Thursday. The FIR against the board and Mohseen Rashid Khan, the owner of Sanjeev Passbook Publication, was registered on Wednesday, they said. A chapter in the political science textbook in Hindi, “Terrorism, Criminalisation of Politics and Corruption”,  made a controversial reference. The textbook was published in 2018 under the former BJP government and is no longer in circulation. Convenor of the political science textbook Bhanwar Singh Rathore, who was an associate professor with a government college in Jodhpur and wrote this portion, died in September 2020. The case against the Rajasthan State Textbook Board and the owner of Sanjeev Passbook Publication has been registered under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 295A (hurting religious sentiments) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the police said. “We registered the FIR on the basis of a complaint lodged by Muslim community leaders late on Wednesday. They objected to the text comparing Islam with terrorism,” station house officer (SHO), Lalkothi, Surendra Singh said. The office of Sanjeev Passbook Publication was vandalised on Wednesday by a group of people miffed over the content of the textbook. Three people were arrested in connection with the incident, the police said. Manager of Sanjeev Passbook Publication Vijay Shukla said after the matter came to light, the books were recalled from the market and destroyed. He added that the publishing house has apologised in writing, but it continues to receive threat calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dubs TMC defectors of Nandigram 'gaddar, Mir Jafar'||Branding TMC turncoats as "traitors", party supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday said it was good riddance that they have left her camp, but the "switch over has left BJP old-timers sulking" as the saffron party has chosen to field the defectors over its loyalists. Addressing a poll rally at Egra in Purba Medinipur, the Bengal chief minister accused the BJP of practising "politics of riot, loot and murder", and urged everyone "to be on guard against outsiders appearing in their localities". The TMC, which has made Bengali pride its core poll plank, has called the BJP a "party of outsiders", as its top leaders hail from outside the state. In an obvious reference to Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee who had shifted allegiance to the BJP along with other leaders like Mukul Roy, the TMC supremo said, "Gaddars, Mir Jafars (traitors) have now become BJP candidates, to the dismay of old-timers of the saffron party." Noting that "these turncoats" had been given many responsibilities in the past, Mamata said, "I will be monitoring every project so that its benefit reaches everyone." Slamming the saffron party for chanting "Hari Hari in front and stabbing from behind", the TMC chief claimed, "Chewing panparag and putting tilak on forehead, the BJP carries out attack on people." Coining the slogan "No vote to BJP", Mamata also asked the crowd not to vote for the CPI-M and the Congress either "as they are friends of the BJP." The CPI-M, Congress and the fledgling ISF have formed an alliance in Bengal. Mamata asked the people to maintain vigil outside the counting centres where the EVMs will be kept after polling, saying "Do not leave the place even if central security and state police ask you to do so. "Also if an EVM malfunctions, ensure that the machine replacing it is tested properly." About her decision to contest from Nandigram, she said, "Many people had asked me why I decided to contest from faraway Nandigram rather than a constituency in Calcutta. I replied, I chose it since the movement against land acquisition in Nandigram (in 2007-2008) and Singur had played a significant role. "Also I consider every corner of Bengal as my own place." Alleging that women are not secure in BJP-ruled states, she said, "In Uttar Pradesh, women are raped and murdered. The father of a rape victim was killed recently. "If a poor man steals Rs 500 we pounce on him. What about the BJP stealing lakhs of rupees in jumla, what about lakhs of cash being plundered in the name of selling of PSUs? These thefts by BJP leaders are never known publicly." The chief minister said, Duare Sarkar (government at the doorstep) camps will be set up again in August-September and will be held twice a year from now on. Asserting that the victory of the TMC in the assembly polls "will be the precursor to dislodging the BJP in Delhi, Mamata said, "If you want me to be at the helm again, make every TMC candidate a winner."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Fair polls in Bengal becoming ‘distant reality’, TMC tells EC||Alleging that fair elections in West Bengal are becoming a distant reality, a delegation of TMC MPs met the Election Commission on Friday to register their protest against the poll panel's reported decision to not permit state police personnel within 100 metres of polling stations. The TMC parliamentary delegation, including Saugata Roy, Yashwant Sinha, Md Nadimul Haque, Pratima Mondal and Mahua Moitra, described the Election Commission's approach as partisan and biased. "It is becoming increasingly clear that free, fair and transparent elections in the State of West Bengal are becoming a distant reality. This is evident from the partisan and biased approach taken by the Election Commission of India (ECI) in respect of the ongoing elections in the State, a memorandum submitted to the apex poll panel said. "On the first count, it has been reported in the media that the ECI has decided to not permit the presence of State police within 100 metres of polling stations and only deploy Central Forces in such arenas. If true, this decision is unprecedented and casts severe aspersions on the reputation of the police administration in the State of West Bengal," it added. The memorandum said this needs to be substantiated at the appropriate level. Stating that the ECI's decision is only for West Bengal and not the other four poll-bound states in the country, the Trinamool Congress said the deployment of central forces should be to help the state government deal with law and order and "not deliberately demonise the state police personnel that have worked under different governments". "Propriety demands that there should be proper coordination between the State and Central forces to ensure free and fair elections and that combined groups of both State and Central Police forces be deployed within 100 m of the polling booths," the letter by the party said. Despite several requests, it said, the apex poll panel had summarily dismissed the demand for tallying of all VVPAT machines, allegedly on account of the decision of the Supreme Court of India passed in March 2019 . According to the party, its detailed submissions on the matter had clearly not been factored in. "We urge you to withdraw your decision to deploy only central forces within 100 m of the polling stations. Further, we reiterate our demand to tally 100% VVPAT machines with EVMs after polling is over, to reassure the voters that his/her choice has indeed been recorded, both electronically and physically," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Madan Mitra appears before ED in Saradha scam case||TMC assembly poll candidates Madan Mitra and Vivek Gupta on Friday deposed before Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials here in connection with the probe into Saradha chit fund scam. Mitra, who has been fielded by the party from Kamarhati assembly constituency, was, in the past, arrested by the CBI for his alleged involvement in the case, and later granted bail. "I was asked by the ED to appear before its officials today. I will continue to cooperate with the investigation," the former state minister said. Gupta, who is contesting the elections from Jorasanko seat, admitted that he knew Sudipto Sen, the owner of the blacklisted firm, and said he visited the ED office to submit income tax details. The agency, probing the money-laundering aspect of the multi-crore Saradha scam, has also sent notices to former IPS officers Surajit Kar Purkayashtha and Rajat Majumdar. Sources in the ED said both of them have been asked to depose before the agency officials next week. Majumdar, the former DGP of West Bengal, was earlier apprehended by the CBI in the chit fund case. The Calcutta High Court later granted him bail. Purkayastha, currently the state security adviser in West Bengal, had apparently attended several meetings organised by the now-defunct company. The Saradha group is said to have defrauded thousands of investors by means of fraudulent schemes floated by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Roshan Giri alleges ‘game’ talk by ex-colleague||Roshan Giri, the second-in-command of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, alleged on Thursday that its former chief election convener, Subha Pradhan, who had resigned from the party and expressed his inclination towards the BJP recently, had proposed a “got-up game” wherein Pradhan would be the BJP candidate in Kalimpong and thus ensure flow of funds to the Gurung faction to fight the elections in the two other hill Assembly seats of Darjeeling and Kurseong. Giri made the explosive allegation while addressing the media during the inauguration of a Morcha office in Kalimpong. “Three days before he resigned, he (Subha Pradhan) had called me up early morning and said ‘let’s play a got-up game, make me a BJP candidate and money will flow (to help Bimal Gurung’s candidates in the Darjeeling hills). Pitch for me in the BJP and have your own candidate in Darjeeling’. Please draw your own inference from his statement, apply your sense,” said Giri. Pradhan had resigned from Gurung’s party on March 14 and 10 other leaders in his faction also left in Kalimpong and Darjeeling on the same day. Giri’s allegations have come at a time when Pradhan’s name as a BJP candidate from Kalimpong is being widely discussed. But Pradhan hasn’t joined the BJP yet. Speaking to The Telegraph, Pradhan gave enough hints that he had been in touch with the BJP leadership even before his resignation but said the phrase “got-up-game” was Giri’s own imagination. “I don’t know where the words (got-up-game and funds for Morcha) came from. We cannot hoodwink the public. He (Giri) did not use these words when they expelled me from the party,” said Pradhan. Pradhan was expelled by Gurung’s party a day after he had announced his resignation from the Morcha. “Since my name is doing the rounds (for a BJP ticket from Kalimpong), it might be that he came up with a statement just to punch holes in my reputation,” said Pradhan who, however, admitted that he was in touch with the BJP as Gurung’s decision to join hands with the Trinamul Congress meant dilution of Gorkhaland demand. Pradhan, who was also the general secretary of the Gurung camp’s Kalimpong district committee and a former chairman of Kalimpong municipality, added the controversy had “only raised his image”. Giri said the BJP was focussed just on “expanding the party in the hills”. “Neither TMC nor the BJP will grant Gorkhaland. Also, a permanent political solution cannot be found without the state government’s intervention,” said Giri who also hinted at a model similar to the Bodoland Territorial Administration in Assam to solve the hill problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: CPM accuses Narendra Modi of 'slogan forgery'||The Sanjukta Morcha, especially the CPM, accused Narendra Modi of “slogan forgery” on Thursday after the Prime Minister dedicated almost two minutes of his speech in Purulia to debunk the Trinamul Congress’s electoral slogan “khela hobey (game is on)” with issues such as unemployment, education and healthcare. In his attempt to attack chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the Prime Minister listed the benefits of bringing the BJP to power in Bengal and said while the Trinamul leader was willing “to play”, the BJP was focusing on jobs, education, healthcare and development. The Morcha leadership alleged that while the BJP’s focus had been on forcing defection within Trinamul for long, Modi had realised that issues such as jobs and hospitals were also important. The Morcha said only the alliance of the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front had been speaking on those basic issues and while the polls were just a few days away, Modi was trying to steal their thunder. “Didi bolen khela hobey, BJP boley chakri hobey. Didi bolen khela hobey, BJP boley bikash hobey. Didi bolen khela hobey, BJP boley shikkha hobey. Didi bolen khela hobey, BJP boley mohilader utthan hobey…(While Didi says the game is on, BJP says there will be jobs, there will be development, there will be education, there will be empowerment of women),” Modi said. Reacting to Modi’s Purulia speech, CPM’s politburo member and candidate for the Chanditala Assembly seat, Mohd Salim, said it had become the habit of the BJP to “steal” anything good from the Left parties. “The BJP had stolen pictures of our Brigade rally and showed them to be ones from Modi’s Brigade meeting because we brought more people than they managed to. Now, they are stealing our slogans,” Salim told The Telegraph. Salim had announced from the Brigade rally that if Trinamul or the BJP said “khela hobey”, Left leaders should say “lorai hobey” or “the fight is on”. The alliance has weaved its poll campaign around issues such as unemployment, lack of industrialisation, non-recruitment of qualified teachers and other issues affecting youths, students and the underprivileged section of the society. Simultaneously, the CPM has fielded multiple young faces, all below the age of forty, to appeal to the youth of Bengal. The “khela hobey” slogan quickly resonated with the youth and made it popular cutting across party lines. It was also used by members of the CPM-backed SFI and the DYFI at a rally in Calcutta on February 11. The slogan has been used at multiple BJP rallies as well. Abbas Siddiqui, a Furfura Sharif cleric and the founder of Indian Secular Front, had earlier spoken of his discontent with the “khela hobey” slogan. While speaking to this correspondent on Thursday, Siddiqui said he saw in Modi’s speech an understanding between the BJP and Trinamul. “I have a feeling that Modi stole our campaign content purposefully so that Mamata could accuse us of having a secret pact with the BJP, as she always does, and benefit out of it,” he added. Siddiqui, however, added: “Even the PM knows that the Sanjukta Morcha is the only alternative in Bengal and only we are speaking about real issues. Hence, he is trying to speak in our language.” Responding to the criticism from leaders of the Sanjukta Morcha, a BJP leader said: “Creation of jobs has been the core area of focus for the Prime Minister. The several schemes that the Centre has introduced since 2014 are aimed at empowering the underprivileged. The promise of Modiji is in keeping with the agenda of his government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Violence erupts at Nandigram, seven injured in 24 hours||Seven persons were injured in two incidents of violence involving supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP at Nandigram in East Midnapore in the past 24 hours. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is the Trinamul Congress’s candidate at Nandigram where the BJP has fielded her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari. The violence started when Trinamul youth leader Samrat Tapadar and booth president Gautam Pal were attacked allegedly by a 150-strong group of BJP supporters around 8.30pm on Wednesday. The two had been campaigning at Bhekutia in the constituency. “They were singled out and beaten up. Tapadar’s skull was broken,” said an eyewitness. Tapadar and Pal have been admitted to Nandigram Super-speciality Hospital. The duo’s vehicles were also reportedly destroyed. At least four BJP workers and one from Trinamul suffered grievous injuries in a clash that broke out when a convoy of Adhikari was trying to enter Sonachura. Adhikari is protected by paramilitary personnel. Sources said Trinamul workers had been carrying on agitation regarding the Bhekutia attack as well as the decision of Calcutta High Court to reopen a case concerning the 2007 land movement on the basis of a petition by BJP Nandakumar candidate Nilanjan Adhikari. Sixty-three warrants were against residents of the area as a consequence. “The incident set off a lot of people, as the issue is a sensitive one. They came armed with black flags and chappals on Thursday to aim at Suvendu,” said an eyewitness. When the Nandigram candidate was finally able to reach his rally venue around 10am, he was met with cries of “Suvendu go back” from villagers. Referring to the clashes at Sonachura, in which Trinamul youth leader Khokan Shit was grievously injured by BJP workers, Suvendu said: “Yuva Morcha workers were almost beaten to death because Trinamul is now afraid of losing the polls.” Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien on Thursday submitted a formal complaint to the chief electoral officer in Calcutta demanding strict action against Suvendu. Trinamul MP Dola Sen also visited injured workers at Nandigram Super-speciality Hospital later on Thursday. In West Midnapore, BJP candidate Shital Kapat and her supporters were reportedly attacked near Kotulpur on Thursday afternoon. BJP workers raised a road blockade in the area to protest the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Ex-confidant to take on Asok Bhattacharya in Siliguri||The BJP on Thursday fielded Shankar Ghosh in Siliguri where he would take on his former mentor Asok Bhattacharya who contests as the CPM candidate. “I have been in politics for the past 30 years. This time, I have got a larger platform and hope that I will meet people’s aspirations,” said Ghosh. He was the district secretaries of the SFI and the DYFI. When the Left won the Siliguri Municipal Corporation in 2015, Ghosh became the member, mayor-in-council and was later elevated as a district secretariat member of the CPM. In the past few years, Ghosh had virtually become the “man Friday” of Siliguri MLA Bhattacharya. However, earlier this month, Ghosh had quit the CPM and as a member of the board of administrators at the SMC. “A section of CPM leaders is disinclined to encourage the young and want to cling to power,” Ghosh, 45, had said. He joined the BJP on March 13. Asked about Ghosh’s nomination by the BJP, his rival Bhattacharya said: “I am confident of winning the seat again. Let Trinamul and the BJP contest between themselves….. we are fighting elections with specific issues and policies, while the BJP is playing on religious lines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Mamata brings up NRC and NPR in campaign||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday resurrected the Narendra Modi government’s contentious citizenship matrix as a prominent poll plank for the Bengal campaign, condemning the alleged intent behind the exercise and mounting a scathing offensive. The chief minister, who had three rallies in West Midnapore in the afternoon, brought up the National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) repeatedly. “Do remember this well. The BJP has another game plan. That is of the NPR, the NRC…. Those who work elsewhere, outside, urge all such relatives to come home for the elections and cast their votes. Why? Otherwise, they will eliminate the names of absentees and say you are discarded,” said Mamata at Keshiary, the second of her rallies. “The way they went about it in Assam. Fourteen lakh people rendered homeless there. They will try a similar exercise here. I did not allow the NPR in Bengal, you know this very well. That entire design is to get rid of lakhs of names of valid citizens,” she added. Mamata, however, steered clear of mentioning the third constituent of the alleged saffron design, that of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which is an emotive issue for certain sections of the Bengal electorate, such as the Matuas, that she has been trying to woo away from the BJP. Prior to the pandemic taking centre stage, Mamata had been one of the loudest voices from mainstream politics in India, against the citizenship matrix. She had been a spearhead in the anti-BJP narrative across the nation, with a slew of programmes against the contentious tripod of the Modi government. “I work here, I live here, I eat here, I get rations here, my children get educated here, I get treated in hospitals here, I cast my vote here… what do I need yet another certificate for? The BJP’s certification? Tell them to go away. Refuse their demands,” said Mamata. With the resurrection of the issue, Mamata indicated that not only has she forgotten about the issue but would also keep revisiting it as a theme for her campaign against the saffron camp over the next few weeks. “A rotten party infested with the corrupt. A factory of scammers, rioters, wicked, of Durjyodhons and Duhshashons…. Not one vote to them,” she added. “So many voices they stifled. So many, they killed… in the Delhi riots (February 2020), simply to subdue the protests against their citizenship plans.” By tossing her hat once again in the citizenship matrix ring, the Trinamul chief indicated her willingness to let it assume significance in the campaign, which will help her consolidate the support from a wide range of key sections of voters — from Muslims, comprising a third of the Bengal electorate, to the Gorkhas — who are apprehensive of the exercise. She then went on to explain why the BJP “fears” her. “Because of the change we will bring to Delhi (the Centre), soon after we win in Bengal. They know we will pounce on Delhi. It makes them shake in fear. That’s why they are so furious with me,” said the chief minister. “They can see that if she wins Bengal, Mamata will be a big danger for them. She will come to Delhi next. An alternative force, nationally, with everyone in it, will be created…. That is why they are trying to inundate Bengal with fear,” she added. “They don’t know me well enough.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses 'outsider goons' of defiling Coffee House||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused “bohiragawto goondas (outsider goons)” of defiling the Coffee House in College Street and described as “very disturbing” the trend of the BJP importing such elements to Bengal. Addressing the last of her three rallies in West Midnapore on Thursday, the chief minister painted an unpalatable picture of those she dubbed “bohiragawto goondas”. “Goon after goon is coming here, putting a tilak on the forehead, chewing pan masala, red juice dripping from both ends of the mouth,” Mamata said at Kalaikunda. The goons are  “threatening ‘Dekhey nebo, phatiye debo, merey debo, dakhol korbo (Will fix you, smash you, kill you, will occupy)’”, Mamata added. “The Coffee House, even the Coffee House of that iconic Manna Dey song,” she added, referring to Coffee House-er Shei Adda ta Aj ar Nei. The chief minister said she was appalled at how the “bohiragawto goondas” had the audacity to enter a place of such socio-cultural significance to Bengal, before which she used to “bow my head in reverence” from a distance in her days as a student of Calcutta University. “Imagine, the Coffee House! There, too, the goons went and parked themselves. These goons went to a place like the Coffee House,” she said. On Monday, a group of BJP supporters wearing saffron T-shirts and chanting “Jai Shri Ram” had defaced “No Vote to BJP” posters pasted on the walls of the Coffee House. Since Wednesday, Mamata has been publicly appealing to the “No Vote to BJP” campaigners, urging non-BJP electors not to waste their votes by casting them for any party but hers. At Thursday’s rally, the chief minister obliquely referred to Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga, a controversial BJP spokesperson who had led the group to the Coffee House. “The man that has been named, he is a rioter, lives in Delhi. Bohiragawto goonda! I take full responsibility when I say this, that man is a bohiragawto goonda. His name begins with B. I’m not even going to take his full name. It rhymes with agga (command). I will not take his full name, a goon like that is not worth it,” Mamata said. “But remember, such audacity, went to invade Coffee House. Do they even know who used to go there, who still go there?” The chief minister said the Coffee House and such landmarks of Bengal’s culture meant a great deal to her. “I find it very disturbing. Those with blood on their hands, corruption in every petal (of the lotus, the BJP’s symbol), filthy language, bringing outsider goons, vowing to invade Bengal,” she said. “All in the name of so-called parivartan (change). Even that slogan is a bad copy. It was my slogan from 2011. Why no originality? Can’t you put your brains to some use?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi resurrects Pulwama and Batla House at Purulia rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday resurrected the Pulwama terror attack and the Batla House encounter, tiptoeing back to the polarisation path less than 24 hours after Mamata Banerjee had promised a universal basic income scheme if she returned to power. “The people of Bengal have not forgotten who you stood with after the Pulwama attack and made allegations against the army,” Modi told a rally in Purulia, referring to Mamata’s questioning of the timing of the terror strike before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Forty CRPF soldiers were killed in the attack. In the same breath, the Prime Minister mentioned the recent death sentence on Batla House accused Ariz Khan before asking why the Bengal chief minister had called the encounter a staged one. “No one has forgotten how Didi and a few parties behaved when the Batla House encounter took place. These people stood with the terrorists at that time and raised questions about the encounter,” Modi said, referring to the September 2008 encounter during a Delhi police operation to arrest terrorists hiding in a flat in the Batla House area of Jamia Nagar in Delhi. Although issues such as water scarcity in Purulia and Trinamul’s “misrule” came up in his address, Modi’s focus appeared to be on issues that can polarise the electorate. So far, any mood in favour of muscular nationalism as seen after the Pulwama attack and the retaliatory Balakot air strike on Pakistan has not been evident in the Bengal Assembly elections. Modi also wove into the time-tested narrative the BJP’s two other pet themes: perceived appeasement politics and infiltration from neighbouring Bangladesh. Modi accused Mamata of encouraging infiltration for the sake of vote-bank politics. Without mentioning “Jai Shri Ram”, the Prime Minister reminded the audience how certain slogans had raised Mamata’s hackles in 2019. “The people of Bengal remember how you got off your car and scolded people and asked the police to catch them for no fault of theirs,” he said. In his address at one of the most backward areas in Bengal that has a high concentration of tribals and OBCs, Modi said: “I know how the rights of the tribal and OBC youths from this area were robbed as she engaged in appeasement politics and passed the benefits on to others.” BJP sources speculated that Modi might have been referring to how backward Hindu communities such as the Mahisyas and Telis had been left out of the list for OBC reservation. The issue had first been “flagged”, according to the BJP, by the party’s national chief J.P. Nadda while addressing a poll rally in Bankura’s Kotulpur on Tuesday. Trinamul’s electoral manifesto, which Mamata released on Wednesday, includes a promise to set up a special task force for the inclusion of castes like Mahisya, Teli, Tamul and Saha in the OBC list. Modi said Bengal’s voters had made up their minds to usher in change and claimed the success of his Brigade rally on March 7 had made Mamata nervous. “Whatever is happening after Calcutta’s Brigade rally, you can see it and the country can see it. After 10 years of appeasement and hitting the people with sticks and batons, now Mamata Didi is looking jittery.… The people of Bengal remember each of your acts meant for appeasement,” Modi said. The Prime Minister referred to the injury Mamata suffered in Nandigram on March 10. “We were very worried after learning about your injury.… We pray to God, wishing you a speedy recovery,” he said. Modi accused Trinamul of encouraging the birth of a new breed of Maoists for political benefit. The BJP’s attempt to polarise the electorate a day after Mamata proposed an inclusive universal basic income scheme shows that the BJP has lost the plot, said Trinamul MP and spokesperson Saugata Roy. “They’ve realised that they have lost ground here. So, they are using their ultimate weapon of polarisation,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP's new list of 148 candidates has lopsided presence of turncoats||A new list of 148 candidates released by the BJP on Thursday has a lopsided presence of turncoats, triggering embarrassing disclaimers and questions on how the Prime Minister’s avowed “asol paribartan” can be brought about by a band of floating mercenaries. The list shovelled more fuel into the fire of discontent among BJP ranks, intensifying protests from Dum Dum in the south to the Dooars in the north. Among the defectors from Trinamul who made up the highlights of the list were Mukul Roy, Sabyasachi Dutta, Rudranil Ghosh, Deeptangshu Chowdhury, Jitendra Tiwari, Paban Singh, Sunil Singh, Shilbhadra Datta and Arindam Bhattacharya. The desperate rush to anoint defectors seems to have led to lapses in due diligence and spawned a couple of embarrassments. Two names on the list — Tarun Saha of Trinamul and Sikha Mitra Chowdhury of the Congress — declined the offer and said they were not interested in BJP tickets. “It’s clear from the list that the party is finding it difficult to field candidates (from within its ranks),” a BJP insider said. “Of the 283 nominees announced so far (for the 294 seats), almost 150 are from Trinamul, CPM and the Congress.” Prime Minister Modi has been promising “real change” and a “Sonar Bangla” but the list with  so many turncoats suggests that if the BJP wins the elections, the next government will have an assorted collection of legislators from different parties bound together only by erstwhile disgruntlement and potential rewards. The famed election management skills of the BJP also came under stress with the party deciding to replace economist Ashoke Lahiri with local party leader Suman Kanjilal as the candidate in Alipurduar. Speculation was rife that the replacement was carried out to douse the anger of the rank and file. But BJP sources claimed that Lahiri had been dropped because he was not on the Bengal voter list and there was no time left to rectify this — which in itself served to underscore the cavalier manner in which the list had been drawn up. Protests by supporters and local leaders against this disproportionate presence of new inductees have bedevilled the BJP since it started announcing candidates this month, with party offices vandalised and even senior leaders attacked. Union home minister Amit Shah has held emergency meetings and instructed state leaders to tackle the dissidents firmly. The protests, however, escalated on Thursday amid reports of BJP supporters targeting party offices across the state. “We have been with the party for years but people who have joined barely a few days ago have been made candidates. The likes of us will have to think if we want to keep supporting the party,” a BJP old-timer said. Neither Saha nor Mitra Chowdhury, who rebuffed the BJP after being included in Thursday’s list, had formally joined the party. Saha, who had been nominated from Kashipur-Belgachhia, said no BJP leader had spoken to him and the only overtures had come from a private survey agency hired by the party. He said he had no time for the BJP or its ideology. “We are a family with a Congress culture.... Why should I contest as a BJP candidate?” Mitra Chowdhury, nominated from Chowringhee, said. The bloopers served to underline the differences within the BJP, with some leaders asking whether those assigned to talk to Mitra Chowdhury and Saha had been honest. “The party will investigate what happened and why,” former state BJP president Rahul Sinha said. BJP workers erupted across north Bengal, which the party claims as its bastion. In Jalpaiguri, BJP supporters vandalised the district party office and set fire to publicity material, bringing police and fire engines to the spot. Similar demonstrations were seen in Old Malda and Harishchandrapur. In Sitai, Cooch Behar, senior party leader Bhaben Roy quit the BJP and joined Trinamul. In south Bengal, BJP workers demonstrated in front of the Durgapur party office demanding the replacement of the Durgapur East and Pandabeshwar nominees — Trinamul turncoats Deeptangshu and Jitendra — with party old-timers. Scenes of unrest were witnessed in Jagaddal, Nadia South, Ranaghat, Chakdah and several parts of North 24-Parganas. “After so many rounds of discussion in Calcutta and Delhi, we come up with a list and that triggers such protests across the state,” a BJP veteran said. “I can’t remember a single party programme that drew so many workers as are now coming to protest at party offices.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records surge in active cases for seventh consecutive day||Active Covid-19 cases in Bengal recorded a surge for the seventh consecutive day as their number went up by 53 to reach 3,241 on Thursday. The state on Thursday reported 268 recoveries, 323 infections and two deaths. Both the fatalities were in Calcutta. Bengal now has 1.21 per cent of the total active cases in the country, having improved from over seven per cent at the start of this year. The recovery rate is 97.66 per cent, still considerably ahead of the national rate of 96.25 now. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.51 per cent. On Thursday, the state reported 19,509 tests, taking the total past 88.94 lakh. Tests per million people were 98,831 on Thursday. Of the total deaths of 10,300 from the disease, 8,652 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.77, while the national rate was 1.38 per cent. Number of active cases had fallen for 136 days at a stretch since Vijaya Dashami last year. But the number of current patents started climbing on March 5. Before March 5, the total of active cases had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 last year to 3,110.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: 52,200 personnel will be on election duty ||CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh on Thursday said 725 companies of central forces would be deployed for election duties in Bengal. Addressing a media conference, Singh said 495 of the 725 companies had already reached the state while the rest were on their way. He said one company had an operational strength of about 72 personnel. This means around 52,200 personnel will be on poll duty in Bengal. Polling in the state will be held in eight phases beginning on March 27 and ending on April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2. The Centre appointed Singh, a 1986-batch Bengal-cadre IPS officer, as the CRPF director-general on Tuesday. He earlier held the post of special DG in the CRPF, the country’s largest paramilitary force. On the threat assessment in Bengal, Singh said: “Threat assessments are done by state authorities in areas and they decide deployment on that basis.” “We do not have any such assessment as to which phase would be more challenging. We provide support to the state authorities so that peaceful and successful elections can be held under the directions of the Election Commission,” Singh said. He said the central paramilitary forces were committed to peaceful, free and fair elections. “Deployment in the different phases of polls are being worked out,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: TMC duo hit campaign trail with saplings||Two Trinamul Congress candidates in the Sunderbans launched their election campaign on Thursday by embarking on a tree planting drive to restore the mangroves which had been damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May last year. Debesh Mondal and Sukumar Mahato, candidates of Hingalganj and Sandeshkhali Assembly constituencies, respectively, in North 24-Parganas planted around 1,000 mangrove saplings on alluvial land in the Hatgacha area running alongside the Roymangal river. Both the candidates said the drive would continue through the poll season. Simultaneous tee planting drives were also launched by Trinamul workers on Tuesday in other parts of the region adjacent to the rivers Kalindi, Goureshwar and Bidyadhari. Saplings were mainly of kalo bain (avicennia alba), peyara bain (avicennia marina), hargoja (acanthus ilicifolius), kewra (pandan), geoan (excoecaria agallocha) and sundari (heritiera fomes) — the dominant mangrove trees in the Sunderbans. They grow fast in brackish water. According to an assessment done by the state government, about 28 per cent of the Sunderbans forest, spanning over 9,630sqkm, was damaged during Cyclone Amphan. In an attempt to restore the mangroves, the Bengal government had on June 5, on the occasion of World Environment Day, launched a restorative plantation programme in the Sunderbans spanning approximately 1,200sqkm out of the 4,263sqkm mangroves that had been destroyed. Asked why such an endeavour had not been taken up earlier and launched only ahead of the polls, Debesh Mandal said: “The endeavour is not to woo people for votes, rather it is being done out of our social commitment to save the Sunderbans mangrove that was damaged in Amphan.” “Restoration drives have been taken up at many levels. I also tried my best in this initiative. Nevertheless, this fresh one has been taken to encourage people to undertake similar to things,” he added. Sandeshkhali candidate Mahato said: “The survival of the Sunderbans and its people depend on the mangroves. So, we took the initiative to save the Sunderbans and create awareness among people”. “We will continue to plant such saplings to restore the mangroves,” Mandal told The Telegraph. The North 24-Parganas district BJP leadership, however, termed the drive an election “gimmicks”. “These Trinamul leaders had little time to ponder over the mangroves in the past 10 months. Now with Assembly elections knocking at the door, they are trying to draw attention. But such gimmicks will not help them win votes,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
19-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: NIA questions TMC candidate in Murshidabad blast case ||The National Investigation Agency, which is probing into the Nimtita-blast in Murshidabad, questioned Emani Biswas, Trinamul Congress’s candidate from Suti, for over four hours on Thursday. Sources in the NIA said they had found certain leads after interrogating two persons whom the Bengal’s CID had arrested in the case earlier — Abu Samad, 44 and Saidul Islam, 36, — and decided to check them with Biswas. On February 17, at least 26 persons were severely injured in a blast that took place at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad. Among the injured was Jakir Hossain, state’s junior minister for labour and Jangipur’s Trinamul MLA. Jakir hails from Suti in Murshidabad. Jakir and Biswas own biri factories and had their own set of followers across Murshidabad district, NIA officials said. “We have no clue why the NIA questioned Emani,” said Abu Taher Khan, Trinamul’s MP from Murshidabad. “An agency can always question one but our demand would be that those actually involved in the blast be identified and punished.” Emani was questioned at the agency’s office in Calcutta, which is less than a kilometre away from that of the Enforcement Directorate which summoned Vivek Gupta, Trinamul’s candidate from Jorasanko in central Calcutta, for questioning in Saradha chit fund case next week. The ED also summoned former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Ahmed Hassan Imran for questioning in the same case. Madan Mitra, Trinamul candidate from Kamarhati, has also been summoned. Trinamul leadership has slammed the move by the central agencies as a deliberate attempt to instil a sense of fear among a section of the party’s candidates ahead of the Assembly polls. “Saradha case is being probed for several years and suddenly, both the CBI and the ED are waking up to the fact that they need to question some of our candidates now,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Calcutta. “All these central agencies are working under the instructions of the BJP. This attempt to intimidate will backfire.” In Calcutta, officials of the ED, which is probing into the money laundering aspect of the Saradha deposit mobilising scam, said Gupta had been asked to appear before investigating officers early next week. Sources said Gupta, who had been earlier questioned by the CBI in the same case, would be asked to clarify about the alleged transaction that had taken place between his publishing firm and Saradha Group chairman Sudipta Sen for printing a newspaper owned by the Group. Sources said the former Trinamul MP Imran would be asked to clarify his deal with Sen and his group. The Saradha group had taken over two newspapers run by Imran.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
19-03-2021||North East||Will stop implementation of CAA in Assam if voted to power, says Rahul||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asserted that his party, if voted to power in Assam, will ensure that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is not implemented in the state. Affirming that no religion teaches enmity, Gandhi, during his interaction with college students here in Dibrugarh district, said the saffron party was "selling hatred to create divisions among people". "It is the BJP that uses hatred to divide society. No matter where they go to spread hatred, the Congress will ensure it promotes there love and harmony," he said. In an apparent reference to the RSS - the BJP's ideological fountainhead -- the Congress leader said there is "one force in Nagpur that is trying to control the entire country" but the youths must resist this attempt with love and confidence as they happen to be the future of the country. Gandhi, who is in Assam on a two-day visit, is scheduled to release the party's manifesto in the poll-bound state on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
19-03-2021||North East||Congress asks Narendra Modi: Why didn’t you stop influx?||The Opposition Congress on Thursday mounted a strong defence of its alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s AIUDF in poll-bound Assam by countering the ghuspetiya (infiltration) narrative being fanned by the ruling BJP. AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel reacted to the intensifying attacks by senior BJP leaders over the “unholy and anti-Assam” alliance with the AIUDF by asserting it was an attempt by the ruling party to hide its failings in the state. Most senior BJP leaders — Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, and chief ministers Yogi Adityanath and Shivraj Singh Chouhan — have raised the infiltration issue in their poll rallies in Upper Assam where influx remains a touchy subject that had triggered the six-year long Assam movement in 1979. The movement resulted in the signing of the Assam Accord in 1985 that fixed March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners from the state. The BJP regularly accuses the AIUDF of being protectors of infiltrators, especially Muslims from Bangladesh. The BJP claims that the infiltrators are a threat to the culture and identity of Assam. Surjewala, attending the launch in Guwahati of the Congress’s campaign song for the three-phase Assembly elections from March 27, said there were two aspects to the alliance-ghuspetiya narrative. “Since the Sarbananda Sonowal government has not done anything in five years, they are now concerned about our mahajot (grand alliance).… Their job is to divide…. They are like students who don’t study through the year but blame the teacher who has set the question papers,” he said. “Then there is this ‘threat to national security’ and the ghuspetiya issue.… Can I ask Modiji and Amitji, whose government is it for the past six years? For nearly seven years, Modiji ki sarkar hai (Modi has been running the government for nearly seven years). Ensuring the security of the country’s border is with Amit Shahji, Rajnath Singhji and Narendra Modiji. This means they have failed, they have not been able to check infiltration. Then give us the government, we will run the government and also stop infiltration,” the Congress spokesperson added. Baghel, one of the three senior observers tasked with monitoring the Congress’s campaign to regain power in Assam, told The Telegraph from Dibrugarh that the BJP keeps shifting the goalpost according to its own interest. “If the AIUDF is communal, if the AIUDF is encouraging infiltration, then why has the BJP tied up with it to run the Nagaon and Darrang zilla parishads in Assam? Since they have nothing to show, they are fanning all kinds of lies. They will talk about ghuspetiyas but they will not talk about the anti-Assam CAA. They will talk about our alliance with the AIUDF but will not say there are eight other parties in our grand alliance. People have seen through their strategy and will respond through their votes,” Baghel said. The Congress is leading a 10-party alliance in the Assembly polls. Both senior leaders said the Congress was countering the BJP’s communal and infiltration narrative in its own way by talking about real issues confronting the state. Surjewala and Baghel said the BJP would divide and the Congress would unite. “Woh todenge, hum jodenge. The BJP will divide, we will unite. They will destroy, we will build. They will hide behind allegations, we will move ahead with development. They will rob one of job and food, we will move ahead with our five guarantees.… They will attack Assam’s culture, we will discharge our responsibility by not allowing the implementation of the CAA. This is the difference between the Congress and the BJP,” Surjewala said. The Congress posed 10 questions to Prime Minister Modi, who visited Karimganj in south Assam to address a poll rally. “On behalf of about 3.5 crore people, we want Narendra Modi to answer our 10 questions,” Surjewala said. The questions include: ⚫ What happened to the Majuli bridge announced by Modi on March 26, 2016? ⚫ What happened to the expressway, announced by the government in 2017, on both banks of the Brahmaputra to be built at a cost of Rs 40,000 crore? ⚫ Why do you want to harm the original identity, culture and civilisation of Assam? Modi promised to implement the CAA in Bengal but not in Tamil Nadu. Why is Modi silent in the context of Assam? Why this double standard in Assam? ⚫ What about all the announcements Modi made to get votes? ⚫ The BJP has made Assam the “hub” of child trafficking. Half of the total number of trafficking cases reported in India is from Assam. How will Modi answer questions on growing crimes against women? ⚫ Modi is talking negatively about the implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission in Bengal but has stopped referring to the scheme in BJP-ruled states. Modi had promised to the public of Assam that out of 63.25 lakh rural families, 59 lakh would get water under the Jal Jeevan scheme, but after three years why are 56 lakh families still deprived? Why are the people of Assam being deceived like this? ⚫ At the community health centers in rural Assam, the number of physicians, specialist doctors for women and children, and surgeons should be 708, but only 136 are available. Why are the people of Assam being cheated?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
19-03-2021||Opinion||Quad sends a clear message||Sir — Although the first-ever leader-level summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue took place virtually, it has sent out a clear message to China that its increasing expansionism and hostility, particularly in Asia, will not be tolerated (“New friends”, March 17). The four members of Quad — India, Japan, Australia and the United States of America — seem willing to act together to take on China’s desire to establish supremacy over other countries in the Indo-Pacific region. The summit took place against the backdrop of three critical regional and global developments. First is India’s military face-off with China in Galwan. China’s incursions along the Line of Actual Control and attempts to escalate military confrontation proves that it is willing to go into battle to establish its supremacy. The second is the election of Joe Biden as the president of the US. While former president, Donald Trump, took a tough stand on China, Biden prefers a multilateral approach, alliances and partnerships over unilateral action. The third aspect is China’s unclear role in the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. All members of Quad have reasons to be resentful towards China. China imposed sanctions on Australia and made inroads into the southern Indian Ocean and southern Pacific regions. Japan is concerned over China’s new coast guard law which allows China to open fire on any ship posing a threat in waters claimed by China. The US realizes that China can challenge its status as the world’s superpower. Further, Covid-19 exposed the dependence of countries on Chinese supply lines, prompting nations to build wide-ranging partnerships with friendly nations. However, it remains to be seen whether the Quad will prove to be a solution to the threat posed by China, as the priorities of the members with regard to the approach towards the country are different. Venu G.S., Kollam, Kerala Sir — While it is good to know that the Quad has a broader developmental agenda than having a mere anti-China stand — the intended production of one billion Covid-19 vaccines jointly would be a right step at this time — the animosity towards China is quite evident. Yet no country in this group — India, Japan, Australia or the US — is in a position to cut its ties with it. China’s expansionism can be ignored only at one’s own peril. So an effective group like Quad was indeed the need of the hour. However, that it is not confined to strategies and counter-strategies against China is equally important. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — It bodes well for India and the other members of Quad that the first leadership summit turned out to be a meaningful exercise. But the US’s attempt to strengthen the ties between India and itself is a development that seems to have displeased China, which insists on delinking its border dispute with India from bilateral exchanges. But China should realize that if the Quad has gained momentum, it has only itself to blame. The fact that time-tested India-Russia ties have lost some of its warmth, with Moscow strengthening its bonds with Pakistan and China, also seems to have played a role in New Delhi looking elsewhere for support. As the Quad finds new credibility, China would do well to reconsider its approach. All the four members of Quad have mutually beneficial relationships with China, which has risen to become one of the largest economic and military powers in the world. But if China continues its pursuit of hegemony, the Quad is bound to act as an inevitable balancing force. Meanwhile, New Delhi should make the most of its growing friendship with the other members of Quad and further its strategic and economic interests as well as keep Beijing on the back foot. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — China has all the reasons to be edgy after the successful summit of Quad nations. Its growing aggression in the Indo-Pacific region is not hidden from anyone. But credit must be given to Quad members for making the vaccine partnership a priority, given that it is probably the greatest need of the hour to pool in resources and help all countries which are struggling to get their citizens vaccinated. Indeed, China will not leave any stone unturned to drive a wedge amongst the members, but India needs to play smart and act strategically: it must keep its long-term interests in mind. India’s diplomatic skills will surely be put to test as it strives to strike a balance between its relationship with China and with other nations. Bal Govind, Noida Sir — It has been some 10 days since all the brouhaha over International Women’s Day and Tirath Singh Rawat, the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, made a condescending comment about a woman wearing ripped jeans running a non-governmental organization. He is apparently concerned about the example she was setting before society. While it is no one’s business what a free citizen of the country chooses to wear, it is disappointing that to this day a woman continues to be judged by her clothes and not by the work she does. Lip service to women’s empowerment will be of no value until people change their regressive mindset. Sonali Dutta, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
19-03-2021||Opinion||Desi democracy indices||It is heartening to note that the foreign ministry is taking the prime minister’s ‘Make in India’ slogan to heart. There is some speculation that the ministry is contemplating the formulation of a ‘world democracy report’ as well as a ‘global press freedom index’ with the help of an independent, indigenous think-tank. The issue assumes significance on account of some recent developments. Late last year, the Prime Minister’s Office is said to have forwarded to the external affairs ministry a letter written by a former chairman of Prasar Bharati that New Delhi should frame its own parameters to define a democracy index in order to counter the critical assessment of India’s freedom and democracy by international bodies. This response has a context. Since the genesis of this purported letter, India has performed quite poorly on these indices in several studies. For instance, the V-Dem Institute has downgraded the quality of democracy and described India as an “electoral autocracy”. Its findings are not anomalous: the World Press Freedom Index ranked India 142 among 180 nations. In spite of rubbishing these appraisals — the foreign minister rejected the reports, saying India has no need for tedious moral lectures — a touch of nerve — or is it nervousness? — is apparent. Growing international concern and condemnation could well energize efforts to create domestic, but curated, templates for measuring democracy. This is worrying on two counts. Such an intervention goes against the principle of objectivity, with the possibility of a think-tank enjoying the patronage of the powers that be playing judge and jury. Second, the proposal, if it were to take concrete shape in the future, shows that the Narendra Modi government remains unwilling to engage with censure. This irritation is typical of authoritarian regimes. Does not the collar of ‘electoral autocracy’ fit rather nicely then? Of greater concern is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s understanding of the fundamental tenets of freedom. With the BJP as the political minder, India could be schooled into adopting a newer, desi model of democracy whose parameters are in conflict with the markers of liberalism that are cherished by the rest of the world. The stress on the creation of new benchmarks in the aforementioned note is particularly relevant. Perhaps the point made by Rahul Gandhi that elections take place even under totalitarian regimes needs to be studied carefully by the conscientious citizen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
19-03-2021||Opinion||Move softly: new Delhi NCT bill||Testing the waters needs a step at a time. The government of national capital territory of Delhi (amendment) bill, 2021 could be perceived by critics as a disguised step towards making an elected government redundant. That is a blow to the Aam Aadmi Party government, which has been assiduously echoing the values — deshbhakti, for example — and attitudes — prosecution of ‘anti-national’ students — of the Narendra Modi-led government. The bill defines 'government' with reference to any law passed by the Delhi assembly as ‘lieutenant-governor’. More, it bars the assembly or its committees from making rules regarding everyday administration without the lieutenant-governor’s say-so, questioning administrative decisions and carrying out investigations as it is now doing, for example, into the alleged role Facebook played in the violence in north-eastern Delhi. The bill which, like other controversial ones in the last seven years, is expected to pass through Parliament like knife through butter demolishes hopes of Delhi’s statehood. It was not just the former Congress and the present AAP governments that had promised statehood, but the Bharatiya Janata Party government headed by Madan Lal Khurana had once upon a time complained about the government’s limited powers too. What prompted the bill may not be clear; perhaps too much investigation into occurrences like the Delhi violence is not healthy for an elected government. Or the reason lies in the seeds of the future. But the Centre said that the bill will further define the roles of the government and the lieutenant-governor in accordance with the 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court. Odd, because the 2018 judgment in effect gave the elected government freedom in forming policy and in other matters of governance while keeping the lieutenant-governor informed. His role was of an administrator with discretionary powers advised by the council of ministers. The bill, once it becomes an additional provision in the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991, will have interpreted the judgment in an original fashion. The protests of the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, may sound a little weak; clearly he has been left floundering by the Union government even after he supported its cancellation of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and the state’s division into Union territories. Had not the Centre’s move been ominous, the irony would have been lined with comedy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
19-03-2021||Opinion||There is nowhere left to run||Once upon a time, running away was quite a tradition for children. The Bengali classic, Bari Theke Paliye, by Shibram Chakraborty, turned into a memorable film by Ritwik Ghatak, has Kanchan, a defiant, fearless teenager, running away to Calcutta, in a train, from his village to escape his father’s wrath. His father is the only person on earth that Kanchan is afraid of. In Calcutta, Kanchan discovers an urban dystopia that is ruled by money and is deeply alienating. He returns to his village and realizes his oppressive patriarch of a father is actually not that much of a monster. In another Bengali classic, the Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay story, Gonshaibaganer Bhoot, Burun, the boy who gets only 13 in maths — it becomes a useful mantra later — runs away from home, again, because of a terrifying father. But instead of in a hostile city, Burun lands in Gonshaibagan, a place both savage and enchanted, and magical events follow. In real life, almost 70 years ago, my father, as a teenager, had tried to run away from home at least two times. Reaching Howrah station, on each occasion, however, he had failed to board the train that would take him to an unknown destination for various reasons. I suspect that he did not really want to run away. The running away was done mostly by boys, though some girls were not to be left behind. As late as in the Nineties, a girl known to my family, a teenager, had reached Howrah Station, yes, again, to go to Mumbai. The police caught her and she told them her name was ‘Kajol’. Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge — featuring another tyrannical father — had just been released. Too many things have happened since the great era of running away. Have fathers become less threatening, especially towards their sons? Or are they as threatening, but in different ways? Which reminds us of another great Bengali institution: that of the patriarch declaring a son “tyajyaputra” (meaning disinherited, but the English word does not have the flourish of the Bengali one). A lot of Bengali fiction and cinema had authoritarian fathers, someone like Kamal Mitra or Chhabi Biswas, shaking grandly with passion and cancelling the property rights of the young mutinous son, someone like a young Uttam Kumar. It was some version of the Oedipal, as primal as it was brutal. Such a vengeful father is hard to find now, certainly in popular culture. Maybe also because there is not much to disinherit sons from, the capital having run away from Bengal long ago? Maybe someone should research the relationship between paternal wrath and capital. King Lear could be a case in point, though he only had daughters. The train journey has changed. The train, boarded or not, was an important part of running away, linking the familiar with the unknown. But the romance of trains is gone and the idea of adventure has changed — and no place is unknown on Google. Besides, children going away in trains to an unknown place has now become associated sordidly with trafficking. Teenage rebellion has changed. When there is a conflict at home — and when there is not — children can always turn to the mobile phone. No train can go where mobile data takes them. Once they are there, they are lost, with few parents, angry or otherwise, being able to retrieve them. But no point blaming technology alone. Some adults I know would like to escape  too. From the virus and from the politics that surrounds us, making breathing difficult. The truth is there is no place to run away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
19-03-2021||Opinion||Snafu season||Elections are usually seen as celebrations of democracy, as festivals of plurality that mark Indian culture. But the elections this year feel different — almost eventless — a burlesque of politics enacted as a reflex. Election time this year is eventless as history. All the incidents seem to be borrowed from earlier plots. If you mention violence, experts reply that it is an old habit, tracing its genealogy back to a different era. The political scripts are also mediocre even if the challenge before us is ominous and devastating. We are facing the irony of an electoral democracy where the regime is destroying the very institutions that made democracy meaningful. In fact, there is a sense of continuity without vision. Probably the best example is the launching of the Central Vista project by the Bharatiya Janata Party, a celebration of monumentality without achievement, which I guess is Narendra Modi’s idea of a Parliament. Instead of challenging the Haussmannic imperial idea of power present in Lutyens’ Delhi, Modi shows he is native to this imagination of power without responsibility. The elections in various states look like silent movies, without ideas, with each actor semaphoring his intention of holding on to power. One usually holds an election as a review of policy or a rethinking of power. One senses little of this in politics. There is, as an acute observer told me confidentially, a surreal in the banal. Take Tamil Nadu’s case. The election looks like a revivalist cult centring on V.K. Sasikala and J. Jayalalithaa. It is more a tribute to the two corrupt matriarchs than an assessment of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The struggles seem pitifully local. There is no sense of big issues. Politics in Bengal looks like a collection of vendettas. The ease with which politicians shift parties makes one wonder if loyalty and commitment are part of politics. Kerala seems more haunted by corruption. The BJP rescues E. Sreedharan from the mothballs of retirement, promising a new technocratic Ram rajya. It is eerie to watch a man with impeccable credentials succumb to the halo of power. The entire electoral scene is built on the superficial, more a battle of identity and reservation politics than a contest involving serious debate on issues. There is an indifference, a lapse in memory, as if the vaccination was timed for the election, a sense that between vaccine and vote, India is returning to normal. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) pulls off one or two redeeming moments, too little and too late as it hosts a lot of student candidates and not its habitual gerontocratic club. As a friend wryly said, Covid-19 has had an impact at least here, as older people are seen as vulnerable. Frankly one does not see a vibrant India at the elections. It is more a voyeuristic India propping up local issues. The excitement of democracy and the magic of an open polity are sorely missing. There is a word that soldiers in World War II coined for such a meaningless situation where activity presumes the normal but adds little to the meaning. They coined the word, SNAFU, an acronym that means ‘situation normal, all fouled up’. India conducts its elections as empty rituals over the glorious mess of institutions and governance it has decimated. I want to highlight a few issues that worry me as an academic and a citizen. The election did not provide time or place to initiate civil society into the election process. There is no alternative to civil society activism given the emptiness of political parties. The Left sounds vacuous, and the Right increasingly pompous. The citizen has to reinvent a politics of ideas and institutions. At a crisis level, it has to immediately rehabilitate the three things that the regime has destroyed — civil society itself, the university as a microcosm of a knowledge society and the environment as a source of livelihood and a vision of diversity and ethics. The idea of civil society needs to be revived as a source of diversity and plurality, as a nursery for ideas that the marginal and the minority can thrive on. Civil society has the political humus to create alternative imaginations when ideologies and technocracies dry up, becoming aridly repetitive. Civil society must challenge the simulacra of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh that the BJP has propped up as its idea of community and civility. When the cadre pretend to be communities, one creates disciplines without normativeness, obedience without a sense of conscience. It is civil society that sustains plurality and the nation state. Civil society offers the fecundity of dissent, which no cadre or clerk can generate. It is in the potentialities of dissent that the Johnny Appleseeds of our future democracy will survive. Once civil society becomes an organic entity, fertile with plural ideas, the citizen must strive to create a community of playful ideas from the adda to the panchayat to the university. Each is a critical institution that creates the fertility of debate and ideas. The character Amartya Sen called the Argumentative Indian should become a creative figure in all three theatres. Sadly, the university has been emasculated by this regime while it hides its academic crimes behind the New Education Policy. The policy report turns knowledge into a giant tutorial college that even Macaulay would have loved, a secretariat for clerks when we desperately need new inventions. The modern university has to be a place of experimentation. One invokes in this context not the current Santiniketan but the original Santiniketan that Rabindranath Tagore, Patrick Geddes and J.C. Bose conceived, a university which could carry out a dialogue of civilizations and disciplines in its search for a livelier holism. Only universities can maintain a dialogue of civilizations to challenge the uniformity of the nation state, which literally cannibalizes citizenship today. Civil society has to create a new imagination around human rights rather than rest content with the idea of citizenship as it exists. One needs a concept that is more life-giving to the displaced, the defeated and the excluded. India’s silence over the Rohingya reflects the death of a civilization even as the nation state preens itself on its tactical handling of the Myanmar army. The idea of environment has to be reworked beyond the current notion of nature as a commodity, a resource or a tourist spectacle. Like the Maori and as suggested by many leading scientists, nature must be represented in the Constitution in the full sense of the idea of the sacred and in terms of ecosystemic diversity for issues like livelihood to become legal, cognitive matters and for citizenship to become an inclusive dream of dwelling and hospitality tackling the politics of development and ethnicity. Civil society in a more participative sense must add to the vitality of institution-building. It must create knowledge panchayats, which debate the issues of science, diversity and livelihood from different perspectives. Citizenship must challenge the obscurities of expertise more creatively while sensing the new uncertainties and complexities of knowledge. The silence around the coronavirus has to be worked into a series of participatory scenarios that make science more meaningful for citizenship. The recent farmers’ strike needs a different response from the regime and the civil society as the future of agriculture extends beyond the fate of any election. Whether in agriculture, education or public health, there is a need to create a science policy, which reworks the relations among knowledge, livelihood and democracy. The alleged ‘benign neglect’ of the farmers’ strike is an obscenity of attitudes democracy must avoid. Civil society through its involvement must atone for the indifference of the regime. Finally, one has to confront the levels of violence in our society and create institutions that can work creatively around these problems. Sadly, our democracy has lost its sense of civilization and its short-term memory of violence over the last two decades. An information society that specializes in erasure and surveillance is the last thing India needs. This range of challenges before us shows that elections have turned cosmetic. We need new forms of institution-building where new ideas as alternatives are worked out. A non-violent society needs a satyagrahi in law, science and governance who adds constructive work to protest for democracy to be playful and inventive again. The Stalins, the Mamatas, the Modis, the Amit Shahs add little to the imagination or to the future of Indian democracy. It needs a different set of dreamers with a different quality of conscience. Current politics is too impoverished to provide it. The Party must return to civil society to re-educate itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Woman nabbed from Adityapur for selling brown sugar||In a breakthrough against running a racket of selling "brown sugar", the police raided a house at Adityapur Muslim Bustee and arrested a 35-year-old woman early on Friday morning. Identified as Salma Khatoon, the woman was arrested for possessing 52 packets of brown sugar along with cash. Revealing about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said they had information that a middle-aged woman was indulged in drug-peddling in Adityapur Muslim Bustee. "As nabbing any lady drug-peddler was difficult during the day-time, a police team which has been set up for unearthing the drugs from Adityapur area, raided the house early in the morning and succeeded in nailing the lady," said Arshi while talking to reporters here at the Adityapur thana on Friday afternoon. The SP said that Salma was the second lady drug-peddler to be arrested after the detention of the notorious Dolly Begum from the Adityapur Muslim Bustee about six months ago. "After the arrest of Dolly, we had thought that racket of the brown sugar business will subside in Adityapur. But surprisingly, more drug-peddlers emerged from the same slum, leading the police to arrest about half-a-dozen peddlers during this period. We have, however, decided to free Adityapur from brown sugar," said the senior police officer while responding to reporters. The Adityapur police also raided a place near Adityapur industrial area and arrested two women for selling country-made liquor. According to the Seraikela-Kharsawan SP, the police team recovered over 50 bottles of country-made liquor from the women's possession and sent all of them to Seraikela divisional jail after producing them before a judicial magistrate in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP sets up help desk at vaccine centres in Bokaro||The Bokaro district unit of the BJP is helping residents, especially senior citizens, of the steel town by setting up help desks at Covid-19 vaccination centres. This decision was taken at the party meeting held on Thursday in the BJP district office. The members have also begun a Covid-19 vaccination awareness drive to inform people that it is safe to get the vaccine. Sanjay Tyagi, the district head of this campaign said, “It has been decided that the BJP members will form a team and conduct door-to-door campaigns to make people aware of the safety of the vaccine. At the same time, it was also decided to set up a help desk at all the vaccination centres.” The district especially Bokaro Township has a large number of senior citizens most of them are retired employees of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). Many of the senior citizens above the age of 70 are residing alone as their children are settled in other cities in the country or abroad. For them, visiting the vaccination centre to take the vaccine is a difficult task. Sensing the problems faced by them, the members of the saffron party came forward to help them. District president Bharat Yadav said, “There will be a provision of clean drinking water, transport of elderly and senior citizens to the vaccination centre at all the help desks. Our workers will extend all possible support to the people for the vaccination process. BJP district unit has also made members in-charge and co-in charge of each of the vaccination centre who will operate the help desk.” Dilip Srivastava, district vice president said, “Under the leadership of Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi, the Covid-19 vaccine made in India is being supplied to 65 countries across the world and the vaccine is safe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand health workers to get a month's extra pay ||Jharkhand's frontline health workers who;ve been working round-the-clock since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 will be provided a month's extra pay, state health minister Banna Gupta announced in the Assembly on Friday. Gupta was responding to a question by BJP MLA Amar Kumar Bauri who wanted to know during Question Hour if the state government had provided any special financial assistance to lakhs of frontline health workers who have been working during the pandemic since last year. “The state government has decided to provided one month’s extra pay to all frontline medical workers for their services. The health department is currently in the process of finalising the modalities and is also identifying frontline workers who deserve to be covered under this special scheme. Soon, we will unveil the final blueprint to provide them extra pay of one month for their exemplary works," the minister said. Notably, many other states have already provided a slew of special incentives to frontline workers for their contribution during the pandemic. BJP MLA from Dhanbad Raj Sinha wanted to know about central assistance the state government had received in terms of PPE kits and other medical aids so far. Taking a jibe at the BJP-led government in the Centre, the state health minister responded, “Yes, the Union government provided us PPEs and other kits but they were untimely and too few in number. However, despite the challenges, the state government succeeded in handling the Covid-19 situation much better than many other states. In the coming days too, we hope we all will work together to keep the momentum going.” Congress MLA from Poriyahat Pradeep Yadav raised a question in the Assembly about the fate of the nursing college in his home district—Godda. “Decks have been cleared and the state government is gearing up to launch the first batch from October this year,” replied Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Virat Singh raring to make a mark in this year's IPL||Virat Singh is yet to make his debut in the Indian Premier League (IPL) but the young southpaw is hopeful of a spot in the playing XI this time. The 23-year-old has already slipped into training groove ahead of the highly popular cash-rich tournament which unfolds in India this time on April 9. The global Covid pandemic had forced organisers Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to host the last edition of IPL in the UAE. Virat, who lives with his parents in the Sonari locality of Jamshedpur, has been retained by Sunrisers Hyderabad which did not avail his services in the last IPL. However, the talented batsman with quick reflexes is least disappointed and knows that he will get an opportunity to let his bat do the talking any day now. "I think I am in good form. I scored an unbeaten 103 off 53 balls (against Assam), 67 off 37 balls (versus Odisha) and 47 off 35 balls (against Bengal) in the recently concluded Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy in Calcutta. I have a good feeling and I am hopeful of getting an opportunity to play for Sunrisers Hyderabad this time," the Jharkhand batsman said. Aware that the IPL would be challenging, Virat is working hard on his fitness. He is already sweating it out in the gym and also sprinting  to keep himself in fine fettle. “I am concentrating on my strength and stamina by working out at the gym of Keenan Stadium. Fitness holds the key and I want to remain fit as a fiddle during the IPL," he added. Virat, who lives with his businessman father Binid Singh, homemaker mother Renu and siblings Vivek and Vishal, informed that he would be leaving for Chennai on March 28. "Our training camp starts in Chennai on April 3. We will be quarantined for 5-6 days before the camp. The camp has been scheduled in Chennai since the first five matches of Sunrisers Hyderabad is in that city. We launch our campaign against Kolkata Knight Riders on April 11," he said. Virat has led the Jharkhand under-19 side and made his debut for the state senior side in Vijay Hazare Trophy in 2014. The left-hander, who also bowls leg spin, has the ability to hold the innings while accelerating. He is a regular in Jharkhand Ranji Trophy side and is known for his attacking approach, a key element when it comes to slam-bang cricket like the IPL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi mayor launches two buses for women only||Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra flagged off a pair of buses meant for women commuters only on Friday in the presence of a host of officials, including deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargia and town commissioner Mukesh Kumar, at the municipal corporation headquarters on Kutchery Road. Speaking on the occasion, Lakra said that while RMC had launched similar services about two years back, it di not succeed due to various issues. But the latest fleet of "Pink buses" was here to stay this time, she promised. “Today, we are launching two buses that will be reserved exclusively for women passengers. Unlike the last time, we have made certain changes in the mode of operations to run the service. This time, except the driver, all other staffers on the bus will be women. Since pink represents women, we have painted the bus with this colour. Bus personnel too will be dressed in uniform of the same colour,” said Lakra. The two buses will initially run between Kutchery Chowk via Main Road to Birsa Chowk, a distance of about 10 km. Tickets cost Rs 5 only. Lakra asked RMC officials to ensure that the bus service did not face any trouble and that the women-nly rule was enforced strictly. “Earlier, this service failed to evoke much response because bus personnel often allowed men to board the bus to make extra money. As a result, many women were put of. Such problems won’t occur this time,” she said, adding that the RMC had plans to increase the fleet of pink buses to 10 in the coming days. A few women passengers who took the bus on Thursday hailed the decision. “Rs 5 from Birsa Chowk to Kutchery or visa-versa is very economical as neither e-rickshaws or autos can offer such cheap rates. Students will find it a safe travel option too," said Rakhi Murmu, a first-year intermediate student of Ranchi Women’s College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Charred body of a month-old infant recovered in Ranchi||A charred body of a 42 day old infant girl was recovered under mysterious circumstances about 200 meters away from her home in Bhelatikar village under Satki panchayat in Ranchi’s Angara block on Thursday afternoon, sending shock waves among the local residents. The discovery also sparked various speculations including 'child sacrifice', a social menace which still exists in certain parts of the state. Ranchi police however said that they are probing different angles and have initially detained the deceased's 21-year-old mother identified as Sunita Devi because of her contradictory statements. Initially, she told police that she was alone and had gone to the washroom to take a bath. Upon returning, she discovered her child was missing. Later on, she kept changing her statement, said a police officer but didn't elaborate. Ranchi’s rural SP Naushad Alam confirmed the developments. “Local police rushed to the spot after learning about the incident. The body was completely charred and thrown inside a pit in the bush nearby. We are questioning the baby’s mother, Sunita Devi.” On how the recovery occurred, an official of Angara police station said that around 11 am, Sunita first raised an alarm that her child was missing. "Neighbours and other residents spotted flames coming out of a pit from a nearby bush, around 200m away from the house. A local immediately informed police," he said. Local sources claimed that the mother may have tried to dispose the baby because of domestic tiff or 'sacrificed' her to get a baby boy. Sunita, after marrying Bhuvneshwar Mahto in 2017, gave birth to two daughters. The police declined to comment on the sacrifice angle. “All aspects will be looked into. But prima facie, it could be because she was under pressure from family for giving birth to two daughters. She has a five year old girl too. Her husband Bhuvneshwar Mahto is a daily wager in Ranchi,” he said, adding that other family members will also be questioned soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Haryana bag 11th national sub-junior women’s hockey championship title||Haryana bagged the 11th national sub-junior women’s hockey championship title by defeating hosts Jharkhand in a penalty shootout at the Simdega Astroturf Hockey Stadium on Thursday afternoon. Teams from 22 states participated in the meet that was formally opened by chief minister Hemant Soren on March 10. Though goals rained throughout the championship and strong teams scored up to 17 in a single match, the closely contested final ended in a goalless draw and the winner was decided in a shootout where visitors Haryana scored four goals against three by the hosts Jharkhand. This was the first time a national hockey meet was held in Simdega that has produced many national and international players, both men and women. Local enthusiasts thronged the stadium braving the sun and also ignoring Covid-19 restrictions. While both the teams in the final missed quite a few opportunities to score goals, their defence line deserved plaudits for successfully restricting the opponent. Since Haryana made forays into the Jharkhand territory more often, the defence line of the host state deserved more praise as it stood like a wall that was difficult to breach. Jharkhand goalkeeper Jecinta Lugun drew attention from the very beginning when she foiled an attempt by the Haryana team to convert a penalty corner in the opening minutes and lived up to the expectations during the entire match. The fate of Jharkhand was, however, sealed when it lost the first opportunity of scoring a goal in the penalty shootout and eventually could score only three out of its five attempts. Haryana, in contrast, missed just one attempt. Before the match began, the players were introduced to Kamini Shrivastava, acting vice- chancellor of Ranchi University, who was the chief guest on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren government to set up kisan service centres to provide free farming gear||As farmers continue their agitation against the central government’s new farm laws near the national capital which has crossed 100 days, there is some solace for the community in Jharkhand. The Hemant Soren government will be setting up at least two kisan service centres in each of the 24 districts this fiscal to provide agriculture machinery, equipment and other needs for free along with market linkage with neighbouring Bengal and Odisha. Jharkhand agriculture minister and Congress legislator Badal Patralekh told The Telegraph that in the first phase a total of 45 such kisan service centres will be set up in each Birsa Gaon (selected villages in a pilot project). “The 45 kisan service centres (KSCs) will also have the facility of custom hiring in the real sense and provide agriculture equipment, fertilisers and seeds suiting the topography and soil texture of that particular village completely free of cost to the self-help groups and these would be community assets for that area,” said Patralekh. State agriculture director Nisha Oraon Singhmar said the kisan service centre was one of its kind scheme started by the Jharkhand government. “It is different from a custom hiring centre. In this case, we would be selecting at least two Birsa Gaons in each district which would be adjacent villages. We have selected 45 Birsa Gaons so far and each would be having one kisan service centre. It would be run by self-help groups constituted by the agriculture department comprising villagers. All the equipment, machinery, seeds and fertilisers would be provided free of cost and would be community assets for that village and the revenue earned would be used for the village’s development,” the agriculture director said. The kisan service centres would also provide market linkage for the farmers. “We have already studied the demand structure of neighbouring Odisha and Bengal and will soon sign an agreement with the authorities of those states wherein products from Birsa Gaons will be supplied to the villages there round the year at least for one year at a fixed price benefiting our farmers. The department will be deputing officials from the Birsa Agriculture University in each of the kisan service centres and also constitute a project monitoring unit (PMU),” added Singhmar. Apart from this, the state government would also open 1,000 custom hiring centres across Jharkhand with assistance from the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC). “We will be opening 1,000 customised hiring centres in the state and also distribute 4,400 tractors to the farmers. Besides this, 45 agri-clinics will be also set up by the government this year,” Patralekh told the Assembly on Thursday. The custom hiring centres would provide machinery and equipment at subsidised rates to the farmers and the centres will have to be operated through LAMPS (Large Area Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies). More than 1 lakh farmers have benefited from the loan waiver scheme of the Jharkhand government so far, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
