20-03-2021||Calcutta||HC asks Bengal government to identify illegal buildings in Salt Lake||The high court on Friday asked the Bengal government to set up a task force led by the secretary of the municipal affairs department to conduct an inspection and identify buildings that allegedly came up illegally on state-owned land in Salt Lake. The division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Aniruddha Roy, which gave the order, also asked the commissioner of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to demolish the buildings identified by the task force with immediate effect. “Offenders should be prosecuted under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” the chief justice said. The order followed a petition by Salt Lake resident Suman Das, who alleged that 11 buildings had come up in wards 35 and 36 on government land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out in Rabindra Sarobar waste heap||A fire broke out in a heap of waste accumulated at Rabindra Sarobar around noon on Thursday. Two fire tenders doused the flames, said an official of the fire directorate. This was not the first time fire tenders had to rush to douse flames on the Sarobar premises. Thursday’s fire broke out in a vat near the Buddhist temple gate of Rabindra Sarobar, said a daily visitor to the place. “Dry leaves have been lying in the vat for months. After repeated requests from daily visitors, the authorities removed some of the waste a couple of months back. But they did not clean the spot,” said Sumita Banerjee, a daily visitor and a green activist. “The authorities should probe whether the fire was accidental or the contractor who is supposed to clear the waste set it on fire. Frequent fires in heaps of garbage at Rabindra Sarobar raise the question whether someone is setting the waste on fire purposefully,” said Banerjee. An official of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, said: “We do not allow burning of waste. We remove the waste daily from Rabindra Sarobar. It could be that some of the waste was not removed and it accidentally caught fire.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town authorities install quality-monitoring devices in water reservoirs||The New Town authorities have installed automated quality-monitoring devices in at least eight water reservoirs in all three action areas, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. There are 23 water reservoirs in New Town that are run jointly by the public health engineering department and the NKDA. The monitoring device will be fitted to the remaining 15-odd reservoirs as well, the NKDA official said. New Town requires 12 million gallons per day (MGD) of water, which is supplied from the 20MGD water treatment plant behind Nazrul Tirtha, the official said. The plant treats water drawn from the Hooghly and has an in-built quality check system that monitors the quality of filtered or treated water 24X7. “These newly installed devices will be an additional check on the quality of water. And as they are completely automatic, they will raise red flags the moment there is a problem with the quality,” said the official. The devices that are being fitted to the water reservoirs test specific parameters, including the presence of pathogens, bacteria and the turbidity of the water round-the-clock. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said that apart from installation of the water quality-measuring devices, they would also issue an advisory to all gated communities, cooperative housing societies, offices and commercial establishments to clean their water reservoirs every three months. “We have received a few complaints of dirty water flowing out of taps and in most cases we found that the overhead tanks or underground reservoirs of houses and other establishments have not been cleaned for several months. If the tanks are cleaned regularly, then the chances of dirty water flowing out of taps will go down considerably,” said Sen. In addition to this, the NKDA is also going to put up details of a water-quality testing laboratory run by the public health engineering department in New Town on their website —www.nkdamar.org. Residents can bring water samples from their homes for testing at this lab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Doctors call for vaccinating all adults||India’s vaccination policy should be flexible enough to prevent a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases and the jabs should be given to all adults now, at least two public health experts have said. One of them also said the distribution of vaccines should not be even across the country and priority should be given to poll-bound states like Bengal where large assemblies of people are being reported frequently. In Bengal, like in other parts of India, the Covid vaccination drive now covers healthcare personnel, frontline workers, people above 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities. “If we really want to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to immunise the young population along with the elderly. It's not either/or. It’s both,” Devi Shetty, the chairman and founder of Narayana Health, told Metro. “Covid is a socially mediated disease. It is the young who have more social interactions than the elderly and they also travel much more. The elderly people don’t go out much.” Shetty said vaccinating the younger population could prevent a new surge, while immunisation of the elderly people would prevent mortality. Shetty also stressed the importance of wearing masks. “If every Indian starts wearing the mask for one month, then I think the number of cases would come down by more than 50 per cent,” he said. In Bengal, till Friday, 31.6 lakh people have been administered vaccine shots. On Friday, more than two lakh people got doses but experts said the number had to be increased. Like in several other states, the number of Covid-19 cases has been rising every day in Bengal since end-February. On Friday, Bengal recorded 347 new Covid cases. One week back, the number was 277. On February 19, it was 194. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury, too, said the younger people should be inoculated against Covid along with the elderly. “Younger people go out for work every day and are exposed to Covid more (than the elderly ones). If they contract the virus, the elderly people at home will be exposed to the virus, too,” Chowdhury said. “The vaccination programme in Bengal should be intensified in urban areas, where the chance of spread is higher than rural areas because of the large population and more social interactions…. If we cannot do targeted vaccination of age groups and areas, it will not be possible to contain the surge.” Cardiac surgeon Shetty stressed the need to increase the supply of doses and urged the Centre to allow more companies to manufacture vaccines. “The problem of supply of vaccines will be resolved by the government. This is a problem in other countries, too. Like the UK. We can have more manufacturers supplying vaccines,” said Shetty. However, the vaccination programme should continue to be run by the government, he said, “to ensure the supply chain and storage is maintained properly”. Chowdhury said the Centre’s vaccine distribution policy should change. “The supply of vaccines cannot be even throughout the country. In states like Bengal where we are having the Assembly elections, the Covid situation can get worse as many young people are taking part in rallies. Also in states like Maharashtra, there is a high incidence of Covid. In such states, the Centre should supply more vaccines compared to other states to ensure maximum numbers of people are vaccinated,” Chowdhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Alipore zoo: Man jumps into lion’s enclosure, dragged 30ft||A man scaled a 14ft-high boundary wall and jumped into the lions’ enclosure at the Alipore zoo on Friday morning, after which the animal dragged him around 30ft into its shelter. The man, with a thick beard, was injured but alive when keepers managed to separate him from the lion. The Asiatic lion is said to have lunged at the man with a paw. “The lion acted more in self-defence because it got nervous by the intrusion. A full-fledged attack would have killed the man,” said a zoo vet. The man, identified as Goutam Guchhait, injured his right leg, shoulder and waist, said an official at SSKM Hospital, where he was rushed from the zoo. A zoo official quoted Guchhait, a resident of Patashpur in East Midnapore, as saying he had entered the lion’s den because he “wanted to save the animal”. “Wild animals should not be caged,” Guchhait is said to have murmured. A little before 11am, the man scaled an iron gate, accessed by keepers and vets, to enter the compound. “He climbed a palm tree to scale the 14ft-high wall. Jumping off the wall from the middle would have landed him in a moat. He walked on the wall to a corner and jumped into the enclosure,” the official said. “The keepers raised an alarm but he ignored them.” Asis Kumar Samanta, the zoo director, was at the nearby giraffe enclosure when he was alerted about the intrusion. “The man was lying inside the enclosure, writhing in pain. Vishwas, a male lion, went near him and lunged a paw at him. The lion then clawed him into one of the rooms in the night shelter at the rear end of the enclosure,” Samanta said. The team of keepers, guards and vets entered the enclosure and started banging on the iron mesh at the rear end to divert the lion’s attention. The ploy worked and the moment Vishwas moved into the second room, a keeper shut the door of the first. “The man was bleeding. We rushed him to hospital,” Samanta said. Guchhait’s family told cops he left home three days ago. “He told his family that he was going to meet a tiger,” the police said. “There is no fracture and he is stable,” a doctor at SSKM hospital said. “His mental health will also be examined.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Sleep pays a price in work-from-home regimen ||Longer exposure to mobile phones and laptop screens and lesser physical activity because of work-from-home schedules have impacted the sleeping habits and led to a surge of complaints about sleep disorders in the past year. The long-term effects of the disruption to the sleeping habit will be known later but the immediate effect includes fatigue from early morning and irritability. Doctors have suggested that people stop looking at the computer or phone screen for at least an hour before going to sleep. If the first hour’s sleep is disrupted, it will lead to anxiety and irritation, which will further disrupt the night’s sleep, doctors said. “Working from home has meant that people are spending more time on their laptops and phones and this is one of the factors that is disrupting sleep. The number of patients who are now complaining about sleep disruption or change in sleep cycles is about five times more than what I would hear before the pandemic,” said Raja Dhar, the head of pulmonology in CMRI Hospital. “When someone looks at a mobile screen or a laptop screen, the brain receives a photic stimulus. Our brain needs to recover from the photic stimulation before we can fall asleep. So it is always good to stop looking at a mobile phone or a laptop at least an hour before one goes to bed.” Lifestyles changes like lack of activity and being stuck at home also contribute to sleep disruption. A Gariahat resident who has to work till late into the night said he had experienced the problem. “When I had to go to office, I used to have my lunch at a particular time. Now my lunch time has got delayed. As a consequence, dinner and sleep have also been impacted. Nowadays I often do not fall asleep till early in the morning,” he said. Sleeping disorders are a natural pitfall of urban life and it was growing even before the pandemic, but Covid-19 has increased its spread manifold. Working from home has meant that there is no fixed time for people to log out and relax. Students are spending a large part of the day in front of computers, attending classes. The elderly are stuck at home, which has meant they are not getting exhausted. “Earlier, despite all the stress and work pressure in office, people could log out at 8pm or 9pm and then did not have to look at their computer screens at night. But now there is no log out time. People are working even while they are having dinner. Hours of looking at the screen is affecting their sleep,” said Arjun Dasgupta, an ENT surgeon who too has been flooded with complaints of sleep disorders. Spending time outside home also meant that most people experienced some physical exhaustion at the end of the day. That changed following the onset of the pandemic and the subsequent work from home. “Physical exhaustion... conditions the body for sleep. But because of the pandemic everyone is stuck at home. Naturally their sleep is getting affected,” said Dasgupta. Dhar and Dasgupta took part in a discussion on sleeping disorders at CMRI Hospital on Friday. They both suggested that those who are stuck at home do some physical exercise. People should also fix a time for going to bed and stop looking at their mobile phones or laptops at least an hour before that time. “One has to maintain sleep hygiene,” said Dhar. Both doctors advised against taking sleeping pills as an easy solution to this problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Murshidabad: Gender equity session for girls at madrasa||Girls in a madrasa in a remote village in Murshidabad were taught about gender equity through circumstances that they or their mothers have to deal with in their everyday lives. The Class IX girls were asked to think and question what their mothers wanted to be and what they are now or what their dreams are compared to their brothers’. Tuesday’s day-long session at Debkunda Sk. Abdur Razzak Memorial Girls High Madarsah at Murshidabad’s Beldanga block, was initiated by their headmistress who fought child marriage several times as a teenager, partly funded her own education and now works to empower girls. “The discrimination and deprivation that exists in society exists in their homes, too, and we tried to point those out so they think and question. We want them to go back home and ask their parents why there are such biases in approach when it comes to them and their siblings,” said headmistress Murshida Khatun. Khatun spoke of how in many homes the boys still get a better share of the food or more nutritious items compared with their sisters. She said that this week’s session was one of many which are to follow to help girls understand and assert their rights. Moupia Mukherjee, from the city, who works on gender issues and has been travelling to Beldanga since before the Covid pandemic, conducted the latest session. “Since I have interacted with them closely, I am aware of the socio-economic structure of the families. The idea of the session was not to preach but give them questions that would make them think,” she told Metro. “Some of them were asked ‘what kind of work did your mother do during the lockdown?’ and ‘what did your father do?’ There were also questions like ‘what were your mothers’ aspirations?’,” Mukherjee  said. She said the seeds of gender inequality were contained in their answers — some of them said their mothers wanted to be doctors, teachers or join the police, but were married off at an early age instead. “I also showed them film clippings that help break gender stereotypes, like ones where the woman actor is riding a bike and the male actor is sitting on the rear seat,” said Mukherjee. Last year’s lockdown and being at home during the pandemic have further restricted their lives and outlooks, making such sessions more important, Khatun said. “At least when they would come to school, they had a life outside the house. The pandemic took that away from them and further confined them. All they could be busy with were household chores and taking care of their siblings. Books became artefacts to be kept on shelves,” she said. Khatun said it was important to conduct these sessions because they help to engage the students outside of academic classes and encourage them to come to school “Some of the girls have got habituated to doing domestic work and in some homes, the parents have put so much responsibility on them that they would discourage them from going to school every day leading to irregular attendance,” said Khatun. The importance of the session was not lost on the students and a Class IX girl said that the difference was there in many homes, including hers. “If I am late in returning home, I am questioned, but my brothers are not. I am always expected to be properly dressed,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Cars and cement  jam bicycle lanes in New Town||Bicycle lanes in several areas in New Town have become useless as they are occupied by parked cars and two-wheelers and also construction materials. Hidco, which builds infrastructure in the township, has set up 17km of graded bicycle tracks in New Town. In some areas a bicycle track is a lane set aside for cyclists on pavements, while in others such tracks have been demarcated on roads with green paints. On Friday, Metro drove through the township and found that the tracks have been blocked in several places by parked vehicles or construction materials. To add to the problems, vendors selling fruits and vegetables parked their vans and carts on the tracks, completely blocking them. Cars were parked in several sections of cycle tracks on the road leading from Pride Hotel behind the New Town bus stand to Hidco Bhavan. Vendors parked their carts on several stretches of the tracks opposite Tata Medical Center in New Town’s Action Area I. Sundeep Agarwal, who regularly pedals for at least two hours in New Town, said the obstacles on the tracks were proving to be quite risky for cyclists. “We cycle through the tracks as they are safer. However, the entire purpose is defeated since we have to continuously get off them because of parked cars or dumped construction materials,” Agarwal said. Ashis Bajaj, a resident of Sanjeeva Town in New Town, thanked the authorities for the graded tracks for cyclists but urged them to keep the lanes free of obstacles. “We are happy to live in a place where there are designated bicycle tracks. People should also be more aware and not block them by parking their vehicles or dumping waste and construction items,” said Bajaj. Lipika Biswas, an Eastern Railway employee who has cycled solo across Europe, said cyclists as well as residents in general needed to be more aware about how to maintain cycling tracks. “The awareness levels of people should be such that they don’t park their vehicles or block the tracks in any way.” she said. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, promised action to free the tracks of obstacles. According to Sen, regular awareness drives are carried out and building contractors have been told several times at meetings not to dump construction materials on the roads, especially on the newly made tracks. “We have started a survey to find out the places where the problem lies. We will slap fines as well if we find construction waste or materials blocking tracks and roads. We will also have a meeting with police to ensure that people don’t park their cars on the tracks,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Business||Options narrow down on Cairn||India has time till mid-April to file an appeal against an international arbitration tribunal ordering it to repay the UK’s Cairn Energy Plc $1.2 billion-plus interest and cost, but the challenge can only be on limited grounds such as procedure not being followed. The award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague invalidating India’s Rs 10,247-crore tax claim on Cairn Energy and ordering the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld, was registered in the Netherlands on January 8, two people aware of the matter said. The registration of the arbitration award was acknowledged by New Delhi on January 19, they said, adding an appeal against the award can be filed in 90-days of those two dates. Under Dutch law, the grounds for setting aside an arbitral award are extremely narrow, tax experts said. An arbitral award may only be set aside if the panel had not followed due process such as not giving enough opportunity to either side to present their case. In the Cairn arbitration case, the tribunal, which constituted of one neutral judge and the other two being named by Cairn and India, concluded formal hearings and submissions in 2018 and allowed parties to make written counter-arguments for more than a year thereafter and for months studied claims and counterclaims before delivering the judgment on December 21, 2020. They said the award, under Dutch law, can also be set aside on grounds of there being no valid arbitration agreement, rules for the composition to the tribunal not being observed, tribunal exceeding its mandate among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||Car makers and govt hold contrasting views on scrappage policy||Road transport and highways secretary Giridhar Aramane told a television channel that the government expects car makers to offer at least 2-3 per cent discount initially and as the scrappage policy gains momentum, the discount is likely to be higher. “They (auto makers) have agreed to give some incentives but the quantum, they have to decide,” Aramane said. However, Maruti Suzuki chairman R.C. Bhargava told a channel that “if a vehicle is unfit and it has to be scrapped where is the need for giving the person any incentives to buy a new vehicle? He has an unfit vehicle which should not be allowed to be used because it is a hazard for everybody”. “Setting up of necessary infrastructure for scrapping and further clarity on the scrap value of vehicles and tradeability of scrapping certificate remain key for successful implementation and realising the true potential of the policy,” Shamsher Dewan, vice-president & group head – corporate sector ratings of ICRA, said. ICRA estimated that the population of M&HCVs older than 15 years would be 1.1 million units by FY2024, offering a significant potential for scrappage. However, given the nature of usage of such vehicles, the actual scrappage potential could possibly be lower. Nevertheless, even if a proportion of these vehicles get scrapped, it can offer a fillip to volumes by spurring replacement demand, and support the industry out of its trough. ICRA estimates that even with 15-20 per cent conversion, it can provide a 20-25 per cent upside to industry volumes in FY2024. It has estimated that the total PV population of 40.8 million, out of which about 3 per cent i.e. 1 million are over 20 years old. Once implemented, the policy could result in about 10 per cent-12 per cent cost benefit for new car buyers with a potential to add 300,000 units (or 7-9 per cent upside) to industry volume even with 30 per cent conversion in 2024. “The headwinds for implementation would be in the form of having more infrastructure in place to build organised scrapping centres, which currently India does not possess. To further incentivise the consumer, there should be GST concessions on purchase of new vehicles, as tax rates in India on new automobiles are exorbitant,” Care Ratings said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||Two city petrol pumps to sell CNG||The car owners in Calcutta will have the option to switch to the cost competitive and greener source of fuel from next week as two petrol pumps of the city plan to start dispensing compressed natural gas (CNG) from their outlets. A conventional retail outlet of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) at Garia and another of Indian Oil Corporation at Rajarhat have been primed for the task, while plans are underway to add a few more in and around the city and important towns of South Bengal. Separate areas have been earmarked within the two outlets to put up a dispenser and storage tank of CNG. The employees of the pumps have been especially trained to handle the new fuel. “I am maintaining a stock of 8,000 kg in my storage tank at the outlet. Moreover, a vehicle carrying equal volume of gas on a casket is on stand-by to ensure there is continuity of supply,” Suresh Bajla, owner of Greenland petrol pump of BPCL at Garia, said. There is unlikely to be an immediate surge in demand as vehicle owners are unaware of CNG being available in the market. Bajla said some of the consumers have retrofitted CNG kit to their vehicles and at least one person has bought a new car with dual feed (CNG/petrol). Rajiv Chanda, owner of IOC pump Champion adjacent to Axis Mall in Rajarhat, said representatives from two auto makers have visited his outlet and have promised to help customers willing to install a CNG kit in their existing cars. The retail selling price of the gas is likely to be Rs 67.6 a kilogram, which could translate to about 45-50 per cent lower operating costs for individual petrol car owners. The price of petrol on Friday in Calcutta was Rs 91.35 a litre. Users would also gain in mileage which is said to be higher when run on CNG. Maruti and Hyundai are planning to bring their dual feed models to the city . Moreover, existing cars have the option to add CNG kit at a cost of around Rs 42,000. The CNG is being sourced by Bengal Gas Company Ltd (BGCL), a joint venture between GAIL and Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corp, from the coal bed methane field operated by Essar in Ranigunj. Since BGCL does not have a retail outlet in the city, it would piggyback on the existing oil marketing companies to penetrate the market. “This is what has happened in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi where there is a strong CNG network. Unless the existing fuel outlets are used, customers will not get access to it at their convenience,” an oil industry veteran noted. GAIL is building a pipeline connecting Panagarh to Calcutta and Haldia to provide uninterrupted supply of natural gas in a cost effective manner. While the infrastructure is in the making, CNG is being brought by casket mounted on trucks. This arrangement would hold good till demand picks up, which will happen when consumers feel confident of the availability at their convenience. However, the real change in terms of air quality would be felt when public transport switches from diesel to gas. Even though natural gas is also a fossil fuel, emission of nitrogen oxides and soot are much less from burning of gas. Incidentally, a part of Calcutta’s transport is already using some form of gas as some auto rickshaws are using LPG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||Future Group looks to fight Delhi High Court injunction||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) on Friday said the order passed by a single-judge bench of the Delhi high court would have no impact on the proceedings at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) with regard to the proposed Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Industries and that its promoters are considering “appropriate remedies” against some of the other directions passed by the bench. On Thursday, the Delhi high court had upheld an order by the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining FRL from proceeding with the transaction. The development led to Future group stocks crashing around 10 per cent. While Future Enterprises settled 9.21 per cent lower at Rs 8.67, Future Consumer fell 9.96 per cent to Rs 6.42. The share price of Future Retail slid 9.99 per cent to Rs 55.85 and Future Lifestyle Fashions also fell by 9.9 per cent to Rs 64.85 on the BSE. “We are advised that this order does not come in the way of the continuance of the ongoing NCLT proceedings, being inconsistent with the order dated February 22, 2021, of the Supreme Court,” Future Retail said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Friday. “Amazon has filed an appeal in the Supreme Court against the order passed by the division bench. The Supreme Court, in its order on  Amazon’s appeal, has not vacated the stay granted by the division bench (which stay is still in operation). The Supreme Court has directed that, in the meantime, the NCLT proceedings will be allowed to go on but will not culminate in any final order of sanction of scheme,” Future Retail added. In its order, Justice J R Midha directed FRL not to take further action on the deal with Reliance and held that the group wilfully violated the EA's order. The high court rejected all the objections raised by Future Group and imposed a cost of Rs 20 lakh on it as well as its directors. It directed them to deposit the amount in Prime Minister's Relief Fund within two weeks for being used for providing COVID-19 vaccination to senior citizens of Below Poverty Line (BPL) category of Delhi. Future group founder Kishore Biyani and directors were also ordered to be present before the Delhi High Court at the next hearing even as the High Court asked them to show cause as to why they should not be detained for three months in a civil prison for violating the emergency arbitrator's order. Here, FRL said that with respect to other directions passed by the single judge, the promoters will take appropriate remedies as advised. It may be recalled that Amazon had filed a plea seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore's EA on October 25, 2020 which restrained FRL from proceeding with the deal with Reliance Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||Centre fully exits Tata Communications||The government on Friday said it has exited Tata Communications after selling a 10 per cent stake to Tata Sons’ arm Panatone Finvest in an off-market trade. The Government of India held a 26.12 per cent stake while Panatone Finvest had 34.80 per cent, Tata Sons 14.07 per cent and the remaining 25.01 per cent was with the public before the transaction. “We wish to inform you that we have 2,85,00,000 equity shares held by us in Tata Communications Limited representing 10 per cent of the total shareholding of the company, to the buyer on March 18, 2021 by way of an off-market trade,” the department of telecom on behalf of the President of India said in a regulatory note. According to the regulatory filing, the government has sold a 10 per cent stake to Panatone Finvest Limited. The government has already sold a 16.12 per cent stake through an offer for sale to retail and non-retail investors at the floor price of Rs 1,161 per equity. The government has reserved a minimum of 25 per cent of the offer share for mutual funds and insurance companies subject to valid bids and 10 per cent for retail investors. The OFS was subscribed 1.33 times. Tata Communications was formed after Tata Group acquired stake in 2002 in erstwhile Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited set up by the government in 1986. The stake is part of the government’s disinvestment process. The government has set a target to realise Rs 32,000 crore in this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||TCS salary increments for 2021-22||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is set to give across-the-board salary increments for 2021-22, thus becoming the first IT services company to do so. The salary hike is an indication of the robust growth witnessed by the country’s largest IT services firm and its optimism that the good times will continue into the next fiscal year as enterprises adopt technology in a Covid-19 struck world. It also marks a return to the normal increment cycle. After TCS declared results for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, Rajesh Gopinathan, chief executive officer and managing director, had said that the company is confident about achieving a double digit revenue growth for the next fiscal. The salary hike roll-out will benefit close to 4.7 lakh employees of the company. Incidentally, this would be the second salary hike within six months by TCS. Back in October 2020, the firm had hiked salaries by 6-7 per cent and in April, the average increment band is likely to be the same, thus taking the total increment to 12-14 per cent in six months. Despite the salary hike in October, operating margins of TCS had expanded by 40 basis points, to 26.6 per cent — the highest in the last five years. Because of the increment, its operating margins were affected by 160 basis points. However, a robust growth across geographies and verticals made up for the increase. A TCS spokesperson confirmed that the company is on track to give increments to all associates across geographies effective April 2021 in line with its benchmarks. “We are thankful to all our associates for demonstrating resilience, adaptability, and an innovative mindset to steer the company in these trying times. This step is a reflection of our steadfast commitment to our associates,” the spokesperson said. After the pandemic struck in March last year, several companies were forced to reduce employee salaries and freeze fresh recruitment. However, with the domestic economy recovering from the recession, it is expected that companies in other businesses would also start giving increments to their employees. During the third quarter, TCS’s revenues grew 4.1 per cent in constant currency, 5.1 per cent in dollar terms and 4.7 per cent in rupee terms on a sequential basis. Shares of TCS closed higher at Rs 3,063.25 on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
20-03-2021||Business||Change in Indian companies owned & controlled by NRIs||Investment by non-resident Indians (NRIs) on a non-repatriation basis in an Indian company will be treated as domestic investment in the calculation of indirect overseas inflows, according to a DPIIT press note. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said the government has reviewed the FDI policy in relation to investments made by an Indian company owned and controlled by non-resident Indians (NRIs) on a non-repatriation basis. “Post introduction of this clarification and upon making corresponding changes in FDI rules, even the companies that are incorporated in India and are owned and controlled by NRIs on non-repatriation basis should be able to make downstream investment without it being treated as indirect foreign investment,” Prashant Prakhar, leader, regulatory practice at Nishith Desai Associates said. Apurva Jayant, partner, J Sagar Associates said “the change introduced is logical and clarificatory. Pending this clarification, there was an absurd position where NRI holding directly on non-repatriation basis was considered domestic, but investment through a company was not”. The press note said  to provide clarity on downstream investments made by NRIs, a clause has been added in the FDI policy. The clause was added in the guidelines for calculation of direct and indirect foreign investments. It said that “investments by non-resident Indians (NRIs) on a non-repatriation basis” as stipulated under a schedule of Foreign Exchange Management (non-debt instruments) Rules 2019 “are deemed to be domestic investments at par with the investments made by residents”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
20-03-2021||Business||RBI warns bond rogues against undermining global recovery||A piqued Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday railed against “bond vigilantes” saying they could undermine the global recovery, unsettle financial markets and trigger capital outflows from emerging markets as it sought co-operation from the domestic bond markets to bring about an orderly evolution of the yield curve. Bond vigilantes refers to investors who aggressively sell government bonds as a protest against monetary policies, thereby driving up the yields. The RBI has been frustrated in its efforts to cool down yields in recent weeks. The yield on the 10-year benchmark government security has remained at around 6.20 per cent against attempts to keep it below 6 per cent. The bond markets have been seeking higher yields because of inflationary fears amid rising oil prices and a greater than expected government borrowing. Grappling with rising yields in the US have become another challenge as it could lead to FPI outflows from the country. “Bond vigilantes are riding again, ostensibly trying to enforce law and order on lawless governments and central banks but this time around, they could undermine the economic recovery and unsettle buoyant financial markets,” the article in the RBI monthly bulletin said. “Fears over US interest rates have already started spilling over on to emerging market economies (EMEs). Investors have started pulling out money from EME stocks and bonds in an abrupt ending of a streak of inflows that had remained uninterrupted since October 2020,’’ the article said. It pointed out if bond yields rise too high, central banks have the option of purchasing them to cool yields and stabilise the market, but this will come at the cost of market activity. This is not the first time the RBI is seeking co-operation from the bond markets. Back in December and in October, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said market participants should take a broader time perspective and display bidding behaviour that reflects a sensitivity to the signals from the RBI in the conduct of monetary policy and debt management. ``We need to be competitive and not combative’’, he said later that year. The article said the economy cannot withstand higher interest rates in its current state. “It is recovering but certainly not out of the woods yet. There is much sense in what the RBI is doing in striving to ensure an orderly evolution of the yield curve’’, the article said. The report said the lingering effects of the slowdown in global economic activity in the fourth quarter of 2020 are beginning to fade in the first quarter of this calendar year amid a rush to vaccinate against Covid-19 even as the mutant strains of the virus incite fresh action on the part of governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
20-03-2021||India||Over 800 Covid cases in Delhi for first time this year||Delhi reported over 800 Covid-19 cases for the first time this year on Saturday as the positivity rate breached the 1 per cent-mark after over two months, while two more fatalities pushed the death toll to 10,955, as per data shared by the health department. The number of active cases rose to 3,409 from 3,165 a day ago, according to the latest health bulletin. The new 813 cases pushed the infection tally to 6,47,161, of whom over 6.32 lakh people have recovered till date. On Friday, the city had recorded 716 cases while the count on Thursday was 607 and 536 on Wednesday. The two new fatalities took the toll to 10,955, while the positivity rate rose to 1.07 per cent from 0.93 per cent on Friday, the bulletin said. Delhi had recorded 425 cases on Tuesday. The cases have been steadily rising over the last few days. The positivity rate had been hovering below the 1 per cent-mark for over two months. A total of 77,888 tests, including 46,292 RT-PCR and 29,596 rapid antigen, were conducted on Friday, while the number of people under home isolation on Saturday rose to 1,722 from 1,624 a day ago, the bulletin said. Health experts and doctors have attributed this sudden rise in COVID-19 cases to people turning complacent, not following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and assuming all is well now. A total of 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. Asserting that the recent rise in COVID-19 cases in the national capital was not a cause for worry, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said Thursday the city government had directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Elevating US-India partnership priority of Biden administration, says defence secy||Elevating the US-India defence partnership is a priority of the Biden administration, US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Saturday as he described the relationship between the two countries as a "stronghold" of a free and open Indo-Pacific. After holding wide-ranging talks with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Austin said India is an increasingly important partner amid rapidly shifting international dynamics and Washington was committed to a "forward-looking" defence partnership with New Delhi as a central pillar of its approach to the region. Austin arrived here on Friday on a three-day visit as part of his three-nation first overseas tour that signalled the Biden administration's strong commitment to its relations with its close allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region. "I reaffirmed our commitment to a comprehensive and forward-looking defence partnership with India as a central pillar of our approach to the region," he said in a media statement in presence of Singh. "As the world faces a global pandemic and growing challenges to an open and stable international system, the US-India relationship is a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific region," he said. The US Defence Secretary said as the Indo-Pacific region faces challenges to a free and open regional order, cooperation among like-minded countries is imperative to securing the shared vision for the future. "We discussed opportunities to elevate the US-India Major Defence Partnership...a priority of the Biden-Harris Administration through regional security cooperation, military-to-military interactions, and defence trade," Austin said. "In addition, we are continuing to advance new areas of collaboration, including information-sharing, logistics cooperation, artificial intelligence; and cooperation in new domains such as space and cyber," he added. Austin also described his talks with Singh as a "productive" discussion on a number of security issues which are important to the two countries. "As the Indo-Pacific region faces acute transnational challenges, such as climate change, and challenges to a free and open regional order, cooperation among like-minded countries is imperative to securing our shared vision for the future," he said. "Despite today's challenging security environment, the partnership between the US and India, the world's two largest democracies, remains resilient and strong and we will seek every opportunity to build upon this major partnership," he added. About his visit, Austin said he wanted to convey the Biden administration's message of the US's strong commitment to its allies and partners. "India, in particular, is an increasingly important partner amid today's rapidly shifting international dynamics," he added. In his statement, Austin also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's comments that India stands for "freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded lawful commerce, and adherence to international law". "This is a resounding affirmation of our shared vision for regional security in the Indo-Pacific. And it's clear that the importance of this partnership, and its impact to the international rules-based order will only grow in the years ahead," he said. He said there was a discussion on engagement with like-minded partners through multilateral groupings such as the Quad and ASEAN. The 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) is a key stakeholder in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Centre asks Bobde to recommend next CJI as his tenure nears end||With a little over a month left before Chief Justice of India SA Bobde retires, the government has started the process of appointment of the next CJI, asking the incumbent to recommend his successor, sources said Saturday. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad Friday sent a letter to Justice Bobde, who is set to retire on April 23, seeking his recommendation, the sources said. As per the Memorandum of Procedure governing the appointment of members of the higher judiciary, "appointment to the office of the Chief Justice of India should be of the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court considered fit to hold the office". It stipulates that the Law Minister would, at an appropriate time, seek the recommendation of the outgoing Chief Justice of India for the appointment of the next CJI. Under this process, after receipt of the recommendation of the CJI, the Law Minister puts it before the Prime Minister who advises the President on the matter of appointment. "Whenever there is any doubt about the fitness of the senior-most Judge to hold the office of the Chief Justice of India, consultation with other Judges...would be made for appointment of the next Chief Justice of India," the document states. Justice NV Ramana is the senior-most judge in the top court after the CJI. Born on August 27, 1957, Justice Ramana has a tenure till August 26, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Doorstep ration delivery scheme to have no name, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the doorstep ration delivery scheme of his government would not have any name, a day after the Centre red flagged 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna' which was scheduled to start from March 25. "We will accept all conditions of the Centre but will not allow any obstruction in implementation of the scheme," Kejriwal asserted in a press conference. The Centre on Friday asked the Delhi government not to implement the 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna' saying it is "not permissible" to use subsidised foodgrain allotted under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) for a state scheme. The chief minister said a letter from the Centre on Friday noon informed that the doorstep delivery of ration scheme cannot be named 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna'. "Perhaps they had objection over Mujhya Mantri word. We are not doing this for credit or to polish our names. So now the scheme will have no name. There will be a Cabinet meeting on Monday and its proposal will be sent to the Centre," he said. Kejriwal claimed it was very important for him to ensure ration delivery to poor people by removing ration mafia from the public distribution system. "We dreamt of this scheme for 20-22 years and I was personally preparing for it for last 2-3 years, so our hearts sank after receiving Centre's objection but now we will not let any obstruction come in its way and accept all their conditions." He said the doorstep delivery of ration was a revolutionary scheme in view of powerful mafia active in the field and hoped the scheme without any name would satisfy the Centre and it would have no objection now. Kejriwal was scheduled to launch the scheme with doorstep delivery of ration to 100 households in northeast Delhi's Seemapuri on March 25. The central government, however, said it would have no objection if the Delhi government came out with a separate scheme without mixing the elements of the NFSA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine can provide protection for 8 months, says AIIMS director||The Covid-19 vaccine should be able to give good protection from the infection for eight to ten months, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said on Saturday. He also said that no major side-effect of the vaccine has been recorded. The Covid-19 vaccine should be able to give good protection from the infection for eight to ten months and maybe, even more, Guleria said at an event organised by the IPS (Central) Association. He said the biggest reason for the surge in cases is that people feel the pandemic is over and they are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. "There are multiple reasons for the surge, but the main reason is that there is a change in people's attitude and they feel the pandemic is over. People should still restrict non-essential travel for some more time," the official asserted. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said the chain of transmission has to be stopped and for that vaccine is one tool but another is containment and surveillance strategy. "Not following Covid-19 behaviour and laxity is a major reason for the surge," he said. Responding to a question on vaccinating more people, Paul said the issue is vaccines are limited and that is why prioritisation has been done. "If we had unlimited supply, we would open the vaccination for everyone. That is the reason, not everyone, is getting vaccinated. Most countries in the world are not able to go beyond priority groups because of this reason," he said. The NITI Aayog member also said that the highest mortality was seen among people with co-morbidities and older age groups. "These people must not delay taking the vaccine. So the message is that they need it more than others. That is the reason they have been prioritised for getting the Covid-19 vaccine," he said. Talking about the effectiveness of the available Covid-19 vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield, Guleria said, "If we look at the two vaccines, they produce equal antibodies and are very robust. We should take the vaccine available to us because both are equally effective in terms of efficacy and long-term protection. Over four crore people in the country have been vaccinated against the disease till now. Under the current phase of the vaccination drive, people above 60 years of age and those in the 45-59 years age bracket with co-morbidities, are being vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Shatabdi fire probe: Railway mulls severe penalty for smoking in trains||The railways is set to get cracking against those found smoking in trains and is mulling severe penalties, even arrest, for damaging public property after an initial probe in the recent fire in a coach of the Shatabdi Express, a senior official said on Saturday. Officials in the know said that the initial report has found that cigarette or bidi butts were thrown into the dustbin of one of the toilets which were filled with soiled tissue paper. This led to a fire in the S5 coach of the New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Special. The incident happened on March 13 near Raiwala in Uttarakhand. Section 167 of the Railways Act specifies that anyone found smoking in a compartment despite prohibition or objection from a co-passenger is liable for a fine of up to Rs 100. Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in a meeting with Railway Board members and general managers of zones asked them to take proactive steps towards sensitising passengers against smoking in trains and also urged that erring passengers need to be deterred from causing risks to others by smoking in trains. "The railways will crackdown on smoking in trains. The fire most likely started in one of the toilets and initial investigations revealed that the fire was in all probability caused by simmering cigarettes/ beedi thrown in the dustbin. The continuous air flow in a fast moving train would have fanned it. "We are contemplating severe penalties. In some cases, even arrests can be made for causing damage to public railway property and risking the lives of others to deter irresponsible and errant persons," a senior officer said. The official refused to come on record as the investigation into the incident is still underway. The fire, the officer said was so damaging that the interior of the toilet was completely charred and the floor was cracked. Officers said that a passenger has also provided a written statement to the four- member probe team stating that the smoke detector in coach went off when the fire started. "A bigger tragedy was averted by the swift response of the train crew as the coach was detached soon. "But we can't let the guard down. So much effort has been made to prevent such incidents. Irresponsible passengers can not be allowed to risk the lives of others," DJ Narain, Spokesperson, Railways, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Rajnath discusses expansion of ties with US counterpart Austin Lloyd||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his American counterpart Lloyd Austin on Saturday held wide-ranging talks focusing on further expansion of bilateral strategic ties, evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region and challenges of terrorism. India is the third destination of Austin's three-nation first overseas tour, and the visit is seen as a reflection of the Joe Biden administration's strong commitment to its relations with its close allies and partners in the region. On Saturday morning, Austin visited the National War Memorial and paid tributes to India's fallen heroes. Before the talks, he was given a guard of honour at the Vigyan Bhavan complex. The US defence secretary called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and held talks with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval hours after his arrival in Delhi on Friday. In his meeting with Modi, he conveyed the Biden administration's strong desire to further deepen strategic ties with India to address the pressing challenges facing the Indo-Pacific. Almost all key issues of mutual concerns, including China's aggressive behaviour in the region, are learnt to have figured in the deliberations between Austin and Doval. "Thrilled to be here in India. The breadth of cooperation between our two nations reflects the significance of our major defense partnership, as we work together to address the most pressing challenges facing the Indo-Pacific region," Austin tweeted on Friday. People familiar with the US official's visit said earlier that India's plan to procure around 30 multi-mission armed Predator drones from the US for the three services at an estimated cost of over USD 3 billion is expected to figure in Austin-Singh talks. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner". The two countries have also inked key defence and security pacts over the past few years, including the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use of each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two sides have also signed COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||India, France working on third joint satellite mission, says ISRO chief ||India and France are working on their third joint satellite mission, even as the bilateral space collaboration is entering into multiple domains, including human spaceflight programme, ISRO Chairman K Sivan said. Sivan, also Secretary in the Department of Space, said many French companies are keen to tap into opportunities thrown up by recent reforms injected into the space sector by the Government. "France is the biggest partner of India in space", he said at the DST (Department of Science and Technology) Golden Jubilee Discourse on 'unlocking India's space potential - geospatial data & mapping', an event presented on virtual mode by the National Council for Science and Technology Communication and 'Vigyan Prasar' on Friday. According to ISRO officials, ISRO and French space agency CNES (Centre National dEtudes Spatiales) have undertaken two joint missions 'Megha-Tropiques', which was launched in 2011, and 'Saral-Altika' in 2013. "Currently, we are working for the third one (mission)", Sivan said. Officials said ISRO and CNES have completed the feasibility study to realise the earth observation satellite mission with thermal infrared imager, TRISHNA (Thermal infraRed Imaging Satellite for High resolution Natural resource Assessment) and are working towards finalising an implementing arrangement for the joint development. Sivan said India is also working with France on joint experiments and accommodation of scientific instruments in space missions. "Indo-French space collaboration is expanding into multiple domains including space exploration and human space flight programme," he said. ISRO officials said the two space agencies have also finalised all interface control documents for accommodating CNES's 'ARGOS' instrument in ISROs OCEANSAT-3 satellite. ARGOS instrument has been delivered at Bengaluru for integration with the satellite. "Discussions on establishing 'NavIC' (an independent regional navigation satellite system developed and maintained by India) reference station in France and CNES 'Scintillation' receivers in India are also progressing well", they said. ISRO-CNES HSP (Human Space Programme) Working Group had a number of discussions on medical aspects of human spaceflight and was finalising an implementation arrangement to formalise cooperation in the field of space medicine, it was noted. Sivan said with the recent reforms initiated by the government in the space sector, the Indo-French space cooperation is expected to grow further involving industries, academia and research institutes. He said many French companies want to "make use of" reforms in the sector and "they are going to involve". So, the reforms would not only strengthen space cooperation at government-to-government level but industry- to-industry interaction is going to get a "fresh relook" in the changed environment, Sivan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||India adds nearly 41,000 Covid-19 cases, tally surges to 1.15 crores||India saw 40,953 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest single-day rise recorded in 111 days, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,55,284, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. Registering an increase for the tenth day in a row, the total active caseload has reached 2,88,394, which now comprises 2.49 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.12 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections (40,953) was the highest recorded in 111 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,558 with 188 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On November 29, 41,810 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,07,332, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,24,31,517 samples have been tested up to March 19 with 10,60,971 samples being tested on Friday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Covid spread to small towns poses death rate risk||The resurgence of India’s Covid-19 epidemic and its spread into small towns may challenge the efforts to hold down the death rate, which is now 0.6 per cent or almost a third of the value during the first wave, experts said. The counts of active Covid-19 patients rose in 19 of India’s 20 most populous states on Friday, with the country recording over 39,700 new cases nationwide, but the monthly mortality rate was the lowest since the start of the pandemic. The case fatality rate (CFR) — the fraction of deaths among lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases — has steadily declined from about 1.7 per cent in July to 1.3 in December, 0.8 in February and 0.59 in March. Health officials and doctors have attributed this month-by-month decline in the CFR to improvements in clinical management — aided by the falling counts of patients — since the epidemic’s first peak in mid-September. But the past two weeks have revealed the sharpest increases in daily case counts in small towns — a 500 per cent increase at Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, 385 per cent at Nanded in Maharashtra, and 300 per cent at Yamunanagar in Haryana. “It’s not over. We’re now better prepared than last year but we need to really brace ourselves for another peak,” Nitin Gupta, assistant professor of infectious diseases at the Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, told The Telegraph. Experts have predicted that the infection will grow fastest in the small towns, where the proportions of the population susceptible to the virus are higher than those in cities where large fractions of people have already been infected. “The low CFR is encouraging, but health systems in small towns will need to have the capacity to manage the surges they are facing,” said Oommen John, a senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Surajpur in Chhattisgarh, Karnal in Haryana, Mehsana in Gujrat, Bidar in Karnataka, and Solan and Una in Himachal Pradesh are among 70 districts across 16 states where the daily counts have increased by more than 150 per cent over the past two weeks. Health officials say that in some of these districts, the baseline numbers are low and there are still opportunities to curb the spread through standard public health measures — aggressive testing and isolation of cases, quarantining of contacts and surveillance. “But if the counts continue to grow unabated, local health systems in some places may not be equipped to (carry out) appropriate triage (identifying which patients are to be prioritised for urgent treatment) and manage cases,” John said. Health experts are worried that this might raise the CFR. Medical researchers are also concerned that the CFR could increase if more infectious variants of the coronavirus circulate and drive the epidemic’s current growth, although there is no epidemiological evidence for this yet. Genome-sequencing efforts have revealed a variant with a double mutation in about 20 per cent of the samples in Maharashtra — the state with the sharpest rise in cases. Lab studies suggest that one mutation may allow the virus to evade immune responses, while the other makes it more infectious. “A more infectious variant — even if it does not increase the severity of the disease — can increase the number of deaths, simply by increasing the number of infected people,” said a senior medical researcher involved in the sequencing efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
20-03-2021||India||Number of India’s poor ‘doubles’ ; middle class shrinks by a third in 2020||India’s middle class is estimated to have shrunk by a third in 2020 and the number of the country’s poor more than doubled because of the pandemic-triggered recession, a report released by the Washington-based non-profit Pew Research said on Thursday. As a result of the downturn, India’s middle class shrank by over 32 million from the number it may have reached if there were no pandemic. This accounts for 60 per cent of the global retreat in the number of people in the middle-income tier (with daily incomes between $10 and $20, or Rs 725 and Rs 1,450). Before the pandemic, it was estimated that 99 million people in India would belong to the global middle class in 2020. This number, according to Pew, is now estimated to be near 66 million. The number of the poor in India (with daily incomes of $2 or less, that is, Rs 145 or less) is estimated to have risen by 75 million because of the Covid-induced recession. This too accounts for nearly 60 per cent of the global increase in poverty. The report notes that the demand for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme has been the highest since its inception.  The number of the poor in India is expected to have reached 134 million, more than double the 59 million estimated before the recession. Since India and China together account for a third of the world’s population, Pew Research studied both countries together. It found that while India “plunged into a deep recession”, China was able to “forestall a contraction”. Before the pandemic, the World Bank had estimated almost equal growth in real GDP in India (5.8 per cent) and China (5.9 per cent) in 2020. A year on, this has been revised downward to minus 9.6 per cent for India and 2 per cent for China, the report notes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Antilia car scare: Sharad Pawar steps in||Maharashtra’s political leadership has moved to ensure the case relating to the security scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s Mumbai home doesn’t scar the state’s coalition government. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday summoned Maharashtra home minister and party colleague Anil Deshmukh to Delhi to discuss the subject, triggering speculation about his fate. Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had been removed a few days ago. Although sources indicated that Pawar was unlikely to sack Deshmukh, the final decision would be taken after the NCP veteran met Shiv Sena chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday night or Saturday. An explosives-laden car was found parked near Ambani’s home in February. Days later an auto parts dealer, Mansukh Hiren, who had reported the car stolen, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane. Last week, the Union home ministry handed the explosives case to the National Investigation Agency, provoking Uddhav to say there was “something fishy” about the Centre’s move. Pawar and Deshmukh returned to Mumbai on Friday evening. After the meeting, Deshmukh said: “I met Sharad Pawarji at his residence in Delhi and had discussions on the Antilia (Ambani’s home) case. I also informed him that the state government was extending full cooperation to the NIA and that lawful actions would be taken based on the findings.” NCP sources said Pawar had indicated there won’t be any changes in the government anytime soon. Deshmukh later told reporters: “Whoever is guilty will be punished. But (as long as) the NIA does not complete the probe, I would not be able to comment. Necessary action will be taken by the state government after the NIA completes its probe.” Ruling allies Sena, NCP and the Congress believe that removing the home minister would worsen matters amid criticism of the police’s handling of two recent deaths: of Hiren and Mohan Delkar, Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli who committed suicide in a Mumbai hotel. What has aggravated the situation is the suspicion over the role of assistant sub-inspector Sachin Waze, who has been arrested by the NIA, and his purported links with the Sena. The ruling coalition is worried at the NIA intervention and wants to distance itself from Waze’s actions. Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has mounted pressure on the state government, arguing the political leadership cannot insulate itself from the actions of its police. Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut has defended Uddhav saying he had acted decisively after realising the mistakes committed by the police. But Raut had to admit that “what happened should not have happened”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Union ministry questions Global Hunger Index Report 2020||The Narendra Modi government has finally realised the importance of data, thanks to the “foreign hand”. The Union agriculture and farmers’ welfare ministry has asked the NGO behind the Global Hunger Index for the data on the basis of which India has been ranked 94 among 107 countries surveyed last year. The ministry has officially questioned the Global Hunger Index Report 2020 that placed India way behind several countries in the neighbourhood and recorded an increase in the prevalence of child wasting in 2015-19 compared to 2010-14. The “Government of India has raised concerns of the country with Welthungerlife regarding appropriateness, accuracy and representativeness of data used for calculation of level of hunger in India,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. Welthungerlife, the German aid organisation, and the NGO Concern Worldwide bring out the Global Hunger Index. The Indian government’s sudden interest in accurate data stands in sharp contrast to its response when 108 social scientists had said in 2019 that Indian statistical institutions “have however come under a cloud for being influenced and indeed even controlled by political considerations”. The social scientists had issued the statement in March 2019 when controversy was dogging the Union government over the revision of GDP figures and a decision to withhold employment data. The statement had appealed to academics to raise their voice against the tendency “to suppress uncomfortable data”. The Modi government had then responded with ridicule, describing the social scientists as “purported economists” and “compulsive contrarians”. Among the signatories to the social scientists’ statement were Esther Duflo and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who would win the Nobel for economics later that year. Two years down the line, left red-faced by a surfeit of adverse international reports, the Union government has acknowledged the value of data. In the written reply circulated, minister Tomar said: “As per the Global Hunger Index Report 2020 published by Concern Worldwide and Welthungerlife, with a score of 27.2, India is ranked at 94 out of 107. However, as per the GHI Report 2019, India had scored 30.3 and was ranked 102 out of 117. This shows improvement towards reducing hunger in the country as the GHI score has reduced from 30.3 to 27.2 during the period 2019 to 2020.” Tomar added that the government had raised its concerns with Welthungerlife. Dissatisfied with the written reply to his starred question, a kind that allows supplementary questions, Sanjay Singh of the AAP underscored that the government was saying the situation had improved based on the numbers of 2019 and 2020 alone, but India had fallen sharply in the GHI since 2014. “In 2014, our rank was 55. It went down to 80 in 2015, 97 in 2016, 100 in 2017, 103 in 2018, 102 in 2019 and 94 in 2020. Why is this happening when we are among the 10 largest food producing countries?” Singh asked. Standing in for Tomar, minister of state for agriculture Parshottam Rupala replied that India had asked the NGO for the data on the basis of which the hunger index had drawn its conclusions. Rupala said such reports should not be taken too seriously. Further, he said, India is a country where stray litter too are fed sweets. “This is our tradition,” he said. Rupala’s response was in line with the manner in which external affairs minister S. Jaishankar had dismissed the recent reports of Freedom House and V-Dem that downgraded democracy in India. Jaishankar had contended that the government did not need the approval of “a set of self-appointed custodians of the world”. On Thursday, minister of state for electronics and information technology Sanjay Dhotre had said in writing that the department did not have “such authentic information”, asked by Anand Sharma of the Congress “whether the government is aware of reports that India is among the most frequent implementers of Internet shutdowns in the world and the largest democracy to frequently do so”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Yogi govt’s 4th anniversary marked by massive online protests||The Yogi Adityanath government’s fourth anniversary in power was marked by a massive online campaign protesting unemployment, lawlessness and rising crimes against women. In the morning the publicity team of chief minister Adityanath had started a hashtag campaign called “Yogiji_ke_4_saal_bemisal” on Twitter,  playing up the BJP’s claim of him being the best chief minister in the country. Soon, the social media site was flooded with messages countering the claims. The Opposition parties joined in, with hashtags such as “4saalUPbehaal” and “4SaalChaupatHuaHaal” trending. Many Twitter users referred to the Hathras tragedy in which a Dalit teenager had been brutalised and murdered and her body cremated by police against the wishes of her parents. One wrote: “Such images were unheard & unseen in the India we knew, but our sheer misfortune that we witnessed its unfolding in Hathras, that’s what BJP gave to UP.” Congress leader Gaurav Pandhi wrote: “In last 4 yrs Uttar Pradesh has seen: 1) Rise in crime against women 2) Highest unemployment 3) Atrocities against Dalits & Muslims 4) Annihilation of Brahmins 5) Institutionalisation of mafia 6) Collapse of law & order….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: FIR against Enforcement Directorate team ||Kerala police have booked a group of Enforcement Directorate officials on the charge of “applying mental pressure” on gold-smuggling accused Swapna Suresh to falsely implicate chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The crime branch on Wednesday filed an FIR on the basis of an audio clip in which a woman suggests that ED officials had tried to force her to name Vijayan. Police sources said Swapna had confirmed to crime branch investigators that the voice was hers. The accused ED officials are understood to be based in Kerala but the FIR, filed in Ernakulam, does not name them or say how many they are. It says Swapna faced the coercion during her ED interrogation on August 12 and 13 last year. Swapna is a key accused in the smuggling of 30kg gold, valued at Rs 14.82 crore, in diplomatic baggage addressed to the attaché of the UAE consulate general in Thiruvananthapuram in July 2020. A former secretary with the consul general, Swapna had allegedly used her connections with local authorities to help smuggle the contraband from Dubai. Arrested soon after, she has been in the custody of the various central agencies probing the case or in judicial custody. The 35-second clip was leaked to the media on November 19 last year. It’s not clear who the woman in the tape was talking to, or where and when, nor who recorded it or leaked it. “What my lawyer told me today is that the statement submitted before the court states that I had gone to the UAE with (suspended IAS officer) Sivasankar in October and did financial negotiations for the CM,” the woman says. M. Sivasankar, then secretary at the chief minister’s office, was among those arrested in the case. He has since been granted bail. “They (the investigators) are asking me to ratify that (statement in court) to make me an approver. When I said I would never do that, I was told they would come to jail and force me again,” the woman in the audio says. The accused ED officials have been booked on the charges of framing people with incorrect documents, fabricating evidence, giving false evidence, abetment and criminal conspiracy. Conviction can bring a jail term of up to seven years. The crime branch has been probing the tape’s authenticity, the leak and the veracity of the woman’s allegation following a legal opinion from the state director-general of prosecution. Two policemen deployed for Swapna’s security during the ED interrogation have given written submissions to the police saying they overheard an ED official named Radhakrishnan pressuring Swapna to name the chief minister. Another prime accused in the case, Sandeep Nair, recently submitted a handwritten letter to a sessions judge in Ernakulam alleging coercion by a “Mr Radhakrishnan”. “Investigating officer from this agency (ED), Mr Radhakrishnan, told me they won’t oppose my bail plea if I named the Kerala chief minister, some ministers and the son of a senior leader,” Nair, who is in judicial custody, alleged in the letter. Nair, a BJP worker, said he had been offered a good lawyer and a promise not to oppose his bail application. He alleged harassment in ED custody saying he had been deprived of sleep and “threatened” several times. The FIR comes at a time the Congress and the BJP have been using the charges against Sivasankar to point a finger at Vijayan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Plea in SC on EVM  symbols ||The Supreme Court on Friday directed a petitioner to serve a copy to the attorney-general, the country’s highest law officer, of a plea for replacing party symbols on EVMs with candidates’ name, age and education qualifications to prevent the rising criminalisation of politics. “List the matter after one week to enable the petitioner to serve a copy of this writ petition upon the learned attorney-general of India,” a bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said in a written order. The court can issue such an order if it feels the AG’s help will be needed to resolve an important issue. The bench briefly heard senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioner Ashwini Kumar Upadhyaya who has earned the sobriquet “PIL man of India” for having filed 100 public interest litigation petitions on various issues. Upadhyaya has sought an appropriate writ order or direction to the Election Commission of India to use the “name, age, educational qualification and photograph” of the candidates on EVMs to provide an equal opportunity to nominees and weed out “corruption, criminalisation, casteism, communalism, regionalism, linguism and nepotism, the seven menaces of our democracy”. According to the petition, when the framers of the Constitution opted for the parliamentary system of democracy based on adult franchise, they had not bargained for the “law-breakers becoming law-makers”. Upadhyaya said that according to data collected by the NGO Association for Democratic Rights, 43 per cent of MPs had criminal cases against them. “Many MPs are facing serious criminal charges like rape, murder, kidnapping, extortion, fraud and theft and still they not only participate in law-making but also interfere in police investigations to perpetrate their criminal empire,” the petition said. According to the PIL, ballots and EVMs without the symbols of political parties have the following benefits: ⚫ It will help electors to vote and support intelligent, diligent and honest candidates, which is not possible in today’s scenario. ⚫ It will not only weed out casteism and communalism from our democracy but also control the use of black money and benami transaction in elections. ⚫ It will control dictatorship of party bosses in ticket distribution and force them to nominate those who religiously work for people’s welfare. ⚫ Democracy will be free from the grip of political party bosses. ⚫ It will control nepotism and favouritism, one of the gravest menaces to democracy. ⚫ Parties will be forced to give tickets to local candidates rather than parachuting nominees. ⚫ Ballots and EVMs without party symbols will not only control the criminalisation of politics but also keep a check on middlemen and political brokers. ⚫ It will allow social activists, educationists, jurists, intellectuals and public welfare-spirited, honest people to enter politics and work for the betterment of society. ⚫ The entry of honest and diligent people in Parliament and Assemblies will lead to the framing of better laws for people’s welfare. ⚫ Intelligent, diligent and honest MPs will utilise MPLAD funds effectively. ⚫ Efficiency of Parliament and Assemblies will increase 10 times. ⚫ It will control regionalism and linguism, which have become a serious threat to the democratic political system. ⚫ Reforms in elections, police, judiciary, education, administration, industry, agriculture, labour, tax and Constitution can be done within a year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||CBI runs graft checks on govt offices||The CBI on Friday conducted surprise checks as part of its preventive vigilance exercise to unearth possible wrongdoing across 30 departments of the central government covering 25 states and Union Territories. “The surprise checks have been undertaken in conjunction with the vigilance wing of concerned central government departments/ organisations at various locations across different states and Union Territories…. The joint surprise checks were conducted in more than 25 states and Union Territories,” the agency said in a statement. The checks are being conducted at places that are “prone to corruptible practices” while rendering services or implementing projects of the Centre, the CBI said. The cites and towns where the checks were conducted included Howrah, Shillong, Agartala, Tezpur, Guwahati, Imphal, Port Blair, Agra, Goa, Meerut, Allahabad, Gorakhpur, Ahmedabad, Jammu, Hardwar, Chandigarh, Coimbatore, Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad. The departments covered during the checks included the Food Corporation of India, railways, General Reserve Engineer Force, NIT Manipur, Andaman Public Works Department, Ordinance Factory, CSD godown, North Coal Fields Ltd, Indian Oil Corporation, Directorate of Light House & Light Ship, Defence Estate Office, Inland Container Depot, SECL, NTPC Western Region-2 and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||SC stalls plea against anti-CAA resolutions||The Supreme Court on Friday desisted from entertaining a petition that questioned state Assemblies’ right to pass resolutions denouncing central legislation such as the Citizenship Amendment Act, saying it didn’t “want to create more problems than solving”. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde made the oral observation while asking senior advocate Soumya Chakraborty, appearing for Rajasthan-based NGO Samta Andolan Samiti, to research the subject more deeply and come back with a modified petition. It said there was currently no authoritative pronouncement on state legislative assemblies’ jurisdiction in such matters. “There must be precedent. Check up and tell us. Do some research and let us know. We don’t want to create more problems than solving,” the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. However, the bench underlined that the resolutions did not ask people to disobey the law and wondered whether Assemblies could not even express their opinion. “Create more problems” seemed an allusion to the widespread protests the citizenship amendment had triggered and the crises currently affecting the country, from the pandemic to the farmer protests. The Assemblies of Kerala, Bengal, Punjab and Rajasthan had passed resolutions demanding repeal of the CAA. In its petition, the NGO has assailed these Assemblies, singling out the Bengal House for passing another resolution recently denouncing the new farm laws. The petition says the Assembly resolutions “were intended to incite unrest and disaffection among the citizens of the said states and beyond”. Chakraborty argued that under Article 194 of the Constitution, the state Assemblies had no locus or jurisdiction to pass laws or comment on subjects that fell within the Centre’s jurisdiction. He said the citizenship amendment was one such subject and read out from the Kerala resolution. Justice Bobde asked: “Why can’t such a resolution be passed? This is the opinion of members of Kerala Assembly. They have not asked the people to disobey the law. They have only requested Parliament to abrogate the law.” He added: “It is only an opinion expressed by the Kerala legislative assembly which has no force of law. Don’t they have jurisdiction to express their opinion? They are not disobeying any law.” More than 60 petitions challenging the new citizenship act are already pending before the apex court, which has issued notices. But the matter has not come up for the past one year because of the pandemic-induced restrictions on the functioning of the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Mutton back on Valley plate after months||Meat-loving Kashmiris can once again tuck into their favourite mutton dishes, which are making a comeback to the menu after a months-long deadlock between the government and the sellers over price that had fuelled concerns that it could be a ploy to impose vegetarianism on the Valley. Kashmir had been facing an acute mutton shortage after the government unilaterally fixed the rate in November at Rs 480 per kg without offal, Rs 70 to Rs 120 less than what meat sellers had been charging. The sellers shut their shops and a series of negotiations with the government failed to resolve the impasse. The breakthrough came on Thursday with the government agreeing to raise the price. As the shops had remained shut, many dealers had been selling meat secretly at exorbitant rates but the delicacy had remained out of reach for most people all these months. Kashmiris are voracious meat eaters. Around 22 lakh sheep are slaughtered annually in Kashmir, the bulk of which — 15.5 lakh — come from outside. Meat sellers had said they had lost hundreds of crores because of the deadlock. The government has now fixed the prices at Rs 535 per kg without offal and Rs 490 with offal. Subsequently, many meat shops reopened across the Valley on Friday but many more remained shut because of a dearth of livestock. Official sources said the government was keen to project a “people-friendly” image as many Kashmiris are fond of meat and were angry over the exorbitant prices of their favourite dish. But the move, coming amidst heightened fears that Delhi was hell bent on changing the Muslim-majority character of Jammu and Kashmir, has not completely alleviated the concerns. “Such fears were there because their (the government’s) sincerity is doubtful…. There is no question that it (imposing vegetarianism) can happen,” Grand Mufti Nasir-ul-Islam told The Telegraph. The Mufti said the fact that the administration could not solve the impasse for months also pointed to the absence of governance in Kashmir. “If there was such an issue, why was the civil society not involved?” he asked. In January, BJP-friendly film director Vivek Agnihotri, who was in the Valley to shoot a film on Kashmiri Pandits, had stirred a row when he introduced Twitterverse to what he called “vegetarian wazwan”, with an apparent threat to change Kashmiris’ food habits. For many Kashmiris, “vegetarian wazwan” sounded like a “cultural invasion”. Wazwan, a multi-course spread, is all about meat, so much so that the vegetable dishes that are part of it are immersed in mutton gravy before being served to guests. In Kashmir, people from all faiths — Muslims, Pandits and Sikhs — relish the wazwan. Agnihotri had posted pictures showing his team eating vegetarian dishes at a Srinagar hotel. “Nobody knows how to make a vegetarian wazwan in Kashmir. But I am here to bring about change,” wrote Agnihotri, whose upcoming film The Kashmir Files is based on the “unreported story of the most tragic and gut-wrenching genocide of Kashmiri Hindus”. Khazir Muhammad Regoo, the president of the Retail Mutton Dealers’ Association, said they had agreed to the new rates, although he regretted that the government’s “stubbornness” had dragged the issue on for months. “The Valley consumes meat worth around Rs 4 crore to Rs 5 crore per day. Some people had been buying meat in the black market but the daily inflow of sheep from outside had reduced by around 90 per cent,” Regoo said. He said wholesale dealers were averse to selling meat to retailers and had been directly selling to consumers at their godowns, the reason many shops remained shut on Friday. A wholesaler, however, said they were running short of supplies due to the stalemate and it would take a few days for things to return to normal. Earlier, the government and the mutton dealers had set up committees that surveyed markets outside Kashmir to ascertain the latter’s claims that they were having to buy meat at exorbitant prices from outstation dealers. The government on Friday sealed some shops that were allegedly selling meat at higher rates. The director of food and civil supplies, Bashir Ahmad Khan, warned of action against violations such as deviation from the government rate list, weight fraud and poor quality. The actions would include “lodging of FIR and sealing of their shops as and when required”, Khan said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||Newborns share machines, face risk of infections in Bihar govt hospitals||Physical distancing is the rule everywhere in the Covid era, except at the neonatal intensive care units of Bihar government hospitals where severely ill newborns and premature babies share life-saving machines against all medical norms. That’s because only a few of the phototherapy machines and radiant warmers are functional at these hospitals and the government has been dragging its feet in repairing or replacing the inoperative ones, doctors and health officials said. When Sita Devi gave birth to a boy about a week ago at the Sasaram district hospital, around 150km southwest of Patna, her joy was short-lived. The doctors at the hospital said the newborn had various complications and must spend a few days in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Sita Devi’s anxiety grew when she learnt that at the NICU, the boy was sharing phototherapy machines and radiant warmers with two other newborns — a strict no-no under medical guidelines because it multiplies the chances of infection. Phototherapy is used to treat jaundice in newborns while radiant warmers are beds that maintain babies’ body temperature. “I asked the doctors not to have him share the machines with other babies as he might catch an infection, but my request fell on deaf ears,” Sita Devi’s father Monuji Pandey, a resident of Kothuan village in Rohtas, told The Telegraph on Friday. “We are common people with no power: what could we have done? We are just enduring everything and hoping he would be well soon.” Doctors and health officials said the same situation prevailed in government hospitals across the state, from Purnea, Kishanganj and Darbhanga to Madhubani, Sitamarhi, East Champaran and Gopalganj. Dr Sudhir Kumar, civil surgeon of Rohtas district where Sasaram falls, accepted that newborns were sharing these life-saving machines at the district hospital and that “it cannot be called proper from any angle because it can lead to infections”. “But what can we do? The machines keep developing faults. Repair takes time and the patient load keeps increasing. We try to manage the situation somehow and keep the babies safe,” he said. The Sasaram hospital’s manager, Sanjeev Madhukar, said the phototherapy machines and radiant warmers cost Rs 60,000 to Rs 65,000 each. He said the hospital had received six phototherapy machines and six radiant warmers in 2011-12 but half of them were now defunct. He said initially when they developed snags, the hospital got mechanics from Patna to repair them but they had become “irreparable” some eight to nine months ago. “We requisitioned the Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited for more machines around two months ago but have not yet received a response,” Madhukar said. He did not explain why the requisitions had not been made earlier, before any machine had become completely defunct. “Two to three infants have to share a single machine” at the East Champaran district hospital, a government doctor posted in the district said, asking not to be identified. “Some of the babies catch infections and die. Some become so ill that the development of their body and brain suffer. The situation could have been averted with just a little attention from the government.” Kishanganj civil surgeon Shreenandan accepted that several phototherapy machines and radiant warmers in his district were unusable and babies had to share the functional ones. Purnea civil surgeon S.K. Verma acknowledged the machine-sharing but avoided mentioning a specific reason, saying “there are more babies than machines available”. Gopalganj civil surgeon Yogendra Mathur said: “You are talking about these machines? Our paediatric department doesn’t even have chairs for doctors or examination tables for patients.” He said he was trying to sort things out. Bihar government statistics show that the neonatal mortality rate is 25 per 1,000 live births in the state compared with the national average of 23. A call to state health minister Mangal Pandey on early Friday evening was received by an aide who promised to ring back with the minister on the line. The call had not come till late in the night. A call to health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
20-03-2021||India||For how many generations will reservations continue: Supreme Court||For how many generations would reservations in jobs and education continue, the Supreme Court sought to know during the Maratha quota case hearing on Friday and raised concerns over resultant inequality in case the overall 50 per cent limit was to be removed. A five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan was vehemently told by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Maharashtra, that the Mandal judgement on capping the quota needed a re-look in changed circumstances. He said the courts should leave it to states to fix reservation quotas in view of the changed circumstances and the Mandal judgement was premised on census of 1931. Arguing in favour of the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas, Rohatgi referred to various aspects of the Mandal judgement, also known as Indra Sawhney case, and said the Centre's decision to grant 10 per cent quota to people from economically weaker section also breached the 50 per cent cap. If there is no 50 per cent or no limit, as you are suggesting, what is the concept of equality then. We will ultimately have to deal with it. What is your reflection on that... What about the resultant inequality. How many generations will you continue, observed the bench, which also comprised Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat. Rohatgi said there were many reasons for the re-look of the Mandal judgment which was premised on the census of 1931 and moreover, the population has increased many fold and reached to 135 crore. The bench said 70 years have passed since independence and the states have been carrying on so many beneficial schemes and can we accept that no development has taken place that no backward caste has moved forward. It also observed that the purpose of reviewing the Mandal judgement was that those who have come out from backwardness must be eliminated. Yes, we have moved forward. But it is not that backward classes have gone down from 50 to 20 per cent. We still have starvation deaths in this country... I am not trying to say that Indra Sawhney is completely wrong, throw it in the dustbin. I am raising issues that 30 years have gone by, the law has changed, the population has grown, backward persons may also have increased, Rohatgi said. He referred to amendments made in the Constitution and said they are the indicators that the country has not reached anywhere near the emancipation it required for its backwards classes. The fact of the matter is Parliament should know what is going on in the country. If Parliament knows it is more than 50 per cent and has given 10 per cent to a class of economically backward section, no warrant from court should say it cannot go over 50 per cent, he argued. When a number of states have reservations exceeding 50 per cent and in this situation, it cannot be said that this is not a burning issue and does not require a relook after 30 years, he said. The arguments in the case remained inconclusive and would resume on Monday. On Thursday, Attorney General K K Venugopal had told the apex court that the 102nd amendment to the Constitution does not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) and conferring benefits on them. The 102nd Constitution amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Class (NCBC), and 342A dealing with power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC as also of Parliament to change the list. On Wednesday, the top court was told that Marathas have been dominant socially and politically as almost 40 per cent of MPs and MLAs of Maharashtra are from this community and the entire hypothesis that they have been left behind, faced historical injustice is completely flawed. The top court has been hearing a clutch of cases challenging the Bombay High Court verdict which upheld the grant of quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata brands BJP as world's biggest ‘tolabaj’, says Modi is on a selling spree||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday slammed the BJP, branding it as the "biggest extortionist" in the world, which should never be allowed to rule the state. Mamata , speaking at an election rally in Haldia in East Midnapore district, also accused the saffron party of orchestrating riots, killing people and torturing Dalit girls. "BJP is the biggest tolabaj (extortionist) in the world... Just see the amount of money it collected under the PM Cares Fund. If the people of Bengal want peace and a state free from riots, then the Trinamool Congress is the only option," she asserted. "A party that creates riots to kill people should never be allowed to rule Bengal. Even women in the BJP are not safe," the TMC boss alleged. Banerjee said the BJP cannot fight elections in a democratic manner and it "thrives by giving threats". The eight-phase Bengal Assembly polls will get underway on March 27. The chief minister, bound to a wheelchair after suffering injuries during campaigning earlier in the month, also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of embarking on a "selling spree". "The PM has sold everything. He has devastated the Indian economy. The government is already privatising the railways, coal sector, BSNL, the insurance space and banks. Someday, the Haldia dock might get sold, too," she said. Mamata exhorted TMC supporters to guard the EVMs after the voting process is over in each phase. "The EVMs should be tested 30 times before the start of the polls to ensure there is no foul play. But, If any machine develops faults, please remain calm until it is repaired," she said. Mamata also said her government will construct a bridge between Haldia and Nandigram to boost connectivity. "A centre for development of fish will be set up at Haldia. A deep-sea port at Tajpur is also being built at a cost of Rs 15,000 crore, which will generate 25,000 jobs," the TMC supremo said. The chief minister said financial assistance to farmers of the state will be raised from Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000 per year and free ration delivered at their doorsteps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s nephew only ‘single window’ in industry-starved Bengal, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday launched a frontal attack on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging her lawmaker nephew Abhishek was the only "single window" in the state without crossing which no work gets done. Addressing his second rally in three days in Bengal, the prime minister said industries were closing down while "syndicate culture and mafia raj" was flourishing. He also accused the TMC supremo of presiding over an administration full of tolabaj (extortionists) and corrupt people. The prime minister alleged Mamata was engaged in khela (game) of appeasement for vote bank politics. "Industrial units are getting shuttered. You know, a single-window system is created for speedy clearances for industries. The rest of the country is growing under the single window system introduced by the BJP. "In Bengal, too, exists a single window....the single window of Bhaipo (nephew) without crossing which no work gets done," he said without naming Banerjee's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee. The BJP has often accused Abhishek of running syndicates that extort money from common people. In local parlance, syndicates refer to gangs run by TMC toughs who sell substandard construction material to people at exorbitant rates. Modi also spoke about the alleged killing of around 130 BJP workers by TMC activists since the 2018 panchayat elections. "Mamata Didi runs a school of brutality where tolabaji (extortion), cut money, syndicate and anarchy are part of the syllabus," he alleged. "Even to sell kendu leaves tribals (in Jangalmahal) have to give cut money. Tell me don't you have to? In Bengal for everything one has to cough up cut money (commission)," he said. Rejecting the outsider tag Mamata Banerjee has given to his party, the prime minister said,"The BJP is the only real party of Bengal. Syama Prasad Mookerjee founded Jana Sangh, the BJP's forerunner. He was the son of Bengal. Bengal is in BJP's DNA." Ridiculing Mamata over the khela hobe (game will happen) slogan, Modi said, "Didir khela shesh hobe, vikas aarambh (Didi's game will be over and development will start). Didi will not be allowed to play with the future of Bengal." Referring to the 'Ayushman Bharat' health insurance scheme, the prime minister said the TMC government has not implemented it as it thought the Centre will get credit for the measure. "Mamata Didi stands like a wall to block all development schemes," he alleged. Modi underlined the need for a double engine propelled growth for Bengal, where governments run by the same party at the Centre and in the state will take it forward on the path of progress. Bengal, he said, had seen the karnama (exploits) of the Congress, barbadi (destruction) of the Left, while the TMC smashed to smithereens choor choor (shatter) your dreams in the last 70 years. "Give BJP five years. We will rectify the destruction caused by them in just five years," he asserted. The prime minister said the Mamata government was opposing even the New Education Policy which laid emphasis on the use of local language as the medium of instruction even in higher technical institutions so even the sons and daughters of poor people become doctors and engineers. "We want to realise the dreams of children of poor families to become doctors, to become successful in life, but Didi even opposes this policy. She has no concern for millions of poor children," he said. Referring to the 50-minute outage of WhatsApp on Friday night, Modi said people got upset with it. "But in Bengal development has been down for 50 years....your dreams have been down for 50 years," he said. In an apparent reference to 'Didi Ke Bolo' (Tell Didi) campaign of the TMC, Modi, whose speech was peppered with wisecracks in Bengali language, said,"People of Bengal have been saying ‘Didi ke bolchhi uni sunchhen na’ (we are telling Didi but she doesn't listen.)" Flaying the TMC government over "rampant corruption", the prime minister said, "She (Mamata) gets angry when asked about irregularities in cyclone relief, she sends to jail those who question the theft of ration (during lockdown), has people beaten up with sticks when they ask about coal theft, and gets burnt the houses of those demanding jobs." He alleged people's constitutional right to vote was snatched away by the TMC during the 2018 panchayat elections. "I tell the police and civil administration and they should keep in mind that there is nothing more important than saving the Constitution and democracy," he said. There were allegations that thousands of TMC candidates got elected unopposed as aspirants of other parties were threatened not to file nominations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: BJP nominee angers North Dinajpur village||Daribhit, a nondescript village in Islampur subdivision of North Dinajpur that is known to have played a key role in consolidating the saffron camp’s support base in the district before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, has overnight turned its face from the BJP. The reason: Daribhit residents, particularly the families of the two local youths, who had died of bullet wounds during violence in the village three years back, are disgruntled with the BJP's decision to field Soumyarup Mondal from Islampur. They are also disappointed with Debasree Chaudhuri, the BJP MP of Raiganj who is also a Union minister of state, for allowing this to happen, and have said that they would not let Mondal or Chaudhari enter the village to campaign. “We do not like Mondal. After we lost our sons, he didn’t turn up even once in the village. A few months back, some residents decided to build tombs for them and approached him. He had ignored them,” said Manju, the mother of Tapash Burman, one of the deceased. The bodies of the two Hindu youths Rajesh Sarkar and Tapash Burman were buried and not cremated — a decision by their families in case the probe warranted an exhumation. On Thursday, when the BJP's  Raiganj MP read out the names of candidates in Delhi, there was an instant outburst of anger in Daribhit. Residents ransacked the BJP office and smeared coal dust on a photograph of the MP. In September 2018, violence erupted in Daribhit over the recruitment of teachers in a local school. Rajesh and Tapash, the youths who were also former students of the school, died of bullet injuries. The BJP organised a movement, demanding a CBI probe into the incident, held demonstrations across the state and held a strike. For months, only BJP leaders were allowed to enter the village. In 2019, when Chaudhuri was fielded as the BJP’s MP candidate, she launched her campaign by paying homage to the graves of the youths. “One of the major anti-state government movements which the BJP could organise in north Bengal was on the Daribhit issue and it helped the party get support from people. Even (Union home minister) Amit Shah and the Prime Minister referred to the incident in their public speeches ahead of Lok Sabha polls,” pointed out an observer. However, the decision of fielding Mondal from Islampur seems to have backfired for the BJP. “The MP and her party used the Daribhit issue to gain support for the 2019 polls. Now they are trying to prove it has no role in their win,” added Manju. MP Chaudhuri said she would look into the issue. “We have always stood by these two families and the village. There may be some confusion but we hope to resolve it soon,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Enforcement Directorate summons 4 officers||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned for questioning Bengal additional chief secretary B.P. Gopalika and the state’s security advisor Surajit Kar Purkayastha in separate cases. The ED also asked former Bankura district magistrate S. Arun Prasad and former police commissioner of the Asansol Durgapur police commissionerate Laxmi Narayan Meena to appear before its sleuths for questioning. B.P. Gopalika, additional chief secretary of the animal resources development department, has been summoned for appearance on March 24 in connection with the probe into the Metro Dairy disinvestment case. The agency has already asked state home secretary H.K. Dwivedi to appear for a round of questioning in the same case. While Gopalika was the principal secretary of the same department, Dwivedi was the finance secretary when the state government had allegedly sold off its 47 per cent of share to Keventer Agro Limited for Rs 85 core. That was in 2017 and a Singapore-based company reportedly bought Metro Dairy’s 15 per cent share for Rs 170 crore the same year. Over the following three years, the agency summoned several officials on many occasions to understand how the deal was carried out and whether there were any alleged irregularities. The investigators said they would check certain documents with the two IAS officers. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already raised questions on the summons to senior officers of the state government. “Why should state government employees be served notices?” Mamata had asked at a rally in Bankura on Tuesday. “Instead of running the country, the (Union) home minister is deciding from Calcutta who needs to be arrested.” A day after Gopalika was asked to turn up for a round of questioning, the ED has summoned Purkayastha, who is also the former director general of police, in connection with its ongoing probe into Saradha deposit mobilisation scam. A video clip shows Purkayastha attending an agent’s meet of the Saradha group. The central agency also summoned Prasad and Narayan Meena in connection with the probe into alleged multi-crore coal pilferage case. Prasad and Narayan Meena were asked to face a round of questioning on March 23 and 24, respectively. ED sleuths said there were reasons to believe illegal coal mining was carried out across those districts and would want to know from the two officers whether they were aware of it and if so, what steps they had taken to prevent it. The summons to these two officers come within days of the agency arresting Vikash Mishra, brother of Vinay Mishra, the Youth Trinamul leader believed to be the prime accused in the multi-crore coal smuggling case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Crash kills 3 of marriage party on NH31||Three persons died and 32 were injured when the bus they were travelling in collided head on with a tractor along the Maynaguri-Malbazar stretch of NH31 in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday night. The injured are under treatment at different hospitals. Police have seized both the vehicles. Sources said a group of residents from Kathalbari village in Domohoni 1 panchayat of Maynaguri block had been to Maulani of the same block to attend a marriage party. While returning, the bus rammed into a tractor that was carrying potatoes and turned its side at Lakkhirhat around 11pm. Local people and Maynaguri police took the injured passengers to the block hospital. Three persons were declared brought-dead at the hospital and they were Abu Taleb, 41, Sabina Khatun, 40, and Mohammad Nazrul, 50. Some the injured persons were shifted to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri and later at night, three of them were sent to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri. The investigators said they suspected over-speeding might had led to the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur BJP leader sent to CID custody in coal case||BJP leader and businessman Rajesh Jha, alias Raju, was remanded in seven days’ CID custody on Friday in connection with a coal pilfering case lodged at Andal police station in West Burdwan last year. Jha, who was arrested on Monday in connection with another coal pilfering case at Mejia police station in Bankura, was brought from Bankura jail and produced before the additional district and session judge of Durgapur on Friday. Officials of the CID said they had found Jha’s involvement in the coal smuggling case lodged at Andal police station last year after interrogating Randhir Singh, who was arrested last week. The CID officials said Singh used to operate an unauthorised opencast coal mine in Andal and Jha used to transport smuggled coal from the mine. “We told the court that we need to take Jha into our custody to interrogate him in connection with the coal smuggling case at Andal. The court has granted us the prayer,” said a CID inspector in Durgapur. However, Jha during his production in the court claimed his innocence and said the CID had fabricated charges against him at the behest of the Trinamul Congress. “I have been falsely implicated in the coal smuggling cases as I have joined the BJP. It is a conspiracy of the ruling party (Trinamul),” he told the reporters. Sources said it would be tough for Jha to come out of jail or CID custody before the elections. “Raju Jha is now in the BJP and the party will try to use his muscle power in the elections to counter Trinamul in the coal belt. It will be tough for him to stay away from jail this time,” said a police officer. The BJP, however, ruled out the possibilities. “Jha is only an activist and was not in any post. We do not need any muscle power to win the polls as we have mass support,” said Lakshman Ghorui, BJP president in West Burdwan who is contesting from Durgapur West.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||PIL challenges move to drop Bimal Gurung cases||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been filed in Calcutta High Court, challenging the state government’s decision to withdraw cases against Gorkha Janmukti Morcha founder president Bimal Gurung and seeking his arrest. Sources said Howrah resident, Ankur Sharma, 24, who is described as a law graduate and social worker, filed the petition (W.P.A (P) 101 of 2021) on March 12. “The petition has been filed and hearing is expected to be held next week,” Sushovan Dey, advocate-on-record of Sharma, told The Telegraph over the phone from Calcutta. Sources said one of the major points raised in the petition pertained to whether the state government had arbitrarily exercised powers under section 321 of CrPC. This section allows for withdrawal of prosecution. Other issues raised in the PIL pertain to security given to Gurung despite several arrest warrants and the need to formulate guidelines so that powers under section 321 CrPC are exercised in a logical fashion and not in an arbitrary manner by the party in power. After being on the run for more than three years, Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21, 2020, and announced his support for Trinamul in the Bengal Assembly elections. The sources had said the process to withdraw the cases had started in November last year. “The process starts from the office of the legal remembrance cell of the judicial department and the order to withdraw the case reads ‘by order of the governor’. We have received such a sanction for 130-odd cases since November,” the source had said. On Friday, a source in Darjeeling court said most of Gurung’s cases had either been withdrawn or were in the process of being dropped. A case related to the death of sub-inspector Amitava Mallik during the Gorkhaland agitation in 2017 is not among the withdrawn cases. The source could not immediately recollect the exact number of cases pending against Gurung and those withdrawn immediately. “The cases pertain to three phases of agitation starting from 2007,” said the source. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Morcha’s camp, refused to comment on a “sub judice matter.” The outcome of the PIL can have major political ramifications in the Darjeeling hills. Gurung’s party, which was lying low, decided to field candidates in the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong and support Trinamul in the plains. Gurung claims he can influence the outcome of election results in “10 to 15” seats in the Dooars and the Terai also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Angry BJP workers blame minister for list||Protests and ransacking of party offices by BJP supporters agitated over nominees in certain Assembly seats were witnessed in a number of areas of north Bengal even on Friday, though party leaders are trying to placate the demonstrators. In the course of the protests, demands were raised to expel senior party functionaries of the districts and the state, and accusations were levelled at a number of BJP leaders, including Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri for allegedly depriving genuine candidates. In Jalpaiguri town, some BJP supporters ransacked the district office on Thursday and set fire to publicity materials. On Friday, they assembled in front of the office, carrying placards and banners with demands like the expulsion of party leader Mukul Roy and Jalpaiguri district BJP president Bapi Goswami. They also held a protest march in the town. “We want our senior leader Dipen Pramanik for the Jalpaiguri seat. It is surprising that the party fielded Soujit Singha who people don’t know. Also, we have reservations about Raiganj candidate. Our protests will continue till the party makes a decision. We suspect some district leaders, in connivance with some central and state leaders, have made the decisions to deprive genuine candidates,” said Amit Roy, a leader of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. Soujit Singha, the BJP candidate of Jalpaiguri who is a lawyer, called the protests “temporary outbursts.” “Such protests indicate that thousands of people are with the BJP in Jalpaiguri and many want to contest the elections. They should realise that there is only one Assembly seat. The problems would be over soon,” said Singha. Similar protests were witnessed in Raiganj and Malda towns where the district BJP offices were ransacked by protesters who turned up from many Assembly constituencies, demanding the nominees be changed immediately. In Raiganj, party supporters based in Itahar and Hemtabad blocks reached the office, resorted to demonstrations, ransacked the furniture, threw away documents and publicity materials and abused district leaders. The district party office in Malda and local party offices of Harishchandrapur, Old Malda and Manikchak were also ransacked. On Friday, BJP supporters assembled in front of the party office in Karandighi. They took out furniture, banners and posters and set them on fire. “Debasree Chaudhuri (the BJP MP of Raiganj and the Union minister of state for women and child development) has indulged in corruption and selected some people who lack support base and credibility as candidates. We want to make it clear that no turncoat should be put in the candidate list. Why is the party depriving those struggling for years to establish the BJP’s base in the district” said an irate BJP supporter. Biswajit Lahiri, the district BJP president of North Dinajpur, admitted that party supporters were aggrieved with the list of candidates. “We are trying to resolve the issue but it will surely take time. Many people are calling me up and I am tell them that I have no role in candidate selection,” said Lahiri. MP Chaudhuri said party supporters should maintain restraint. “Thousands of people are joining our party. In such a situation, there may be grievances but there is no point in doing any activity that can affect the party’s image,” she said over phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: More poll booths, extra shifts||A section of polling officials in some of the districts would be deployed for poll duty in multiple phases as many of the districts are facing acute shortage of personnel owing to an increased number of booths in the backdrop of the pandemic. “Some of the districts may be forced to deploy a section of polling officers in multiple phases as they are facing shortage of manpower owing to a sudden hike in the number of booths. The districts have been asked to manage the situation on their own," said a senior official. For example, the authorities of East Burdwan have decided to deploy afresh 2,000-odd polling officials in the second phase of the elections after they work in the first phase. “The district has 3,700-odd booths and we are falling short of some 2,000 polling officers in the second phase. This is the reason why some polling officers from the first phase would be re-deployed in the second phase too,” said a district official. Explaining why, an official said: “In an ideal situation, the state requires about 3.5 lakh polling officers. But in the backdrop of the pandemic, the requirement is around 6 lakh.” Some districts like West Midnapore and North 24-Parganas are yet to decide whether to re-deploy polling officers in multiple phases as the districts are trying hard to meet the requirement with the existing pool of employees. “But we might be forced to go for redeployment of polling officers if the shortfall can’t be managed from existing manpower in the district,” said a source in West Midnapore. This year, the number of polling stations has gone up to 1.01 lakh from 77,000-odd as the Election Commission of India (ECI) decided to bring down the maximum number of voters for a booth to 1,050. The hike in the number of booths has led to a higher requirements of polling officers. Moreover, the ECI has made it clear that there will be five polling officers in each booth instead of four. The extra official will distribute gloves and hand sanitiser to voters. Tis year, 20 per cent of the polling officers have to be kept in reserve because of Covid-19. In a normal situation, 10 per cent of polling officers are kept in reserve, sources said. From a total of 8.5 lakh government employees and employees of state-aided institutions like schools, officials admitted to finding it tough to engage employees to meet the poll requirement. Barring a few districts like Malda and Birbhum, most districts will go for polls in more than one phase. “There may be a controversy on why polls are being held across so many phases in Bengal, but it is helping a few districts meet the requirement of polling officers,” said a source. Some officials opined that if polling officials are redeployed soon, questions could arise on whether they can discharge their duties properly, considering the exertion involved. “Working as a polling officer is hectic and strenuous….I am not sure whether an officer will be able to do his or her job properly if deployed for the second time within a gap of a few days,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Trinamul replaces 4 nominees||Trinamul replaced party candidates in four Assembly seats on Friday, apparently to quell growing discontent over the names announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on March 5. The replacement of candidates for Ashoknagar and Amdanga (North 24-Parganas), Dubrajpur (Birbhum) and Kalyani (Nadia) Assembly seats was communicated through an official release without assigning any reason. Party insiders in the districts however admitted that rebellion by many workers compelled the top party brass to replace the candidates. Narayan Goswami, a North 24-Parganas zilla parishad member, will replace sitting MLA Dhiman Roy in Ashoknagar. Many party workers in Ashoknagar were so upset with Roy’s re-nomination that they had refused to  campaign for him. At Amdanga of North 24-Parganas, the party picked Rafiqur Rehman to replace Mustak Mortaza Hossain. The Trinamul nominated Hossain in place of Rafiqur over allegations of the sitting MLA’s involvement with factionalism. Hossain’s nomination created resentment among party workers close to Rafiqur. Insiders said the faction close to Rafiqur forced the party to re-nominate the sitting MLA. In Birbhum’s Dubrajpur, the party has chosen college teacher Debabrata Saha as a replacement for Ashmita Dhibar, sabhapati of Khoirasol panchayat samity. The party nominated Dhibar replacing sitting MLA Naresh Bauri. Dhibar’s nomination irked party satraps who wanted a “strong candidate” to take on the BJP. In Nadia, Trinamul replaced its two-term MLA Ramendranath Biswas with son Aniruddha Biswas, who teaches information technology at a private engineering college, for the Kalyani (SC) seat. Many said “Ramenbabu” often made “irresponsible statements”. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty Manoranjan Byapari, the award-winning author and Trinamul Congress candidate from Balagarh in Hooghly, pulled a rickshaw for over a kilometre on Friday afternoon to reach the district magistrate’s office in Chinsurah town to file his nomination papers. Byapari said he used to pull a rickshaw in the early part of his life and his move was to send a message to the people that he represented the toiling mass. Byapari is also the chairman of Dalit Sahitya Academy. He is contesting an election for the first time. Report by Snehamoy Chakrraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Nineteen crorepatis in fray in phase 1 of  Bengal Assembly Elections 2021||Candidates fielded by the BJP occupy the top two spots in owing assets among all those who are contesting the state Assembly elections in the first phase, a survey conducted by the Bengal chapter of Election Watch has revealed. However, the largest number of rich candidates in the first phase come from Trinamul. Of the 191 candidates in the fray in 30 Assembly constituencies that will go to polls on March 27, 19 have assets worth more than Rs 1 crore. According to the survey, the two candidates — Ambujaksha Mahanti and Sumita Sinha — who have the maximum assets are from the BJP. Mahanti, the BJP candidate from East Midnapore’s Patashpur constituency, has declared having assets worth over Rs 10 crore. Mahanti’s party colleague and candidate from Contai North Assembly, Sumita Sinha, has assets worth over Rs 4 crore. A close third on the list is Trinamul candidate from West Midnapore’s Kharagpur, Dinen Roy, who has declared assets valued at over Rs 3 crore. On the other end of the spectrum, four candidates, who are all contesting from various seats in Purulia district, have zero assets. “According to our survey there are 19 crorepati candidates contesting in the first phase of Bengal elections,” an official associated with West Bengal Election Watch, a civil society body, said. Giving a party-wise break-up of the crorepatis in the fray, the official said: “Two are from the Congress, nine are from the Trinamul, four are from the BJP, two are from the CPM and one is from the BSP.” This apart, the survey also reveals that the CPM has the highest percentage (56 per cent) of candidates with criminal cases lodged against them. The corresponding figure for the BJP is 41 per cent and for Trinamul, 28 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Trinamul team asks EC to count all VVPAT slips||The Trinamul Congress on Friday alleged a “partisan and biased approach” by the Election Commission in the ongoing poll process in Bengal and demanded that all slips printed by the Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines be counted. The slip shows the voter the candidate she or he voted for. After a Supreme Court order in 2019, five VVPAT slips in each Assembly constituency are tallied with the corresponding electronic voting machine. In case of a mismatch, only the VVPAT count is considered and the EVM count disregarded for that particular EVM. The election itself is not countermanded. The Supreme Court had rejected a demand to count 50 per cent of the slips. Trinamul feels the Election Commission is using the court ruling as an excuse to reject any related demand made since then. The party has described as “exaggerated” the commission’s claims a 100 per cent tally would take five to six days longer. The party is demanding a 100 per count “to reassure the voters that his/her choice has indeed been recorded, both electronically and physically”. A delegation of serving and former MPs, including the recently inducted Yashwant Sinha, called on the Election Commission on Friday and  submitted a memorandum. The delegation included Derek O’Brien, Saugata Roy, Nadimul Haque, Mahua Moitra, Pratima  Mondal. The memorandum said: “It is becoming increasingly clear that free, fair and transparent elections in Bengal is becoming a distant reality. This is evident from the partisan and biased approach taken by the Election Commission of India (ECI)…. “On the first count, it has been reported in media that the ECI has decided to not permit presence of state police within 100 metres of polling stations and only deploy central forces in such arena. If true, this decision is unprecedented and casts severe aspersions on the reputation of the police administration in the State of West Bengal.” Although the commission has stuck to its policy of not publicly responding to memoranda from parties, a senior official denied that any such order had been passed. He told The Telegraph: “Not only state police, but also home guards (who are controlled by state police) will be present in booths. The latter may be used to assist people in queues. We have only prevented agencies like the civic police, green police and student police — which are voluntary groups — from any election duty.” A BJP delegation also called on the commission and requested that central forces be asked to verify identity cards at polling booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh preaches as BJP list flames spread  ||BJP veterans are sitting at home crying while the party is now run by some CPM harmads (mercenaries) and chor-chorta cheatingbaaj (thieves and cheats) from the Trinamul Congress, Mamata Banerjee said on Friday. As night fell, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh tweeted: “Nation first, party second and self last.” Marked by Mamata’s ridicule and Ghosh’s highfalutin exhortation, heartburn in the BJP ranks against the candidature of turncoats continued to rage, overshadowing the narrative on the eve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s campaign trip to Kharagpur. “The Prime Minister is coming to Kharagpur on Saturday for a rally. But people are talking more about the protests in the party,” a senior BJP leader said. State BJP chief Ghosh had earlier in the day expressed confidence that the protests would die down soon. “Many from the BJP and other parties had aspired to get party tickets. The party has nominated only those who have a chance to win. I want everyone to work together to help the BJP form the government in Bengal,” he said, only to tweet in the evening the desired sequence of priorities for an ideal BJP supporter. Mamata had struck during the day. “Remember, those who are betrayers, Mir Jafars, are the BJP’s candidates today. Old BJP hands are today sitting at home, crying. Some CPM harmads and some chor-chorta cheatingbaaj from Trinamul have gone there and are now calling the shots,” the chief minister told a campaign rally in East Midnapore’s Egra. The nomination of Trinamul turncoats such as Baishali Dalmiya from Bally, Col. Deeptangshu Chowdhury from Durgapur East, Tanmoy Ghosh from Bishnupur and Ranjan Baidya from Sonarpur North has exploded in the face of the BJP. On Friday, BJP old-timers protested at Belur’s Rajen Seth Lane and claimed that MLA Dalmiya was an “outsider” who had done precious little for the constituency in the last five years. In Durgapur, angry party workers raised slogans against Col. Chowdhury and agitated in front of the district party office. “The choice of the candidate shows the party’s nexus with Trinamul,” said dissident BJP leader Kalyan Majumdar. Col. Chowdhury refused to pay heed to the protests. “A few people are protesting, but the majority in the party is with me,” he said while kicking off his campaign on Friday. In Bankura’s Bishnupur, posters accusing BJP candidate Tanmoy Ghosh of being involved in “multiple scams” came up on Friday morning across the town. Although the source of these posters could not be identified, the BJP saw the hand of Trinamul. Local Trinamul leaders, however, said the posters were a fallout of factionalism in the BJP. Tanmoy Ghosh, who was a member of the Trinamul-run board of coordinators of the Bishnupur municipality, joined the BJP a few days ago. Swatting away the allegations of his involvement in corruption, Tanmoy Ghosh claimed that Trinamul was staring at defeat and so was trying to defame him. “People of Bishnupur are aware of my clean image,” he said. But Joymal Ghar, the town president of Bishnupur Trinamul, said: “This is the fallout of the fight going on between the old and the new BJP.” The BJP headquarters in Calcutta was also singed by the discontent. Posters demanding the removal of Baidya as the BJP’s candidate for Sonarpur North were put up in front of the office. One of these posters accused Trinamul defector Baidya of misappropriating panchayat funds during his tenure as a zilla parishad member in South 24-Parganas. “Ranjan Baidya became a BJP candidate paying Rs 30 lakh. We won’t stand him,” a poster read. Similar posters have been put up in front of the party’s election office at Hastings, which has been the venue of protests by BJP supporters since March 14. BJP sources said the unrest was not only embarrassing the party but also hurting campaigning. “The first phase of polls is just eight days away and our leaders are busy handling protests.… Poll preparedness has been severely affected,” a source said. At Sandeshkhali, BJP candidate Bhaskar Sardar did not find the path any smoother. Sardar was allegedly roughed up by party activists when he arrived at a BJP office at Nazat in North 24-Parganas. They asked Sardar to leave and quit the poll battle. When he tried to reason with the supporters, Sardar was heckled in front of the BJP’s Basirhat organisational district vice-president, Arup Das. “The candidate is an outsider. He is from Nazat but stays in Calcutta and has no connection with the grassroots,” Das said, justifying the anger. Protests did not spare BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar, who is fighting the polls from Santipur in Nadia. Demanding his replacement, supporters said the BJP should repose faith in those who had helped the party grow in the region. In Nadia’s Chakdah, BJP supporters ransacked a party office, burnt flags and buntings and damaged furniture while protesting the nomination of CPM turncoat Bankim Ghosh. Labelling Haringhata resident Bankim Ghosh as an outsider, they wanted a local leader to replace him. “Dedicated party workers toiled hard to build the support base of the party but the top leadership is giving the seats to Trinamul deserters almost everywhere. We will not accept this,” said an angry BJP worker as he set party flags on fire in Nadia’s Ranaghat. Unable to accept the “dumping of Trinamul and CPM turncoats” as candidates, 17 office-bearers of the BJP’s Nadia south organisational district wrote to state president Ghosh, informing him of their decision to resign. Confirming the resignations, the president of the BJP’s Nadia district committee, Ashok Chakraborty, said: “Party workers are pained and are unwilling to accept the decision of the leadership.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Strategy to play development card to woo Siliguri voters  ||The Left as well as Trinamul have drawn up the strategy to play the development card to woo voters of Siliguri — a key Assembly seat in north Bengal. The Left camp is underscoring the achievements and plans of veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, a former minister who is contesting from Siliguri for the seventh time. Leaders of Mamata Banerjee’s party, on the other hand, are highlighting development initiatives by her government in and around the city since 2011 while emphasising on the party’s recent announcement of forming a special development board for Terai and the Dooars. On Friday, poll allies Left and Congress leaders here released a four-page pamphlet — the first in any north Bengal district — with details of development work during the Left Front era. Bhattacharya had been instrumental in the execution of these projects, the document states, as well as the plans which Siliguri MLA Bhattacharya will take up if re-elected, including better traffic movement, river conservation and sports infrastructure. Trinamul leaders are highlighting how Mamata “brought peace to Darjeeling” and how the new development board for Terai and the Dooars will expedite infrastructure work. Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling district (plains) president of Trinamul, said they would highlight the “failures” of both the Left and the BJP. Trinamul will emphasise on the fact that the Left-run civic board (that was headed by Bhattacharya) allegedly failed to meet peoples’ aspirations, he said. “We will also point out that despite having MPs of the BJP for past 12 years (who have been elected thrice from Darjeeling parliamentary seat since 2009), no important project has been taken up by the Centre for Siliguri or for the district as a whole,” added the Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Singur’s CPM face lands a friend ||Rabin Sahana, 54, a “retired” farmer on Friday accompanied Srijan Bhattacharya, the CPM’s “youthful bet” for Singur seat when he filed his nomination on Friday at the Chandernagore subdivisional office. Rabin, who now works as a salesperson for a medical goods store, is one of many farmers who had willingly sold off land for the proposed Tata Motors small-car factory in 2006. For Srijan, Rabin represents the hope of industrialisation and employment that his party wishes to usher into the state if voted to power. “Rabinbabu had willingly given up his land for industrialisation in 2006. Today, all people of Singur want jobs and industrialisation. Rabinbabu’s presence (while filing nomination papers) was significant for me,” Srijan told this paper. In 2006, Rabin and his family, including his uncle and brothers, sold some 0.67 acres of land for the Tata plant. The family got around Rs 4.5 lakh, which according to Rabin “was a fair deal back then”. “I’m not a CPM party member, but I wanted the factory to come up in Singur. I still believe that for the sake of our future generations, our leaders need to focus on jobs and industries,” Rabin said. “Trinamul leaders took on the mantle of launching a farmer’s movement in Singur, but it was basically their ploy to get power,” he added. In 2016, the Supreme Court ordered the entire land be returned to erstwhile owners. Rabin got his land, but couldn’t sell it as it is “no longer cultivable”, he said. Srijan added: “I don’t want to revisit the past as such. I just want to take the people of Singur towards a better future and hence I need people like Rabinbabu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: On Adhikari turf, ‘traitors’ on Didi lips ||Mamata Banerjee on Friday referred to “traitors” and spoke of her pain at being betrayed while addressing rallies in the Adhikari clan’s backyard in East Midnapore without taking any names. The wheelchair-bound chief minister, who visited East Midnapore for the first time since her injury in Nandigram on March 10, held rallies in Egra, Patashpur and Mecheda, claiming that she could now travel in the district freely, no longer needing “permission”, indicating former cabinet colleague Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s catch of the season. “I did come here a number of times, but East Midnapore’s control was with one particular person, where nobody else used to get importance and even I wasn’t allowed to come here much. Today, I am free. I can go anywhere in East Midnapore. Before this, I had to take permission,” said the Trinamul Congress chief, in an oblique reference to former cabinet colleague Adhikari. “Such blind love I had for them. In return they turned out to be treacherous. Traitors will always be treacherous, I do not mind. But I couldn’t imagine that they were in touch with the BJP since 2014, that they were such Vibhishans. That is why there was so much hurt, that I couldn’t even understand. I must seek forgiveness for that,” she added, at the Patashpur rally. Mamata was apparently addressing two things Adhikari has been saying in his public appearances for the BJP, since he jumped ship late last year. He has been accusing Mamata of remembering Nandigram or East Midnapore only when elections approach, and has said he had been in touch with the BJP — and Amit Shah — since 2014. Mamata, on Adhikari turf for a two-day trip this time, has eight mass outreach initiatives planned, besides some socio-religious visits. As a Trinamul candidate for Nandigram against the 50-year-old Adhikari, she is leaving no campaign stone unturned. “I will come again…. Make my candidates win, they will do your work, in addition to what I will be doing…. I am here now, in East Midnapore, and I will keep coming repeatedly,” she said. Mamata repeated her concerns over “vote loot”, allegedly by “outsider goons” of the BJP, urging the people to stay vigilant about the eight-phase elections. “This time, according to the BJP’s new plan, they are bringing outsider goons to loot votes. When the (electronic voting) machines are started, do ensure they are turned off and on at least twice, properly. If machines are purportedly faulty and are being replaced, wait and carefully monitor the replacement process. Ensure that they too are turned off and on at least twice. Make sure voting takes place only with machines functioning properly,” she said, hours after a delegation from her party met the Election Commission of India top brass at the Nirvachan Sadan with concerns over the fairness of Assembly polls. “Even after voting, the EVMs must be carefully protected… for a month or more (the first phase is on March 27, counting is on May 2). Central police or state police, whoever asks you to leave, remember you must do your duty as voters, as citizens. I have faith in the police, but you must also do your bit,” she said. She urged women to take charge whenever bohiragawto goons are seen and warned against allegedly unethical, illegitimate activities by such elements around and during the election process. In a Nandigram rally, barely 60km away, Adhikari delivered an address peppered with communal elements in keeping with the demands of his new party. He ended his public silence on Mamata’s injury in Nandigram, which she had alleged was an attack, by going on an offensive. “A chief minister should talk about industrialisation and development. Instead, she has been showing everyone her leg. Every other candidate in this election is going around with folded hands. She has been showing people lathi (kick)…. Such a huge lie with which she has insulted the people,” he said. “The commission should send a medical board from AIIMS, everything will come out. Such cheating…. These things worked before 2011, but won’t work now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
20-03-2021||North East||Rs 2,000 per month for housewives, free power in Congress manifesto for Assam||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday released his party's election manifesto for Assam, making "five guarantees" that included Rs 2,000 per month for every housewife and law to nullify the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Releasing the document here, Gandhi said his party will protect the idea of Assam that is being "attacked" by the BJP and RSS. "Though Congress symbol is there in the document, actually it is the people's manifesto. It contains the aspirations of the people of Assam," he said. In its manifesto, the Congress also promised five lakh government jobs and 200 units of free electricity per month for all, besides hiking the minimum wages of tea garden workers to Rs 365. Gandhi said Congress guarantees to defend the idea of Assam that contains culture, language, tradition, history and the way of thinking. "This is our commitment. You are aware that BJP and RSS are attacking the diverse culture of India and Assam. We will defend that," he told reporters. Earlier, while addressing an election rally at Mariani in Jorhat district, Rahu alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi works only for the 2-3 richest industrialists of the country and not for the commoners. "The BJP is attacking Assam's culture, language, history and brotherhood...we will protect you and your culture and identity, eliminate hatred and bring peace. It is your state and it cannot be run from Nagpur," Gandhi said. Attacking the ruling party in Assam, he said the entire state is being "handed over" to outsiders. "The government has given Rs 2,000 crore of your money to modernise the Guwahati airport. Now that has been snatched from you and was given to (Gautam) Adani. In this way, everything in the country is being given to his 2-3 richest businessmen friends," Gandhi said. He alleged that the BJP makes different promises at different places but does not fulfil them. "I never lie. See what I had said before the polls in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab. I had said that farmers' loans will be waived. Within six hours of forming the government in Chhattisgarh, it was done. Likewise, every promise in other states was fulfilled," he said. He was campaigning in Mariani, which is going to polls in the first phase on March 27, in support of sitting three- time heavyweight Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi, who will have a direct contest with BJP nominee Ramani Tanti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
20-03-2021||North East||Modi brings up farmers’ toolkit, takes dig at Congress in Assam rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday accused the Congress of openly supporting forces that are out to finish the identity of Assam tea and destroy the tea industry. Addressing an election rally in this Upper Assam town, a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi interacted with tea garden workers here, Modi alleged that the party is playing with the "pride and glory" of the oldest industry of the state. He said a toolkit recently sought to defame Assam tea, famous across the world, and Yoga, the legacy of our ancient saints, as part of a "conspiracy". "A conspiracy was hatched against Assam tea. You must have heard about a toolkit. It sought to destroy the tea gardens of Assam. No Indian will allow that," he said. The prime minister was apparently referring to Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg's controversial toolkit, which she tweeted and then deleted, outlining ways in which people can participate in the farmers protest. One of the points reportedly mentioned there was to "disrupt yoga and chai image of India in general". "Congress is supporting such forces. And while doing so it has the temerity to come here and seek votes of the tea garden workers. They have fallen so low. "Who can understand the problems of tea workers better than a 'chaiwala'," Modi said referring to his humble background when as a small boy he used to sell tea at a railway station and on trains in his native Gujarat. He also said a few days ago the Congress had circulated photographs of Sri Lankan tea gardens and before that of Taiwan, passing them off as tea gardens of Assam. "A mistake can happen once, but when it has been repeated, it shows the mentality. This is injustice and insult to the beautiful land of Assam," the prime minister said. "The mask is off the faces of those who talk of Asssam's 'asmita' (identity)," he said, attacking the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
20-03-2021||North East||Congress will eliminate hatred, bring peace in Assam, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday slammed the BJP, accusing it of attacking Assam's culture, language, history and brotherhood, and promised to eliminate hatred and bring peace if voted to power in the state. Gandhi, while addressing an election rally at Mariani in Jorhat district, alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi works only for the 2-3 richest industrialists of the country and not for the commoners. "The BJP is attacking Assam's culture, language, history and brotherhood...we will protect you and your culture and identity, eliminate hatred and bring peace. It is your state and it cannot be run from Nagpur," Gandhi said. Attacking the ruling party in Assam, he said the entire state is being "handed over" to outsiders. "The government has given Rs 2,000 crore of your money to modernise the Guwahati airport. Now that has been snatched from you and was given to (Gautam) Adani. In this way, everything in the country is being given to his 2-3 richest businessmen friends," Gandhi said. He alleged that the BJP makes different promises at different places but does not fulfil them. "I never lie. See what I had said before the polls in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab. I had said that farmers' loans will be waived. Within six hours of forming the government in Chhattisgarh, it was done. Likewise, every promise in other states was fulfilled," he said. He was campaigning in Mariani, which is going to polls in the first phase on March 27, in support of sitting three- time heavyweight Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi, who will have a direct contest with BJP nominee Ramani Tanti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
20-03-2021||North East||Rahul Gandhi’s ‘6-hour’ promise on tea wage hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asserted that the daily wage of tea garden workers will be increased to Rs 365 within six hours of his party coming to power in Assam. Criticising the BJP-led government for not fulfilling its promise of raising the daily wage of garden workers to Rs 351, Rahul said at an election rally at Doomdooma in Upper Assam: “I have not come here to waste your time. I am not like Narendra Modiji. Mujhe jhooth bolne ki aadat nahin hai (I don’t have the habit of telling lies). Listen carefully, we will raise your daily wage to Rs 365 within six hours of our government coming to power... We had similarly waived farmer loans in Chhattisgarh within six hours of our party coming to power there. This is our guarantee...we will give you Rs 365 a day irrespective what people say.” Rahul made the announcement at two back-to-back events in Upper Assam — first at an interaction with tea community people in Chabua, one part of which falls in Tinsukia district and the other in Dibrugarh district, and then at the rally at Doomdooma, around 40km away in adjoining Tinsukia district, reflecting the party’s repeated bid to win over the tea/Adivasi community which plays a decisive role in about 42 of the 126 Assembly seats in the state. Assam will have three-phase polls on March 27, April 1 and 6. At Chabua, he told the tea community people that the hike was not a gift but their right and that tea workers in Kerala were getting Rs 380 a day. Garden workers in Assam presently get Rs 167 a day. Though the BJP-led government hiked the daily wage to Rs 217 recently, the decision has been challenged in the high court. Rahul also urged the tea garden management not to be worried about the hike. “We will implement the hike with government support,” he said. Besides announcing the time-bound implementation of the daily wage, the Congress leader also announced other welfare measures for the tea community which has been largely backing the ruling BJP since the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. These included a special tea ministry to address the grievances/problems of the community, free coaching for competitive examinations, land rights, recruitment of special teachers to teach the Sadri language in tea garden schools, special mobile health clinics and opportunities for self-employment. More welfare measures are likely to be announced in the party’s manifesto to be released by Rahul in Guwahati on Saturday. The outreach also saw Rahul and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel also had lunch with tea garden workers at Dinjoy tea estate in Chabua. The meal consisted of rice, dal, mixed vegetables and aloo ki sabji, an aide of Baghel said. At his first poll rally in Assam on February 14 in Sivasagar district, Rahul had announced the proposed wage hike. It was subsequently included in the Congress’s five pre-poll guarantees announced by Priyanka Gandhi at a rally in Tezpur on March 2. Like Rahul, Priyanka had tea with garden workers and learnt how to pluck tea leaves in a garden in Biswanath district. The guarantees, reiterated by Rahul on Friday, included not allowing the implementation of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Assam, 200 units of free power per household, Rs 2,000 per month to housewives and five lakh government jobs in five years if the party is voted to power.Rahul, who attacked the ruling BJP and its alleged policy of helping a few corporates at the cost of the poor, farmers, small traders and mazdoors (labourers), said that the ensuing election was very important. “This election is about saving your culture, history and language. That is why the people of Assam will vote for our mahajot (grand alliance) so that it wins the polls convincingly,” he said. The Congress has stitched up a 10-party alliance to take on the well-entrenched BJP, which, according to Rahul, was trying to run Assam from Nagpur where the RSS headquarters is located. “But we will run our government from Assam,” he said. Besides reaching out to the tea/Adivasi community, Rahul also tried to connect with the youth of the state by holding an hour-long interaction with students at Lahowal in Dibrugarh district. The interaction was his first programme of the day. He attacked the BJP and Prime Minister Modi in his answers, urging the youths to join and actively participate in politics and stand up for what is right. Rahul said the BJP only promotes hatred to create division in the society and no religion teaches one to hate others, adding that peace was important for development . He told the students that the Congress has guaranteed five lakh jobs if voted to power. Rahul’s visit to Chabua and Doomdooma underlined the ties of his family with Assam. His great-grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru had stayed in the Dinjoy tea estate bungalow in 1936. Moreover, Doomdooma Nagar Khelpathar, where Rahul addressed the massive rally on Friday, had seen his great-grandfather in 1962 and his grandmother Indira Gandhi in 1971 address rallies, a Doomdooma resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
20-03-2021||Opinion||Free no more: Pratap Bhanu Mehta resigns from Ashoka University||Sir — The resignation of the eminent academic, political commentator and vocal critic of the Narendra Modi-led government, Pratap Bhanu Mehta, as professor of Ashoka University is a worrying development (“‘Political liability’ upheaval in Ashoka”, March 19). This is widely believed to be the result of the exertion of political pressure on the university’s administration. The event is disheartening as it has happened in an institution held in great esteem for its intellectual output. The university, set up in 2014, has employed some of the most brilliant minds in the country. But its administration has fallen in the estimation of citizens for its perceived lack of courage in standing up to a political regime intolerant of criticism and its inability to put up a spirited defence of free-thinking public intellectuals. It is deeply troubling that the university felt it had to placate the powers that be. The economist, Arvind Subramanian, who also quit soon after his illustrious colleague did, has described the institute’s inability to “provide a space for academic expression and freedom” as “ominously disturbing”. Of what use is a university if it is unable to protect its autonomy and academic freedom? That a private university could not rally around a faculty member such as Mehta says a lot about the times we live in. A university is a centre for critical thinking, creativity and originality; it is not supposed to be an arm of the government of the day. As such, the reason cited by Mehta for his exit — he stated that the university’s founders made it “abundantly clear” that his association with the institution was a “political liability” — is a clear sign that academic freedom was encroached upon. Mehta has never been afraid to say what he thinks. He cannot be expected to sing from the ruling dispensation’s hymn book. He has shown great strength of character by speaking truth to power. The shrinking space for public intellectuals renders democracy poorer. It is time we guarded our hard-won rights and freedoms. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The resignation of two eminent professors from Ashoka University has caused massive outrage. Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian resigned from an institution hitherto perceived to be truly free from political interference. Most disturbing is the fact that even private institutions are succumbing to political pressure in an environment where free speech and tolerance towards criticism have already taken a back seat. Bhaskar Roy,New Delhi Sir — Ashoka University, a liberal arts institute, has found itself at the centre of a furore following the resignation of Pratap Bhanu Mehta and the subsequent departure of Arvind Subramanian. In his resignation letter, Mehta said that the founders made it clear that his association with the institute was a “political liability”. The resignations have led academics, students and faculty members to question the idea of academic freedom at the university, which claims to encourage its students to think and question freely. Mehta has never minced his words about the current regime. He had also been critical of the erstwhile United Progressive Alliance government. But the Bharatiya Janata Party is ready to brook no criticism, especially given the brute majority it was awarded in its second term in spite of its disastrous policymaking in its first term. Mehta’s colleagues should resign en masse in support of him. Kakoli Das,Calcutta Happy people Sir — It is unsurprising that Finland has been found to be the happiest country in the world in spite of the pandemic. Researchers have indicated that its performance can be attributed to the mutual trust between citizens and the administration, which helped protect lives and livelihoods during the pandemic. The nation even reported some of Europe’s lowest cases of Covid-19 infection. It is telling that Finland’s head of government is a woman; research has already shown that countries led by women, such as New Zealand, had “systematically and significantly better” Covid-19 outcomes. Umair Ali,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
20-03-2021||Opinion||Sound of political music||Elections are a strenuous affair, especially for the voters’ ears. The loud exhortations of canvassing politicians and the even louder trading of barbs among contestants can jangle the nerves. As such, a touch of melody can act as a soothing balm for the senses in such shrill times. This musical reprieve has been provided, yet again, by the jingles and catchy tunes composed by political parties as Bengal hurtles towards its assembly elections. Even the usually dour comrades are not out of tune: the Communist Party of India (Marxist) released a parody of a popular song, “Tumpa sona”, which has gone viral. The ironies are palpable. The Left leadership, once the bastion of the upper class, Hindu bhadralok, has been forced to rely on a rather subaltern rhythm in order to reclaim lost turf; the Bharatiya Janata Party — the high priest of authoritarianism — now has a ear out for foot-tapping, soul-stirring stuff. It released its own version of “Bella ciao”, a 19th-century Italian protest song against fascist forces, morphing it, with a touch of uncharacteristic humour and imagination, into “Pishi jao”, in a bid to pinch the Bengal chief minister where it hurts. But it is the Trinamul Congress that seems to be the principal contender for the Political Grammys: its signature rap song, “Khela hobe”, has stormed YouTube. Music and message go hand in hand in these political melodies. Through these curated tunes, the CPI(M) has focused on joblessness and the frustration of the youth; the BJP has pledged to root out corruption; the TMC, meanwhile, has invoked the spectre of the ‘bargi’ to project itself as the protector of Bengal’s culture and ethos against a marauding outsider. The differences in these claims notwithstanding, what is refreshing is that in a country known for the sterility of its political discourse manifest in tired rhetoric, empty promises, grandiose claims and unimaginative policy, political contests — an election, one of the markers of a vibrant democracy — retain their ability to serve as a fount of creative energy. This creativity also injects the critical elements of banter and playfulness that are essential to sustain dialogue and democracy in the long run. A fecund political landscape can also do a lot to undo the propensity among politicians to make intemperate remarks against their opponents. A clever turn of phrase or a sardonic song, arguably, delivers a far more potent punch than some of the offensive comments that have come to substitute civilized political dialogue. The sound of political music is also a heartening reminder that the kernel of democracy can come to fruition even amidst the lengthening shadow of regimentalism. This is because soulless, totalitarian tyrannical regimes are synonymous with silence and the absence of melody. China had, until recently, outlawed such Western composers as Beethoven; the Soviet Union had forbidden works by ‘bourgeois formalists’; while Nazi Germany had condemned ‘Jewish music’. Election beats could well be construed as the beating heart of democracy. Hopefully, India’s ruling party would not find the notes too jarring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
20-03-2021||Opinion||Unpleasant truth: Britain's deep-seated racism||My favourite hymn is “Jerusalem” because of its evocation of “Englands green & pleasant Land”. It is based on William Blake’s poem set to music by Hubert Parry and orchestration by Edward Elgar. But now a scholarly new book, Green Unpleasant Land: Creative Responses to Rural England’s Colonial Connections by Corinne Fowler, professor of postcolonial literature at Leicester University, argues that behind the beauty of rural Britain lies deep-seated racism. “I could have called it Green Unpleasant Land with a question mark,” she tells me. “But I wanted to signal... disrupting our more traditional views of the countryside. ‘Green & pleasant Land’ is something which gives us a feeling of nostalgia, of love for the countryside... I wanted to slightly trouble that feeling. Hence, the provocative title. I’m looking afresh at the English countryside. I’m trying to open up its histories of connection to the British Empire, to the East India Company and to transatlantic slavery in particular.” She points out: “Despite Blake’s call to ‘love the human form/ in heathen, Turks or Jew’, “Jerusalem” has been enlisted to support racially exclusive visions of rural England as a space of whiteness. Historically, the countryside is a terrain of inequalities, so it should not surprise us that it should be seen as a place of particular hostility to those who are seen not to belong, principally Black and Asian Britons.” Fowler is among the academics who brought out a National Trust report revealing that 93 of its properties were financed by the slave trade or colonial loot, mostly from India. “It’s really important to correct that fallacy about the colonisation of India in any way benefiting the Indian economy... it quite clearly fleeced that economy in a way that was devastating,” she says. Fowler has been denounced by right-wing tabloids and commentators for allegedly denigrating Britain: “I get horrible threatening emails. I think I’ve just got dragged into this culture war.” Beauty business Listening to Reita Faria last week on the BBC’s Witness History spot made me wonder whether I shouldn’t return to university to do a PhD on the Indian beauty business. It is worth recalling that Aishwarya Rai won the Miss World title in 1994, followed by Diana Hayden (1997), Yukta Mookhey (1999), Priyanka Chopra (2000) and Manushi Chhillar (2017). Sushmita Sen won Miss Universe in 1994. But the first Indian to win Miss World was Faria, a Goan girl from Bombay, in 1966. Now 77, Faria, a retired doctor, and her husband and endocrinologist, David Powell, live in Ireland. They have two daughters and five grandchildren. She travelled the world for a year as Miss World, including going to Vietnam with Bob Hope to entertain the American troops. She was afraid that the Indian government, which “didn’t support the American war in Vietnam”, might impound her passport. Faria says about her unexpected 66-1 victory in London: “I was proud for India — I wore the Indian sari for the entire year because I wanted the image of India to be established at that point.” However, she was resolved not to go into Bollywood but become a doctor, which she did by qualifying from King’s College Hospital in London. Does she think there is a place for beauty contests in today’s world? Her reply: “I don’t to be quite honest — it really has passed its sell by date in the sense that the world has matured and there really is no fairy tale to anything anymore.” Scottish at heart It is worth recording that Sirdar Iqbal Singh, who passed away, aged 91, on March 6, was someone whom the Scottish people took to their hearts. He was born in Lahore in 1930, came to London in 1959, worked in a factory before making his money in property, and moved to Scotland in the 1980s. He bought the deserted 100-acre island of Vacsay in the Outer Hebrides, which he named after Robert Burns, Scotland’s national poet. He had poems by Burns, including “Auld Lang Syne”, translated into Punjabi, and wore blazers in the invented Singh tartan. He was nicknamed “Laird of Lesmahagow” by the Scottish media — laird refers to a person who owns a large estate. I stayed one night in “Little Castle”, his 20-bedroom turreted mansion in Lanarkshire. Iqbal’s turban was always white, a reflection of his deep faith. From his younger brother in London, Inder Singh Uppal, I learn: “He used to spread a white sheet downstairs. When we asked why, he said, ‘Don’t you know? Guruji comes at night.’” Balanced image Bite-Sized Books is an innovative publishing house which churns out short books on contemporary issues. I contributed something to a book on Brexit once. Now my good friend, Mihir Bose, has done a characteristically balanced biography, Narendra Modi: The Yogi of Populism. It suggests that Modi’s populist policies may have inspired Donald Trump and Boris Johnson to emulate him. Bose quotes Ajit Gulabchand as saying Modi is “a very sincere man” who is “not corrupt”. But a journalist from a leading paper, who tells the author, “There is hardly any journalism happening now” and that “Modi’s government has cowed the media”, asks not to be named: “No, no please do not.” Footnote A new set of stamps from Royal Mail commemorating the legend of King Arthur takes me back to learning Tennyson’s “Morte d’Arthur” at St Xavier’s in Patna. It depicts the young Arthur being handed the Excalibur by the Lady of the Lake. Later, the dying Arthur has the sword returned to the lake by a reluctant Sir Belvedere: “But ere he dipt the surface, rose an arm/ Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful,/ And caught him by the hilt, and brandish’d him/ Three times, and drew him under in the mere.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
20-03-2021||Opinion||Positive paradox||In three of the five states going for polls in the latest round of elections, a Muslim party would be contesting a large chunk of seats as part of a larger secular alliance. In Assam (the Congress-Left-AIUDF alliance) and West Bengal (the Congress-Left-ISF alliance), this represents an entirely new pattern of political configuration, while in Kerala (the Congress-IUML alliance) this is part of the long-established political norm. We are witnessing an interesting paradox of an unprecedented acceptance of autonomous Muslim political parties at the height of the Hindutva dominance of India. What are the driving forces of the diverse Muslim political parties of India? At the outset, we can point to three fundamental political developments that have structured Muslim party politics over the last two decades. One, the publication of the Sachar Committee report, which provided the political vocabulary for Muslim parties to launch an attack on their secular competitors. The damning picture of the social and economic backwardness of Muslims under secular regimes constructed the legitimating framework for the organizing of Muslims as a political bloc. It laid the rationale for a separate political identity that could be formed in the modern terms of social justice and derived itself from the constitutional promise of social and economic equality. Two, the rise of Hindutva as the dominant political force in the country, and the concurrent decline in the political representation of Muslims. While Muslims are rarely, if ever, fielded by the Bharatiya Janata Party, even secular parties have cut down on their tickets to Muslims out of fear of Hindu consolidation. In the most recent instance, the Trinamul Congress has cut down its Muslim candidates by a third from 2016. Hindutva dominance has also created a shared consciousness of oppression among Muslims cutting across regional, caste, class and gender divides. This shared consciousness not just animated the nationwide anti-CAA movement  but has also helped a party like the AIMIM expand its national footprint, as was witnessed in Bihar and Gujarat. However, as the cold-blooded out-turfing of the AIMIM from the electoral arena of Bengal by the ISF has demonstrated, Muslim politics is still largely conducted through a regional idiom by state-based parties. Three, the weakness of former dominant secular parties has pushed them into a more accommodationist stance with regard to autonomous political parties of the states. It would have been unthinkable a decade back to imagine the staunchly secular Left Front in alliance with a Muslim party in Bengal, or the Congress in Assam allying with the same AIUDF it ruthlessly attacked under Tarun Gogoi. Within this analytically sprawling category of ‘Muslim parties’, we can draw out three distinct strands of Muslim politics, which can help us understand both the driving force of contemporary Muslim politics as well as gauge its possible future courses. The first strand of Muslim politics is represented by the mainstream communitarian party which mobilizes on the provision of public goods by being part of the governing regime, exemplified by the Indian Union Muslim League. This form of Muslim politics has been facilitated by the consociationalism of the politics of Kerala, which integrates communitarian parties into two broad coalitions. The IUML has played a critical role in state politics since the formation of the state in 1956, being part of coalition governments of both the Left parties and the Congress. It has, in recent times, consistently won around twenty seats of the state legislature with the help of some additional support base of its allies. The resolute pragmatism of the IUML can be gauged from its stand on continuing with the Congress alliance in the heated post-Babri Masjid phase, despite facing an open rebellion by a faction which blamed the Congress for the demolition of the mosque. The appeal of the IUML thus depends on its bargaining power with the ruling alliance in providing Muslims with representation in all spheres of public life. The second strand of Muslim politics is represented by the isolationist identity-based party which mobilizes in opposition to the existing political system. The All India United Democratic Front led by Badruddin Ajmal is a good example. The party arose in the aftermath of the Supreme Court order in 2005 overturning the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act, 1983. The reversal of this instrument — which lent a layer of legal protection to Bengali Muslims — fuelled the anxieties of this community that the Congress could no longer protect them, either from the violence of Assamese ethno-nationalists or from the harassment of state officials. This type of party builds its popular base by attacking its secular competitor and weaning away their support base. In its first election in 2006, the AIUDF wrested ten Muslim-dominated assembly seats from the Congress. However, there are limits to this exclusive identity-based mobilization. One, in the absence of coalition partners, the party is susceptible to reverse communal polarization of Hindu votes. The performance of the AIUDF in the 2016 assembly elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections showed a marked downward trajectory as the BJP ascended to pole position on the back of Hindu consolidation. Second, the AIUDF is unable to present itself as a viable party of government that can effectively bargain for public goods on behalf of its constituents. This is particularly important for Muslim-dominated areas of lower Assam which are marred by poverty, lack of educational facilities and under-development. The coalition with the Congress indicates that the AIUDF is attempting a transition from an isolationist identity-based mobilization to an IUML-like political bargaining-based mobilization. The third strand of Muslim politics is represented by a new class of political parties which have emerged against the backdrop of the Sachar Committee report. These parties’ articulate Muslim identity in terms of socio-economic backwardness, allying with other backward groups, and moving beyond the issues of security and cultural recognition that formed the core of an earlier generation of Muslim parties. The Uttar Pradesh-based Peace Party of India is a quintessential exemplar of this politics, taking birth in 2008 just in the aftermath of the release of the Sachar report. It quickly established a base among the backward Ansari weavers of eastern UP, bagging four seats in the 2012 elections. Its surgeon founder, Mohammad Ayub, blasted secular parties for ignoring the material needs of Muslims since Independence, claiming that the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance “avoids even discussing the Justice Sachar Committee report”. Meanwhile, he accused the Samajwadi Party leader, Mulayam Singh, of mobilizing Muslims by giving “inflammatory speeches in favour of the Muslims” and provoking them into conflict. However, the eclipse of the Peace Party post 2014 exposes the vulnerability of such parties to extreme communal polarization. Recently, its leadership and support base in UP has been appropriated by the more strident AIMIM. The newly formed Indian Secular Front can also be broadly seen as the lagged outcome of this post-Sachar mobilization. The publication of the Sachar Committee report had perhaps the greatest political ramifications in Bengal as it contributed to the decisive shift of the Muslim vote away from the Left Front to the TMC. Despite the careful nurturing of this Muslim vote by Mamata Banerjee, Bengali Muslims continue to lag behind in social and economic indicators compared to Muslims of other states. It is this opening that has been exploited by Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui, whose focal point of attack on the TMC government remains the socio-economic backwardness of Muslims. In order to underline its inclusive credentials of social justice, the ISF has given ten out of its 21 seats to backward-caste Hindus and adivasis. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, which generates the most headlines of any Muslim party, is a hybrid of all these three types of Muslim parties. In its home state of Telangana, it enters a bargaining alliance with the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi; in Parliament and other national forums, it predominantly employs a Sachar Committee-derived vocabulary of social justice; while in its election rallies in greenfield states it often falls back on hot-button identity-based issues to outflank competing secular parties. Being the only Muslim party to nurture national ambitions, it is extremely fleet-footed and aware of different political contexts. The argument between secular and Muslim parties on the matter of who constitutes the true representatives of Muslim citizens has been encoded in the very foundation of our Republic. After all, the genesis of the Partition lay in the unrelenting refusal of the Congress to legitimize an increasingly separatist Muslim League as the voice and protector of the Muslims of British India. The Congress, notwithstanding its overwhelmingly Hindu leadership, never conceded on its cherished ideological principle of representing Indians of all religions and ethnicities. The newly-found acceptance of autonomous Muslim parties within an enlarged (and more nuanced) secular framework is thus a welcome signal of the maturing of our secular imagination. It couldn’t have come at a more urgent time. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police nab two mobile phone snatchers from Sakchi||In a major breakthrough, Jamshedpur police on Saturday nabbed two criminals who used to snatch mobile phones from women and sell them via an online commercial platform. The duo, identified as Mohammed Amman (30) and Mohammed Javed (22), are both residents of Old Purulia Road under the Kapali thana out-post area of adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Talking about the breakthrough, additional superintendent of police (city), Kumar Gaurav said that the arrest of the two notorious criminals was made following a mobile-snatching incident which took place under Sakchi thana area on February 7. "On the evening of February 7, a young woman named Annu Singh who is a resident of Sankosai along the Dimna Road in Mango fell victim to two bike-borne criminals. While the victim was walking down the road towards her house, the duo snatched her mobile phone near the Life Line Nursing Home. Soon after the crime was committed, the victim had along with her husband Dhanjeet Singh lodged an FIR with the Sakchi thana, leading the police to set up a special team to apprehended the two criminals, " said Kumar while talking to the reporters at a press conference on Saturday afternoon. Kumar said the police put the snatched mobile phone's IMEI number on surveillance and finally traced a man who was possessing the stolen phone. "On being interrogated, the man pointed out that he had bought the phone through OLX, an online commercial platform. Having received a clue from the man, the special police team on Saturday identified the criminals involved," the additional SP said. According to Kumar, the primary target of the criminals were girls and women and they committed the crime in Golmuri and Mango localities too. The senior police officer informed that the duo had also snatched two mobile phones from Golmuri and Mango areas on February 23 and February 27 respectively. The duo were sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after their production before a judicial magistrate in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rapid antigen tests to screen those with symptoms at railway station, bus stands||In the wake of the rising number of Covid cases, the Jharkhand government has decided to resume Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) on the go for symptomatic people at public places after relying solely on RT PCR tests since November last year owing to the poor efficiency of te antigen tests, officials said on Saturday. The health department has sought RAT kits from the Centre for conducting Covid tests on the go at railway stations, airports, malls, bus stands and other public places. However, the consignment is yet to be delivered, officials said. “Rapid antigen tests will be conducted only for symptomatic people who cannot be asked to wait at public places like bus stands and railway stations until the test result is out,” said National Health Mission (NHM) Director, Ravi Shankar Shukla. “RT PCR tests will continue to be the preferred method for Covid-19 tests at hospitals and clinics,” he added. RAT are also conducted through nasal and throat swabs like RT PCR tests. However, the result of the test is out within an hour. Doctors say that RAT is a low sensitivity test when compared to RT PCR, and may not be as accurate as the latter. The RT PCR test, on the other hand, takes around 48 hours, but the results are more accurate, doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said. The state health department had in September last year directed that all Covid patients testing negative in RAT will have to undergo RT PCR test in order to rule out a coronavirus infection. The NHM director defended the government’s decision claiming that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had not asked the government to stop conducting RAT. “There is no such rule prohibiting the use of Rapid Antigen Tests. Its efficiency might not be as high as RT PCR, but it is still an effective way of testing symptomatic patients when you do not have enough time in hand,” said Shukla. Jharkhand reported a triple-digit-spike in Covid cases on Friday. As many as 105 fresh cases against 75 Covid recoveries took the active caseload in the state to 653, as per NHM data. Ranchi reported 39 cases against 36 recoveries and the count of active cases reached 366 here. The capital also reported a Covid casualty, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 1,095 on Friday. The active caseload has jumped from around 400 in February to over 650 in March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP forms 3-man panel to choose Madhupur nominee||A three-member BJP panel, comprising party president Deepak Prakash, leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi and organizational general secretary Dharampal, has been authorised to recommend candidates for the Madhupur bypoll slated to take place on April 17. On Saturday, the state BJP election committee met under the leadership of Prakash in Ranchi to discuss candidates for the Madhupur byelection necessitated after the death of Haji Hussain Ansari. A dozen applicants are vying for the party ticket, said party insiders, but added that Raj Paliwar and Ganga Narayan were strong contenders. Raj Paliwar won on a BJP ticket in Madhupur in 2005 and 2014,  but lost to JMM’s Haji Hussain Ansari in 2019. Ganga Narayan, on the other hand, was in third position in the 2019 Assembly election after contesting as AJSU-P candidate. “The party is considering between Raj Paliwar and Ganga Narayana Singh for Madhupur. If the latter’s name is chosen, he will be made to join BJP,” said a party spokesperson. On why BJP is considering Ganga when he is not a member of the saffron camp, another leader said, “In 2019, he amassed about 40,000 votes to remain third on AJSU-P ticket. AJSU-P doesn't have a base in Madhupur and whatever votes Ganga got was solely on his own merit. So, the party is of the view that if he is fielded, then BJP will have around 40,000 votes, and given the party's election machinery, he may even end up getting more votes. Paliwar on the other hand doesn’t enjoy enough mass support.” Talking to reporters, BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said they are expecting the party high command to announce the candidate soon. “The nomination process will begin from March 23. So, the party high command will make a formal announcement anytime soon,” he said. On the other hand, the JMM-Congress-RJD ruling coalition will field Hafizul Hassan, the late Haji Hussain’s son in Madhupur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Veteran cricketers to battle it out at Chaibasa T20 tourney ||The lush greens of the Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium in Chaibasa, the district headquarters of West Singhbhum, will witness an assembly of former cricketers who will get an opportunity to mingle and share old memories. The inaugural Veteran Cup Cricket, a 20-over affair, is a platform being provided to former cricketers by the West Singhbhum District Cricket Association (WSDCA)  to turn their arms and try and whack the cricket ball. Preparations are complete for the day-long tournament which unfolds on March 21. T-shirts of separate colours will be handed over to the players of two respective A and B teams, said WSDCA secretary Assem Kumar Singh. "We wanted to provide a platform to former cricketers of West Singhbhum district to meet each other and share old memories. The players are mostly from Chaibasa while some are from Chakradharpur, Kiriburu and elsewhere. We have made elaborate arrangements to efficiently conduct the tournament," Singh, who will also be part of the event, said over the phone from Chaibasa, adding that the event would henceforth be an annual affair. The organisers have also arranged for breakfast and a sumptuous lunch for the participating players, umpires and officials. The Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium has been hosting junior BCCI tournaments and training camps for some years. The stadium has dressing rooms as well as a gallery from where spectators can watch matches. The district cricket association has ambitious plans to turn the stadium into a Ranji Trophy venue, with the main obstacle being the size of the stadium. The administration is not able to fulfill the minimum requirement even after BCCI's encouragement for smaller towns. A Ranji venue requires a minimum area of 140 yards, but towns with 120-130 yards are being allowed to host senior matches. After the extention, the Chaibasa venue will  be of 130 yards. The WSDCA has sought vacant land on either side of the stadium. While a football ground is located on one side, the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation depot lies on the other. Accommodation, a key element for any Ranji Trophy venue, will be taken care of with some local hoteliers promising to spruce up their properties to meet the standard. The cricket association has already requested the district administration to provide land to increase the area of the stadium to meet the basic criterion for hosting Ranji matches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway refurbishes passenger coaches to carry goods ||In an innovative move, the South Eastern Railway has decided that it will not discard old passenger coaches and utilise them for transporting goods, officials at Garden Reach, headquarters of South Eastern Railway said. Of the 150 unserviceable coaches that are set to be used, 148 will be converted by the Kharagpur workshop of South Eastern Railway by the end of this month, they said. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said there were a good number of coaching vehicles in different zones attached to passenger trains, which are 15 to 20 years old. “Since the railway is increasing the speed of trains by upgrading the rakes from conventional ICF to LHB advance type coaches, such coaches are planned to be withdrawn from passenger service. To properly utilise such assets, this modification work was planned,” Ghosh said. He said instead of discarding the old coaches, railways have found a new technology to convert these coaches so that they can be used for goods trains. Officials at SER's commercial department revealed that for converting each coach, the cost comes to around Rs 10 lakhs. "After conversion, the life of the coach increases up to 10 years.  At the same time, the railways will also make substantial savings, as the cost of a new VPH (high capacity parcel van) coach is around Rs.1.65 crores," explained an official at SER's commercial section. After conversion, the carrying capacity of modified coaches will become 14 tonnes, which will be able to run at a speed of 110 kmph. Such  modified and redesigned coaches can  be utilised for transportation of vehicles, including tractor, two and four wheelers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Gail and the Ranchi Municipal Corporation sign pact for biogas plant ||Gail (India) Limited, an integrated energy PSU, and the Ranchi Municipal Corporation signed a concession agreement on Thursday for setting up a compressed biogas plant in the Jharkhand capital. The agreement was signed by Gail India executive director K.B. Singh and Ranchi Municipal Corporation commissioner Mukesh Kumar in the presence of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren in the Assembly building on Thursday evening. The proposed plant would process 300 tonnes organic municipal solid waste daily and will produce five tonnes of compressed biogas and approximately 25 tonnes of fermented bio-manure per day. Principal secretary, urban development department, Vinay Kumar Choubey, urged both Singh and Kumar to start work on the project soon. According to Gail India officials, they would be setting up two plants each with a processing capacity of 150 tonnes per day. In the first phase they would set up one plant which would take nearly two years to be completed. The cost of setting the plant would be around Rs 28.19 crore which would be borne by Gail India. They will be setting up two gas filling plants — one inside the city and another on the outskirts — each spread over 3,600sqm, which would provide a clean and green fuel alternative to the people of Ranchi for their vehicles. The gas manufactured by Gail India will be sold at the filling stations and 10 per cent of the earnings would be given to the municipal corporation. The RMC will provide over eight acres of land near Jhiri on the outskirts of Ranchi to Gail India to set up the plants. The Ranchi corporation will be able to save around Rs 81 crore expenditure incurred at the moment for waste disposal in 20 years. It would also claim to get 100 per cent carbon credit in terms of waste disposal after the plants start functioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||CNG auto drivers face long queues for fuel in Ranchi||Drivers of autorickshaws which run on CNG (compressed natural gas) are having to face a long wait at the fuelling stations in the Jharkhand capital owing to a recent fuel shortage following a sudden rise in such vehicles. “I came here around 4am and am still waiting for my turn,” said Suresh Kumar, an auto driver from Kantatoli, who along with over 250 others had gathered at a CNG fuelling station at Kokar on Friday morning. Asked about the reason for the scarcity, Gail (India) Limited general manager Alok Kumar said: “We understand that over 2,000 new CNG autos have joined the existing fleet over the past one month or so, raising the demand suddenly.” There are only four CNG fuel stations located at Hatia, Doranda, Kokar and Ormanjhi in Ranchi at present. They are finding it difficult to cater to the need of the increased number of autorickshaws. “There will be 10 such fuelling stations coming up very shortly,” Kumar said. Two new stations were ready for commissioning within the next few days while four more would also come up within a month or so, he added. We have a plan to increase the number of CNG stations to 18 in Ranchi and that will be done soon, he said. CNG was being brought to Ranchi from Durgapur in Bengal by special vehicles meant for the purpose, he further said. We are also considering to bring CNG from Bokaro that would help save the transit time, he added. But the auto drivers said they are facing unprecedented problems in the meantime. Many of them preferred running CNG autos as they would be economical compared to petrol or diesel autos, particularly because of the rising fuel prices. “Many of us even opted for an exchange offer and bought CNG autos by taking bank loans,” said Sukhlal Yadav, another auto driver. Many of us are now facing difficulties in paying the EMIs for the loans we took, he added. “We faced financial hardship during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. We are in a fix now on how to earn livelihood if we have to spend almost half a day for getting CNG,” said Suresh. These autos are encouraged as CNG is considered a cheap and green fuel and helps reduce air pollution but many drivers started plying even before the registration process of their vehicles was complete and that added to the problems, alleged an auto operator who did not wish to be named. Gail India also introduced piped natural gas (PNG) for cooking in certain residential areas of Ranchi about two years back but the network could not be expanded as the fuel was brought by vehicles and stored at a station before supplying to the existing households. The expansion of the PNG network to other areas of the city can be done only when the gas reaches via a pipeline. “It will take a few more months before PNG reaches Ranchi through a pipeline,” said Gail India executive director K.B. Singh, who visited the city on Thursday. On the expansion delay, he said that the pipe-laying work between Bokaro and Ranchi was not complete as it was being done over a 35-km stretch that would take some more time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand para-teachers give ultimatum||The para-teachers of Jharkhand will gherao chief minister Hemant Soren’s residence next month to press for regularisation of their service and proper pay scale. “We will gherao the chief minister’s residence on April 16 if the government doesn’t address our problems during the ongoing budget session,” said Sanjay Kumar Dubey, a leader of the Ekikrit Para Sikshak Sangharsh Morcha, a united forum of para-teachers. The para-teachers concluded their five-day demonstration near the Assembly on Friday. “We will also wear badges carrying the slogan ‘Wada pura karo Hemant sarkar (Hemant government fulfil your promise)’ written on those from next Monday,” Dubey further said, adding they would be wearing the badges everywhere, even outside their schools. The para-teachers also earlier announced that they would demonstrate against the ministers and MLAs belonging to the ruling combine when they go on field visits when the government did not take any decision for addressing their problems even after they staged the demonstration near the Assembly from March 15. The Morcha has been demanding regularisation of the service of para-teachers and a proper pay scale since 2004 and has organised protest rallies several times in the past. During one such demonstration in November 2018 when the Raghubar Das government was in power, the police had lathicharged on the protesting para-teachers leaving some of them injured. Asked why they resorted to fresh agitation, Dubey said: “Chief minister Hemant Soren had earlier announced he would solve our problems within three months after coming to power but nothing has happened so far.” The state government had recruited para-teachers in 2000 for running the schools and offered them a consolidated monthly salary. After four years, those teachers started demanding regularisation of their service and proper pay scale. “Nearly 500 of our colleagues have died and hundreds of them have retired without getting any retirement benefits,” Dubey further said, wondering how many more would have to die before the government acted. “We were given assurances and advised to be patient all these years,” said Hrishikesh Pathak, another Morcha leader. “We have been maintaining patience all through, even during their ongoing agitation but the government did not do anything to solve our problems though it could do so if it had wanted,” he added. “The political parties support us when they are in the Opposition and forget us when they come to power,” he further said, adding that they did not want to side with any particular party. A large section of the 65,000 para-teachers had gathered near the Assembly in batches and demonstrated for five consecutive days since Monday. Para-teachers from Giridih, Ramgarh, Deoghar, Lohardaga and East Singhbhum districts came to Ranchi for demonstrating on the first day while those from Gumla, Dumka, Jamtara, Sahebganj and Bokaro demonstrated on Friday, the last day of their demonstration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
