21-03-2021||Calcutta||A carnival of cars: HDFC Bank Accelerate Auto Expo||A mint fresh Citroen C5 Aircross grabbed the eyeballs at the HDFC Bank Accelerate Auto Expo, in association with The Telegraph, at South City Mall on Saturday. But Citroen had tough competition for attention from the likes of supercar Lamborghini Urus and Audi A4, the Mini Cooper and the Harley Fatboy at the expo that will continue till Sunday. It will be on from 11am to 9pm. The expo is a one-stop showcase of SUVs of all marques, starting with the Jeep Compass, the Kia Carnival, the Nissan Magnite and the new Tata Safari along with the Toyota Urban Cruiser. One can also pick from the Honda City and Amaze, the Maruti Ignis and Baleno, the Hyundai i20, the Datsun Redi-Go. If electric vehicles (EVs) are your calling, check out the MG ZS or the Tata Nexon EV. And for bikers its the Italian beauties, the Benelli TRK and Imperiale 400. For scooters, you can count on the Vespa models. On the first day, there were over 80 enquiries and more were pouring in with several bookings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
21-03-2021||Calcutta||Containment zones on Bengal govt adar||The Bengal government has asked district magistrates to consider setting up containment zones again if they feel such a step is necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19 after positive cases have started rising again in the state in the season of election rallies. “The chief secretary recently held a video conference with the district magistrates and asked them to set up containment zones if necessary. The state was asked to initiate required measures during a video conference between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the chief ministers,” said a state government official. Bengal chief secretary  Alapan Bandyopadhyay had represented the state in the video conference on March 16. The officials said that so far, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas account for a higher count in the fresh Covid cases in Bengal although the situation still had not reached an alarming level. “So, in all likelihood, containment zones could be created in these two districts first, if it is felt necessary. The  containment zones will be decided based on the number of cases found in a particular area,” said an official. If containment zones are created again, restrictions will be enforced in certain areas for the first time since January when the last containment zone was set up as Covid cases had started decreasing in the state rapidly. A section of health department officials said the Bengal administration was keeping in mind the situation in Maharashtra where daily Covid cases had surged  in a span of three weeks. Maharashtra recorded around 25,000 fresh cases on Saturday — a sharp jump from 8,900-odd daily cases on February 28. In Bengal, 383 patients tested positive in the past 24 hours, up from 194 daily cases on February 19. “The situation is still under control in Bengal. But we have a lesson to learn from Maharashtra which is being forced to reimpose lockdowns in some areas. We have to be careful in order to avert a similar situation here,” said an official. The situation, officials said, could turn critical at any time as political parties are organising huge rallies ahead of the Assembly polls. “The rallies are giving us a serious headache as Covid  protocols are hardly being followed at these political meetings. We are not in a position to impose restrictions on such rallies as the Election Commission of India is the only authority that can do so as the model code of conduct is in place,” said an official. The official added that setting up containment zones would help the state confine the spread of the virus to a limited zone, and aggressive testing in the area would help prevent the spread of the virus further. “If we identify the areas where a cluster of positive cases exists and restrict entry and exit in and from the area, it will definitely help in the poll season. Campaigning in the areas and participation of residents of the area in political rallies will be prevented once the containment zones are created, which will help prevent the spread,” said an official. The state government has decided to start public awareness programmes in markets, bus stands and railway stations again. “Many people are not following the norms.… We will make them aware why wearing masks and maintaining physical distance are still required,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
21-03-2021||Calcutta||When PM becomes a ‘daily passenger’||Santanu Sen Doctor, Trinamul Rajya Sabha MP I would like to know from this August gathering, would you ever believe that this prestigious club can be better served from somewhere else than Calcutta or Bengal? Would you ever believe? (A section of the audience responds with a “No”) Why is the Bengal election of national importance? Only Assembly election since Independence where respected Prime Minister, home minister, many other ministers, many other MPs are coming to our state like daily passengers. Why? It is not that they want to come to power in our state of West Bengal. It is not that they want to develop West Bengal. It is not that they want to grab it but the reason is that they are very apprehensive. They know that as of now the only voice of Opposition on the floor of Parliament comes from the soil of Bengal. That is why they know if they cannot throttle this voice, if they cannot win this semi-final, they are sure to lose the final in 2024. It has forced our Prime Minister to be a daily passenger. What can be more unfortunate than this? It has forced our home minister. They hardly find any time to go to the Singhu border to show their solidarity with farmers who are dying on the road but they have enough to come to Bengal to do their propaganda just to fool the people here. Dinesh Trivedi BJP member and former MP Anybody who is coming they (Trinamul) say they are outsiders, they are goondas. Who is the brand ambassador of Bengal? Anybody remembers who is the brand ambassador of Bengal? (Some in the audience say Shah Rukh Khan). Shah Rukh Khan. Is he an outsider or just because he happens to be Khan? If he happens to be Khan I have nothing to say. And who is the greatest consultant where the entire TMC party has been taken over. He is also an outsider. I think he is from Bihar. So you have sold your soul, Santanu (looking at Santanu Sen). People of Bengal do not like when you abuse the Prime Minister of India. Why are we so hesitant about being Hindu? For me, being Hindu is like physics, chemistry, mathematics. It is all pervading and applicable to all. I have a blueprint here (holding aloft a file he is carrying) as to what is needed in Bengal. How do we attract industry? Bengal could be the hub of innovations, microprocessors, tourism. Sonar Bangla, we say. But if you want to convert that into sone ki chidiya, it is Bengal’s brains. Let’s get out of the pettiness. Abhishek Manu Singhvi Rajya Sabha member, Congress spokesperson and senior advocate The theme is almost self-answering in the sense that it requires cooperative federalism of both Delhi and Calcutta to be governed better. But the question is, what is the redefined Delhi we have. Unlike all parties in the 75-year history of India, the party in Delhi has found new allies, which are not registered political parties with the Election Commission. They are a series of acronyms called the ED, CBI, IT, SFIO. What do you do with that redefined Delhi governing Calcutta? A redefined Delhi which has the BJP headquarters at constitutional designated residences of the governor; where, possibly never in the history of India, more money has been spent in one single state in one single election by one single party? What do you do with the redefined Delhi (governing Calcutta) where fear stalks the land, in the very land where (Rabindranath) Tagore talked about head held high without fear…. The CBI today wants to prosecute every crime in every state without that state’s consent. This is a distortion of the Constitution…. Bengali asmita (pride) is unique. I don’t know of any state, which has six Nobel winners, which has given the national anthem to two countries. There, you would not tolerate cultural fascism. You would not tolerate this one-size-fits-all approach of the Delhi party deciding what you wear, what you eat… It is not enough to look like Tagore. You have to think and act like Tagore. Is your heart in the same place as Tagore? That is the question. Mr Modi is far from infallible in state elections. Contrary to popular belief, I would just want to tell you how successful is this whole perception and image (of being infallible) that the BJP has created. And yet, perceptions are false. That is why they are called perceptions. In my ideal world, the best thing would have been an overarching larger coalition between three parties — TMC, Left and the Congress. But some polar opposites will never meet. I understand that. But the second-best thing is what Sitaram Yechury said. He said the ultimate objective, post result, is to keep the BJP out. I think that is a very heartening comment from a very senior leader. In the recent weeks, rallies that the Congress and the Left have held with far less resources, I think that deserves kudos, because in comparison the money being spent by the BJP is much more. I would also not hesitate to say that irrespective of political differences, the person fighting like a lioness is the chief minister. There is no doubt about that. She is fighting with everything she has got. Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya Member of the Rajya Sabha; CPM leader and advocate Religion is a personal right, you have every right to go to your place, offer your offerings to your god. But being in public office you don’t have any authority to go and perform particular religious rituals and proclaim I am a religious man. This is against constitutional principles. This is destroying the Constitution and this is also taking away the right thought of governance. Today in India we are really suffering from that. We have never seen this before. The elections are fought in the name of Jai Shri Ram, elections are fought in the name of going to the temples. We have never seen this. We have seen the leaders, in my personal career, and you must have seen the others. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru flatly refused to attend any religious function while he was the Prime Minister. Because as Prime Minister he was representing the country, not representing a particular     political party. In our present, we find the Prime Minister representing a particular political party. He doesn’t speak of the nation. He doesn’t speak of the entire state. He speaks of a particular sect, a particular group, it is very unfortunate. It is very unfortunate we find the President of India donates for a particular religious purpose and proclaims it, he being the custodian of the Constitution. They are spoiling the entire constitutional ethos. India is a union of states. India is not a unity of states. If we really sacrifice this divergence, we will sacrifice the Indian polity and Indian culture. The Indian cultural identity in fact was influenced in the fag end of the 19th century by the Bengali Renaissance movement. Therefore Indian culture today, in my humble understanding, is the culture that was professed and practised by Rabindranath Thakur, followed by Netaji Subash Chandra Bose, which was keenly followed by Mahatma Gandhi. That is the cultural scenario in which India won freedom. Today, there has been an attempt to destroy this diversity, which is against the basic perception of the Indian Constitution. They (the BJP) are giving so much stress on Bengal because they are losing ground everywhere. After the Kisan movement, the people are tremendously against the BJP. BJP MLAs in Punjab have surrendered their memberships. And this is the reality in which the Modi government feels their last resort to have a stronghold and footprint is winning the West Bengal election. They can’t win the election in Bengal and I can confidently say this because the ground reality is people are in favour of unity of the people. They don’t want to see the country divided. Kunal Sarkar Cardiac surgeon, moderator Post-colonial Bengal was just about resigned to its destiny of unending mediocrity. We used to have our elections; we were in and out of the democratic exercise almost unnoticed by the entire country. When I was in school, we thought that it was a constitutional phenomenon that at the end of every election, Jyoti-babu would be the chief minister…. So, this Bengal suddenly finds itself, absolutely and flatteringly, in the middle of a very unaccustomed national attention. We are almost at the centre of the Olympics of democracy…. Eastern India being at the centre of the entire focus; is it to administer Bengal or is it to acquire Bengal? President, The Bengal Club Though the club was founded by the British, though the club is one of the oldest clubs in India, arguably the oldest social club in India. It’s also on the premises where Macaulay resided. He is responsible for the Indian Penal Code and the famous Macaulay minute, which stultified the growth of local education. The club today has moved on.  It is a platform for freedom of expression. We encourage views from every kind of ideology and civilised discussion. And that’s always been the hallmark of this club. Apart from that we have a magnificent membership profile- a tolerant profile. A profile, which is willing to listen to the right, the left and the centre and debateabout it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
21-03-2021||Business||Future Group challenges Delhi High Court order||Future Group on Saturday approached the Delhi high court challenging a single judge’s order upholding the Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator’s (EA) judgment restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business. The US-based e-commerce giant Amazon had challenged the deal in the international court. The appeal will be heard on March 22 by a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh. The appeal, filed through advocate Harshvardhan Jha, has challenged the single judge’s March 18 judgment directing Kishore Biyani-led FRL not to take further action in relation to the deal with Reliance and holding that the group willfully violated the Singapore Arbitrator’s order. Justice J.R. Midha had rejected all the objections raised by Future Group and imposed a cost of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group and its directors and directed them to deposit the amount in the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund within two weeks for being used for providing Covid-19 vaccination to senior citizens of Below Poverty Line (BPL) category of Delhi. The March 18 verdict had come on Amazon’s plea seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore’s EA on October 25, 2020, restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. The high court, which directed the presence of Biyani and others before it on April 28, had also ordered attachment of their properties and asked them to file an affidavit detailing their assets within one month. It had also asked them to show cause as to why they be not detained under civil prison for a term not exceeding three months for violating the emergency arbitrator’s order and file reply within two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||Business||Government to boost high-technology manufacturing||In a move to boost high-technology manufacturing, including semiconductors in the country, the government has decided to set up a committee to facilitate investments. The committee will consider investment and project proposals in high-technology areas, take action to facilitate investments and production and make recommendations to seek approvals of the competent authority, an official statement said. “In order to facilitate investments and promote manufacturing in technology-intensive sectors, including semiconductors, the government of India has decided to constitute an empowered committee for manufacturing in high-technology areas,” it said. The minister of commerce and industry will be the chairperson of the 10-member committee. The panel will include Tata Sons chairman N. Chandrasekaran; Bharat Forge chairman Baba Kalyani; Mahindra Group managing director and CEO Pawan Goenka; Zoho Corporation CEO Sridhar Vembu; and Anshuman Tripathi, a semiconductor domain expert. The detailed terms of reference of the committee will be notified in due course, it said. The largest producers of semiconductors are the United States, South Korea and Japan and is estimated to be a trillion-dollar electronics industry globally and expanding further with increasing penetration of robotics, AI and IoT. “The secretaries in the department of economic affairs, department of revenue, department of expenditure and sponsoring ministry/department may be invited to participate in the meetings of the empowered committee, as required,” the release said, adding that the committee will be serviced by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||Business||20 states gets additional borrowing permission of Rs 39,521 crore||Twenty states have completed the “ease of doing business” reforms stipulated by the department of expenditure, which would enable them to get an additional borrowing permission of Rs 39,521 crore through open market borrowings, the finance ministry said on Saturday. “States completing ease of doing business reforms are eligible for additional borrowing of 0.25 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP),” the ministry said. “Accordingly, on receipt of recommendations from the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), the department of expenditure has granted permission to these 20 states to raise additional financial resources of Rs 39,521 crore through open market borrowings. State-wise amount of the additional borrowing permitted to these 20 states is annexed,” it said. Five more states — Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Meghalaya and Tripura — have completed the “ease of doing business” reforms stipulated by the department of expenditure, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||Business||Srei Infrastructure Finance company secretary resigns||Equipment finance NBFC Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd on Saturday said its company secretary Sandeep Kumar Lakhotia has resigned. The move comes following the salary cap imposed on the company by its lenders amidst the pandemic-induced stress on its business. The company, when contacted, said around 180 employees have exited since December last year. “We wish to inform you that Sandeep Kumar Lakhotia has resigned from the position of company secretary & compliance officer of the company,” Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd said in a regulatory filing. Lakhotia will be relieved with effect from the close of working hours of March 20, 2021, Srei said. “The company shall be shortly appointing a new company secretary and compliance officer and the same shall be intimated to the stock exchanges in due course,” it said. In the interim, Ekta Agarwal, deputy company secretary of the company, shall be in charge of the compliance function, it added. The company is battling asset-liability mismatch in the aftermath of the pandemic-driven stress in the economy as it mainly caters to equipment financing and most of the economic activities came to a grinding halt due to the lockdown, only limping back gradually now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||Business||WhatsApp hires top Amazon executive to head its payments business in India||WhatsApp has hired a top Amazon executive to head its payments business in India, two sources told Reuters, as the messenger service gears up to expand in the booming sector. Manesh Mahatme, who has worked at Amazon Pay for nearly seven years, is due to join WhatsApp’s payment service soon, one of the sources said on Friday. WhatsApp and Amazon Pay were not immediately available for comment. Mahatme declined to comment. With more than 500 million users, WhatsApp counts India as its biggest market, where it is the newest entrant in India’s digital payments sector, which PwC and Indian industry body Assocham say is set to be worth $135 billion by 2023. WhatsApp last year received a much-delayed approval for the launch of its payments system in India, but so far its rollout has been capped by regulators at 20 million users. But it has big ambitions and a deal by Facebook last year to invest $5.7 billion in Jio Platforms digital unit, will allow WhatsApp to offer payments services to millions of mom-and-pop stores. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||India||8 kids die in 2 separate incidents in Rajasthan||In two separate incidents in Rajasthan, eight children died, police said on Sunday. In a tragic incident, five children were suffocated to death after they jumped into a grain storage container while playing at Himmatasar village in Bikaner district on Sunday. According to police, the container was almost empty and the children jumped into it one after another while playing. Accidentally the container got closed thereby, trapping the kids inside. Sevaram (4), Ravina (7), Radha (5), Poonam (8) and Mali were rushed to a government hospital where doctors declared them brought dead, SP (Bikaner) Priti Chandra said. When the mother of the kids came home, and couldn’t find them, she began searching for them. When she opened the container she found the kids trapped inside it, she said. In the other incident, three children were killed and one injured when a portion of the soil caved in on them while they were playing in Jhunjhunu district Saturday evening. They were immediately rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared three of them dead on arrival, police said. The deceased have been identified as Prince and Suresh, both 7-year-old, and Sona (10), police said. The injured boy is under treatment, they said. The bodies were handed over to family members after post-mortem. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot condoled the tragic deaths of the children. He said the deaths were heart-wrenching, and prayed for the departed soul and wished speedy recovery of the injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
21-03-2021||India||Mumbai reports 3,779 fresh Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra sees over 30,000 on Sunday||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 30,535 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest rise in a single day, the state health department said. Mumbai reported 3,779 fresh COVID-19 cases in the day – the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began in December 2019 and the second consecutive day with over 3,000 new cases – while ten patients succumbed to the viral infection. With this, the state's overall tally of the infections mounted to 24,79,682 while 99 fatalities pushed the toll to 53,399, it said. The fresh spike in cases came just three days after Maharashtra recorded its highest rise in a single day at 25,833. The previous highest spike was 24,896 in September 2020. A statement from the Health department said 11,314 patients were discharged during the day, taking the overall count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 22,14,867. The overall growth in new Covid cases in the city (for the week ending Saturday) has risen to 0.63 per cent and the case fatality rate to 2.15 per cent, according to data from the government. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, according to the Union Health Ministry. According to experts, the biggest reason for the surge in cases is that people feel the pandemic is over and they are not following COVID-appropriate behaviour. "There are multiple reasons for the surge, but the main reason is that there is change in people's attitude and they feel coronavirus is over. People should still restrict non-essential travel for some more time," AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said. Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) said to remain free of this virus, it is very important that COVID-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy, readiness from the health infrastructure point of view as well as vaccination has to be brought in to fight the pandemic. He advised that in districts where COVID-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised. States and UTs showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases have been advised by the Centre to improve testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase the overall share of RT-PCR tests (more than 70 pc), especially in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing in line with the Test Track and Treat' strategy of the government. They have also been advised to carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case (in the first 72 hours) along with isolation and early treatment of the serious cases as per clinical protocol. They have been asked to limit the gathering in public places along with promoting COVID-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Accelerating the pace of vaccination has also been stressed upon, officials stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Rajasthan imposes night curfew in 8 cities from Monday||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan government has decided to impose night curfew in eight cities from 11 pm to 5 am and ordered closure of markets by 10 pm from Monday. The state government has made it mandatory for those visiting Rajasthan from other states to carry a COVID-19 negative test report along with them from March 25 onwards. In case passengers travel to the desert without having a negative test report, they will be quarantined for 15 days, mentioned the official statement. Arrangements for passengers to be examined at airports, bus stands and railway stations are also being made. The decisions were taken during a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The night curfew will be imposed in Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Sagwada (Dungarpur) and Kushalgarh (Banswara) from 11 pm to 5 am. The night curfew will not be applicable to those factories which have continuous production and have a system of night shifts. Also, IT companies, restaurants, medical shops, offices-related to essential and emergency services, wedding ceremonies, medical institutes, bus stands, railway stations and airports will be exempted from the night curfew. A total of 476 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Rajasthan on Sunday, while two more people succumbed to the disease. Of the new cases, a maximum of 86 cases were reported from Jaipur, among others. At present, there are 3,585 active cases in Rajasthan. CM Gehlot directed officials for strict implementation of coronavirus-related protocols and to allow a limited number of people in ceremonies and programmes. In the review meeting, the chief minister said COVID-19 cases are increasing rapidly in many countries of the world as well as in many states of India. In Rajasthan also, the daily count has suddenly increased in the last few days. In such a situation, it is necessary to take some steps to save the lives of people from the second wave of COVID-19, the statement quoting Gehlot said. The government has made RT-PCR negative report (not older than 72 hours) mandatory for all passengers coming to Rajasthan from March 25. All district collectors have also been asked to restart the institutional quarantine facilities in their districts. The system of mini-containment zones will be implemented again, according to the statement. “Wherever there are more than five positive cases, that cluster or apartment will be declared as a contention zone,” it said. Primary schools will remain closed till further orders. In the classes above primary and in colleges, educational activities will be conducted with the COVID-19 protocol. Only with the written consent of parents, children will be able to come to educational institutions. Not more than 50 per cent of the students will be present in the class at a time. In cities with more than one lakh population, a maximum of 200 people will be allowed in public events at open spaces, according to the statement. The chief minister appealed to the people to avoid going to crowded places during festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Uddhav to decide on Deshmukh's fate, says Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Sunday said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will decide the fate of Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who is facing corruption allegations by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh. Pawar's comments came during a media briefing at Delhi amid speculation in state political circles that Maharashtra may soon have a new home minister. The allegations leveled by Singh against Dehsmukh are serious and require an in-depth probe, Pawar said. Singh has claimed Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. Pawar suggested that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this matter and also action against Deshmukh. Pawar said neither Thackeray nor Deshmukh were responsible for reinstatement of police officer Sachin Waze in the police force last year. The NCP chief said he has spoken to Thackeray regarding Singh's letter. "I would suggest Thackeray to seek former IPS officer Julio Ribeiro's help for looking into the claims made by Param Bir Singh," he said. It was not clear if Ribeiro is willing to be roped in. "We will take a decision on Deshmukh by tomorrow," he said. Deshmukh's side also needs to be heard before taking any decision, he added. Pawar said Singh had complained to him aboutpolitical interference in police department. He said Singh had spoken of reports about his transfer, saying it would be an injustice to him. Pawar said Singh made the allegations after his transfer on March 17 to the Home Guards. There is no impact on the MVA government because of Singh's allegations, Pawar said. Efforts are on to destabilise the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra but they will prove futile, he added. In the eight-page letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh alleged that Deshmukh used to call police officers to his official residence and give them a "collection target" from bars, restaurants and other establishments. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut admitted that the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh and about the Waze case have tainted the image of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Raut saio all the MVA allies need to introspect if their feet are on the ground. Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said Pawar was trying to save the Maha Vikas Aghadi government amid allegations of corruption leveled by Singh against Deshmukh. "How were important postings and cases given to Waze without the knowledge of the chief minister and the home minister?" Fadnavis told reporters in Nagpur. Waze is in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in placing an explosives- laden SUV outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani last month. The NIA is also probing the alleged murder of Thane- based businessman Mansukh Hiran who was in possession of that SUV. "As the architect of the MVA government, Pawar is trying to save it, Fadnavis said and reiterated his demand for resignation of Deshmukh and a court-monitored probe into the allegations made by Singh. "Waze (a former encounter specialist who was suspended after the alleged custodial death of bomb blast suspect Khwaja Yunis in 2003) was reinstated by a committee headed by Param Bir Singh. But how is it possible that he got important cases and postings without the knowledge of the CM and the home minister?" Fadnavis said. Former MP Sanjay Nirupam said his Congress party must take a stand on Singh's claim that Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. Meanwhile, BJP workers on Sunday staged demonstrations in various parts of the state demanding Deshmukh's resignation over Singh's letter. BJP workers led by former state energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule staged protests at Sanvidhan square in Nagpur and raised slogans against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. A demonstration was organised by BJP Yuva Morcha wokers outside Deshmukh's residence in Nagpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Centre should help finding truth, Raj Thackeray says on Ambani bomb scare case||MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Sunday sought Centre's intervention in unearthing the truth behind the explosives-laden car found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here last month. Addressing a press conference, Thackeray alleged that the Maharashtra government was incapable of shedding light on several basic points in the case. "The explosives case doesn't revolve only around (former Mumbai police commissioner) Param Bir Singh and (suspended Mumbai police officer) Sachin Waze. Police placing the explosives or being asked to do so is not a small thing," he said. The Centre should help in finding out the truth in the case. The basic issue of who placed the explosives-laden vehicle and on whose instructions it was done needs to be found out, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief said. "The basic issue should not be forgotten, otherwise this case will go the same way as actor Sushant Singh Rajput's (death) case," he said. Thackeray said it seems very unlikely that the vehicle with explosives was parked near Ambani's house by Waze without being asked to do so. The vehicle was found near Ambani's multi-storey residence 'Antilia' in south Mumbai on February 25. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) last week arrested Waze in connection with the case. He was later suspended by the government. Param Bir Singh, who was under flak over handling of the bomb scare episode, was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner on Wednesday. On Saturday, he wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month from bars and hotels. Thackeray asked why there is no clarity yet from the state government as to why Param Bir Singh was shunted out. "Was it because he is linked to the placing of the vehicle? And if Singh is involved, why didn't the state government take action against him instead of just a transfer?" he asked. Thackeray said the source of the gelatin sticks in the vehicle has also not been revealed yet. He said Mukesh Ambani and Uddhav Thackeray share an extremely warm relationship. Thackeray also raised question marks over the threat letter found in the vehicle, saying, "Is it so easy to extort money from Ambani?" "Will the police on their own dare to try to extort money from an industrialist, who shares very warm relations with the chief minister," he asked. He reiterated his demand for resignation of Anil Deshmukh for ensuring free and fair probe over the allegations against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Second wave of coronavirus has begun, next three months crucial: Karnataka Health Minister||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday said the second wave of coronavirus has begun and sought people's cooperation to contain the disease. "We are at the beginning of the second wave of coronavirus. Let us all join hands to control it because the next three months are crucial for us," Sudhakar told reporters here as the coronavirus cases started shooting up. He said he would discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about the COVID-19 situation and measures to be taken. He said the state Technical Advisory Committee on coronavirus has given clear guidelines to the government stating that people would be in for a trouble if certain activities were not controlled. "We all will be responsible for the aftermath if the government and people do not respond to experts' report," Sudhakar said. To a question whether election-related activities would be among those needed to be under check, Sudhakar sought to know, "Can any activity be an excuse for coronavirus? Will it spare VIPs, political parties or religious congregations?" The Minister underlined the need for an all-party meeting in view of the coronavirus situation since the byelections were round the corner and all the political parties would take part in it. Sudhakar's warning came as the cases in Karnataka shot upto 1,798 with seven deaths and Bengaluru urban district alone contributed 1,186 cases, including five deaths, on Saturday. The Chief Minister too had appealed to the people to exercise caution as coronavirus was on the rise at an alarming proportion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Five states account for over 83 per cent of new infections: Government||As India witnessed the highest daily tally of COVID-19 cases this year, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday that Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh account for 83.14 per cent of the new infections. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 27,126. It is followed by Punjab with 2,578 while Kerala reported 2,078 new cases. Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh reported 1,798, 1,565 and 1, 308 infections in a day. India recorded 43,846 new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,15,99,130. Besides 197 deaths were reported in a span 24 hours, the ministry said adding six states account for 86.8 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (92). Punjab follows with 38 daily deaths. Kerala reported 15 deaths. Delhi reported over 800 coronavirus cases for the first time this year on Saturday, while two more people succumbed to the pathogen. The active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) rose to 3,409 from 3,165 a day ago. The positivity rate breached the 1 per cent-mark after over two months, according to a bulletin. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, according to the ministry. India's total active caseload was recorded over 3.09 lakh (3,09,087) comprising 2.66 per cent of the total infections. A net rise of 20,693 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. According to experts, the biggest reason for the surge in cases is that people feel the pandemic is over and they are not following COVID-appropriate behaviour. "There are multiple reasons for the surge, but the main reason is that there is change in people's attitude and they feel coronavirus is over. People should still restrict non-essential travel for some more time," AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said. Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) said to remain free of this virus, it is very important that COVID-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy, readiness from the health infrastructure point of view as well as vaccination has to be brought in to fight the pandemic. He advised that in districts where COVID-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised. States and UTs showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases have been advised by the Centre to improve testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase the overall share of RT-PCR tests (more than 70 pc), especially in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing in line with the Test Track and Treat' strategy of the government. They have also been advised to carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case (in the first 72 hours) along with isolation and early treatment of the serious cases as per clinical protocol. They have been asked to focus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing cluster of cases and focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths and that they should also follow up on sending samples for genome testing to track virus variants of concern, officials said. All states and UTs have been tagged to 10 national labs under the INSACOG consortium with National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as the nodal institute. They have been asked to limit the gathering in public places along with promoting COVID-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Accelerating the pace of vaccination has also been stressed upon, officials stated. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,11,30,288 on Sunday. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Puducherry, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Mizoram, A&N Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. Besides, over 4.4 crore (4,46,03,841) vaccine doses have been administered through 7,25,138 sessions, as per the provisional report till Sunday 7 am. These include 77,79,985 HCWs (1st dose), 48,77,356 HCWs (2nd dose), 80,84,311 FLWs (1st dose) and 26,01,298 FLWs (2nd Dose), 36,33,473 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 1,76,27,418 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on Day-64 of the vaccination drive (March 20), more than 25 lakh (25,40,449) vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 22,83,157 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 38,669 sessions for 1st dose and 2,57,292 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Param Bir's allegations against Anil Deshmukh serious, says Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the allegations leveled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh are serious and require an in-depth probe. Singh has claimed Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. Talking to reporters in Delhi, Pawar suggested that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this matter and also action against Deshmukh. Pawar said neither the chief minister nor the state home minister were responsible for reinstatement of police officer Sachin Waze in the police force last year. The NCP chief said he has spoken to Thackeray regarding Singh's letter. "I would suggest to Uddhav Thackeray to seek former IPS officer Julio Ribeiro's help for looking into the claims made by Param Bir Singh," he added. Pawar said Singh made the allegations after his transfer on March 17 to the Home Guards. The NCP supremo said there is no impact on the MVA government because of Singh's allegations. Efforts are on to destabilise the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra but they will prove futile, he added. In the eight-page letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh alleged that Deshmukh used to call police officers to his official residence and give them a "collection target" from bars, restaurants and other establishments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Ashoka University accepts ‘lapses’ over resignations of Mehta, Subramanian||Ashoka University on Sunday acknowledged "lapses in institutional processes" and expressed "deep regret" at the recent events surrounding the resignations of political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta and noted economist Arvind Subramanian from its faculty. Meanwhile, Mehta wrote a letter to students, urging them to not "press" for his return asserting that the circumstances that led to his resignation will not change in the foreseeable future. The university in Haryana's Sonipat became the centre of a controversy earlier this week, when Mehta, who had resigned as its vice chancellor two years back, chose to step down as professor, saying that the founders made it "abundantly clear" that his association with the institution was a "political liability". Subramanian, the former chief economic advisor to the government, had resigned from the university two days later in solidarity with Mehta. "The Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Ashoka University express deep regret at the recent events surrounding the resignations of Prof. Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Prof. Arvind Subramanian who have been extraordinary colleagues and faculty members at Ashoka University," the university said in a statement. "The University has been privileged to have been led, guided and counselled by Pratap first as  Vice Chancellor and then as senior faculty. He has worked closely with the faculty and founders  over the years to take the University into a position of being rightly acknowledged as a great  centre of learning, teaching and research," it added. "Arvind brought eminence, stature, fresh ideas and energy to the University. He is one of the  premier thinkers about the Indian and the global economy. He leaves a void that will be hard to  fill," the statement further noted. "We acknowledge that there have been some lapses in institutional processes which we will work  to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders. This will reaffirm our commitment to academic  autonomy and freedom which have always been at the core of the Ashoka University ideals," the institution said. "Pratap and Arvind would like to emphasize that Ashoka University is one of the most important  projects in Indian higher education. They are sad to be leaving Ashoka, especially its  outstanding students and faculty. They continue to believe strongly that Ashoka University  should embody a liberal vision and commitment to academic freedom and autonomy. And they  remain lifelong friends and well-wishers of the institution and are committed to its success  wherever they are," the statement from the university concludes, adding that the two professors will remain "available for advice and consultation to the university in the future". The students have called for a two-day boycott of classes from Monday in protest over the developments. Mehta, however, said he wants to close this chapter. "The underlying circumstances that led to the resignation will not change for the foreseeable future, in my case, at any rate. So I must close this chapter. I urge you not to press on this matter. I know you will be disappointed. But if I may exercise one last bit of professorial discretion: your mission is larger than the fate of two Professors, Mehta said in his letter addressed to the students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||NCP leaders to meet Pawar on Sunday over claims against Anil Deshmukh||Against the backdrop of former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's allegations against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and NCP's state unit president Jayant Patil are scheduled to meet party supremo Sharad Pawar in Delhi on Sunday. Patil gave this information, but said that the meeting was planned three days ago and it is aimed at discussing issues related to the Pandharpur Assembly bypoll scheduled next month. Param Bir Singh, in his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday, has alleged that Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore every month from bars and hotels, a charge the minister has denied. Deshmukh belongs to the NCP. Talking to PTI, Jayant Patil, who is also the state Water Resources Minister, said that the Delhi visit was planned three days ago. "The Pandharpur Assembly bypoll is scheduled next month. Ajit dada and I decided to meet party workers in Solapur district to know their views over the selection of candidate and the party strategy, and then meet Pawar saheb in Delhi with the feedback before returning to Mumbai," he said. "Accordingly, both of us are in Pandharpur to discuss issues related to the bypoll with party workers. We will then go to Delhi (to meet Pawar)," he said. The Pandharpur bypoll is scheduled to be held on April 17. It was necessitated due to the death of NCP MLA Bharat Bhalke last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||Covid: India registers highest one-day jump this year with 43,846 cases||India saw 43,846 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single-day rise recorded so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,99,130, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Registering an increase for the 11th day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 3,09,087, which now comprises 2.66 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.96 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 115 days. The death toll increased to 1,59,755 with 197 daily new fatalities, the highest in 97 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 44,489 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 26. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,30,288, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 23,35,65,119 samples have been tested up to March 20 with 11,33,602 samples being tested on Saturday. The 197 new fatalities include 92 from Maharashtra, 38 from Punjab, 15 from Kerala and 11 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,59,755 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,300 from Maharashtra, 12,590 from Tamil Nadu, 12,432 from Karnataka, 10,955 from Delhi, 10,303 from West Bengal, 8,758 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,189 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
21-03-2021||India||US secretary of defence Lloyd Austin mentions human rights at India talks ||US secretary of defence Lloyd Austin on Saturday said he had discussed violations of human rights in India during his meetings with ministers here, adding that partners ought to be able to have such conversations. There was no official word from India on the matter but sources said the subject of democracy and human rights did come up during Austin’s meeting with external affairs minister S. Jaishankar. Responding to the question whether he had raised the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Austin told a group of journalists that he had not but he had done so with other members of the cabinet. “We have to remember that India is our partner, a partner whose partnership we value. And I think partners need to be able to have those kinds of discussions. And certainly, we feel comfortable in doing that. And you can have those discussions in a very meaningful way and still make progress,” Austin said in response. According to sources on the Indian side, the secretary had said that “as the two largest democracies in the world, human rights and values are important to us and we will lead with these values”. Jaishankar is said to have agreed and emphasised that a strong relationship between the two democracies was not only important for both countries but for the rest of the world. Whether specifics were discussed is not clear. Bob Menendez, who heads the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, had asked Austin to specifically raise democracy and human rights concerns in his discussions with the Indian government. In a letter to Austin, the senator – who represents New Jersey which has a sizeable Indian diaspora – said: “I would like to see the US-India partnership grow, but we must acknowledge that the partnership is strongest when based on shared democratic values and the Indian government has been trending away from those values.” Referring to the Freedom House report that recently downgraded India from “free” to “partly free”, Menendez said: “The Indian government’s ongoing crackdown on farmers peacefully protesting new farming laws and corresponding intimidation of journalists and government critics only underscores the deteriorating situation of democracy in India.” The other issues he had flagged in the letter include the “rising anti-Muslim sentiment and related government actions like the Citizenship Amendment Act”, the suppression of political dialogue and arrest of political opponents following the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, and the use of sedition laws to persecute political opponents. Asked if the issues flagged by Menendez were raised by him during his discussions on human rights and democracy with Indian ministers, Austin replied: “You’ve heard President (Joe) Biden say that human rights and rule of law are important to the United States of America. We always lead with our values. As a democracy, that’s pretty important to us. India is a democratic country and you treasure your values as well. There are a number of things that we can and will work on together.” Austin is the first senior member of the Biden administration to visit India since the inauguration two months ago. However, there have been several high-level virtual meetings between the two governments, including the Quad summit last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||Global pressure piles on Ashoka University||Scholars from around the world have questioned Ashoka University’s role in the departure of political scientist Pratap Bhanu Mehta and at least one academic has urged the university to make public “whatever policies or pressures” that “forced” his resignation. Mehta had resigned from Ashoka University on Monday while saying the varsity’s founders had made it clear to him he was a “political liability”. More than 150 academics, including Canadian philosopher Charles Taylor, Cambridge political philosopher John Dunn, British-Ghanaian philosopher Kwame Anthony Appiah, Columbia University president Lee C. Bollinger and Oxford international relations professor Rosemary Foot have signed a statement that questions the role of Ashoka’s trustees and administrators in the matter. “A prominent critic of the current Indian government and defender of academic freedom, he (Mehta) had become a target for his writings. It seems that Ashoka’s trustees, who should have treated defending him as their institutional duty, instead all but forced his resignation,” the statement said. Columbia Sanskrit scholar Sheldon Pollock — who was a consultant for the founding of the university in 2013 — said in a statement: “With the resignation of Prof. Mehta, the university’s foremost scholar and public intellectual, my respect for the institution has been seriously tested. “I have great admiration for the chancellor of the university, Rudrangshu Mukherjee, and for many of the trustees.” Pollock said: “I call upon them to provide a full, public accounting of whatever policies or pressures brought about the circumstances that forced Prof. Mehta’s resignation, and to offer an unequivocal, public repudiation of them. If this is not done, and done soon, the stain on the university will be indelible, and the support of its most fervent admirers permanently lost.” Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian also quit the varsity as professor of economics this week in solidarity with Mehta, who is being seen as a victim of intolerance against his newspaper columns criticising the ruling BJP. Class boycott Late on Friday night, the university’s students called for a class boycott on Monday and Tuesday to press for Mehta’s return. The Ashoka University Student Government released a charter of demands at midnight that sought: “1. A public acknowledgement by the founders on Professor Mehta’s statement that he felt that he was a ‘political liability’ as well as assuring the Ashokan community that Professor Mehta will be given a public unconditional offer letter. “2. An open meeting organised by the founders with the student body. “3. The divesting of administrative powers and roles from founders of the university to the elected representatives of faculty, students and administration. We must create a body with both members of the faculty and student body to serve as a medium to discuss matters with the founders and the administration.” Announcing the boycott of classes — currently being held mostly online — the statement added: “If these demands are not met by Tuesday, we will be organising a separate movement demanding that the vice-chancellor resign.” Earlier this week, students had staged a sit-in against the exit of the two academics. A class boycott — for a day — had only happened once before in the university, during the protests against the new citizenship regime in 2019. Vice-chancellor Malabika Sarkar, chancellor Mukherjee and the chairman of the board of trustees, Ashish Dhawan, have not responded to queries from this newspaper. A student leader on the campus said the students were withholding their names in their statements to protect individuals from being harassed by the varsity administration. “We are seeing a mobilisation of students like never before and that’s why we have pushed for greater control of academic stakeholders in the management, without which things won’t change,” the student leader said. Talks are on for support from students’ unions in other varsities. The CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association as well as the SFI has issued a statement supporting the Ashoka students and teachers who are resisting the perceived crackdown on dissent. In a letter to the students, English professor Jonathan Gil Harris has asked them to make sure that “anger doesn’t degenerate simply into a desire to punish” and that the founders are keen to meet the students. He said: “But it’s clear now that there needs to be a complete firewall between founders and faculty on matters of hiring, dismissal, and judgements of (for example) the quality and content of a faculty’s writing.” In 2016, a professor and two other staff members had resigned after signing a student petition calling for a plebiscite in Kashmir. FCRA licence A Union home ministry source confirmed that a licence to receive funds from abroad under the Foreign Contributions Regulatory Act, 2010, had been granted this month to a company called Reimagining Higher Education Foundation (RHEF), whose directors are among Ashoka University’s founders and which is setting up Plaksha University in Mohali, Punjab. The timing of the clearance has prompted fingers to be raised at Ashoka, but there is nothing to suggest the licence was given out of turn. On Saturday, The Economic Times reported that the RHEF had been upgraded from a “prior permission” grantee to an FCRA licensee, and that four of the firm’s five directors are part of the Ashoka leadership. Two of them — Ashish Gupta, MD of the competitive exam coaching firm Jamboree Education, and Vineet Gupta, CEO of data analytics firm Benori Knowledge Solutions — are also trustees of Ashoka University. Neither responded to queries from this newspaper. Former diplomat K.C. Singh tweeted: “Saw a report in one of the newspapers that #AshokaUniversity has been given FCRA clearance for setting up a new campus at Mohali, Punjab. If true, explains the whole @pbmehta episode as MHA gives that clearance.” Former Union minister Ashwani Kumar said: “The trustees of the premier educational institution are clearly the principal villains, in not standing up to those who wanted Mehta to pay the price for his intellectual integrity…. This is the moment for academia and public intellectuals to collectively fight for their space as keepers of national conscience and to remind the powers that be that the power of their pen will not be captive to the lure of wealth or to the brute power of a muscular State.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Singhu farmer tent||A fire broke out in a tent at Delhi’s Singhu border where farmers have been protesting the government’s controversial agriculture laws, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Saturday. Sukhwinder Singh, a protester, said the incident took place around 10am near an under-construction flyover where the tent had been put up. However, there was no official word about the incident from police or the fire department. The tent was completely burnt, the SKM, the umbrella outfit spearheading the agitation, said. A man was injured while trying to extinguish the blaze. The tent was burnt after a cylinder caught fire, the SKM said. There were 10 to 12 people inside the tent when the fire broke out. Five mobile phones, 20 mattresses, 20 chairs and dry rations were destroyed, the SKM said, adding that a fire tender from Kundli doused the blaze. Hundreds of farmers are camping at Delhi’s borders at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November demanding repeal of the Centre’s three contentious farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||India-US push for defence and security partnership||India and the US on Saturday called for deepening of defence and security cooperation to meet “today’s and tomorrow’s challenges”, amid increasing Chinese aggression in the Indo-Pacific region. Visiting US defence secretary Lloyd Austin, after bilateral talks with defence minister Rajnath Singh, described the partnership with India as a “central pillar” of the American policy for the Indo-Pacific. “India, in particular, is an increasingly important partner amid today’s rapidly shifting international dynamics. And I reaffirmed our commitment to a comprehensive and forward-looking defence partnership with India as a central pillar of our approach to the region,” Austin said while reading out his statement at Vigyan Bhavan after the talks. Austin said that as the Indo-Pacific region faced acute transnational challenges such as climate change and the need to ensure a free and open regional order, cooperation among like-minded countries was imperative to securing the shared vision for the future. “Despite today’s challenging security environment, the partnership between the United States and India… the world’s two largest democracies… remains resilient and strong,” he said. Austin’s is the first visit by a top member of US President Joe Biden’s administration to India as part of the efforts to forge an alliance of countries seeking to push back against China’s increasing assertiveness in the region. He had visited Japan and South Korea before arriving in India. Austin had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his arrival on Friday and held talks with national security adviser Ajit Doval. Responding to a query whether the US had ever believed over the past year that a war between India and China was imminent in view of the border standoff in Ladakh, Austin said: “To my knowledge, we have never considered that India and China were on the threshold of war.” The Indian and Chinese armies have been involved in a border face-off in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troopers were killed in a fierce clash in the Galwan Valley last June. Asked what India and US could do together to counter the Chinese aggression in the Indo-Pacific, Austin said: “Working together with like-minded countries is the way to check any aggression in any region.” In his statement the defence secretary said: “We discussed opportunities to elevate the US-India Major Defence Partnership… a priority of the Biden-Harris administration through regional security cooperation, military-to-military interactions and defence trade. “In addition, we are continuing to advance new areas of collaboration, including: information-sharing, logistics cooperation, artificial intelligence; and cooperation in new domains such as space and cyber.” Austin said he and Rajnath discussed engagement with like-minded partners through multilateral groupings such as the Quad and Asean. “And I am confident that, together, we can build a partnership fit for today’s and tomorrow’s challenges,” Austin said. In his statement Rajnath said: “Our discussions today focussed on our wide-ranging defence cooperation and expanding military-to-military engagement across services, information sharing, cooperation in emerging sectors of defence, and mutual logistics support.” “We reviewed the wide gamut of bilateral and multilateral exercises and agreed to pursue enhanced cooperation with the US Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and Africa Command. Acknowledging that we have in place the foundational agreements, LEMOA, COMCASA and BECA, we discussed steps to be taken to realise their full potential for mutual benefit.” Rajnath also urged US industry to invest in India’s defence sector and take advantage of liberalised foreign direct investment (FDI) policies. “India is committed to further consolidate our robust defence partnership with the United States,” the defence minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||Opposition parties cry foul on farm report||Opposition parties were left scrambling for an explanation after a parliamentary panel in which they had representation green-signalled one of the three contentious farm laws in a report tabled in Parliament on Friday. In the report tabled in the Lok Sabha, the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution recommended that the government “implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, in letter and spirit, and without… hindrances so that the farmers and other stakeholders of farming sector in this country receive the benefits intended under the said Act”. A day later, the Congress and Trinamul Congress, which has the chairmanship of the committee, said the report was a misrepresentation and evidence of the BJP’s “dirty tricks department in action ”. Saptagiri Sankar Ulaka, a Congress member of the panel, wrote to the Lok Sabha Speaker on Saturday, dissociating himself from the panel’s report on “Price Rise of Essential Commodities — Causes and Effects”. In his letter, Ulaka said the draft report of the committee was sent by email on Wednesday evening at 7pm and adopted the following morning between 10am and 10.30am under acting chairman Ajay Misra Teni. “I was not present when the report was adopted as the meeting was called at a short notice of merely 15 hours,” Ulaka said. The minutes of the meeting say Ulaka was present but it is possible that he was not there when the report was adopted. The Telegraph tried to contact him but could not reach him. Referring in particular to the recommendation of the panel “to implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, in letter and spirit”, Ulaka said in the letter, “I completely dissociate myself with this recommendation, and record my dissent to the report in line with the stand expressed by the Congress Party” in and outside Parliament. Ulaka said he had opposed the three farm laws at the meeting of the committee on December 16, 2020, but there is no reference to this in the report. As per rules, dissent notes are submitted to the committee before the report is finalised. Such dissent notes are tabled along with the report. Flagging the letter, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh said: “MPs of the Congress party DID NOT ask for implementation of the Essential Commodities Act. The standing committee report is a misrepresentation!” Two other Congress MPs who are on the panel have also written to the Speaker to record their dissent. Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien responded: “This is the BJP’s cheap ‘n dirty tricks department in action. Con job was done when Chairman of #Parliament Committee was not at meeting. @aitc position on #FarmLaws and Essential Commodities Act well documented. Withdraw draconian laws #FarmersProtest.” Trinamul is under particular attack because the panel is headed by its senior leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who was not present on Friday. Other Opposition parties represented in the panel include the National Conference, Shiv Sena, NCP, Aam Aadmi Party and the Samajwadi Party. Some of their representatives were present at the meeting. While the BJP would have been able to push through the report even if all Opposition MPs were present and protested,  the report would have recorded their dissent. Fauzia Khan of the NCP who did attend the meeting told this newspaper: “Well, the copy of the report was handed to us but there was no discussion on it and we had to rush to Parliament, so we did not get an opportunity to read the contents.” Upset with the panel report, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit of protesting farmer unions, urged the committee to withdraw the recommendations. “It is entirely disgraceful that many parties which have been claiming support to the farmers’ agitation for repeal of the three farm laws have voted for the implementation of the ECAA. This exposes a wider consensus amongst these parties on these laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||Dattatreya Hosabale elected as general secretary of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh||Dattatreya Hosabale, seen as close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was on Saturday elected sarkaryavah (general secretary) of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh for the next three years. Sangh parivar sources said Modi had tried to get Hosabale elected to the post since assuming power in 2014 and had now succeeded after failing in 2015 and 2018. Although the sarkaryavah is the second in command after the RSS chief or sarsanghchalak, he practically runs the organisation as the executive head. The sarsanghchalak is the ideological head, functioning as “philosopher and guide”. Hosabale, a 65-year-old native of Karnataka, was elected at the triennial meeting of the Sangh’s highest decision-making body, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, in Bangalore. In the wider Sangh parivar, Hosabale’s elevation is being seen as Modi tightening his grip over the ideological parent that is known to exert influence on the affairs of the BJP and its government. Modi has already seen off his fierce critic Praveen Togadia, who was ousted as international president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad in an election in 2018. Till now, certain RSS lobbies had been able to thwart Modi’s efforts to get Hosabale elected Sangh general secretary, arguing the ideological parent needed freedom from political interference. This line of argument had allowed the outgoing general secretary, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, 73, to hold on to the post for four consecutive three-year terms since 2009. However, after Modi led the BJP to an overwhelming victory in the 2019 general election, it became virtually impossible to block his choice, Sangh sources said. Modi is now being seen as the undisputed leader not only of the BJP and the government but of the entire Sangh parivar, emerging as its “ideological mentor and guide”, a senior Sangh official said. Unlike Atal Bihari Vajpayee whose reign as Prime Minister was marked by battles of attrition with the Sangh, Modi has succeeded in keeping the parent body happy and gradually gain sway over it. Indeed, by fulfilling the Sangh’s longstanding ideological commitments, such as those on the Ram temple and Article 370, Modi has in the eyes of many risen above the ideological parent. The RSS nowadays rarely criticises any government decision it does not like. For instance, sources said, the Sangh feels the government has failed to handle the farmers’ protest well but doesn’t dare say so. At the Bangalore meeting, the Sangh’s official position was that “anti-national and antisocial” elements were not allowing the farmers’ movement to end. Many in the Sangh and the BJP, however, said that Hosabale had earned the post given his talent, and that his organisational skills would be crucial to the party’s expansion efforts in the south. “Dattatreyaji hails from Karnataka and can speak Hindi, English, Sanskrit, Kannada and Tamil fluently. These skills are needed if the Sangh and the BJP are to expand their influence in south India,” a BJP leader said. He underlined that the current BJP general secretary (organisation), B.L. Santosh, too was from Karnataka. The BJP is keen to spread its influence beyond Karnataka to other southern states such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Hosabale, a former student of English literature, is known for his ability to articulate the Sangh’s ideological positions to the western world and had mentored RSS groups operating in America and Britain. He is also regarded as a staunch backer of the government’s policies under Modi, such as the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act, and has strong views on religious conversions. “In India secularism has been about minority appeasement and it has been anti-Hindu,” Hosabale had said in the past. He had, however, backed the #MeToo movement. As the new sarkaryavah, Hosabale will be in charge when Modi seeks re-election in 2024. Being only 65, he is expected to get at least a second term and helm the RSS when the organisation celebrates its centenary in 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||Ram Madhav sent back to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh||Ram Madhav, the high profile BJP leader, was on Saturday shunted back to the RSS as a member of the executive working committee. Madhav was dropped as the BJP general secretary in September last year when new party chief J.P. Nadda announced his team. He had come to the BJP from the RSS and was rewarded with a key organisational post as one of the general secretaries of the party under Amit Shah. As the BJP general secretary, Madhav had straddled as a party minder for the northeastern states as well as Jammu & Kashmir. His high profile nature and interventions, however, was learnt to have annoyed the then party boss Amit Shah. Party insiders said Madhav had spoilt his case further by entering into a factional feud with Himanta Biswa Sharma who had crossed over from the Congress and was regarded as an “asset” by Shah. Both Madhav and Sarma wanted total control over the Northeast. Madhav’s return to the RSS reflected the BJP’s firmness to sideline anyone trying to act independently. Despite his seniority, Madhav was not considered for a Rajya Sabha berth that was given to many junior leaders and new entrants. “Ram Madhav now has to start afresh and toil in the RSS before he can make it to the BJP again, and nobody knows when his time will come,” a BJP leader said, accusing him of being “too ambitious”. Now Madhav would be part of the Akhil Bharatiya Karyakarini or the executive working body of the RSS under Hosabale, a Modi loyalist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases on rise in eight states ||India’s health ministry reported over 40,000 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, raising the count of patients by over 17,000 in a single day after a week during which the spread of the virus was the fastest since August. The 40,953 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases, over 25,000 in Maharashtra alone, documented till 8am on Saturday increased the number of patients under medical supervision to over 288,000 from around 271,000 a day earlier, the health ministry said. The daily new cases are rising in eight states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Delhi and Haryana — the ministry said. In Kerala, the epidemic has shrunk with the seven-day average of daily new cases down from over 4,400 a month ago to about 1,800 on Saturday. Six states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh — make up 84 per cent of the new cases. “Except in Kerala, we see exponential growth back in almost all the 16 states that have the largest numbers of active cases,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a senior scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who has been tracking the epidemic’s course over the past year. Sinha’s calculations show that the effective reproductive number or R — a measure of the speed of transmission of the virus — for India as a whole has increased to 1.19, the highest since August. Any value above 1 represents an exponential growth. The R value was 1.08 during August-September, declined to 0.88 during the second half of October, rose to 0.93 between November 9 and February 17, rose further to 1.08 between February 14 and March 11, and then to 1.19 between March 10 and 17. “Five among our major metros also show exponential growth with R values greater than 1,” Sinha told The Telegraph. Pune has the highest R with 1.36, followed by Mumbai with 1.28 and Chennai with 1.20. Calcutta’s R value was 1.05 between March 12 and 17, rising from 0.76 during December-January. Sinha’s calculations do not cover the smaller towns where health authorities have recorded the sharpest rises in daily new cases since early March. “Small towns or districts at times show large fluctuations in numbers that make statistical inferences difficult,” Sinha said. India’s Covid-19 epidemic curve displays the start of a second wave, which some epidemiologists had believed was unlikely while others had said was inevitable once the virus began spreading among pools of susceptible people in the smaller towns. Experts said the current wave’s peak and duration would depend on the efficiency of the measures to curb the spread of the virus. “The size of the peak will depend on whether people adhere to the protocols to protect themselves and on the efficiency of the containment measures,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||'Unsigned letter in the name of Param Bir Singh is being verified'||An unsigned letter in the name of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and addressed to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is being verified, a statement from the chief minister’s office said. The letter, which was emailed to the chief minister’s secretariat in the afternoon, accuses home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption. The home department is trying to contact Singh and the  sender’s email address is being verified because Singh’s email address in official records was different, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik revisits pakhal lunch||Odisha on Saturday observed Pakhal Divas with most people in the state eating the dish called pakhal (water rice) to beat the summer heat. Even chief minister Naveen Patnaik admitted that pakhal was his favourite food and shared a picture of him having the delicacy along with former President late Pranab Mukherjee, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, veteran BJP leader L.K. Advani and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury in 2018. The picture was taken when these leaders had visited Bhubaneswar for the release of The Tall Man Biju Patnaik, a book on Naveen’s father, and had lunch with him at Naveen Nivas. Sharing the picture on his Twitter handle, Naveen tweeted: “It is always a pleasure to relish Odia cuisine, especially my favourite pakhal, which I have a special liking for. Remember fondly the appreciation of guests from outside the state and country whenever we served them pakhal. Wishing you all a happy Pakhal Divas.” Traditionally pakhal is prepared by keeping leftover rice in an earthen pot with some water and a small amount of curd or lemon added to it. The rice gets fermented after seven to eight hours and turns into pakhal. It is relished most during the months of March, April, May, June and mid-July when the mercury soars. To beat the scorching summer, the rice after being cooked is cooled in a bowl of water. “No one can think of life without pakhal during summer. It has been a tradition since generations. But the dish got a national and international identity only a few years ago,” said Uma Patnaik, a roadside vendor. “One can get a sumptuous lunch comprising pakhal and other items at Rs 100. The water in the fermented rice is known as torani and keeps the body cool and prevents sunstroke. People who toil in the sun have pakhal as it replenishes the salt and water lost by the body. Even at the Shree Jagannath temple in Puri, pakhal is served to the Lord,” said Raja Prasad Mohanty, a small businessman. While people mostly eat pakhal with various kinds of fried items, including fish, the poor have it just with onion and it tastes just as good. “It’s a poor man’s delight,” said Madhusmita Pradhan, a foodie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘Didi’ will score 10 goals even with broken leg says Dev||Trinamool Congress MP Dev while campaigning for his party’s Binpur candidate Debnath Hansda, claimed that the work done Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal is unparallel. He asserted that that ‘didi’ would score 10 goals in the upcoming elections even with a broken leg. Addressing an election rally at Silda in the Jhargram district, the Tollywood superstar hit out at the BJP over the rising fuel prices. “The work done by Mamata Banerjee in the last 10 years is unparallel. No other chief minister in any other state has done such great work ever. Because of the work done by her, ‘Didi’ can score 10 goals even with this broken leg,” Dev said amid chants of ‘Khela Hobey’ (game will happen) from the crowd. “It will be a game to take people on the path of development, and people will ensure to end the game of those who play politics of religion. The people of Bengal will win the game,” he said at the rally, which saw a massive gathering to see the superstar amid sweltering heat. The Trinamool Congress leader said that women in Bengal are more secure than those in other states, slamming the BJP for “false propaganda”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
21-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP promises farm sops, culture fund in Bengal poll manifesto ||The BJP on Sunday unveiled its manifesto for the West Bengal elections, promising to build a "Sonar Bangla" by providing employment, strengthening social security schemes and vowing to clear the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in the first cabinet meeting of the new government. Unveiling the "Sonar Bangla Sankalpa Patra" at EZCC in Salt Lake, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said that BJP will ensure the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat healthcare scheme and the PM-Kisan programme in the state, besides giving at least one job per family. Assuring to provide arrears of Rs 18,000 to 75 lakh farmers of the state under PM-Kisan, the BJP promised Rs 10,000 per year for them, if voted to power, with Rs 6,000 being contributed by the Centre and the rest by the state. The party also announced a Rs 5,000 crore intervention fund to assure farmers' economic security, besides accidental insurance worth Rs 3 lakh for small farmers and fishermen. In the manifesto, the party promised a Sonar Bangla fund worth Rs 11,000 crore to promote art, literature and other such sectors, and a Tagore Prize on the lines of the Nobel Prize. The BJP also promised seventh pay commission implementation for state government employees and 30 per cent reservation for women in state government jobs. Promising to act tough on infiltration, the BJP promised "strictest border security". The party also promised free KG to PG education for all women and free travel for them in public transport. It promised to build new AIIMS in North Bengal, Jungle Mahal and Sunderban regions, besides toilets and clean drinking water for every family. Shah said that when the BJP forms the government in West Bengal, people would not have to go to court for organising Durga Puja and Saraswati Puja. "Bengal has turned into one of the most unsafe states for women. Inaction for years has broken the dreams of the youth and has stopped the flow of employment. In the last 10 years, TMC's ill-governance has started a dark chapter in Bengal's history," he alleged. In the poll manifesto, the party also promised a Rs 20,000 crore Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar Fund for the infrastructure development of schools, and five universities at par with IITs and IIMs. The party said that to transform Calcutta into an international city, it will set up a Calcutta Development Fund worth Rs 22,000 crore and also ensure that the metropolis becomes a UNESCO Heritage City. "We have decided that we will clear the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in the first cabinet meeting itself, besides approving the Ayushman Bharat scheme for the benefit of the poor," Shah said. The party further promised that every refugee family will be given Rs 10,000 per year for five years through direct benefit transfer (DBT). Shah said that his party would work towards building a safe Bengal, an "appeasement-free Bengal" and an infiltration-free state, if voted to power. "We will bring back the Bengal that made the entire nation proud," he said. "You have given time to Congress, over 30 years to Communists and ten years to TMC. Give us five years to build a Sonar Bangla," he said, urging the people to vote for the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata questioning EVMs as she anticipates losing polls, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that anticipating defeat in the Bengal Assembly elections, Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee has already started questioning the functioning of EVMs which had brought her to power 10 years ago. Asserting that asol parivartan (real change) is coming to Bengal for the development of the state and to fulfil the dreams of the youth, Modi said "bhrastachar-er khela cholbe na" (game of corruption will not continue). "Anticipating defeat, Didi has already started questioning the EVMs (electronic voting machine) which had brought her to power 10 years back," Modi said addressing a well-attended election rally in Bankura. Mamata has been calling on party workers to keep an eye on EVM machines fearing tampering of the machines. He claimed that wall posters put up by TMC displayed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee kicking at his head. Bengal has a long tradition of cartoons and graffiti for political messages. "I always bow my head in the service of 130 crore people of the country, Didi can put her leg on my head and kick it but I will not allow her to kick the dreams of Bengal's people," he said. Modi claimed that since scams could not be done in Ayushman Bharat, PM -Kisan and direct benefit transfer schemes of the Centre, the TMC government here did not implement these in Bengal. "BJP runs on schemes, the TMC runs on scams," he said. Modi said that Mamata Banerjee has played with the lives of Bengal's people for 10 years, but now her khela (game) will be over and vikas (development) will start.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
21-03-2021||West Bengal||I am a fool, says Mamata as Adhikari family joins BJP ||Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Sunday blamed herself for not recognising the "true face" of the influential Adhikari family of Purba Medinipur district. Venting her ire against Suvendu Adhikari, her protege-turned-rival who is pitted against the TMC leader from Nandigram constituency for the coming assembly polls, Mamata said at an election rally here, she had even heard rumours the Adhikari family had built an empire worth Rs 5,000 crore. The chief minister said she will get it investigated once she is voted to power. Most members of the Adhikari family, which holds considerable political clout in the district, have either joined the BJP or expressed a desire to join the saffron party. Veteran TMC MP Sisir Adhikari - father of Suvendu Adhikari - joined the BJP at Egra on Sunday in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders of the party. She compared the Adhikari family with "Mir Jafar" (traitor) and said the people of the region will not tolerate it and give befitting replies with ballots. "I say I am a 'big donkey' (Ami ekta boro gadha) for having failed to recognise them. I don't know (about it), but people say their `empire' is worth Rs 5,000 crore and they will use money to buy votes. But don't vote for them," Mamata told the rally. The TMC chief also described the BJP as a party of "rogues and goons". She also blamed the Adhikari family for ruling the district as zamindars (landlords) by taking full control of the area, claiming that even she was not allowed to hold public meetings there. Highlighting that all works like health, roads and other schemes were undertaken by the state government and not by the Adhikari family, Banerjee urged the crowd to keep the BJP out of West Bengal to maintain peace and further the pace of development. Earlier too, she had described Suvendu Adhikari as a traitor, pointing out that she had blindly supported him when he was in the Trinamul Congress. Mamata also attempted to play the nationalistic card by raising slogans of "Bande Mataram" and "Jai Hind". Mamata left her Bhawanipur constituency in Calcutta to contest against her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat, where an anti-land acquisition movement catapulted the TMC to power in the state in 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari joins BJP as Amit Shah lashes out at Mamata government||Veteran TMC MP Sisir Adhikari -- father of BJP heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari -- joined the BJP at Egra on Sunday in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders of the party. The patriarch of the Adhikari family -- which wields considerable influence in Bengal's Purba Medinipur district -- said that he had to work really hard to rise through the ranks in the TMC, but the treatment meted out to him and his sons, of late, forced him to switch camp. "The way our family was driven out (of TMC) will be forever written in history. We will rise against all political attacks and atrocities in Bengal. We will work under Modiji and Amit Shahji," the Lok Sabha MP said, chanting 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Bharat Mata ki Jai'. Shah addressed a public meeting at Egra during the day. Asserting that the BJP does not believe in vote-bank politics, the union home minister, in a dig at TMC chief Mamata Banerjee over her "appeasement policies", said that his party, if elected to power, will ensure no one imposes any curb on religious practices. Shah, during a rally here in Purba Medinipur district, reaffirmed that the BJP will build 'sonar Bangla' (golden Bengal) over the next five years, propelled by the party’s double-engine government at the Centre and the state. "School teachers in Bengal were beaten up for organising 'saraswati puja'. The TMC dispensation does not allow Saraswati puja celebration in schools. The BJP, after coming to power, will ensure that there is no restriction in organising any religious festival," Shah stated.  He accused the Mamata Banerjee government of "encouraging infiltration" in Bengal. Belittling Banerjee's monthly compensation promise of Rs 500 for every underprivileged person in the general category, Shah also sought to know if TMC leaders would seek "cut-money or commission" from the beneficiaries. "The TMC men demand their share for every 5 anna (paise). I wonder if those close to 'bhaipo' (CM's nephew Abhishek Banerjee) would seek cut-money before doling out Rs 500 every month to the general-category residents," he said. The home minister also cautioned people against violence and aggression during the elections. "You (people) know very well what all happened during the panchayat polls in 2018. No one was allowed to exercise franchise. Votes were replaced with bombs," he pointed out. Claiming that over 130 BJP functionaries have been murdered in Bengal in recent times, he said "We will hunt down the killers from under the ground." Shah also said that his party, if allowed to form government in Bengal, will implement the seventh pay commission, "as we know this has been a long-standing demand of state government employees here." Alleging that TMC chief wants her nephew and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee to be the next chief minister", Shah said, "Do you want that or do you wish to live in 'Sonar Bangla' that PM Narendra Modi has promised to build." In a bid to woo the women voters, he assured 33 per cent reservation for them in government services. "Our government will give farmers Rs 10,000 every year, in addition to the funds provided by the Centre. Also, fishermen will be given Rs 6,000 each. People will get health insurance up to Rs 5 lakh under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Mamata didi could never dish out such benefits," Shah added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari says he will join BJP, ends weeks of speculation||Ending weeks of speculation, disgruntled TMC MP Sisir Adhikari said on Sunday that he will join the BJP, following in the footsteps of his two sons Suvendu and Soumendu, and put up a formidable fight against the Mamata Banerjee camp to "save the honour of Midnapore". The patriarch of the Adhikari family -- which wields considerable influence in Bengal's Purba Medinipur district -- said that he was forced to switch camp, as the leaders of the ruling party left him with no other option. Earlier, too, the TMC MP had accused the ruling party of "humiliating" him and son Suvendu, who is locked in a fierce battle with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the district's Nandigram constituency. "They (TMC leaders) forced me to join the BJP. Let them (TMC) do what they want, and I will do what I can," Adhikari told reporters here before leaving for Egra, where he is set to attend Union Home Minister Amit Shah's rally. He asserted that Suvendu Adhikari will bag the Nandigram seat by a comfortable margin. "Suvendu will win the polls by a huge margin. The TMC will be wiped out of East Midnapore," the Lok Sabha MP added. Sources in the BJP said his other son Dibyendu, a TMC MP from Tamluk, may also follow suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: No political appointee on civic chair, says EC ||The Election Commission of India issued an order on Saturday to remove political appointees as chairpersons of boards of administrators in five municipal corporations — most of whom are Trinamul leaders — including Calcutta and Bidhannagar. The board of administrators were appointed to run civic bodies after elections could not be held owing to the pandemic last year after the five-year tenure of the elected boards expired. In its order, the poll panel has asked state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and urban development secretary Khalil Ahmad to appoint government officials in place of the political personalities. The commission, by exercising its plenary powers under Article 324 of the Constitution, also entrusted the chief secretary with ensuring a “level playing field” in all other civic bodies — over 110 — where elections could not be held, and political leaders appointed as the chairpersons of board of administrators, with “rigorous reviews” of the decisions. Other than Calcutta and Bidhannagar, the order applies to civic corporations in Asansol, Siliguri and Chandernagore. The chief secretary has been asked to send a compliance report to the EC by Monday. The chairperson of the board of administrators for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Firhad Hakim, and his Siliguri counterpart Asok Bhattacharya are in fray this year. Hakim is Trinamul’s candidate from the Kolkata Port seat. CPM veteran Bhattacharya is contesting from Siliguri. Sources said Opposition parties, mainly the BJP, had lodged complaints with the EC alleging that civic body offices were being used by Trinamul to influence voters and as its extended party offices. “Work orders were being issued for various civic bodies on back dates even after MCC (model code of conduct) was put in place. We wanted all political leaders to be removed from the board of administrators as these are no more elected bodies,” Sabyasachi Dutta, the BJP candidate from Bidhannagar, alleged. Countering the “no more elected bodies” argument, a Trinamul leader said former mayors or chairpersons had been tasked with running the civic bodies amid the pandemic. “Elections to civic bodies could not be held because of the pandemic. The government wanted to run civic services smoothly during the pandemic and that’s why former mayors were appointed.... Now, if the ECI removes them it has to ensure that civic services are not affected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: CID takes over probe into CM’s Nandigram injury||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has been asked by the state government to conduct an inquiry into the incident at Nandigram that left chief minister Mamata Banerjee injured on March 10. The Election Commission of India had asked the state chief secretary and DGP to initiate action against security personnel who failed to prevent the incident. “An order to hand over the inquiry to the CID was issued on Saturday. The CID has been asked to file the investigation report at the earliest,” said a senior bureaucrat. Senior officers in the CID said the probe would focus on three key issues — how the chief minister injured her left leg while in a car, what was the series of events that resulted in her cringing in pain with her injured left leg despite a security ring around her and whether there was any criminal plot to the incident or it was just an accident. “A Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been set up and the members would be visiting the area on Sunday to talk to some of those who were present when the incident took place including a few shop owners of the local market,” said a senior CID officer. Sources said the decision to hand over the probe to the CID was taken after the progress of the police inquiry into the incident was slow and the chief secretary and the DGP had to seek more time from the EC to follow its instruction of initiating action against the guilty. The chief secretary and the DGP had been asked by the EC to initiate action against proximate security personnel by March 17 but the deadline could not be met. The poll panel has already removed director security, Vivek Sahay and East Midnapore SP Pravin Prakash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Nandigram cases force TMC leaders into hiding||Murder cases against several Trinamul Congress leaders, withdrawn previously by the Mamata Banerjee government but reopened by judicial intervention brought on by a BJP candidate recently, has sent a bulk of the Nandigram’s ruling party leadership into hiding, prompting a change in campaign plans for the chief minister. Despite her ongoing three-day, nine-rally tour in East Midnapore, Mamata was conspicuous by her absence from Nandigram, where she is engaged in a prestige battle with former aide Suvendu Adhikari, now in the BJP. Local leaders of Trinamul said the re-strategising was necessitated by a development in the judiciary, prompted by the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate Nilanjan Adhikari, preventing the withdrawal of two murder cases, with 63 accused between them, from the time of the anti-land acquisition movement at Nandigram during the Left Front era. The reopening of the cases, prodded by the judiciary, has forced 30-odd leaders of the Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC), the umbrella body of the land rights movement with representation from the major non-Left political forces, to go into hiding. Most are from Trinamul, but there are leaders from the Congress and even the BJP. “These leaders will be arrested, with the police administration under the Election Commission of India, if they appear in public. That’s why they are no longer seen in campaign events,” said a senior Trinamul leader. “Some have been campaigning door-to-door, surreptitiously, in ones and twos. But that’s about all they can do. It is a real headache for us, especially because they were the backbone and brains of our election machinery in the Nandigram I block,” he added. That is why, despite six rallies — in Egra, Patashpur, Mecheda on Friday and Haldia, Khejuri and Panskura on Saturday — by Mamata, and three more lined up on Sunday, there is no prominent Nandigram event this time. The 63 accused include at least a dozen elected representatives of Trinamul, including Mamata’s chief election agent Sheikh Sufiyan. “There is no doubt that the resurrection of the cases was because of that PIL by the BJP’s Nandakumar candidate, who was put up to it by Suvendu Adhikari,” said Sufiyan, who has been in hiding. “Didi will come back on March 29 and 30, along with a battery of senior leaders from Calcutta for a Nandigram-centric campaign. However, we cannot be part if it. It is the BJP’s conspiracy, yes,” he added. Speaking in Khejuri on Saturday, Mamata promised to come to Nandigram. “...We will meet in Nandigram again. I have programmes there. I will be there from the evening of Holi (March 28). Please come to the Nandigram events, I invite you… and remember it always, the BJP is more dangerous than pythons.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP nominating turncoat Biswajit Kundu triggers mass switch to TMC||Around 70 BJP workers from of Kalna Assembly seat in East Burdwan joined Trinamul late on Friday to express their disgust with the BJP for nominating controversial Trinamul turncoat Biswajit Kundu. “We left Trinamul six years ago for the BJP to protest Kundu’s corruption. We were shocked when Kundu joined the BJP and got the ticket,” said Prabir Mondal, one of the 70 BJP workers who switched sides. Before switching over to Trinamul, the BJP workers had blocked a road in Kalna town on Friday evening demanding change of nominee. “Despite our protests, senior BJP leaders asked us to support Kundu as his name came from Delhi. Senior leaders may have their own interest in supporting Kundu, but we could not accept him. So, we decided to quit the party,” said another. Senior Trinamul leaders in Kalna said they had received proposals from around 500 BJP workers who are willing to switch sides following Kundu’s nomination. “Kundu joined the BJP after he came to know that Trinamul won’t give him a ticket over allegations of corruption against him,” Pranab Roy, Trinamul’s Kalna II block president, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Modi sings Dilip’s praises, BJP camps gape ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi heaped praise on BJP state president Dilip Ghosh while addressing a poll rally in West Midnapore’s Kharagpur on Saturday, the honour prompting party leaders to wonder what prompted the PM to single out Ghosh ahead of the Bengal polls. “I’m proud that my party has a state president like Dilip Ghosh. To help the party win, Dilip Ghosh neither slept peacefully nor cowered before Didi’s threats in the past two years or so.... There have been several attacks on him. There were attempts to kill him. But he kept walking with a vow to usher in a bright future for Bengal. Today, he is a source of energy in Bengal,” Modi said with Ghosh by his side on the stage. Multiple state BJP leaders this correspondent spoke to said they couldn’t recall another instance when Modi had invested almost a full minute to praise any leader from Bengal. “We were all surprised.... We have made extraordinary progress under Dilipda’s reign, but Modiji praising Dilipda ahead of the polls is significant,” a state office-bearer of the party said. Before praising Ghosh, Modi raised the slogan “Bangal mein iss baar, BJP sarkar” (This time, a BJP government in Bengal). On why he felt that the ground was ready for a change in Bengal, Modi cited two factors — the sacrifice of 130 party workers (who died) and Dilip Ghosh. The praise created a flutter in the faction-ridden BJP state unit. Those close to Ghosh claimed it was an endorsement of the possibility of Ghosh becoming the chief ministerial candidate. His detractors did not want to read much into it. Right now, the moot question in the BJP camp has been who would head the government if the party comes to power. This has deepened the cracks in the state unit as many, including Ghosh, Union minister Babul Supriyo, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, MP Locket Chatterjee and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari are believed to be harbouring chief ministerial ambitions. A group said Modi was probably trying to address micro concerns. “Dilipda was the people’s favourite for the Kharagpur Town seat, but actor Hiran Chatterjee was fielded from here. Modiji was probably trying to avert potential discontent regarding the candidature,” a BJP leader from Midnapore said. Reacting to Modi’s praise, Ghosh said: “I’m just discharging the responsibilities the party has given me. If my leaders are happy with me, I'll think that it is the result of my toil and hard work. He (Modi) had come here five years ago and addressed a meeting, I had won and become an MLA. Then I became an MP from there. Naturally I’ve a different connection with Midnapore. He might have felt that he should take my name, because people are with me and it will benefit the party because the people there want me…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: PM and CM line up state’s ‘great sons’ for poll battle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday flaunted the BJP’s Bengali credentials to say that his party emerged from the Jana Sangh founded by “a great son of Bengal”, Syama Prasad Mookerjee, his comment earning a swift response from chief minister Mamata Banerjee who invoked an array of icons to illustrate what the state stood for. At a rally in West Midnapore’s Kharagpur on Saturday, Modi tagged the BJP as a party that belonged to Bengal in the true sense of the term. “I had said at the Brigade (Parade) grounds that the BJP was indebted to Bengal. The BJP has been formed out of Jana Sangh. Jana Sangher janmadatar naam ki? Jana Sangh jawnmodatar naam ki? (What is the name of Jana Sangh’s founder?) Jana Sangh janmadatar naam hochhey (The name of Jana Sangh’s founder is) Syamaprasad Mookerjee,” Modi said. “Jana Sangh’s founder was a great son of Bengal. Therefore, if there is a party from Bengal, in the true sense here, then it is only the BJP. The BJP’s DNA contains Ashutosh Mukherjee and Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s values, ideology, behaviour and culture. With this culture we want to help every part of Bengal achieve new heights of development,” Modi added. Within an hour of Modi’s address, Mamata took to the stage to address a poll rally in East Midnapore’s Khejuri and debunked Modi’s claims. “We people belong to the land of Rabindranath (Tagore)-Nazrul (Islam), we respect Vivekananda, Ramakrishna, Ambedkar, Maulana Azad, Bhagat Singh, Mahatma Gandhiji and Netaji…And they are showing us Syama Prasad Mookerjee…Go and see, only yesterday they threw Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s photographs and set them on fire,” Mamata said in an obvious reference to BJP workers burning banners and buntings of the party to protest the choice of candidates at many places in Bengal. In his speech on Saturday, Modi invested close to three minutes to invoke Bengal’s Khudiram Bose, Hemchandra Kanungo, Deshpran Birendranath Sashmal, Nirmal Jibon Ghosh, Matangini Hazra, Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar, Sarada Devi, Rani Rashmoni, Devi Chaudhurani, Kadambini Ganguly, and Chandramukhi Basu. While Modi appealed to Bengali sentiments, Mamata didn’t forget to remind her audience about the vandalism of Vidyasagar’s statue in Calcutta in May 2019 by alleged BJP supporters during a rally led by Amit Shah. “They broke the statue of Vidyasagar,” Mamata said. “All this is because they are outsider goons. They don’t know Bengal. Bengal is not a place for outsider goons.” BJP sources said it was a matter of concern that with only a week left for the first phase of polls the PM himself had to try to prove his party’s Bengal connect. Modi also repeated his allegations against Mamata and her nephew and Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee. Attacking Abhishek, Modi said while a single-window system had been introduced in the nation for investors, Mamata introduced in Bengal a single-window system known as the “nephew window”. “Nothing works if you don’t go through this window in Bengal,” Modi said. Taking a jibe at Trinamul’s 10-point poll manifesto, Modi said the people of Bengal had given Didi 10 years to serve them, but she in return gave bad governance and corruption. Though Modi went ballistic in his attack on Mamata, the less-than-expected turnout for Saturday’s rally in Kharagpur’s BNR Grounds left state leaders worried. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh blamed the police for it. “The police have stopped party workers from coming to the meeting. They (BJP supporters) defy the police and come to the meetings by any means,” Ghosh said. Mamata Banerjee once again lambasted her former cabinet colleague Suvendu Adhikari for being a “traitor”, drawing parallels with the Battle of Plassey in 1757. “Traitors don’t rule Bengal. Could Mir Jafar do it? In cahoots with the English, he did manage to get Siraj ud-Daulah defeated… but couldn’t do anything himself after that,” she said in Khejuri. “Bengal will rule Bengal. Outsiders, facilitated by traitors here, will not succeed in the end.” Barely 40km away in Egra, Adhikari accused Mamata of conducting a campaign like a leader of the Opposition. “I am not a traitor… whatever was given to me, I returned everything to Mamata Banerjee. I told her to give everything to the bhaipo (Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Rising Covid cases fuel containment zone talk in Bengal||The Bengal government has asked district magistrates to consider setting up containment zones once again if they deem it necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as positive cases have started rising again in the state. “The chief secretary (Alapan Bandyopadhyay) recently held a video-conference with district magistrates and asked them to take a stand like setting up containment zones if needed. The state was asked to initiate required measures during a video-conference between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers (on March 16),” said a senior bureaucrat. Chief secretary Bandyopadhyay had represented Bengal in the video-conference with Modi. The last containment zone was set up in Bengal in January as infections were on a decline since Vijaya Dashami till they started showing an upward trend early this month. Some health department officials said though Covid-19 cases had not gone up alarmingly in the state till now, Bengal wants to take a lesson from Maharashtra where daily cases have reached 25,000-odd from 8,900-odd on February 28. In Bengal, the state recorded 347 cases on March 19. The figure was 194 on February 19. So far, the rise has been mostly seen in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. “Containment zones could be made in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas first, if needed, and the number of cases found in an area will decide this,” said an official. The situation, officials said, could turn critical as political parties are organising huge rallies ahead of Assembly polls. “Covid-19 protocols are hardly followed in political rallies. We can’t impose curbs on rallies, only the Election Commission can as the model code of conduct is in place,” said an official. The state government has decided to start public awareness events in markets, bus stands and railway stations once again. “People are not following norms.…We will make them aware why wearing masks and maintaining physical distance is still required,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: No ticket, BJP leader mourns cash||A senior BJP district-level leader in North Dinajpur accused Raiganj MP and Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri and some party leaders of dangling a ticket to “wheedle” him into spending around Rs 28 lakh for socio-political work and then ultimately denying him a nomination. “Since last Durga Puja, I have spent Rs 28 lakh for social work and political activities taken up by the BJP. I was promised the ticket for Raiganj, but was betrayed. I suspect the local MP (Chaudhuri) and some leaders did it (nominated someone else) for money. I will contest as an Independent,” said Madan Biswas, vice-president of BJP’s OBC Morcha in North Dinajpur and a furniture trader. Biswas lamenting over his “investment” that did not pay off is the first district-level leader to come up with a serious allegation like this, said a BJP insider in the region. A party leader added that Biswas was confident that the BJP would field him from Raiganj but the ticket went to Trinamul turncoat Krishna Kalyani. “This angered him tremendously,” he said. Biswajit Lahiri, district BJP chief, however, said Biswas spent money for the party like many other affluent party members. “It is nothing new. Whoever among us can afford to make such expenses contributes to the party. He did it and earned mileage as the publicity materials he paid for had his name as a courtesy. But none from the BJP promised him a ticket. His allegation of corruption (over fielding Kalyani) is baseless,” said Lahiri. MP and Union minister of state Chaudhuri also denied Biswas’s charges. “We have never made any such promises to him. He went on printing publicity materials with his photograph and name…. We alerted him to abstain from these and instead campaign for the party. It is unfortunate that he is raising such baseless charges now,” she said. Another BJP worker Kamal Rajbanshi is relieved that he did not get a ticket. Kamal, the caretaker-cum-night guard of the district BJP office here, had aspired to contest the elections and had filed an application like hundreds of others. He confessed he was disappointed initially when his party did not pick him, but the violence that erupted in the area over the list made him realise it was good for his peace of mind that he stayed a “common BJP worker”. Trinamul and BJP supporters demonstrated in Malda on Saturday as well, demanding nominees be replaced. Demonstrators of both camps protested in front of district offices in Malda town and on NH12. Police had to clear the blockades. Trinamul supporters, sources said, wanted Pradeep Baskey, fielded from Habibpur after original candidate Sarala Murmu defected to the BJP, be changed. Baskey has recently joined Trinamul from the BJP, and protesters want an old-timer as  candidate. BJP supporters demanded Joyel Murmu, the MLA of Habibpur seat, and Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, the BJP candidate of Englishbazar, be replaced. District leaders of both parties have made it clear that there will be no change. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
21-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Saffron party can afford to lose, others cannot, says Prashant Kishor||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s political strategist, Prashant Kishor, has called the Bengal election a critical milestone from where India could veer towards becoming a one-party state. “The BJP can afford to lose this election and still remain a strong all-India party, the others cannot,” Kishor said in an exclusive interview to The Telegraph. “This election will mean the difference between India retaining the vibrancy of a multi-party democracy and becoming a one-nation, one-party state. That is how important this election is. “For Trinamul to lose Bengal to the BJP will mean a shadow cast much wider. It will have a huge psychological impact beyond Bengal. It will put a question on the viability of putting up a challenge to the BJP. Many others will come under pressure or get demoralised…. That’s the battle we are fighting.” That said, Kishor was certain Trinamul would retain power under Mamata. “The only way the BJP could have won was if Trinamul had collapsed. That has not happened. The BJP was hoping Trinamul would come apart, but they did not contend with Didi and what she means.” Expanding on the claim, Kishor added: “This BJP is a formidable force in Bengal today but there is no way they are going to win, absolutely not. For the BJP to win, they need at least 44 per cent of the vote, which means they will have to substantially up their Lok Sabha numbers. “Barring a few small-state exceptions like Haryana and Tripura, the BJP’s Assembly vote share has always been lower than what they secure in Lok Sabha elections. The BJP has an uphill task; I can tell you they are not winning this one.” Since his debut assignment with Narendra Modi in 2014, Kishor has designed and strategised a string of electoral campaigns, often zig-zagging political and ideological fence lines. Nearly two years into his assignment with Mamata, Kishor struck a realistic tone, not wanting to underestimate the potential of the BJP’s attempt at a power grab in Bengal. For instance, he believes there could be two ways of looking at the BJP’s decision to press party MPs into an Assembly contest — it could be viewed as desperation, it could also be viewed as a signal of “seriousness of intent”. “The BJP is here to stay for a long time, make no mistake,” he said. Even so, Kishor was confident Trinamul would not only retain power but also increase its vote share. Asked how, he said: “Two reasons. Didi remains by far the most popular leader in Bengal. Nobody has such energy, grit, intelligence and presence. Secondly, look at how swiftly and wholesomely we have responded and rearranged ourselves. We saw and recognised the threat from the BJP; we put in place an elaborate strategy which was a mix of the administrative and the political.” Among the fetching outreach programmes, Kishor named Duare Sarkar, Paray Samadhan, Swasthya Sathi and the Didi Ke Bolo helpline. “I am not saying all of these people will vote Trinamul, but do not discount the dividends such a comprehensive outreach can shore up. At the political level, two-thirds of the district presidents have been changed. Now this too has led to all that ‘exodus’ talk that the BJP wants to hype, but the truth is we have a younger, more proactive leadership across the state.” On whether it has helped Trinamul that the BJP hasn’t projected a chief ministerial face, Kishor said: “I know it is not a popular thing to say, but if they had projected a face against Didi, things would have been easier for us.” Kishor dismissed the Left-Congress “jote” as of “no significance” in the election and asserted that the contest was bipolar. He conceded that the BJP, and Prime Minister Modi’s personal appeal, had created a “formidable social coalition alloying religion with subaltern castes” and shored up sections of the non-Bengali voter, but argued that polarisation of the electorate would take the BJP some distance but no further. “Bengal is already as polarised as it could get. Is that enough to take the BJP through? No. There is no denying the BJP’s divisive thrust and polarisation, but please complete the circle. Is the polarisation 100 per cent? Or even a little more than 50 per cent? Is the majority community completely blinded by just one factor? No. That doesn’t happen,” he said. “In Gujarat the BJP gets 55 per cent of the vote, although the Muslim population is only 10 per cent. In UP, through the 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections, the BJP got roughly 40 per cent. So, despite optimum polarisation everything doesn’t go one way; the tea leaves need to be carefully sifted and read.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
21-03-2021||West Bengal||‘The Bengal election is critical to whether India will become a one-nation one-party state’||It is close to two years since you took up the Mamata Banerjee project. What was the challenge when you started and what is its shape now? I had a good idea of what I was getting into. The 2019 elections were just over and the BJP had done exceptionally well. The challenge was always to meet the tremendous might of the BJP and Sangh and their huge resources and machinery. Also, more and more, the fact that key wings of government and institutions were working in tandem with the powers. The task was, and remains, monumental because of the behemoth we are faced with. Add to that the reality that there is a degree of discontent against the Trinamul at the grassroots level; that happens when a party has been in power for 10 years. There is anti-incumbency though I would like to stress that it is mostly around local Trinamul leaders and units. You mean anti-incumbency hasn’t affected the chief minister. Yes, contrary to what some people like to believe, the discontent is mostly local, which is not to say it can be brushed aside. The Trinamul is a unique party and its nature has to be understood. It is not a party with a deep history or a committed cadre base. It is built on the sheer energy of a lady called Mamata Banerjee and it revolves around her. People keep joining and leaving but the core is Didi, nobody else. One of the challenges has been, with all these individuals coming in and departing, to retain internal coherence when so many others are coming and going, and it all comes down to Mamata to maintain coherence and reduce contradictions. The BJP is playing on those contradictions and benefitting from them… Yes, they are playing that game and that is the nature of political parties, especially around elections. But they haven’t gone very far with it, they haven’t been able to touch or smear what it means to be Mamata Banerjee. Having said that, the BJP has become a very powerful force. How has the BJP become an entity to reckon with in Bengal, to the degree that they are serious contenders for power? Their rise has been swift and startling. Yes, and there are reasons for it. I believe there is always space for an Opposition in a democracy, it depends on how the Opposition plays it. After the second victory of the Trinamul in 2016, the Opposition in Bengal, the Left-Congress jote, collapsed. The BJP took advantage and occupied that space. There are several factors behind how they managed it. If you look at Bengal’s political history, the locally dominant party, the Left or the Trinamul, has never really faced a determined challenge from the ruling party at the Centre. This is the first time a dominant power in Delhi is making a strong grab for power. That has traction. There are other factors. The BJP has used the Hindu-Muslim card unabashedly. Both the Left and the Trinamul have talked up minorities and got their support. Now comes the BJP and says, well, that was all appeasement politics, let’s talk the majority, let’s go majoritarian. That has some traction too. Another factor: caste is not anything to ignore across India; the BJP has been sharp to recognise that in Bengal. Both the Left and the Trinamul have broadly been upper-caste-led parties and did not pay specific, or enough, attention to other groups that make up a significant votebank. The Namasudras, the Rajbanshis, the Bagdis, the Bauris, there are many such groups. The BJP has alloyed Hinduism with subaltern castes and extracted benefit. Calcutta and its neighbourhood have a huge population of Hindi-speakers who have never felt they belonged; with the BJP and Narendra Modi, they suddenly find an entity they identify with. Add to these those who are opposed to the Trinamul and no longer believe the Left-Congress jote is a viable alternative. The BJP today is the recipient of lots of support from those who were either with the Left or the Congress. And there is also what I call the Modi voter, mostly young, urban and male in Bengal’s case. These make up a formidable electoral coalition for the BJP. Make no mistake, no matter what happens, the BJP has arrived in Bengal and will remain a force to reckon with for a long time. You are almost suggesting you have lost the election, you make the BJP sound like a sure-fire winner… (Laughs) Absolutely not. No. The BJP will not win, all I am arguing is that they are a very strong party even if they lose, which they will. Is there a meaning to this election beyond just who wins or loses? I mean, the arrival of the BJP and the churn around it, the “Jai Shri Ram” cries, is there a deeper social and cultural aspect to it? Look, there are no firewalls between what is social, cultural or political, everything gets affected and reflected in organic fashion, you cannot separate one from the other. This election will define the trajectory of democracy in this country, Bengal is the critical milestone to where we are headed as a nation. It will mean the difference between India retaining the vibrancy of a multi-party democracy or becoming a one-nation, one-party state. That is how important this election is. For the Trinamul to lose Bengal to the BJP will mean a shadow cast much wider. It will have a huge psychological impact beyond Bengal. It will put a question on the viability of putting up a challenge to the BJP, many others will come under pressure or get demoralised. To give you an example, the BJP’s huge victory in UP in 2017 did play some part in Nitish Kumar’s decision to suddenly shift to the NDA. The BJP can afford to lose this election and still remain a strong national power, the others cannot. That is the battle we are fighting. What makes you so certain you are winning it? The only way the BJP could have won was if the Trinamul had collapsed. That has not happened. The BJP was hoping the Trinamul would come apart, but they did not contend with Didi and what she means. But many have left the Trinamul in recent weeks, several of them important leaders. And the blame for some of those departures lies at your door. Yes, some have left, but these departures are not of any significance. They weren’t the best people and they have gone to the BJP. They are also people who have been in power and have carried the burden of their respective local anti-incumbency into the BJP. I leave it to your reader to judge what impact that will have, what these leaders really mean. They are discredited people. As far as blaming me is concerned, that is a narrative cooked up and fed to all these people. They leave and they say Didi is not running the party, someone else, PK is controlling everything. All of them allege it is me. When Suvendu Adhikari or Mukul Roy were running affairs, it was fine. When they have been replaced, it is a debacle. Hahaah! This narrative comes from a desire to make the Trinamul collapse, it is wishful thinking. “Didi is not in charge” is a written script, a false narrative. Didi is as much in charge as she ever was, nothing happens in the party without Didi, let that be very clear. Of course, she has associates and advisers, everybody does. Amit Shah takes decisions in the BJP, does that mean Narendra Modi has lost control, or that anything happens without his approval? People who talk like this do not understand politics. Let’s get back to your reasons why the Trinamul cannot be defeated… Well, part of the reason lies in just what we were talking about. The BJP’s deep desire to discredit Didi and project as if the Trinamul is collapsing. Despite their best efforts to pull people out and rattle the Trinamul, nothing has happened. Mamata Banerjee has not become a widely unpopular leader, there is no widespread anger against her or the Trinamul, there is no “Mamata Hatao” mood in the state. Yes, as I said, there is some anger at the grassroots but it is localised, it has not translated into anger against Didi, she remains above it, she remains a loved and trusted leader, not a hated and despised one. The BJP is trying, but it is failing. Mamata Banerjee is holding her ground, there is no way the BJP is winning. This needs explanation, what enables you to make such a claim? I will tell you why the BJP has an uphill task despite all the gains they have recently made. In a bipolar fight, which this election is, they need at least 44 per cent of the vote, and to do that the BJP has to improve substantially on its Lok Sabha performance. Usually — and Tripura and Haryana are probably small-state exceptions — the BJP underperforms in Assemblies compared to the Lok Sabha. In the UP Assembly elections, the BJP’s vote share dropped by 3 per cent compared to the 2014 polls. If nothing changes, even a 2 per cent drop in their Lok Sabha numbers in Bengal will leave them with 70-odd Assembly seats, no more. The BJP’s Assembly vote shares have also dropped by double-digits, that is not unknown. I often laugh at the BJP’s claim of grabbing more than 200 seats. Where from? Bengal is a state of huge districts, of the 23 it has, nine alone account for more than 180 seats. A party needs to completely sweep three or four large districts in order to score an upset. Does anyone see the BJP doing that? No. Are they sweeping Nadia, Hooghly, Midnapore? No. Are they sweeping a single big district? No. The BJP has maxed its Bengal performance, recent electoral history consistently shows their Assembly numbers don’t match up to the Lok Sabha performance. The Trinamul, on the other hand, is going to add to its vote share. Again, that’s a claim, how will that happen? Two reasons. Didi remains by far the most popular leader in Bengal, nobody has such energy, grit, intelligence and presence. Secondly, look at how swiftly and wholesomely we have responded and rearranged ourselves. We saw and recognised the threat from the BJP, we put in place an elaborate strategy which was a mix of the administrative and the political. Our signature public outreach programmes are humming and resonating. Duare Sarkar, which clubs together 12 government programmes meant for individuals and households, is hugely successful, its impact is visible. Close to three crore people have attended camps and their problems have been heard and addressed. Then there is Swasthya Sathi, the health card. There is Paray Samadhan, which addresses neighbourhood issues like streets, drains, lighting, a whole range of local demands. For years, only three to four lakh caste certificates had been issued in Bengal, but over the last two-and-a-half months, more than 26 lakh such certificates have been given out to the eligible. Do you know how many people have dialled the Didi ke Bolo helpline? More than 30 lakh. And they have given us in excess of 75 lakh recorded phone conversations on what people’s problems are, what they want addressed. The fact that you can directly call the chief minister of the state and convey your problems has a huge impact. I am not saying all of these people will vote Trinamul, but do not discount the dividends such a comprehensive outreach can shore up. At the political level, two-thirds of the district presidents have been changed. Now this too has led to all that “exodus” talk that the BJP wants to hype, but the truth is we have a younger, more pro-active leadership across the state. It is the BJP that has come out as the desperate party, wanting to somehow make inroads into the Trinamul. Ask how many people joining the BJP in Bengal have been give Y or Y-plus security by the central government. The game is clear, and yet it is not succeeding. What is succeeding though is polarisation, everybody is talking about it, you can feel it echoing all across Bengal. Surely that will benefit the BJP in degrees that probably cannot be measured? Bengal is already as polarised as it could get. Is that enough to take the BJP through? No. There is no denying the BJP’s divisive thrust and polarisation, but please complete the circle. Is polarisation 100 per cent? Or even a little more than 50 per cent? Is the majority community completely blinded by just one factor? No. That doesn’t happen. In Gujarat the BJP gets 55 per cent of the vote, although the Muslim population is only 10 per cent. In UP, through the 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections, the BJP got roughly 40 per cent of the vote. So, despite optimum polarisation everything doesn’t go one way; the tea leaves need to be carefully sifted and read. Does it not worry you that the Left-Congress jote will cut into your share and help the BJP on this score? You seem to be dismissive of them, you said this is a bipolar election. It is a completely bipolar election. The jote is of no consequence, at best they will tear away some votes, some from us, some from the BJP too. Jote candidates are not even being noticed in most places. People are fighting a battle, for many it is a battle for survival, they are very aware what they need to do, what they don’t need to do. What about the Modi factor, just the man and his ability to swing the voter? At the moment he is the most popular leader countrywide, no doubt about it. He has some individual traction, but it is not enough to defeat Mamata Banerjee. Remember, this is an Assembly election. Does it hurt the BJP that they haven’t projected a chief ministerial face? I don’t want to comment on their strategy, that’s their lookout. They have limitations of leadership, that’s also true. But I would think it is a better thing for them that they have not projected a face, that’s the right strategy for them. I know it is not a popular thing to say, but if they had projected a face against Didi, things would have been easier for us. Does it hurt you that Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul are surrounded by so many allegations? That her nephew is a parallel power centre, that corrupt syndicates operate, that cut-money is an everyday thing under Trinamul rule? Look, these are allegations and largely centred on demonising Didi, classic negative campaigning that is the house-style of the BJP. I am not sure it will pay them much dividend, eventually people get fed up of all the name-calling, the personal attacks and all the negativity. What does the BJP have to offer other than a toxic mix of religion and hyper-nationalism? We realise the effort is to create a 2002-level of polarisation with the constant bombardment of social media with canards and poisonous lies. We are having to battle that all the time. But what does the BJP have to offer beyond that? The Prime Minister has promised Aashol Paribartan... Yes, but what is the content of it? What is the content of “Sonar Bangla”? It is laughable that the Union home minister goes to Assam and says he will make the state flood-free if the BJP comes to power. But who is in power in Assam? The BJP. People are not easily fooled. They have little other than vicious negativity and use of vast and often illicit resources at their command, and by that I mean the use of the agencies of state to harass and intimidate opponents. On a personal note, how deeply invested are you in this battle and how tough is the place you’re in? I don’t do things half-hearted, I always knew the challenge I was entering. Elections are good or bad for people on the outside, pundits and commentators pronounce on them. For those of us on the inside, it is just about doing the job. There is a job we are doing in Tamil Nadu also, but nobody is talking about it because it is probably not such a high-voltage thing. But the job is the same. Bengal is tough, but I still believe my toughest campaign was winning Punjab for Captain Amarinder Singh. Each battle is different. And this is a khela hobey battle; what does that connote to you? Khela hobey? There are two slogans we are consciously using. One is the projection of Mamata Banerjee as Banglar meye, Bengal’s daughter. This is very different from Didi, which gives you the sense of a protector and provider, an elder with an umbrella for you. Banglar meye is a distinctly different positioning. It conveys the urge to stand by someone under attack, to own up your own and abide by them, it conveys an embracing of someone your own, a native. Khela hobey is a war cry. The BJP tends to scare opponents, it enters a battle pretending it has already won, declares victory before actually winning. Khela hobey says, no, hold your horses, we are not scared, we are here to face you and defeat you, we are girded for battle, game on!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
21-03-2021||North East||22-year-old’s tweet saddens Modi, but not flood-ravaged Assamese: Priyanka||Launching a frontal attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday alleged he is sad about a tweet by a 22-year-old woman but not for the flood-ravaged people of Assam. A day after Modi raised the toolkit issue and alleged Congress conspiracy in it at a poll rally in Chabua in Assam, the daughter of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, lamented that Modi was silent on peoples' suffering during perennial floods. Last year's flooding of the Brahmaputra during the pandemic affected some 2.8 million people. "I was listening to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday. He very seriously said that he was very sad about the development. I thought he would speak about Assam's development or how BJP worked in Assam. "But I was shocked to hear that the PM was talking about a tweet by a 22-year-old woman (Disha Ravi). He said Congress conspired to finish the tea industry of Assam. He was also sad about Congress mistakenly putting two wrong pictures on social media," Vadra said. She questioned Modi why he was not sad for the people affected by the flood and the anti-CAA movement, in which five youths were killed. "Why didn't you come to Assam when people were drowning? Why were you not sad when all the big promises by BJP were not fulfilled? Did you go to tea gardens and talk to workers about their problems," the Congress leader asked of Modi. Talking about the Prime Minister's famous statement of "double-engined" government in Assam, Vadra made fun of it saying the state currently has "two chief ministers", in an apparent reference to rumours of powerful minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal acting as rival power centres. "The PM said you have a double-engine government but Assam has two CMs. I don't know which fuel runs which engine. The Assam government is not run in Assam... God save you!" she added. The Congress leader also alleged that all segments of the society, including Youths, farmers and tea garden workers, have been cheated by the BJP government as it did not fulfil any of its promises made five years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Women officials to completely manage 201 polling stations in Cachar||A record 201 polling stations, out of 1,834 in Cachar district in Assam, will be completely managed by women officials in the coming assembly elections. Cachar Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli said that to encourage women voters to participate in the elections in bigger numbers, the district administration has decided to enhance the number of polling stations to be completely managed by women officials by 20 times from the 2016 polls when it was just 10. "A total of 201 polling stations, out of 1,834 polling stations in Cachar district, will be managed by women officials," Jalli told PTI. The district has about 12 lakh voters who will exercise their franchise to elect seven MLAs on April 1. The Cachar district administration has also launched a special awareness campaign with the theme of 'Naari Shakti' so that more and more women participate in the democratic process. Interestingly, Jalli has four senior women officers to assist her -- three Additional Deputy Commissioners (ADCs) and the District Election Officer -- in carrying out various schemes for the welfare of women. The three-phased elections for the 126-member Assam assembly will be held on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-03-2021||North East||Congress gave ‘false guarantees’ when it ruled Assam, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday accused the Congress of giving "false guarantees" when it was in power at the centre and also in Assam at the same time earlier, and failed to provide security and stability in the northeastern state. The Congress can go to any extent for coming to power and this is evident from the "lies" that they are spreading through the manifesto, the Prime Minister said at an election rally in Bokakhat. "When there was a Congress government at the centre and in the state at the same time, there was double neglect, double corruption and double infiltration", he said. "They had given false guarantees of providing employment and women empowerment," he added. The double engine NDA government, however, ensured that the foundation for development is laid and the state is connected with the rest of the country, while during the next five years there will be more all-around speedy development, Modi said. "Congress means lies, confusion, instability, violence and corruption. The party's coffers are empty and they want to come to power at any cost to fill it", Modi said taking a swipe at the grand old party. “During Congress rule, people used to think Assam will never be  free of bomb blasts, guns or violence and peace would prevail, but the NDA government has ensured that there is peace and stability in the state,” he said. He also accused the Congress of patronising poachers, but the NDA government has ensured that rhino poaching is stopped and poachers are put in jails, while the famed Kaziranga National Park has been freed of encroachers. The Prime Minister was addressing an election rally at Bokahat in Golaghat district from where minister and AGP President Atul Bora is contesting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-03-2021||North East||Congress will protect indigenous ethos: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday slammed the ruling BJP for allegedly attacking the culture, language, history, heritage and bonds of brotherhood in Assam and assured to protect the indigenous ethos if his party is voted to power in the state. Rahul, who had arrived for campaigning in poll-bound Assam on Friday, blamed the ruling BJP for “handing over” the entire state to outsiders and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of working only for two-three richest industrialists and not the general public of the country or for their welfare. “The BJP in Assam and across the country is attacking culture, language, heritage and brotherhood... We will protect you, your culture and identity. This is your state and it cannot be run from Nagpur (where the RSS headquarters is located),” he said at rallies at Mariani and Gohpur. The Congress leader was in Mariani, which will go to the polls in the first phase on March 27, to campaign for sitting Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi and in Gohpur for Assam PCC president Ripun Bora. Hitting out at the ruling BJP for “handing over” Assam to outsiders, he said: “The government spent Rs 2,000 crore of your money to modernise Guwahati airport. Now the airport (has) been snatched from you and given to Adani. This way everything in the country is being given to two-three richest businessmen friends of the Prime Minister.” Rahul said if a Congress chief minister assumes power in Assam the “5 guarantees” promised by the party will be implemented. The “guarantees” are — a law will be introduced in the Assembly to nullify the Citizenship Amendment Act, five lakh government jobs will be given to the state’s youths, each household will get upto 200 units of free electricity, housewives will get Rs 2,000 per month and minimum wages of tea garden workers be raised to Rs 365. Mounting his attack, the Congress leader said: “Modi had talked about ‘Make in India’. But look at the labels of the products you are using. They are all ‘Made in China’. That is because the Prime Minister broke the backbone of entrepreneurs through demonetisation and imposition of GST. “GST was introduced promising simple tax and benefit for all. Modi brought it with five different taxes and highest at 28 per cent... Thousands of industries were shut down due to these two decisions. Modi says something but does something else,” the former Congress president said. Raising the price rise issue, Rahul said the BJP-led government at the Centre is working for “hum do, hamare do” (a government of two with two others hinting at Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah and Adani and Ambani). “This is being done while farmers, small businessmen, workers and other people are suffering due to high inflation. He (Modi) waived taxes and loans of two-three industrialists, but did nothing for you. He even attacked the farmers by bringing in the three farm acts. That is why we have brought the 5 guarantees for you,” he said. Charging the BJP administration of failing to fill up vacant government jobs, Rahul said when the Congress forms the government it will first fill up these posts and then give incentives to the private sector to create jobs. He alleged that the BJP makes different promises at different places but never fulfills them. “I never lie. See what I had said before polls in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab. I said farmers loans will be waived. Within six hours of forming government in Chhattisgarh, it was done. Likewise, every promise in other states was fulfilled,” he added. Manifesto released Addressing a news conference in Guwahati on Saturday, Rahul alleged the BJP and the RSS have damaged the state and the country by demonetisation and GST. “It is only about ‘hum do, hamare do (we two, our two)’. It has destroyed the country. Our manifesto in Assam is a step towards rectifying those damages. It is an attempt to give a foundation to Assam,” he told reporters after releasing the Congress manifesto. The BJP’s constant “vilification” of Lok Sabha MP Badruddin Ajmal and his party AIUDF is an attack on Assam, its brotherhood and peace, he further said. “It is not an attack on Ajmal, but on Assam. It is an attack on Assam’s brotherhood and peace,” he said when asked about the BJP slamming the Congress’s alliance with Ajmal’s AIUDF. “It is not about Ajmal, but to protect the culture, language, tradition, history and identity of Assam,” he said. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, has formed a Grand Alliance with AIUDF, BPF, CPI, CPM, CPI-ML, Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD and Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP) to fight the Assembly elections against the BJP-led NDA. From Modi and Shah to BJP national president J.P. Nadda and defence minister Rajnath Singh, every ruling party leader has been raising the issue of AIUDF’s alliance with the Congress at their election rallies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-03-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s sorrow||Can geography become history? The query need not necessarily be looked at as a riddle. Geography — Bengal’s riverine geography, a fragile landscape threatened with imminent destruction — is very much on its way to becoming a relic of history. Bengal’s riverine ecology has been correctly surmised to be symbolic of the fecundity of its soil, intellect and culture. Poets, writers, artists, film-makers have celebrated this bond between land and water memorably: the joyous sparkle of “Amader chhoto nadi” by Rabindranath Tagore, the pathos in Jibanananda Das’s Rupashi Bangla, Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay’s enchanting Ichhamati, Ritwik Ghatak’s Subarnarekha — the list is both rich and long. Yet, the lives of Bengal’s rivers appear to be short. A recent rally by Sabuj Mancha, a philanthropic organization, in Calcutta brought to light the sorrow of Bengal’s rivers. The data are discouraging. Seventeen of the most polluted rivers in India are from this state; 10 major rivers — the Alokananda, Kankona, Chaiti and Bhairab are among them — have gone extinct; the Kalinga, Paglachandi, Morali, Mathabhanga, Churni, Buriganga are either nearing or threatened with annihilation. Their feeble waters will carry with them intricate local ecologies, enchanting marine flora and fauna, dependent cultures, traditions, occupations — entire ways of life, living, and civilizations — to the grave. The causes of this devastation are well-documented. Untreated sewage continues to be one of the principal poisons being injected into the rivers: an earlier report by the state pollution control board had found that most of the major rivers in Bengal are massively polluted. Administrative apathy, the multiplicity of government departments that make it easier for the authorities to pass the buck and — most crucially — the marginalization of ecological prerogatives in the political domain have been instrumental in deepening this rot. The scale of the crisis necessitates seamless, coordinated action on a number of fronts. A specific department to look after the health and regeneration of rivers sounds like a promising idea. However, India’s experience with the rejuvenation of the Ganga at the national level shows that a dedicated department need not always make a difference. What can make a difference though is turning conservation — of water, air, forest, species — into a truly representative, public endeavour. Sabuj Mancha’s suggestion of decentralizing conservation, with its proposal of the establishment of specific tiers of redressal at the grass roots — a river sabha, panchayat and zilla sansad — could well be an imaginative way of replenishing the fraying bond between communities and water bodies. There is also an indisputable economic rationale behind the resurrection of Bengal’s waterways. It has been estimated that over 25 lakh people have lost their jobs on account of dying rivers: the return of life to these precious waters could resuscitate allied marine industry. What is needed for all of this to come together is the transformation of the environment into a political issue. Unfortunately, there is some distance to be covered here. None of the political parties in election-bound Bengal seems serious about their pledge of ecological revival. A metaphorical river separates election manifestos and the needs of Bengal’s ecological renaissance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
21-03-2021||Opinion||We all know who calls the shots in BJP||The truth always comes out. Although it is no secret who the real boss in Delhi is, the Bharatiya Janata Party still tries to keep up appearances. The importance of the home minister and former BJP chief, Amit Shah — both in the affairs of the government as well as within the party — is not hidden from anyone in Delhi’s corridors of power. In fact, it is widely believed that Shah still calls the shots, even though he stepped down as the party boss before taking up the mantle of the home ministry. Great care is taken, however, to not exhibit this power hierarchy to the public. This is why for key party meetings, Shah is the one who heads over to the home of the present party chief, JP Nadda, and not the other way around. The unpleasant reality, however, was exposed recently during an informal interaction with a select group of journalists at the BJP headquarters. Two chairs had been set out for the occasion — one for the party chief, Nadda, and the other for Shah. But as soon as Shah arrived in the hall with Nadda, he ordered one more chair to be brought in for the party’s media in-charge, Anil Baluni. And although Nadda was given the pride of place right in the middle, he remained a silent participant all through the interaction. Journalists, too, knew who the real boss was and so all the questions were directed at Shah. From party affairs to issues concerning the government, Shah handled everything. In a conversation between the Congress member of parliament, Rahul Gandhi, and the faculty and students of Brown University via video conference this past week, many caught a glimpse of an illustrious past. The interaction brought Rahul face-to-face with Leela Gandhi, the John Hawkes Professor of the Humanities and English, at this private Ivy League research institution. The latter also happens to be Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s great-granddaughter. The two ended up discussing the idea of ‘shoonyata’ (spiritual self effacement) that the Mahatma referred to very often. To many of those watching, this discussion was almost a throwback to the kind of discussions that the Mahatma had with his Congress colleagues during the freedom struggle. It was a nomination rally which put all other such nomination processions to shade this poll season in Assam because of its massive scale and the message it sent out. But then the persona and political style of the BJP’s key strategist in the Northeast and, for many, Assam’s chief minister-in-waiting, Himanta Biswa Sarma, ensure that he stands out in a crowd. His rally after joining the BJP in 2015 and the one taken out during the filing of his nomination in 2016 were equally massive, clearly projecting him as a mass leader. In attendance were the incumbent chief ministers of Assam and Manipur, the Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, and other senior party leaders such as Baijayant Panda. That he will win his Jalukbari bastion is a foregone conclusion for his supporters and loyalists. What the two-kilometre-long nomination rally that brought a portion of Guwahati to a standstill aimed to do was send a message to the Central leadership that he remains the party’s man for all seasons and reasons in the region. It was also meant to convey that the leadership need not look beyond Sarma for the post of chief minister, his supporters said. The party has not named a CM candidate. Both the incumbent CM, Sarbananda Sonowal, and Sarma have left it to the BJP parliamentary board to decide. Sarma, however, had made his ambition to become CM public all the way back when he was still in the Congress, which he left in 2015 after he saw his bid to become the CM thwarted. The ruling BJP clearly has a lot more on its plate apart from merely winning the battle for Dispur. At a time when beef has become a dirty word in Karnataka, which recently passed a stringent law against cow slaughter, the Congress leader, UT Khader, wondered why the National Democratic Alliance government in Delhi did not dare pass a ‘one nation, one anti-cow slaughter law’ instead of laws that are as diverse as the states. India being one of the world’s biggest exporters of beef, Khader challenged the Centre to bring about a uniform ban on cow slaughter across the country and contented that beef has become solely an electoral issue to harvest votes. Chew on that. Trust Pinarayi Vijayan to come up with swipes that amuse and singe at the same time. The entry of the ‘Metroman’, E Sreedharan, in Kerala’s political landscape is a hot topic. After dusting up his old connections with the sangh parivar, the acclaimed technocrat is now in the fray in Kerala. But it is his constant trashing of the state’s development model that ticked off Vijayan. Helming the Left Democratic Front, seeking a rare second consecutive term, Vijayan took a jibe saying even experts in their proven fields would begin talking trash once they join the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
21-03-2021||Opinion||Soft warble||Sir — Just like humans, animals learn behaviour crucial for survival from older members of the same species. But how does one learn such a skill when the older members are dead? The regent honeyeater may now go extinct. Not only are young birds not learning to sing, but their songs are also becoming less intricate. In spite of a rising number of endangered bird species, surprisingly little is said or done about how a decline in population might affect birdsongs, which in turn will further endanger the birds. Is there a case to build an archive of birdsongs before it is too late? This makes for fascinating study, and might also help conservation efforts in the future.  G. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — In West Bengal, workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party are protesting against their own organization — what a bizarre situation for a political party to be in. It is not surprising, though, given how the BJP has distributed tickets to defectors from other parties instead of rewarding its own party workers for their loyalty. If anything, this should serve as an eye opener for all political parties. Over the years we have seen how elected representatives dump the party from which they are elected and join another party or the ruling party, even bringing down elected governments, through defections. Needless to say, this is not good for a democracy. Turncoats will be turncoats, no matter which party they may belong to. Building a ‘Sonar Bangla’ is fine, but can we trust turncoats to do that?Melville X. D’Souza, Mumbai Sir — The grass-root workers of both the BJP and the Trinamul Congress have been denied tickets, while high-ranking leaders and turncoats have been rewarded for their corrupt ways. Party bosses always consider the grass-root workers as those meant to serve party leaders, and as such, unworthy of being nominated for elections. But the top leadership should not forget that each of their victories comes from the tremendous hard work and sacrifice of the party’s rank and file. These tireless soldiers work day in and out and even risk their lives to make the party successful, but the fruits of the gain are eaten by the top leadership. Now, there is also a new class of people who stand between the grass-roots workers and a taste of political success — these are the celebrities. Both the BJP and the TMC are firm in their belief that star power can win seats and as such have generously doled out tickets to celebrities. But are the celebrities really close to people on the ground? As far as turncoats are concerned, they have switched parties just to ensure they stay in power and their pockets remain lined. They do not care about serving the people.Mrinal Kanti Kundu, Howrah Sir — A large number of politicians have been flocking to the BJP recently. However, this seems to have created a problem for the BJP. Unhappy with assembly election nominations being handed out to the new entrants —particularly those from the Trinamul Congress — the BJP’s old guard is expressing discontent in inconvenient ways. Some angry supporters ransacked the party’s office, one party worker also reportedly attempted suicide fearing that a former TMC strongman who recently joined the BJP may get a ticket. Meanwhile, several BJP leaders threatened to contest as independents against the party’s official candidates. It is true that ticket distribution always causes heartburn for certain party workers. But the BJP’s poll campaign focuses on highlighting corruption and syndicate raj under the Mamata Banerjee-led government. Thus the TMC turncoats getting preference over the party’s old-timers can undermine the BJP’s message of paribartan.Khokan Das, Calcutta Sir — The huge number of turncoats once again proves that politics is nothing but a power game in India. A party’s manifesto does not matter; it is ideologues and the selfish politicians who define Indian politics. As far as Bengal is concerned, the political weather is changing rapidly. Yet, with each change people are making it clear that internally disbalanced parties do not have a chance in the upcoming elections.  Suranjana Mitra, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
21-03-2021||Opinion||The Midas touch||‘What is happening to Bengal?’ The question is heard often enough now, in these election times. But there is more to it than we might imagine. It does not ask what is happening in Bengal. It asks what is happening to it. And that ‘to’ says it all. Something, the question implies, is changing Bengal, changing it forever. The Bangla word, paribartan, means change or, in a more immediate sense, a replacement. It had been brought into dramatic play during the elections 10 years ago when Mamata Banerjee wrested power from the Left Front. It is now being deployed in a counter challenge to her decade-old incumbency. The challenge of change is certainly in the Bengal air. ‘Who would have thought’, the questioner continues, ‘... that the land of the brightest spiritual luminosity... the highest intellect... tallest science... greatest literature... noblest politics’ would become the site of fractious animosities breaking into a collective din?’ And goes on: ‘Who would have thought that this land of stalwart patriots... of men and women of unsurpassable stature... economists of world class... lawyers of unrivalled ability... political leaders of vision and integrity... administrators of exemplary efficiency... would lurch into... into... this?’ ‘Who would have thought that in Vivekananda’s, Tagore’s and Subhas Bose’s Bengal abuse, belligerence and cunning would try to spell the a b c of its culture, its life?’ Who indeed. Let me state at this point in my reflection that the imminent election in the state is not what this article is about. I am not on the question, ‘Who is going to form the next government in Calcutta?’ The issue that concerns me is: will the quality of the present ‘air’ in Bengal hurt the purity of its lungs, the rhythms of its heart, the delicacy of its soul? Even as Bengal is a unit, one of 36, comprising the Union of India, it is something of an entity in itself. Does not every province feel that about itself? Of course it does, and is entitled to. But even other parts of India would acknowledge that history has made Bengal the palladium of India’s thinking and feeling mind. And in that distinct role, Bengal is bigger than its worst crisis, greater than its toughest challenge. It has it in its being to withstand all conditions of decay, debilitation and even of death — whether in economic organization, social custom or in the largest theatre of life. Take the life of agriculture in Bengal — its very life-breath. The province’s peasant-life had, in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, become a theatre of distress telescoping into disaster. At the time of the Great Bengal Famine of 1770, which, coinciding with the Bengali year, 1176, had come to be known by the chilling name of Chiyattorer Monnontor; anything between 2 and 10 million died of starvation and disease in the province. From the so-called Permanent Settlement of Cornwallis (1793) through to and beyond the Great Bengal Famine of 1943, rural Bengal suffered an unrelieved loss of skill, energy and hope. But did Bengal, as a whole, wither away? It did not. A steadily growing peasants’ movement culminated, post-Independence, in the unveiling of land reforms with the Left Front government of Jyoti Basu launching, in 1978, Operation Barga, which lifted share-croppers from their immiseration to a new life as bargadars. The scheme has not been without problems, controversy. But even its critics recognize it as one of the most successful examples of agrarian intervention not just in India but the world. The greatly debilitated agrarian ‘air’ that seemed to have doomed the province’s lungs to collapse did not change Bengal. Bengal changed that ‘air’. Social custom can incubate barbaric practices. Bengal had followed much of India in one such outrageous, hideous practice — sati, the burning of ‘widows’. Many, if not most, of them were very young, child marriage being then the norm. But an enraged and enlightened Rammohan Roy’s counter-flare of opposition shook public and official conscience on the matter as nothing else had, leading to the practice being banned in 1829. That counter-flare of Bengal did not stop there. It spurred a succession of gender-based legislation even in those benighted pre-Independence times — the Hindu Widows’ Remarriage Act of 1856, the Female Infanticide Prevention Act of 1870 and the Age of Consent Act of 1891 followed. The shaming custom, which spelt nothing less than death for its women, could not singe Bengal; Bengal exorcised it. The raj’s brazen policy of ‘divide and rule’ saw Bengal physically partitioned by Lord Curzon into East and West in 1905. Did Bengal capitulate? It did not, launching an impassioned movement against the division with a boycotting of British goods and institutions at its core, thereby stunning the raj. Abanindranath Tagore’s great painting made that year of Bangamata, later named Bharat Mata, symbolized the province’s fervent rejection of the division. With Lord Curzon’s partition being annulled by Lord Hardinge in 1911, the threat to the province’s political integrity was reversed by Bengal. ‘But’, the reader might — ought to — say, ‘the partition did happen, after all.’ Sure, it did.  Bengal could not over-ride the demand for Pakistan based on the Two-Nation Theory proclaimed by the All India Muslim League and several ideologues of a Hindu rashtra. The Radcliffe Line’s eastern flank cut through Bengal in 1947, creating an East and West out of it, once again. In the white heat of that trauma, a Gujarati named Mohandas, traversed the lengths of what was becoming East Pakistan with the anthropologist, Nirmal Kumar Bose, and a chosen few speaking — and, yes, singing — of the courage of a loner’s conviction in Tagore’s Ekla Chalo Re, and of Hindu-Muslim unity in the Hindi hymn, Raghupati Raghava Raja Ram. In the Noakhali village of Paniala, the largely Muslim gathering at his prayer meeting began, demurringly, to disperse as that ode to Ram commenced. Manu, his grand niece thought, quite impromptu, to introduce into its singing a new line — Ishvar Allah Tere Nam. Those who had started to leave returned with a receptive curiosity if not conviction. Some months later, in Calcutta, as post-Partition rioting erupted, he fasted in expiation and by his readiness to die for harmony in Bengal; he stilled the carnage. Bengal could not stop its partitioning but it drew the poison out of that deep cut. On January 30, 1948, in New Delhi, as Mohandas sank to the ground with Ram on his lips, his grandniece-in-law, Abha, a daughter of Bengal, reflexively held his head in her hands. Who fell, what held? In 1971, Tagore’s Jana Gana Mana, identified as a national anthem of free India by Subhas Bose and later so enthroned, was joined by another composition of Tagore’s — Amar Sonar Bangla — as the national anthem of the new nation, Bangladesh. Two scores, one music. Somnath Hore, the great sculptor, has made an amazing bronze ‘head’ of Tagore. I was working at The Nehru Centre in London in 1995 when Jyoti Basu, the then chief minister of West Bengal and then minister for culture, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, graciously sent it for permanent display there. When I opened the consignment, it seemed to me to be a confusing tangle of scrap. But seeing it a little later, from a certain distance, it stunned me. Tagore was looking at me, in the perfection of his indefinable intensity and calm, his hollowed eyes showing pain and an understanding and an overcoming of that pain. It was the truest Tagore head made in the foundry of art, of Bengal, of conscience, the everlasting a b c. Bengal can look confused and confusing. But looked at with attention, it confounds confusion. Bengal alters that which seeks to alter Bengal. Slowly at times, but surely always.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
21-03-2021||Opinion||Watch me on the Danda March||There it is, the new anthem. I have given it to you. Or handed it down, rather. It is titled “Danda”. That’s all there is at the moment, “Danda”, just the name. The rest will follow. That is upon you; you shall write the rest of this. You have the headline, make the lyrics as you go on, but make sure they are becoming of the title you have been given: Danda. I know, and we all know, there is Dandi. It could well be it is the feminine of this new thing — you know, Danda and Dandi — but it could well be it is not. These are different times. Correct times. You can make masculines of feminines and feminines of masculines and think you will get away with that. You may, well if you are lucky you still may, but not all the time. Beware. Of Correctness. It is the new incorrectness, a bigotry all its own. It bans words, it invents words. It is offended at words, it dictates what words may be used, what words may absolutely not be. Correctness believes it is correct, but in so believing, it turns, very often, the opposite of it. Is hectoring correct? Is dictating correct? Is pronouncing on what is right and what is wrong, what may be said what may not be, correct? Is becoming arbiter of virtue and vice correct? But who are you to decide? Is that a correct question to ask? No. Absolutely not. And that is where Correctness goes incorrect. There can be no questioning or Correctness. It is a Book. It is a Religion. It just tells you, it does not want to hear. It tells you it is my way or the highway, it tells you that you are either with us or against us. That sort of thing. It is black and white, this or that, there are no greys. You know what I mean. I mean there is a problem when things are only white or black, one way or another, right or wrong. Things are not always like that, or are they? Between an apple and a rotten apple, there must be an apple not so apple and an apple not so rotten, isn’t it? Anyway, it is not as if one expects to be understood. Reason is not everybody’s thing. But then, dogma isn’t everybody’s thing either. There is no good person or bad person, there can be good persons with bad things about them and bad persons with a few good things about them. No? All right then, I have quite lost you in that case, but I shall forge on. This space needs to be filled, that’s the job. We were on our new anthem. Danda. Dandi is passé, no matter that it also sounds smaller and a bit feminine. Pardon me, Dandi is no match to Danda. I couldn’t care who agrees. Try telling someone you are going to use the Dandi. Try telling someone you are going to use the Danda. Tell me the difference in how folks react. Be honest about it. Danda wins. Danda is something we have always toyed with, but seldom been able to use. We only fantasised about the Danda. We had Dandas, never used them. We persisted with Dandi. We did Dandi Marches. Now, the Danda. Danda March. Be prepared. Dandi is a known sort of thing, I know. But it is also a bygone sort of thing. Dandi was the work of that emaciated very — not-56 fellow. Bag of bones sort of thing. We need sterner stuff, 56 kind. Dandi will not work anymore, we need Danda, it will be our new freedom song. Danda is what we require to achieve freedom. Danda is what we need to use in order to get where we want to. Spare the Danda and spoil the Funda. We need to use the Danda, we need to beat out a few things. We have extra things, we have things we do not want, have never wanted. We need to spank out what does not fit. That is why we invented the Danda. A long time ago. When we began to imagine what we should be. We knew we needed the Danda, not Dandi. We needed no Dandi March, we needed a Danda March. Now that time has mercifully come. No regrets. Forget the time when... We would only uselessly meet For such a long time And gloat and mime Who we would one day beat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
21-03-2021||Opinion||On your marks, get set, go||Reacting to Meghan Markle’s recent Oprah interview about being subject to racism from within the British royal family, French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo has released a cartoon. It depicts Queen Elizabeth II with a knee on Meghan’s neck, a sight reminiscent of George Flyod, the African-American man who was murdered by policemen in Minneapolis in the United States last year. Now, shock and outrage are both socio-culturally embedded reactions. Some people think nothing of smashing weavers’ thumbs to reduce to smithereens a rival's industry, or letting a people starve because they anyway “breed like rabbits”, or conducting nuclear tests in lands known to be inhabited, and there are others who think nothing of forbidding a community from going about their business by daylight because even their shadows "pollute", still others feel it is justified to flog in public view honest men going about their business of skinning a dead animal. Expectations of shock and outrage and how one negotiates them are typically shaped by one’s awareness of the past and equally of the present. Leave aside the royal family mess; focus only on the ‘R’ word. Meghan Markle’s recent disclosures, as well as the outpouring of shock and outrage from a global audience on her behalf are proof of a willing suspension of historicity and societal norms. Oprah Winfrey went “WHAT?” Tennis legend Serena Williams dubbed Meghan “noble” and “selfless”. The US Vice-President’s niece, Meena Harris, also roared in support of Meghan. And then there was the other set who debunked Meghan's allegations altogether. In Britain, TV personality Piers Morgan quit his show, Good Morning Britain, after coming under criticism for calling Meghan a liar. Indian actor and talk show host Simi Garewal too faced a backlash. She had said, “I don’t believe a word… She is using the race card to gain sympathy.” And the young American poet Amanda Gorman tweeted, “Meghan was the crown’s greatest opportunity for change, regeneration, and reconciliation in a new era.” If there is any take away from what Meghan said, it is this ‑racism is not class-proof. It is not status-proof. It is not achievement-proof either. Yes, the degree of attention it elicits and the criticism it merits might vary with these things, but no one gets a free pass. Former first lady of the United States Michelle Obama just about got it right when she said, “… race isn’t new construct in this world… so it wasn't a complete surprise to hear her feelings…” It wasn’t. Really.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Last 2 of 30 accused arrested for 2017 Nagadih lynching ||Police arrested two persons on Sunday for being a part of a mob that had lynched three youths and an old lady on suspicion of being child-lifters at Nagadih in Baghbera in 2017, four years after the crime made national headlines. The two, Mahi Singh Sardar, alias Mahin, and Ravi Bhumij, are the last of the 30 accused to be arrested, said  Bagbera police station OC Rajesh Kumar Singh. "We were on the lookout for the two accused. We got a tip-off that the duo had returned to their houses. As soon as we got the information, we raided their houses and arrested them," the OC said. On the night of May 18, 2017,  a mob of about 500 people, mostly from Nagadih village, lynched three youths who were labourers scouting the neighbourhood for construction jobs. But the mob acted on rumours that child-lifter gangs were in circulation and attacked the three. They also did not spare the 76-year-old woman, grandmother of two of the youths. She had gone to plead their case. Those who died that night were Vikash Verma (28), Gautam Verma (26) and Gangesh Gupta (27). The elderly woman was identified as Ram Sakhi Devi, who died in hospital days after she was assaulted with a boulder. OC Rajesh Singh pointed out that there were 30 named, besides over 200 unnamed, accused in the case. Earlier, 28 of the named accused had surrendered. He said police had submitted a charge sheet in court. The two who were arrested on Sunday were sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail in the evening. Significantly, four others were lynched the same day at Rajnagar block of neighbouring Seraikela Kharsawan district. The victims were cattle traders whom the mob thought were child-lifters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police beefing up district committees to prevent mob lynchings||In the wake of recent mob lynchings that rocked the state capital, the Jharkhand government has directed law enforcement agencies to strengthen special district-level committees constituted to avert and probe such incidents in the state and spread awareness among people against taking the law into their own hands. Additional Director General (ADG) headquarters R.K. Mallick said on Sunday that police were adding more teeth to district level committees in a bid to ensure that incidents of mob lynching are averted by spreading awareness among people and instilling the fear of speedy action if at all any such incident occurs in the state. “Special committees to control incidents of mob lynching were formed in all districts back in 2017-2018. These committees are being strengthened to avert such incidents and ensure speedy investigation,” Mallick said. Two men in their twenties were beaten to death by a mob in separate incidents this month over charges of theft. On March 8, Sachin Verma (22) was beaten to death by a mob of 40-odd people within the limits of Kotwali police station on charge of vehicle theft. Later on March 14, Mubarak Khan (27), a resident of Maheshpur in Angara block of suburban Ranchi, was lynched by a mob on charges of stealing a tyre and battery of a bike. Police have made several arrests in connection with both incidents. Since most of the lynchings have been reported from rural areas of the state, police teams have been formed to hold awareness campaigns against such crimes in villages, police said. On Sunday, Ranchi SP (rural) Naushad Alam chaired a meeting with village representatives under the Kanke police station in suburban Ranchi and requested them to spread awareness among fellow villagers. “We will be meeting village representatives and other influential people of the village and ask them to spread awareness against mob lynching. Villagers will be urged to inform police as soon as they find someone committing a crime and not take the law into their own hands,” said Alam, adding that villagers will also be told about the legal provisions under which they could be charged with murder if they beat up someone and the person dies. In an earlier order, the Supreme Court had also asked all the states to hold at least one review meeting of such incidents in every three months, police said. In the wake of several such incidents reported in 2019, then DGP K.N. Choubey had directed police in each district to hold at least one review meeting every month to revisit cases of mob lynching and ensure justice for the kin of those killed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Teachers surprise special kids on World Down Syndrome Day||On the occasion of World Down Syndrome Day, a group of special educators of a Jharia-based government resource centre visited 10 of their students, giving them educational kits, biscuits and chocolates and spending time with them. Physiotherapist Manoj Singh and speech therapists Akhalaque Ahmad and Ashfaque Hussain also took stock regarding the progress of their students, and discussed it with their parents. They also gave them necessary advice regarding the training of the students. Singh, who is the coordinator of the centre, told The Telegraph Online that the institute is currently closed due to the pandemic situation and so they decided to pay these people a visit. “All of them were quite happy meeting us and shared their experiences. Our regular training for the students focuses on guiding them to perform their daily life work,” Singh explained. Giving more details regarding people with down syndrome, speech therapist Ahmad said, “People with this genetic disorder have mild to moderate intellectual disability. Though they prefer the company of their parents and family members they can slowly get acquainted with outsiders and make friends with them. They also need delicate handling as they are emotionally sensitive.” Ahmad informed that they were using smartphones to keep in touch with the students and have also been conducting periodic visits to their homes amid the pandemic-induced constraints. Amiya Kumar Chatterjee, whose 20-year-old daughter Sushri is a part of the school, said she was really excited to meet her teachers. “The centre not only helped her with studies, it also helped her improve a lot,” Chatterjee said. Balmiki Prasad, a daily wager whose daughter Shivani (10) is enrolled in the centre, thanked the teachers for their cooperation. “Despite the centre being closed, all the teachers regularly guided us by making video calls and sometimes visiting our homes,” Prasad said. Established under the inclusive education programme of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan at each block, such resource centres are aimed at making special students be able to take admission into regular schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP flays Hemant govt for planning Assembly debate on farm laws||Leader of BJP legislature party Babulal Marandi criticized the state government’s move to hold an Assembly debate on the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre saying it was a ploy to skirt real issues plaguing the state of Jharkhand. Speaking with reporters at the party office on Sunday afternoon, Marandi snubbed the Hemant government for demeaning laws that have been enacted by Parliament. “We have learnt that tomorrow (Monday), a debate on farm laws is scheduled in the Assembly. It is surprising how it is being done in the Assembly after the bill has already been made into law. It is just beyond logic,” he said. Jharkhand Assembly is expected to debate on the contentious farm laws after a proposal by the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD government aimed at passing a resolution against the legislations like some of the non-BJP ruled states such as Delhi, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh. Marandi accused the Hemant government of avoiding real issues to debate in the House. “The state has seen a series of law and order issues since this government came into power. There is corruption everywhere, and illegal mining and other unlawful activities are going on unabated which directly concern the people. But rather than debating real issues, the government is resorting to petty politics," Marandi said. The Congress hit back at the BJP, asking why it was shying away from a debate in the House if it was convinced the farm laws were good. "Amid the Covid-19 pandemic last year, the BJP-led government in the Centre passed the controversial laws through an Ordinance without discussion in Parliament," the state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said in a statement. "If the laws were so good, there shouldn’t have been nationwide protests by farmers since the last four months. The BJP should debate the laws in the Assembly tomorrow rather than run away,” he said, adding that in the past Delhi, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh assemblies had debated and passed resolutions against the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Health minister joins steel city residents to clean up river||Steel city residents on Sunday joined Citizen's Campaign, an initiative of Jusco (Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd ) on the eve of World Water Day, to clean  water hyacinths from Domuhani Ghat -- the meeting point of river Subarnarekha and Kharkai, in Sonari. State health minister and local legislator Banna Gupta took part in the cleaning drive along with his supporters. Around 100 local residents, Jusco employees and staff of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC) took part in the drive that continued for about three hours on Sunday morning. "Through the Citizen's Campaign we want to create an awareness for keeping rivers clean. With the onset of summer the water crisis increases. Hence, we are trying to make people understand its importance and keeping rivers clean by removing hyacinths, which is a threat to aquatic life," said a Jusco official participating in the campaign. The minister asked his supporters to carry out the cleaning drive once in a week to free both the rivers from the aquatic plants, which are an indication of rising water pollution. Water hyacinths  have started mushrooming in both rivers  Subarnarekha and Kharkai, much earlier this year. Environmentalists attributed the prevailing weather conditions for the early appearance of  hyacinths . They have affected about  three-kilometre-stretch of river Kharkai between Kadma and Sonari and about four-kilometre-stretch of river Subarnarekha between Sonari and Mango.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over a lakh get jabs in state on Day 1 of Panchayat level drive||The Jharkhand government vaccinated over 1.20 lakh residents, including nearly 1 lakh senior citizens, against Covid-19 virus on Day 1 of its special Panchayat level vaccination drive on Saturday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The health department has set a target of vaccinating 10 lakh rural residents during the drive and achieved more than 10 per cent of the target on Day 1 of the week-long campaign. Over 1.4 lakh beneficiaries, both rural and urban, were registered for the first dose of the vaccine on the day. The state managed to vaccinate 89 per cent of the registered beneficiaries. State NHM Director Ravi Shankar Shukla inspected vaccination centres in Tati and Churu blocks of Hazaribagh districts on Saturday. Shukla interacted with the beneficiaries and informed them about the benefits of getting vaccinated. He also asked about the reasons behind apprehension of villagers in getting vaccinated and cleared confusion among them. “The objective behind this special vaccination drive is to ensure maximum possible vaccinations in rural Jharkhand and clear all the apprehensions related to vaccination,” said Shukla. As per government data, of the 1,20,528 people vaccinated on the day, at least 99,030 were senior citizens and 16,685 were middle-agers with comorbid conditions. Over 11,000 people got the jab in Ranchi, while Hazaribagh administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 10,000 people on the day. Most of the beneficiaries vaccinated on Saturday were rural residents, officials said. The special vaccination drive, which started on Saturday, will be held on March 21, 23, 24, 26 and 27. The health department has set up at least one vaccination centre in each of the 4,526 Panchayats. Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs) and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) are doubling up as Covid vaccination centres during the campaign, officials said. Meanwhile, the active Covid caseload jumped to 722 in Jharkhand on the day as the state reported 123 fresh cases – the highest single-day-spike this month – and only 54 Covid recoveries, a bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi reported 57 cases against 35 recoveries on the day, the bulletin further stated. Various healthcare workers and district level health officials inspected the mass vaccination drive at different blocks and Panchayats of the state on Saturday. No major cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported from any of the Panchayats, officials said, adding that preference was given to senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions during the drive. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to only 6,610 of the over 80,000 people registered for the jab on the day, a report from NHM stated. Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 7.30 lakh people and the second dose to over 2 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand unit of chamber to meet Hemant Soren on quota for tribal entrepreneurs||The Jharkhand unit of the Tribal Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will meet chief minister Hemant Soren with a demand for reservation for tribal entrepreneurs in the new procurement plan under the 2021 industrial policy of the state government. A decision to meet the chief minister was taken on Saturday on the sidelines of a two-day vendor development programme organised by the chamber in association with Jharkhand Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation and National Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribe Hub of the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises at the Tribal Culture Centre in Sonari, Jamshedpur. “We have already intimated to state industry director Jitendra Kumar Singh (who was the chief guest at the inaugural programme on Friday) about the need for a separate reservation for tribal entrepreneurs in the procurement plan as part of the new industrial policy being framed by the government. He (Singh) has assured of positive action. “We will also be meeting the chief minister and requesting at least 30 per cent reservation for tribal entrepreneurs and 10 per cent for tribal women entrepreneurs in the new procurement policy of the Jharkhand government,” said Baidyanath Mardi, the chamber’s Jharkhand unit president. The chamber officials felt that the formulation and implementation of a new procurement policy with reservation for tribal entrepreneurs will safeguard the micro and small enterprises in respect of purchases by government departments and state-owned PSUs, including boards, corporations, development authorities, improvement trusts, municipalities, notified area committees, cooperative bodies and institutions aided by the Jharkhand government and companies where the state government’s share is 50 per cent or more. Mardi said at present more than 60 tribal entrepreneurs exist in Jharkhand. “More tribals will get interested in the MSME sector if there is reservation for them in the procurement policy,” he said. He also appealed to the corporate sector, including the Tata Group, to help in providing proper training to tribal entrepreneurs and also provide hand-holding sessions in providing market linkage for their products. “We will also appeal to the chief minister for a separate board to provide loans to tribal entrepreneurs,” added Mardi. The two-day vendor development programme which concluded on Saturday was attended by senior officials of Tata Steel, Tata Motors, Cummins, Tata Power, Indian Steel and Wire Products, Tata BlueScope and Nuvoco Vistas, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
