22-03-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur digital divide survey riddle||The students’ senate of IIT Kharagpur has accused the authorities of a “complete disregard to clarify why certain proposals have been turned down with vague reasons”. The senate, which represents students on the campus, has cited the example of the IIT not disclosing the results of a survey on Internet connectivity issues faced by students. An official of the institute said the survey was carried out last August to determine who would have to be brought back to the campus to address the issue of digital divide among the students. “The authorities have neither announced the findings of the survey nor brought back any student with poor Net connectivity at home to the campus,” a teacher said. Calls and text messages from this newspaper to IIT director V.K. Tewari were not  answered. Senate chairman Shivam Singh posted on his Facebook page on Sunday morning: “For instance, the administration has not disclosed the results of the previous survey conducted with respect to Internet connectivity issues faced, even after repeated requests from the students’ Senate.” Classes are being held on digital platforms over the past year because of the pandemic. “Other institutes like IIM Calcutta had conducted a survey among the students last July to identify those who were struggling with connectivity issues at home and decided to call them back to the campus. IIT Kharagpur, on the other hand, just sat on the survey,” said a fourth-year BTech student. Jadavpur University had conducted a survey last year to determine who were facing digital constraints and raised money to give smartphones and data packs to students who could not afford them. IIT students’ senate chairman Singh has posted that the senate would conduct a survey to find out who are facing connectivity issues at home and share the findings with the administration so they can be brought back to the campus. “Students’ Senate will conduct a new survey to gather preliminary data on students facing resource constraints. This survey will be designed in a manner that enables ease of answering and authenticity, and this shall be shared with the administration. The number of students facing resource constraints, who shall be called back to campus, will be decided on the basis of the response”, Singh has posted. Director Tewari had announced on March 17 that they had a plan to recall about 300 final-year undergraduate students, “whose labs require physical presence”, from April 16. The announcement through a Facebook post came two days after undergraduate and postgraduate students boycotted online classes to protest, what they called, lack of planning by the administration in reopening and calling back students to the campus. “….the administration has even refused our proposal for an open house without any justification, however, the Senate will continue to fight for the student fraternity until our issues are solved,” the senate chairman has posted. When contacted, Singh declined comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal reports rise in active cases||Bengal on Sunday reported the 10th consecutive day of rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases, by 124. The active cases total 3,504. The state on Sunday reported 295 recoveries but 422 new cases. “In over two months, we haven’t seen such numbers (of new infections found in a day). It is being looked into at the highest level, and steps will be taken at once,” said a minister. “This is part of a wider, national trend of a renewed rise – in alarming proportions in several states – and we hope to be able to stem the tide before significant damage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||400-plus indigenous parakeets rescued from bus in Durgapur||Over 400 indigenous parakeets, most of them barely a few days old, were seized from the boot of a bus in Durgapur by forest officials early on Sunday. Seven persons have been arrested, including three men who were allegedly carrying the birds and a pair each of drivers and conductors of the bus, which was coming from Patna and was headed to Calcutta. “We found six cages loaded in the boot of the bus. The birds were crammed inside the cages. Most of them were a few days old. Their wings are still to be developed. Some of the birds died of suffocation. The number of live birds is 458,” said Debasish Sharma, the divisional forest official of Burdwan. “This is the time for parakeets to hatch,” he said. The birds were headed to several areas of the city, including Galiff Street in north Calcutta where birds are sold on Sundays, forest officials said. Trading in indigenous parakeets is prohibited under the Wildlife Protection Act. Based on a tip-off, men from the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and the forest divisions of Durgapur and Burdwan stopped the bus near the Benachity market in Durgapur around 4am, said a local forest official. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the men had boarded the bus from Garhwa in Jharkhand. The forest officials have stepped up crackdown on trade in birds, resulting in many seizures in and around Calcutta. “But for each seizure, many more such consignments reach the markets unnoticed,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Calcuttans ask parties to make cycling an issue ||A number of Calcuttans held a demonstration on the Maidan on Sunday morning demanding that political parties speak for promoting cycling in the city and creating cycling-friendly infrastructure. Several cycling groups were present at the demonstration. A Calcutta police order bans cycling on all arterial roads of the city. While those advocating for allowing cycling on Calcutta’s roads say the ban is regressive and it discriminates in favour of the rich who own cars, the police have persistently held that cycling on arteries would lead to accidents. Police officers say the city’s roads hardly have any space for cycling lanes. “This is a non-negotiable demand. It is time political parties realised the need to promote sustainable transport like cycling. How long will Calcutta’s roads remain off-limits for cyclists? We want the political parties to commit that they will allow cycling in Calcutta and create safe cycling infrastructure in Calcutta as well as other cities of Bengal,” said Vinay Jaju, a member of the Bengal Clean Air Network that promotes cycling for cleaner air. Transportation specialist Bhargab Maitra told Metro that he agreed with the demand of the cyclists but added that it should be accepted only after “a safe cycling infrastructure” is created. “I am happy that demands to allow cycling are growing in Calcutta. The authorities have to adopt a massive transformation and accommodate sustainable transportation like cycling. People should be able to cover short trips by walking or cycling. We have to build infrastructure that allures people to walk, to cycle. Reducing footpath and widening roads to accommodate cars have not yielded any beneficial result,” said Maitra, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur. “I do not want the police to suddenly allow cycling without creating the necessary infrastructure so that cycling is safe. Certainly one would not desire accidents after cycles are allowed on roads. But we cannot further delay building that infrastructure. We are already pushed to the wall.” A Calcuttan who has visited Amsterdam said the capital of The Netherlands had dedicated cycle lanes. The cyclists wait at traffic signals and cross a road only when the signal is green for them. He expressed doubt how many cyclists in Calcutta were that disciplined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Four candidates from same complex bring pain for Urbana residents ||One condominium off EM Bypass is home to at least four persons who are contesting the Assembly elections and their neighbours have suddenly realised the pangs of having so-called celebrities in their midst. Actors Hiran Chatterjee, Payel Sarkar and Srabanti Chatterjee, who are contesting on BJP tickets, and film director Raj Chakraborty, who is from the Trinamul Congress, — all live in Urbana — a housing complex about a kilometre east from the Ruby rotary. With so many candidates in one housing complex, residents are facing a host of complex situations like a sudden surge of unknown faces swarming around the main gate or in common spaces, many armed with party flags; armed security personnel loitering in lobbies where children play otherwise and party cadres readying the candidates’ cars with flags in the common parking lot. A host of problems that Urbana residents are unaccustomed to has aggravated to such a level that many have reported it to the housing association, forcing it to step in. A “standard operating procedure” has been formulated specifically for the four candidates to maintain an “unbiased and apolitical atmosphere” in the housing complex that has 1,170 apartments spread across seven towers. Recently, when hundred-odd men and women armed with party flags gathered at the main gate seeking entry to meet a particular candidate, the security personnel at the gate had panicked and contacted the housing association officials seeking immediate advice. Finally, 10 people at a time were allowed inside. A resident said he saw “more than 100 people” trying to get inside the main gate at the same time. “I felt alarmed. I had never seen anything like this here. They were holding flags of a political party and swarming around the main gate. On checking with the security, we were told that they had come to visit one of our neighbours who has recently joined politics and is contesting the elections,” he said. A mother of two complained about how “awkward” she had felt to see two armed CRPF men standing at the common lobby, while the politician they were accompanying was inside the candidate’s flat. “It does not give me a home-like feeling when I see armed CRPF men standing at the lobby where my children are to play. It felt unacceptable,” she said. The resident added that at least one more MP who has a flat in the housing who does not stay here. “But things have been never so bad,” she added. The newly formed SOP includes restricting the entry of party members to 15 who come to visit the candidates, embargo on loitering of their visitors in the common areas, complete ban on any type of symbolic gesture of party representation such as flags or posters and requesting all candidates to ensure that their visitors should follow the prevailing vehicle parking rules in the society. “All four candidates have been extremely sensitive and have immediately started abiding by the requests we made. No one is allowed inside the housing with flags in hand and there is no further incident of anyone trying to decorate a car with flags in the common area. Party cadres who are coming to visit are also entering through the normal registration process as is done for the remaining visitors,” said an official of the housing association. The candidates have also been told to ensure that all political meetings should be held inside the individual’s apartment with strict embargo on using the common spaces. With restrictions inside the housing, the action has now shifted outside the main gate. “One day, I saw BJP supporters preparing for a bike rally just outside our gate while Trinamul cadres tying flags on the railings on Anandapur Road. It was quite a sight!” On a lighter note, a member of the association said one of the “better things” that has happened in the past few weeks is a sudden surge in number of visitors and a considerable rise in revenue from food sale in Club Urbana. “The sale in the club (of food) has shot up,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Calcutta Municipal Corporation teams at door with plea to get vaccinated||Health workers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) are paying door-to-door visits, urging elderly residents and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities to get vaccinated against Covid-19. The health workers are also booking time slots for those who are willing to take the jab in a CMC clinic. The specific time slots are being given so that recipients do not have to wait for long in a queue. Covid-19 vaccination is being done at 61 ward health clinics of the CMC for free. A large number of people are visiting the clinics without registering on the Co-Win platform. If several such people come at the same time, it will lead to long queues which the CMC wants to avoid, said officials. A week into the door-to-door visits, the CMC is getting mixed response. “We want to prepare a list of 150 people every day. But we are achieving about half that number, because many are not cooperating,” said an official. Some said they would like to get vaccinated at a hospital, others said they were unwilling to get vaccinated. A few want to wait and watch. The vaccination of people above 59 and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities started on March 1. Metro accompanied a CMC team that visited households in Kasba last week. In one of the flats, an elderly woman said she and her husband would not get vaccinated. She did not cite any reason. On an upper floor, an elderly couple heard out the team and said they would get vaccinated after the Assembly elections. Each CMC clinic is vaccinating about 200 people on an average every day. Though the number of people who are booking slots during the door-to-door campaign is less than the target, the number of daily vaccination is not falling behind the target. That is because many recipients are getting themselves registered at the spot. “But we want to bring down the number of people opting for spot-registration. If we can give slots to recipients in advance, it will prevent crowding and help us manage the situation better,” an official said. “The door-to-door visits will work like an awareness campaign on Covid-19 vaccination. Since the Covid-19 numbers are rising again in the city and elsewhere in the state, vaccination and adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour are the only two ways to prevent the situation from worsening. If we are able to vaccinate many people, the virus will not be able to spread rapidly,” said a CMC doctor. One CMC official said he had instructed teams in his borough to tell residents that the doses being administered at private hospitals were being sourced from the CMC’s storage facilities to drive home the point that the vaccines being used in private hospitals and CMC clinics were the same. The CMC teams are also handing over a printed format in which a doctor has to certify whether someone between 45 and 59 has comorbidities. Only the doctor’s certificate in the prescribed format will be considered, said officials. The format can also be downloaded from mygov.in/covid-19/. CMC sources said the health clinics would play a pivotal role in vaccinating the general population since they are spread across the city. The CMC has 144 health clinics, one in each ward. “Some localities may not have a hospital close to them, but there will be a CMC clinic where people can be vaccinated,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Two city schools shut down campuses after student and teacher test positive||Two city schools have decided to shut down their campuses temporarily after a student and a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. La Martiniere for Boys and St Lawrence High School will be shut down from Monday, officials said. La Martiniere for Boys will remain closed till March 27 and St Lawrence High School till March 29. At La Martiniere for Boys, a Class X student who was writing the rehearsal exam on the campus tested positive for Covid-19 and at St Lawrence High School, a teacher who was conducting online classes from the school tested positive. The teacher and the student both went to their respective schools on Friday. At La Martiniere for Boys, all remaining rehearsal examinations for Classes X and XII will now be held online. St Lawrence High School has suspended in-person classes for the Class X students who started their new academic session in January. “A very unfortunate situation has cropped up. It has been reported to me that one of our Class X pupils appearing for the Onsite Rehearsal Examinations, has tested Covid positive and hence we have decided to close down school for a week (Monday, 22nd March- Saturday, 27th March, 2021),” said John Rafi, the principal of La Martiniere for Boys in a notice addressed to parents and pupils on Sunday. “Therefore, all remaining Rehearsal Examinations for Class X and XII will shift from the onsite to the online mode. The online schedule as given earlier will be followed.” The Class X student showed symptoms on Friday evening. “The report came this morning and the parents informed the school, after which the decision to close the school was taken,” a La Martiniere official said. The Class X rehearsal exams had started on March 15 and that of Class XII on Friday. The Class X students had five more papers left, a school official said. “The school and teachers were following the Covid safety protocols and the SOPs very strictly and parents and students should not get upset. The school was maintaining the prescribed distance of 6ft (between two persons) in the examination hall and proper sanitisation was being continuously done. The students were told about the Covid protocols and advised to follow them,” said Rafi. A school official said about 70 per cent of the Class X students and 60 per cent of Class XII students were writing their exams in the school. “I laud each and every boy who had taken the courage and initiative to sit for the onsite examinations. Do not let this upset you in any way. Don’t be nervous or afraid, rather be courageous and continue to concentrate on your studies,” said the principal in the notice. At St Lawrence High School, teachers have been asked to work from home. All topics in the syllabus for the students who will appear for the boards this year have been covered, said Father Sebastian James, the principal of St Lawrence High School. “We were having on-campus classes for the current batch of Class X students following all safety protocols. The teacher (who tested positive) was not in contact with these students. She was taking online classes,” the principal said. Father James said in-person classes will resume on March 30. The pre-boards are also going on at La Martiniere for Girls in both online and offline mode and the school will function as usual. “The girls’ school has a different campus and there is no need to close it down,” said Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of the La Martiniere schools. Kasba Chittaranjan High School had been shut down on February 24 after a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. The students who attended the teacher’s class were asked to undergo test and nobody tested positive. The school conducted Class XII practicals from March 8 in small batches. The state government had allowed schools to reopen for Classes IX to XII from February 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Auto fest: A pre-Holi bash at South City Mall||It was a pre-Holi auto bash for those who headed for the HDFC Bank Accelerate Auto Expo in association with The Telegraph over the weekend at South City Mall. Buyers, who had postponed their purchases following the Covid-induced recession, are back to buying at a time personal mobility is at its peak. Most enquiries were for Kia Carnival, Nissan Magnite and the newly launched Tata Safari. The new Citroen C5 Aircross was also a huge draw. The supercars Porsche 718 Cayman S and the Lamborghini Urus had turned into selfie points as was the Harley Davidson Fatboy. Over March 20-21, the expo drew over a 1,000 enquiries, of which 15 per cent were hot leads. Customers could also opt for custom-fit auto loans from HDFC Bank with EMIs starting from Rs 1,234 per lakh. Speaking on the expo, Sandeep S. Kumar, branch banking head, HDFC Bank, east, said:  “We are delighted to launch HDFC Bank Accelerate in Calcutta. Through HDFC Bank Accelerate, we have brought the leading auto brands under one roof and also exciting offers from the bank for customers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Lost and found: coffee and conversations||The premises of Calcutta South India Club in Hindusthan Park are now home to Roastery Coffee House, a charming café that proved a boon for the city during the lockdown. Its open-air section has drawn a great number of people looking for a non-AC environment for conversation and coffee, and many of remain quite thrilled with the wide range of coffees on offer, including an impressive selection of cold brews, the plump mushroom bruschetta and the excellent service. For some a visit to this café has another dimension. Where the café stands now, there was a “canteen” with no name. It was simply called the “South India Club canteen”, and loved for its dosas, vadas, idlis and mini meals. The canteen actually occupied only the right hand corner of the ground floor. It was quite shabby, not only by contemporary standards, and cramped, with no attempt at décor whatsoever. But the smells that invited you in were robust and the masala dosa that you ordered was sharp and landed in front of you in minutes, served by a smiling man you knew for years, the pickle was fiery and the filter coffee that followed was strong and gave you courage to face life again. So even as you sip the satisfying cappuccino now, you also seem to smell that filter coffee in the air. And the shape of the older, bustling, sambar-smelling and very pocket-friendly eatery somehow takes shape in the right corner again. It is a kind of double vision that many places in the city induce in you, when you still seem to see the old building that has been razed hovering over the apartment block that has replaced it, like a sad ghost that cannot leave. You feel a little pain. But the good news is that the old canteen has a new address. Run on contract, it shut down at the club in January 2019, but started on its own, as the eatery Madura Shankara,  at Golpark, facing Ramakrishna Mission, from April 2019 again. The eatery had to move out of the club due to limitations of his resources, said T.N. Balasubramanian, the man who had kept the canteen going since 2005. The new Golpark eatery is an even more modest place than the previous one. But its menu is as full — in the morning you get pongal as well; the eatery opens at 7.30am — as earlier. Also available are adai, sevai and rawa dosa. Balasubramanian, 68, remains his genial and graceful self, greeting customers in with warmth and directing them to the three small tables that fill up the space. Regulars drop in for a quick bite and coffee. Balasubramanian got into the business almost by chance. Or because of fate, as he, a deeply religious man, would put it. He speaks in English, but can manage communicating in Bengali. He had been living in Calcutta since 1976, working as a branch officer in an engineering tools company. He was born in Trichi, Tamil Nadu, and finished his school and college education in Chennai, then Madras. He was commerce graduate. After working for 25 years in this company, he was transferred to Ahmedabad in 2001. He returned to Calcutta after a while, but left this job and joined a ceramics company at Karaikal in Puducherry. Known for its Navagraha temples, Karaikal was not far away from Thanjavur city, formerly Tanjore, in Tamil Nadu, known for its many temples, including the Chola ones. Balasubramanian’s family — wife, daughter and son – had not left Calcutta. So he wanted to return. In 2005, he heard that the South India Club was looking for someone who could run the canteen on a contract. He knew nothing about cooking. He still does not know the nitty gritty. The club did not get many takers, said Balasubramanian, as the canteen came with labour problems. He thought he would go ahead. Before that he wanted to consult an astrologer. He felt that destiny had already played a decisive role in his life. In 1996, a Nadi (pulse) astrologer had told him that he would be transferred at 49 to another city and would see a lot of temples. Both came true and he saw many temples when he was in Karaikal. Now, to ask about his decision to return to Calcutta, he went to Kumbakonam, located in Thanjavur district. Kumbakonam is the centre of Nadi (pulse) astrology, which makes predictions by reading thumb impressions. At Vaitheeswaran temple in Kumbakonam, a Nadi astrologer, who was not aware of Balasubramanian’s life, told him straightaway that he would get into food business. “This was a message from above,” said Balasubramanian. It could have been a coincidence, I tell him, adding gratuitously that I do not believe in astrology. “But how else can you explain it?” he asked. He got the contract. The first few months were tough. The canteen employed 12 men, most of them from Odisha, the rest from Bengal and Bihar and two from south India. But slowly things began to relax. And so began a long association between Balasubramanian and his staff. In the last 10 years or so, the canteen was a peaceful place to visit for the weary soul. Balasubramanian or his wife would sit at the counter, which was a table laden with sweets and savouries, chips, pickles, papads and jangeri (a sweet similar to amrita), some of these obtained from Chennai. The customers would be, as they still are, plied with second helpings of sambar and chutney. “Second helpings are charged at south Indian restaurants,” said Balasubramanian, smiling. It is a great comfort to feel free of portions. When he started Madura Shankara, where, too, a small table stands with a pile of snacks, eight of the 12 workers joined him. Now only three are working, because the rest returned home during lockdown and have not been able to return. As we speak, another regular, a gentleman, drops in for coffee. So does a lady, and has a hearty conversation with her host. Does he think of going back to Tamil Nadu? He did, says Balasubramanian, though it did not happen. “But Calcutta is a good city,” said the resident of Mahanirvan Road. “It is gentle and affordable,” He can live his life here peacefully, go to the Ganesh Murugan temple in Lake Gardens, practise his faith, be himself. Though most south Indian families have left Lake Market and other south Calcutta areas, he does not feel the city has changed for him. He feels at home here. And a cup of steaming filter coffee is placed before me. I inhale deeply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Business||Lok Sabha passes Insurance Amendment Bill, FDI raised to 74 per cent||A bill to increase foreign direct investment (FDI) in the insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent was approved by Parliament with the Lok Sabha giving green signal to the legislation by a voice vote on Monday.  Piloting the Bill, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that hiking the FDI limit in the insurance sector will help insurers to raise additional funds and tide over financial problems.  The Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was earlier passed by the Rajya Sabha last week.  The minister said that the government will provide funds to the public sector insurance companies but the private players will have to raise capital on their own.  Observing that insurance companies are facing solvency related issues, she said, "if growth capital is hard to come by, there will be a stress situation. In order that the stress situation is not left unattended, we need to raise the FDI limit."  The COVID-19 pandemic, Sitharaman said, has further added to the woes of the insurance companies.  The minister further said that the FDI limit was being raised on the recommendations of the regulator IRDAI which had extensive consultations with stakeholders.  The FDI inflow in the insurance sector, the minister said, had increased significantly after the government decided to raise the cap from 26 per cent to 49 per cent in 2015.  As much as Rs 26,000 crore has come as FDI in the insurance sector since 2015, she said, adding the asset under management (AUM) in this sector has grown by 76 per cent during the last five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
22-03-2021||Business||Sensex ends 87 points lower to finish at 49,771||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 87 points on Monday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 86.95 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 49,771.29. The broader NSE Nifty dipped 7.60 points or 0.05 per cent to 14,736.40. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, TCS, Sun Pharma, Infosys and HCL Tech were among the gainers. "Domestic equities traded lower as mounting concerns pertaining to rise in COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country and resultant restrictions continued to weigh on investors sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, weak global cues and higher US bond yields kept markets nervous. However, strong buying was seen in IT, FMCG and pharma space, while financials and automobiles witnessed selling pressure. "Notably, investors lapped-up quality midcap and small cap stocks after recent corrections in these spaces," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were in the red, while Shanghai ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a weak note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.20 per cent lower at USD 64.40 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
22-03-2021||Business||HC stays order restraining Future Retail to go ahead with Reliance deal||The Delhi High Court on Monday stayed a single judge's order restraining Future Retail Ltd from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business, which was objected to by US-based e-commerce giant Amazon. A division bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh also issued notice to Amazon on Future Group's appeal challenging the single judge's March 18 judgment on the deal. The bench listed the matter for further hearing on April 30. It also stayed the single judge order asking for attachment of assets of Future Group's Kishore Biyani and others and directing them to appear in the court on April 28. The single judge's order had come on Amazon's plea seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator's on October 25, 2020, restraining Future Retail from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 305.33 points or 0.61 per cent lower at 49,552.91, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 76 points or 0.52 per cent to 14,668. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints and Infosys were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 641.72 points or 1.30 per cent higher at 49,858.24, and Nifty surged 186.15 points or 1.28 per cent to finish at 14,744. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Friday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,418.43 crore, as per exchange data. V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said the market is in an excessively volatile zone. Support comes from sustained FII buying which has crossed Rs 7,000 crore during the last four trading days. "But, there is a major dampener in the form of fast-rising COVID-19 cases, especially in some economically significant cities. Restricted economic activity in these regions might impact the optimistic growth projections for FY 22," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.50 per cent lower at USD 64.21 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Cover course||The financial year-end sees an uptick in life insurance purchases. Apart from coverage and investment benefits, life insurance policies also provide tax deductions under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act. Owning a life coverage is critical for persons with dependent family members. An insurance coverage replaces the income of the deceased, thus helping dependants avoid financial strain and remain on track to achieve life goals such as paying off a home loan or educating a child. Therefore, the coverage size needs to be at the heart of an insurance purchase decision. This is not often the case. For many, the need to save taxes, along with the tendency to combine insurance needs with investment needs, take precedence. Not prioritising the sum assured could have disastrous consequences for their families. The preferred approach Many prefer having streamlined solutions to tax-saving, investment and insurance. This leads them to investment-linked insurance plans that can achieve all the three goals. The policies do a good job of taking care of the tax-saving needs. However, they may also contain the trio of inadequate coverage, limited liquidity and low annualised returns. Therefore, if you are in the market for your first life insurance policy, buy a term insurance plan. It’s a pure insurance plan with no investment or maturity benefit. Because of the low premium costs, this is the only option that takes care of your coverage needs without pinching your wallet. For example, a 30-year-old can buy a basic term cover of Rs 1 crore for 30 years for an annual premium of around Rs 11,000. At that price, it wouldn’t be possible to buy a similar coverage through investment-linked policies. A term plan would also free up your savings that you can now use for wealth creation. How much coverage? There are many ways of determining the ideal level of coverage. Some suggest a simple rule of thumb: coverage of 10 to 20 times your current annual income should cover your family for the long-term. However, it’s better to calculate your requirement keeping in mind your financials, life goals and inflation. For example, your minimum coverage need would combine the following: your current annual expenses multiplied by the number of years left till retirement, the current value of life goals such as child’s education, loans and other liabilities, surviving spouse’s retirement needs, minus existing savings and investments. Bear in mind that your coverage will be commensurate to your documented income. For example, if your income is Rs 10 lakh, you can buy a Rs 1 crore cover, but you cannot buy a Rs  10-crore cover. You may be allowed to own up to 30 times your annual income as coverage in some cases. What about investments? Investment-linked insurance plans often have large premium. But a term plan is cheap; it will only provide moderate support in helping you achieve tax-saving goals. Therefore, you need to find options to cover the shortfall in tax savings.You have plenty. If you were interested in market-linked investments, you could invest in equity-linked savings schemes — tax-saving mutual funds that you can invest in with monthly SIPs, or one-time lump-sums. ELSS funds also have the lowest lock-ins of tax-saving investments — just three years. If you are risk-averse and prefer the rate of return to be clearly advertised, small saving schemes are your best option because they provide higher tax-free interest income than other debt investment options. Voluntary Provident Fund, Public Provident Fund and the five-year National Savings Certificate will do the trick for the general public. For families with female children, Sukanya Samriddhi is the go-to option. Investing through insurance When you buy any investment, you must understand what its annual rate of return would be. This is important in the short term but even more important when committing to a long-term investment plan such as a Ulip or an endowment plan. For example, your office PF provides tax-free returns of 8.50 per cent. If you commit to a monthly investment plan of Rs 5,000 for 8.50 per cent for 30 years, you will have a corpus of Rs 83.1 lakh. But if you committed to this plan and it returned just 5 per cent over 30 years, you will get just Rs 41.8 lakh and miss a life goal by a large margin. Therefore, it’s important that long-term plans provide good results. Endowment plans guarantee a minimum sum assured on maturity. The key is in knowing if the annual rate of return on this investment would beat a benchmark. For example, the 8.50 per cent you get on VPF or 7.1 per cent on PPF. If it doesn’t, you should strongly consider separating your insurance from your investments. The other thing you need to be mindful of is that you can’t liquidate insurance plans prematurely without suffering a degree of loss. Therefore, if the rate of return and liquidity are critical to you, it would be better for you to invest through other means such as ELSS and PF. A combination of a term plan plus investments such as ELSS (or PF for the risk-averse) may give you the benefit of ample coverage, high tax-free returns and liquidity when you need it. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Jewellers fear 20% export drop after Covid disrupts demand||Gems and jewellery export in 2020-21 could end up around 20 per cent lower after the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted demand in the first half of the fiscal. Gross gems and jewellery export from India between April 2019 and March 2020, including cut and polished diamonds, gold, silver and platinum jewellery and coloured gemstones was Rs 2.51 lakh crore, according to data from industry body Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). “The expectation is exports could end around 20 per cent down which is not bad considering the situation in the months of April, May, June and July of the fiscal. On a month-on-month basis, we are already at pre-Covid level,” said Colin Shah, chairman, GJEPC, on the sidelines of an event organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce on Saturday. Shah said that a policy focussing on e-commerce for the gems and jewellery sector is in the works covering aspects such as payments, collection, shipping and returns. Sale of jewellery through online channels has picked up after retail stores remained shut across the country in the early months of the ongoing fiscal to prevent the spread of Covid. Last month GJEPC had announced its collaboration with eBay to boost retail exports of gems and jewellery from India. Exports are expected to grow to $75 billion by 2025 and e-commerce could play a crucial role. Shah also said that a common facility centre has been built in Bowbazar, Calcutta, to encourage small artisans to avail technology towards building global standard jewellery. Code of conduct The World Gold Council is in the process of formulating a code of conduct for the gems and jewellery industry with an objective to put together a structure to enhance trust in the industry. Somasundaram PR, managing director of the World Gold Council, India, said a steering committee has been put together to formulate the code. “We would soon be reaching out to every jeweller and association as much as is practically possible,” he said at the ICC organised event. He added that there is a need for collecting credible data on the industry which can then be utilised by the policymakers. Pay from home Jewellery major Tanishq on Saturday said that it will facilitate buyers in the poll-bound states to purchase jewellery during the election months from their home. The service,being piloted in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and Bengal, will allow customers who opt for cash payments to complete the payment process with the company facilitating cash collection from home. Imports fall Gold imports, which have a bearing on the country’s current account deficit (CAD), fell 3.3 per cent to $26.11 billion during April-February 2020-21, according to the commerce ministry data. Imports of the yellow metal stood at $27 billion in April-February 2019-20. The decline in gold imports has helped in narrowing the country’s trade deficit to $84.62 billion during the 11-month of the current fiscal against $151.37 billion a year ago. India is the largest importer of gold, which mainly caters to the demand of the jewellery industry. In volume terms, the country imports 800-900 tonnes of gold annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Reliance Industries sells bulk of gas to affiliate||Reliance Industries Ltd has sold three-fourth of the gas from its coal seams in Madhya Pradesh to an affiliate of the company at a price of just over $6 per million British thermal unit (mBtu) at current oil prices. India Gas Solutions Private Limited, a 50: 50 joint venture of RIL and UK’s BP, bought 0.62 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) out of the 0.82 mscmd gas bid out in an auction last week, three people with knowledge of the matter said. State-owned gas utility GAIL India Ltd cornered 0.17 mscmd, while 0.03 mmscmd was picked up by Reliance Gas Pipeline — the entity that transports gas from the coal-bed methane (CBM) blocks in Madhya Pradesh to consumers. Reliance initially set 9.5 per cent of Brent rate as the base or minimum price and asked bidders to “enter bids that are higher than or equal to it”. It later lowered the base price to 8.7 per cent of Brent. At the current $67 per barrel Brent crude oil price, the price of gas produced from coal seams, called CBM, comes to $6.1 per million British thermal unit (mBtu). “A bidder shall be required to quote the variable denoted as ‘V’ in percentage terms as a positive number” of the dated Brent price, the notice said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Saudi Arabian state oil giant Aramco sees recovery signs||Saudi Arabian state oil giant Aramco is betting on an Asian-led rebound in energy demand this year after it reported a steep slide in net profit for 2020 on Sunday and scaled back its spending plans. The Covid-19 pandemic took a heavy toll on the company and its global peers in 2020, but oil prices have rallied this year as economies recover from last year’s downturn and after oil producers extended output cuts. “We are pleased that there are signs of a recovery,” Aramco CEO Amin Nasser told an earnings call. “China is also very close to pre-pandemic levels. So in Asia, East Asia in particular, there is strong pickup in demand.” He said demand in Europe and the United States would improve with more deployment of vaccines. Global oil demand is expected to reach 99 million barrels per day by the end of this year, he said. Aramco lowered its guidance for capital expenditure in 2021 to around $35 billion from a range of $40 billion to $45 billion previously, according to a disclosure to the kingdom’s Tadawul bourse. Capital spending in 2020 was $27 billion. The world’s largest oil exporter said net profit fell 44.4 per cent to 183.76 billion riyals ($49 billion) for the year ended December 31 from 330.69 billion riyals a year earlier. Analysts had expected a 2020 net profit of 186.1 billion riyals, according to the mean estimate of analysts in Refinitiv’s Eikon. Aramco declared a dividend of $75 billion for 2020, but Nasser said there was no intention to increase the dividend this year from what's been pledged. “The dividend is in line with expectations, which is what holders of Aramco will care about most, but lower capex implies the company does not expect high oil prices to last for the long-term,” said Hasnain Malik, head of equity research at Tellimer. Through most of last year, Aramco's shares held up well against global oil companies in emerging and developed markets, but underperformed against the company’s peers when oil prices recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||SUV crunch at Mercedes due to increase in global demand||Mercedes Benz India Limited (MBIL) has said its SUVs such as the GLC, GLE, GLS are in short supply on account of an increase in global demand. The German marquee is not going to reach its peak sales of 2018 this year because of the shortage, MBIL managing director Martin Schwenk said at the launch of an upgraded E-Class last week. “While on one hand this is a good thing because we have demand back, on the other, we won’t be able to sell much because of supply constraints,” said Schwenk. The company sold 7,893 units last year against 13,786 units a year ago, a decline of 43 per cent. The highest sales for Mercedes Benz in the country took place in 2018 when it sold 15,538 units. Asked if the supply crunch was because of pandemic-induced supply chain issues, Schwenk said: “It is more due to increased demand globally for our products.” The company received a capital infusion of Rs 1,750 crore early this year. When asked what the capital infusion was for, Schwenk said: “It was for improving the financial health of the company and extending its footprint.” Big-ticket launches Mercedes this year will be focusing on its sedans with a number of big-ticket launches lined up, including the A-Class limousine this month. “Sedan sales still is the biggest component contributing 53 per cent of our sales. But if 2020 was the year of SUVs, 2021 will be the year of sedans,” said the Merc CEO. The new E-Class will have an AMG version with a 3-litre engine for a price tag of Rs 80.9 lakh. The E-Class will also be available with a 2-litre diesel engine which will sell from Rs 64.8 lakh and a 2-litre petrol engine that will sell from Rs 63.6 lakh. The company has sold over 46,000 E-Classes in India cumulatively and the sedan accounts for 30 per cent of its sales. The new E-Class comes with segment first features such as off-roading capabilities. When asked if all these features will help E-Class to increase its share in the overall sales Schwenk said: “I hope it leads to a growth in the overall sales volume.” The company globally aims to have a carbon-neutral fleet by 2039 and hopes 15 per cent to 25 per cent of its global sales will be from electric vehicles (EVs). In India, the company has not set any target for EV sales. Its first EV, the EQC, will be open for the second phase of bookings but Schwenk refused to put a sales number to the EQCs sold in the first phase, saying: “We sold reasonably good numbers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Household debt in Q2 rises to 37% of GDP||The year-long pandemic left households more indebted, which has sharply jumped to 37.1 per cent of GDP in the second quarter of 2020-21, while their savings rate plunged to a low 10.4 per cent, according to latest data from the Reserve Bank. The household savings plunged as the pandemic has led to tens of millions losing jobs and almost all forced to take deep pay-cuts, forcing them to borrow more or dip into their savings to meet expenses. This led to the share of households in the overall credit market jumping to 51.5 per cent in the second quarter, up 130 basis points year-on-year. In a counter-seasonal manner, the pandemic-induced spike in the household financial savings rate in the first quarter of FY21, when it had touched an unprecedented 21 per cent of GDP, has plunged to 10.4 per cent in Q2, the March issue of the RBI bulletin released over the weekend showed. However, this was still higher than 9.8 per cent registered in Q2 of 2019-20, the report said. The RBI house economists said normally when the economy stalls or contract, household savings go up and when the economy recovers it falls as people become more confident of spending. In this case, the savings jumped to an unprecedented 21 per cent in Q1, when GDP contracted a record 23.9 per cent, and when contraction moderated to 7.5 per cent in Q2, household savings plunged to 10.4 per cent. “The inverse relation between household savings rate and GDP growth may sound counter-intuitive, but studies have shown that households tend to save more during the economic slowdown and greater income uncertainty,” the report argued. A similar trend was also observed during the global financial crisis in 2008-09 when household savings jumped 170 basis points as a percentage of GDP in 2008-09 and moderated subsequently as the economy picked up. But the report warned that the household savings rate would have further gone down in Q3, citing preliminary numbers as a result of near normal consumption and economic activity. While households’ deposits and borrowings have also picked up, their holding of currency and savings in mutual funds has moderated, the report said, which has attributed the increased consumption, particularly its discretionary components, to a resumption in economic activity following the easing of lockdowns. The reversal in household financial savings is corroborated by the lower surplus in the current account balance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||IBM’s $1-trillion cloud goal following digitisation push||Multinational technology major IBM expects higher spending by Indian enterprises on cloud-based services accelerated by the increased push to digitisation following the Covid pandemic. “The pandemic has definitely accelerated the move to go digital and, hence, the adoption of cloud services has been on the rise. Dozens of business oriented applications today are connecting home-bound workers to collaborative tools that enable business continuity. This has led to an increased push for digitisation and has a direct impact on hybrid cloud adoption,” said Viswanath Ramaswamy, vice-president, technology, IBM technology sales, India and South Asia. Globally, more than a third of the company’s revenue is coming from the cloud business and the company anticipates hybrid cloud as a $1-trillion business opportunity. “According to the IBM CEO Study, in India, nearly six of the 10 Indian CEOs expect cloud computing to deliver results in the next 2-3 years. 45 per cent of CEOs in India expect AI/machine learning to deliver results in 2-3 years. We are seeing a direct impact of this shift in IBM’s hybrid cloud business – with cloud revenue topping $25 billion, up 20 per cent from the previous year and accounting for 37 per cent of IBM’s total revenue,” said Ramaswamy. “IBM has a $1-billion investment committed in the hybrid cloud ecosystem over the next three years to support partners and help clients with high value skills, solutions and expertise required to be competitive and resilient,” he added. The company, in a bid to strengthen its hybrid cloud and AI portfolio, have announced 10 acquisitions since Arvind Krishna took over as the CEO in April 2020 and seven of them were since October. Krishna was elevated as the chairman effective from January 2021. In India, business is expected to come from a variety of sectors such as banking and financial services, manufacturing, public sector, telecommunications, automotive, retail among others. “According to a recent study from IBM’s Institute of Business Value, customers in India currently have 17 per cent of their IT spend allocated to cloud at present and as part of the cloud budget, they plan to increase the share of spend on hybrid from 42 per cent to 49 per cent by 2023,” said Ramaswamy. He added that there is an increased interest to adopt a platform approach which uses a combination of on-premise private cloud and public cloud architecture with resources from different cloud vendors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Sebi mulls perpetual bond tweak||Capital market regulator Sebi is expected to release a fresh circular on the valuation of perpetual bonds following the Centre seeking a revision of the rule to mark them over a 100-year period. The finance ministry had asked Sebi to drop the valuation formula but retain the prudential investment limits for mutual funds invested in these securities. The buzz is the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) may adopt a calibrated approach by first asking the fund houses to value them as 10-year bonds and gradually increase it to 100 years over a certain time-frame. Another option being talked about is to reduce the 100-year stipulation to 40 years, which is the longest dated tenor in the domestic markets at present. Such a step would not only reduce the steep valuation losses compared with the 100-year option but also answer the government’s concern that no benchmark exists for its present proposal. The market regulator’s circular had invited a surprise reaction from North Block: the department of financial services (DFS) asked Sebi to withdraw the directive to treat the bonds as 100-year tenor. The finance ministry fears the absence of a 100-year paper will hurt the valuations of these bonds at a time banks need capital support and the government hard-pressed to support them given its weak finances following the pandemic. However, the market regulator has not yet revised parts of the circular though it has time till March 31 to do. Reports say Sebi has defended its circular before the government. The market regulator is understood to have communicated to the government that these bonds are riskier in nature from the standpoint of the investors. The 100-year valuation may impact borrowing costs or yields of these bonds but the step will not kill the market, the capital regulator had told the government. Perpetual bonds or additional tier-1 (AT-1) bonds which are generally issued by banks — such bonds are permitted under Basel III norms — to shore up their capital. The bonds offer high interest rates and are popular with debt mutual funds, but they carry more risk. For instance, the issuer can even skip coupon payments in case of certain adverse events or they can even be written-down if a bank’s common equity tier 1 ratio falls below a certain threshold. The bonds have a call option which enables the issuer to buy them back at a fixed interval of say five or ten years when the principal is repaid. Since these instruments are perpetual in nature, debt mutual funds currently value them to the call option date. Sebi’s directive would mean they will have to be valued at 100-year maturity which will lead to lower valuation of these bonds in the portfolio of mutual funds. Banks fear this will reduce their popularity among fund houses leading to an uptick in their yields and raising the cost of borrowings by banks. Rating agency Icra has said in a report that at higher interest costs the fund houses may become choosy in picking up the perpetual bonds. “With constraints on investment limits, the funds may even become more selective in taking fresh exposure, which could mean that certain banks, despite a higher issuance cost in relation to their credit profile, may find it difficult to raise capital through these instruments in the desired quantum,’’ the rating agency added. According to Icra’s estimates, the total stock of AT-I bonds outstanding is Rs 1.03 lakh crore as on February 28, 2021, of which 70 per cent have been issued by PSU banks. Mutual funds hold 70 per cent of the AT-1 bonds in the market. After Sebi came out with the circular, banking stocks have been under pressure with the Nifty Bank index falling around five per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||India||Maharashtra sees drop in daily count with 24,645 new Covid cases on Monday||A day after Maharashtra reported highest single-day spike since the outbreak of COVID-19, the state on Monday saw a drop in daily count, recording 24,645 new cases. While the caseload increased to 25,04,327, the state also reported 58 deaths due to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 53,457. On Sunday, the state had reported 30,535 cases, while on Saturday 27,126 infections were recorded. On March 18, the state had reported 25,833 cases. The earlier high was 24,896, recorded in September. On Monday, 19,463 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered persons to 22,34,330. Among cities, Mumbai reported highest 3,262 fresh cases. The country's financial capital has till now recorded 3,65,937 cases and 11,596 deaths. Out of the total 24,645 new cases reported in Maharashtra on Monday, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) which includes areas surrounding Mumbai too, accounted for 6,212 cases. The total number of cases reported in the MMR so far is 8,01,195 and death toll is 20,075. The Pune circle -- which covers Pune, Solapur and Satara districts, reported 4,737 new cases and five new deaths during the day. In the Nagpur circle, a total of 4,231 fresh cases were reported. The state's recovery rate is 89. 22 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.13 per cent, the health department said. Currently, 10,63,077 people are in home quarantine and 11,092 in institutional quarantine in the state. The number of active cases in the state increased to 2,15,241 on Monday from 2,10,120 a day earlier. With 1,05,830 new tests on Monday, the number of samples tested for coronavirus so far in the state increased to 1,84,62,030, the government said. Maharashtra's COVID-19 tally is as follows: Positive cases: 25,04,327; new cases 24,645; total deaths: 53,457; discharged 22,34,330; active cases: 2,15,241; people tested so far: 1,84,62,030.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Centre's Delhi Bill passed in Lok Sabha amid opposition, setback for AAP govt||A bill that accords more to the Centre over Delhi was passed by by Lok Sabha on Monday amidst strong opposition from the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party which said that the legislation is "unconstitutional". The bill, which seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor", is now a step closer to becoming a law, a definite set back to the Arvind Kejriwal government. It will now be placed before Rajya Sabha. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 had become necessary as there have been ambiguity in certain issues related to the functioning of the Delhi government and several cases were also filed in courts. "Please do not say that it is a political bill. It is being brought to end ambiguity in certain issues as Delhi is a Union Territory. It will end certain confusion or technicality and enhance the efficiency of the administration," he said. According to the bill, the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor". The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action. Delhi's ruling Aam Aadmi Party has opposed the bill. Chief Minister Kejriwal had even urged the central government to take back the bill and said the AAP dispensation was ready to fall at the Modi government's feet for its withdrawal. Reddy said there has been a cordial relation between the central and Delhi governments since 1996 and all differences were resolved through discussions. However, since 2015, some issues have come up and cases were filed before the Delhi High Court, which also gave certain rulings. Reddy said the court had also ruled that the L-G should be informed on executive issues of the city government. He said when the GNCTD Act was enacted in 1991 by the then Congress government, Delhi had been made a UT with an assembly with "limited legislative powers". "We did not do that. It was a Congress government which piloted the Act then," he said. Reddy said the LG is an administrator so he has the right to know the day-to-day affairs. "We have not snatched any power from the Delhi government nor we have given any additional power to the LG," he said. He strongly objected to some Opposition members' reference that the "Modi government is dictatorial" and said the NDA government has not done anything wrong or new but just ended ambiguity and brought clarity on the Delhi government. Participating in the debate, Congress member Manish Tewari said the bill is "unconstitutional" as it encroached upon the powers of the city government. AAP member Bhagwant Mann also strongly opposed the bill and demanded its roll back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Pawar rules out resignation of Maharashtra home minister over ex-top cop's claims||Corruption allegations levelled by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh pertain to a period when the latter was hospitalised and hence the question of his resignation does not arise, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday. “We got information that Deshmukh was hospitalised at that time in Nagpur. The allegation (of Singh) pertains to exactly the same period when he was in the hospital. There is a hospital certificate," Pawar told reporters in Delhi. In his eight-page letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh on Saturday claimed Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. Singh had also alleged in the letter that Deshmukh had called Mumbai police API Sachin Waze around mid-February at the minister's official residence and told him to collect Rs 100 crore a month. Deshmukh had rubbished the charges the same day. Deshmukh was admitted to a Nagpur hospital between February 5 and February 15 after testing positive for COVID-19 and was being analysed from February 15 to February 27, Pawar said during the media briefing. The NCP chief also read out a certificate from the hospital in this regard. "All (state) government records also say that for the entire three weeks, he (Deshmukh) was not in Bombay (Mumbai). He was in Nagpur, which is his home town. That's why in such a situation, the question (of seeking resignation) does not arise," Pawar said. The former Union minister also said that there is no substance in the BJP's demand that Deshmukh should step down till the time allegations against him are probed. Referring to Singh's letter, Pawar also wondered why the IPS officer took a month to level the allegation if he had the information that Deshmukh had called Waze around mid- February and asked him to collect funds. The NCP president said the main case pertains to an explosives-laden vehicle being taken near industrialist Mukesh Ambanis residence. Pawar said the ATS has arrested two persons in connection with the death of businessmen Mansukh Hiran, whose vehicle was used to carry the explosives. "The main case was that and I think the Bombay ATS is going in the right direction," he said. Earlier in the day, former Mumbai Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh moved to the Supreme Court seeking direction for immediate "unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair" CBI probe into alleged corrupt malpractices of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Singh, a 1988 batch IPS officer also sought quashing of the order transferring him from the post of Mumbai CP alleging it to be arbitrary and illegal. As an interim relief, Singh sought stay of the operation of his transfer order and direction to the state government, the Centre and the CBI to immediately take in its custody the CCTV footage from the residence of Deshmukh. "The Petitioner has invoked writ jurisdiction of this Court to seek unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the corrupt malpractices of Anil Deshmukh, the Home Minister of Government of Maharashtra, before the evidences are destroyed," he said in his plea. Deshmukh had been holding meetings in February 2021 at his residence with police officers including Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai and Sanjay Patil, ACP Social Service Branch, Mumbai, bypassing their seniors and had instructed them that he had a target to accumulate Rs 100 crore every month and had directed to collect money from various establishments and other sources, Singh alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||BJP demands resignation of MVA govt, seeks CBI inquiry into allegations against Anil Deshmukh||The BJP on Monday demanded resignation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by Uddhav Thackeray in the wake of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh's claim that the state's Home Minister Anil Deshmukh set a Rs 100-crore collection target for the police every month, and sought a CBI inquiry into the allegation.  Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha amidst protests by the Shiv Sena and the NCP, BJP member Manoj Kotak said that according to Singh's letter to the chief minister, the state's home minister had asked suspended Assistant Police Inspector (API) Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants in the metropolis every month.  Kotak said the letter reflected that those who are in the government were using officials in collecting money but the chief minister so far has not uttered a single word on the issue.  "It is a serious matter. The home minister should resign, the Maharashtra government should resign and there should be a CBI inquiry into the whole issue," he said.  BJP member Rakesh Singh that the issue is so serious that it can't be termed a state subject as it has a national implication.  Singh said that the former police commissioner's letter showed that the top functionaries of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government were involved in collecting huge amounts of money through illegal means.  "The allegation against the state home minister was made by none other than the former police commissioner. What was the compulsion of the chief minister to defend an API-rank official, who was in suspension for 16 years, in a press conference," he asked.  Singh claimed that a senior politician from the state had changed his stand after telling that it was a serious matter and there should be an inquiry into it.  "What is the fear. Is there any fear of spilling the beans about those who get cut. If Rs 100 crore collected from Mumbai alone, what would be the figure for the entire Maharashtra," he asked.  He demanded that the MVA government should immediately resign and there should be an impartial inquiry into it.  Another BJP member Kapil Patil said that it was not for the first that such a letter has been written by a senior police officer and even a DGP-rank officer had written a similar letter in the past.  "A senior leader had said that it is a serious matter but he changed his tune overnight. What is the fear? Fear of spilling the beans?" he asked.  However, Shiv Sena member Vinayak Raut strongly defended the MVA government and claimed that the BJP has been hatching a conspiracy to defame the Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP dispensation for the last 14 months so that a BJP government can be installed in Mumbai.  "The issue is nothing but part of BJP's big conspiracy," he claimed.  Raut alleged the former Mumbai police commissioner who wrote the sensational letter was the "most corrupt police officer".  The Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress part of the MVA government in Maharashtra.  Congress leader in Lok Sabha Ravneet Singh Bittu claimed that the central agencies were being used against opposition ruled states for one or the other pretext.  "Why such things are happening in opposition ruled states. It is not only in Maharashtra but across the country that the central agencies are being used to destabilise the opposition ruled government," he alleged.  Independent MP from Maharashtra Navneet Rana claimed that the present chief minister had spoken to the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for reinstatement of Waze when he was under suspension.  "The then chief minister had flatly refused. But when the current chief minister took charge, the first decision he took was to reinstate Vaze. Because of the chief minister such things are happening in Maharahstra," she asked.  BJP member Poonam Mahajan said if Rs 100 crore is collected every month from Mumbai, for five years the amount would be Rs 6,000 crore.  Mahajan said the NCP leader's statement convey that no one will resign even if they take illegal money.  Meanwhile, NCP member Supriya Sule accused the treasury benches of rigging the 'zero-hour' saying that while eight members from one side were allowed to speak on the Maharashtra issue, no one from the other side was given the chance.  Participating in the discussion on the Insurance Amendment Bill, she said, "It is a black day for democracy."  She said those who do not create disruptions or enter the well of the House should not be penalised for following the rules and their voices should not be curbed.  Sule also wondered how could the BJP speak with so much ill-will against its former and long-term ally Shiv Sena and its leader Uddhav Thackeray.  The Maharashtra government on March 17 transferred Singh and appointed senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale as the new commissioner of Mumbai Police.  Days after he was shunted out, Singh wrote a letter to Thackeray alleging that the state home minister had asked Sachin Waze, currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and other police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly, including Rs 50 crore to Rs 60 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.  Deshmukh had denied these allegations.  The NIA is probing Waze's alleged role in placing an explosives-laden SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence on February 25.  The SUV was in possession of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was found dead at a creek near Mumbai. The case related to the death of Hiran was also handed over to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||No bike rallies in poll-going seats 72 hours before V-day, rules EC||The Election Commission on Monday banned 'bike rallies' 72 hours before the date of polling and on the polling day in all election-going constituencies amid reports that "anti-social elements" use motor bikes to intimidate voters. In a directive issued to chief electoral officers of poll-bound West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry, the poll body pointed out that it has been brought to its notice that "in some places bikes are used by anti-social elements to intimidate the voters before the poll day and/or on poll day." After considering the reports, the Commission has decided that "bike rallies shall not be allowed at any place 72 hours before date of poll or on the poll day in all poll-going constituencies," the directive said. The EC also asked its chief electoral officers to inform all stakeholders concerned, including candidates, political parties and the Commission's observers, to ensure strict compliance of the directions. Elections to the five assemblies will begin on March 27 and the counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||PM Modi launches 'Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain' campaign on World Water Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched 'Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain' campaign for conserving water and stressed that every penny of MGNREGA funds be spent on rainwater conservation till the monsoon arrives. Addressing an event at the virtual launch of the campaign on World Water Day, Modi said it is a matter of concern that majority of rainwater in India gets wasted. He said the more the rainwater is conserved, the less will be the dependence on groundwater. The prime minister urged that every penny of MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) funds be spent on rainwater conservation till the monsoon arrives. The event was also attended by a number of panches and sarpanches from across the country. Participating through virtual mode, some of them also shared their experiences towards water conservation. The prime minister said India's self-sufficiency is dependent on its water resources and water connectivity, and its fast-paced development is not possible without effective water conservation. He also urged the people to use water judiciously. The 'Catch the Rain' campaign will be undertaken across the country, in both rural and urban areas. It will be implemented from March 22 to November 30 - the pre-monsoon and monsoon period in the country. The campaign aims to take water conservation at grass-root level through people's participation. It is intended to nudge all stakeholders to create rainwater harvesting structures suitable to the climatic conditions and subsoil strata, to ensure proper storage of rainwater.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Ex-Mumbai police chief moves SC, seeks CBI probe against Deshmukh||Former Mumbai Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh moved the Supreme Court on Monday seeking direction for immediate "unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair" CBI probe into alleged corrupt malpractices of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Singh, a 1988 batch IPS officer also sought quashing of the order transferring him from the post of Mumbai CP alleging it to be arbitrary and illegal. As an interim relief, Singh sought stay of the operation of his transfer order and direction to the state government, the Centre and the CBI to immediately take in its custody the CCTV footage from the residence of Deshmukh. The Petitioner has invoked writ jurisdiction of this Court to seek unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the corrupt malpractices of Anil Deshmukh, the Home Minister of Government of Maharashtra, before the evidences are destroyed, he said in his plea. Deshmukh had been holding meetings in February, 2021 at his residence with police officers including Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai and Sanjay Patil, ACP Social Service Branch, Mumbai, bypassing their seniors and had instructed them that he had a target to accumulate Rs 100 crore every month and had directed to collect money from various establishments and other sources, Singh alleged. He said it is reliably learnt that on or about August 24-25, 2020, one Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner Intelligence, State Intelligence Department, had brought to the notice of the Director General of Police, who in turn brought it to the knowledge of the state's Additional Chief Secretary Home Department, about corrupt malpractices in postings / transfers by Deshmukh based on telephonic interception. She was shunted out rather than taking any firm action against said Anil Deshmukh , he said. Deshmukh had been interfering in various investigations and was instructing the police officers to conduct the same in a particular manner as desired by him, Singh added. Such act of Deshmukh in abuse of the official position of the Home Minister, whether in calling and directly instructing the police officers of lower rank such as Vaze or Patil for his malicious intent of extorting money from establishments across Mumbai and from other sources or whether in interfering in the investigations & directing the same to be conducted in a particular manner, or whether indulging in corrupt malpractices in posting /transfers of officers, cannot be countenanced or justified in any democratic State , he said. Singh said that fair CBI investigation is thus warranted in each of such acts of Deshmukh in abuse of the official position of the Home Minister and added that he has brought the corrupt practices in the knowledge of the senior leaders and the Chief Minister of the state immediately. He said that thereafter, on March 17, by a notification of the Maharashtra government he was transferred from the post of the Police Commissioner of Mumbai to the Home Guard department in an arbitrary and illegal manner without the completion of the minimum fixed tenure of two years. The said transfer was maliciously effected purportedly under Section 22 N(2) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951 with the reason that the transfer was necessitated by administrative exigencies , he said in his plea. The senior police officer further said that it is a settled law that the orders have to stand on the reasons contained in the same and no reasons can be supplemented later. Referring to the February 25, incident of Antilia, residence of businessman Mukesh Ambani, where a car with explosives was found leading to a bomb scare, Singh said that he believes that the reason for the transfer noted by the state government in its file is to ensure a free and fair investigation in the case. He said that the said case is being now investigated by the NIA, and Sachin Vaze, officer of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai has been arrested for custodial interrogation by NIA. All necessary assistance had been rendered by petitioner's office and his officers for the conduct of a free and fair investigation by the ATS and the NIA into the Antilia incident. It is not even case of NIA that the petitioner had in any manner obstructed in free and fair investigation by NIA , he said. Singh said that such transfer in the said circumstances is for reasons smeared with malice , when there is no iota of material or evidence -far from proof- found or even imputed against the him and is solely based on conjectures, surmises and pure speculation. He further said that having made such startling revelations he apprehends further malicious and coercive actions at the instance of disgruntled Home Minister in abuse of his powers. He said that Deshmukh while mechanically denying the contents of the letter dated March 20, submitted to the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, has issued a press release threatening to initiate defamation proceedings against him. He sought directions to safeguard him from any further coercive steps apprehended in the retaliation for laying bare the corrupt malpractices of Deshmukh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||BJP ensured peace and development in Assam: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said BJP has ensured peace and development in Assam during the last five years and alleged that this was in contrast to violence and instability during the Congress rule. Addressing the first of three election rallies in Assam during the day, Shah alleged that five years ago when Congress was in power, there was agitation, violence, bomb blasts, deaths and curfews were common. "Aatankwad ka nanga naach charo aur chal rahi thi (there was the naked dance of insurgency was going on all around). "Rahul Gandhi talks of protecting Assam's 'asmita' (pride and identity), but today I want to ask him publicly - will Congress do it with AIUDF Chief Badruddin Ajmal on his lap?" he said. "If by chance Ajmal comes to power, will Assam be safe from infiltrators? Do people want more infiltrators to come into the state?" he asked. He also accused the Congress of a policy of divide and rule, while stating that BJP's policy is 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas'. The Congress has created a rift between Assamese and Bengalis, plains and hills and Upper and Lower Assam, while the "BJP has taken all smaller communities together and bonded them through development," Shah claimed. "This is an election for people to decide whether they want peace and development....This is an election for not electing MLAs or a Chief Minister but to ensure that development continues and Assam's pride and glory is further enhanced," he said. He further asserted that it was evident from the enthusiasm of the people that the BJP was going to form the government for a second consecutive term in Assam. Besides Jonai, Shah will also address an election rally at Majuli from where Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal is contesting for a second consecutive term, and at Udalguri. He is also scheduled to attend a meeting of party workers at Guwahati in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid uproar over Maharashtra issue||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm on Monday amid uproar over corruption allegations in Maharashtra. As soon as the Question Hour began, treasury bench members raised the Maharashtra issue with Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the Chair, asking them to allow the proceedings. Amid the din, he asked members to ask supplementaries. However, as soon as Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi answered supplementaries, the Chair Asked Chaya Verma (Cong) to proceed to the next question. However, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar raised the Maharashtra issue referring to the alleged corruption in the state. The chair then adjourned the House till 2 pm amid the uproar. The protests were in connection with former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's claim that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels in Mumbai. Singh, who was transferred to the low-key Home Guards on March 17 following the arrest of police officer Sachin Waze in the case related to the bomb scare near Mukesh Ambani's house Antilia, in a letter to the Maharashtra chief minister had claimed that he was made a scapegoat. In the eight-page letter, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh used to call police officers to his official residence and give them a "collection target" from bars, restaurants and other establishments. The Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office, in a release on Saturday, said Singh's "unsigned letter" was not sent from his official email ID and efforts were on to contact him to verify it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Stan Swamy's bail plea rejected in Elgar Parishad case||A special NIA court here on Monday rejected the bail plea filed by tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Additional sessions court judge Judge DE Kothalikar rejected bail pleas of 83-year-old Swamy on merits as well as on medical grounds. Swamy, a Jesuit priest and activist, was arrested from Ranchi in October, 2020, and has since been lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. As per his lawyers, Swamy is suffering from Parkinson's disease and he has lost the ability to hear from both his ears. He also suffers from several other ailments. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had opposed Swamy's bail plea saying probe had revealed that Swamy was a staunch supporter of organisations such as 'Vistapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Andolan' and 'People's Union for Civil Liberties', which were working as "fronts of the CPI (Maoist)". Swamy's lawyer Sharif Shaikh had argued that the NIA had failed to establish Swamy's connection to the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
22-03-2021||India||Mayawati slams Yogi govt over Hathras incident||BSP chief Mayawati on Monday targeted the Yogi Adityanath government over the Hathras gangrape case, saying new facts emerging in the matter have raise serious questions on the working of the state government. Her remarks come in the backdrop of the Allahabad High Court directing the Hathras district judge and CRPF Inspector General, central sector, to inquire whether the prosecution witness and the lawyers of the Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and died due to injuries were threatened before a special judge during the trial on March 5. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said the difficulties faced by the family of the Hathras gangrape victim in getting justice are well known, but the new facts in this regard revealed in the court have once again raise serious questions on working of the state government in ensuring justice to the victim. The high court taking cognisance of new facts in the Hathras case and ordering an inquiry into threats to witnesses and other issues has put the UP government in the dock and the people have been forced to think as to how victims will get justice,"' she said. "Is the common perception that criminals rule in UP and it is very difficult to get justice wrong," she asked. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". Directing the special judge (SC/ST Act) Hathras to conduct in-camera proceedings of the trial henceforth, the bench had warned that if any person tried to disturb the trial or attempted to threaten the life, liberty and property of the victim's family and the witnesses in any manner, it would take very serious action, including initiating contempt proceedings. The bench was hearing an application moved by the victim's brother who alleged that on March 5 that a mob, which included some lawyers, created a ruckus in the trial court and threatened the lawyer and two witnesses who had come to depose in the court on that date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||India logs 46,951 fresh Covid cases, 212 casualties in a day||India added 90,797 cases of coronavirus in two days with 46,951 new infections being recorded in a span of 24 hours, the highest so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,16,46,081, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Registering an increase for the 12th day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 3,34,646, which now comprises 2.87 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 95.75 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 130 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,967 with 212 daily new fatalities, the highest in 72 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 47,905 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 12. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,51,468 and the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.37 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 23,44,45,774 samples have been tested up to March 21 with 8,80,655 samples being tested on Sunday. The 212 new fatalities include 99 from Maharashtra, 44 from Punjab, 13 from Kerala and 10 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,59,967 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,399 from Maharashtra, 12,599 from Tamil Nadu, 12,434 from Karnataka, 10,956 from Delhi, 10,306 from West Bengal, 8,759 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,189 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Covid alert over Kumbh Mela||The daily observed counts of new Covid-19 cases among pilgrims and residents at the ongoing Kumbh Mela in Haridwar could rapidly rise into a surge, India’s health ministry warned on Sunday, also expressing concern that the site had inadequate testing facilities. The ministry said a central public health team that had visited the Kumbh Mela had noted that 10 to 20 pilgrims and 10 to 20 residents were testing positive every day in Haridwar, where about a million people are expected to congregate for dips in the Ganga daily up to April 30. “This positivity rate has the potential to rapidly turn into an upsurge in cases given the expected footfall during the Kumbh,” the health ministry said, citing the teams’ concerns, which Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has conveyed to the Uttarakhand chief secretary. The health ministry had earlier this year asked the state to augment its facilities and adopt steps to curb the spread of Covid-19 through the Kumbh, where about five million people are expected on four auspicious days — April 12, 14, 21 and 27. The ministry has told Uttarakhand the daily testing numbers in Haridwar — 5,000 PCR tests and 50,000 of the less reliable antigen tests — are not enough to “effectively offset” the huge expected pilgrim footfall and asked it to increase its testing capacities. Health officials are concerned that any surge in Covid-19 cases through the congregations at the Kumbh could overwhelm healthcare facilities in the Haridwar-Rishikesh-Dehradun area, which has around 2,800 hospital beds. The health ministry had in January guidelines for the Kumbh Mela asked the Uttarakhand government to ensure that only pilgrims who carry negative PCR test reports, obtained within 72 hours before their arrival in Haridwar, are allowed into the Kumbh. But public health experts say the daily case counts detected by the central health team during their visit earlier this month suggest that Covid-positive pilgrims had arrived in Haridwar despite those guidelines. Officials and experts are worried that the Kumbh congregations have the potential to turn into super-spreader events, where a few infected people rapidly spread the virus to large numbers of others. “It would be extremely challenging to do contact-tracing after such a mass gathering,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. The Haridwar Kumbh Mela, which started on February 27, comes at a time India's Covid-19 epidemic is headed towards a second peak. Health authorities on Sunday recorded 43,846 new Covid-19 cases nationwide, the highest daily count this year and nearly half the average of 93,000 cases witnessed during the peak of the first wave in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Joint statement by Ashoka University and profs who quit||A joint statement released around 1.30am on Sunday by Ashoka University’s management and two eminent academics who have quit amid allegations of curbs on free expression attempted to put a lid on the controversy. While reaffirming their affinity with the varsity, the professors — BJP critic Pratap Bhanu Mehta and former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian — have not withdrawn their resignations. The students too are set to continue with their two-day class boycott from Monday over the lack of transparency in the university’s functioning. The tone of the joint statement, whose signatories included Mehta and Subramanian, marked a departure from that of the resignation letters of the two professors. It read: “The chancellor (Rudrangshu Mukherjee), vice-chancellor (Malabika Sarkar) and the chairman (Ashish Dhawan) of the board of trustees of Ashoka University (all co-signatories) express deep regret at the recent events surrounding the resignations of Prof. Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Prof. Arvind Subramanian who have been extraordinary colleagues and faculty members at Ashoka University.… We acknowledge that there have been some lapses in institutional processes which we will work to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders.” It added: “Pratap and Arvind would like to emphasise that Ashoka University is one of the most important projects in Indian higher education. They are sad to be leaving Ashoka, especially its outstanding students and faculty. They continue to believe strongly that Ashoka University should embody a liberal vision and commitment to academic freedom and autonomy. And they remain lifelong friends and well-wishers of the institution and are committed to its success wherever they are. They remain available for advice and consultation to the university in the future.” Mehta had said in his resignation letter on March 15: “After a meeting with founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the university may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university.” Subramanian had said in his resignation letter two days later: “That even Ashoka — with its private status and backing by private capital — can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom is ominously disturbing.” A little before the joint statement was issued, Mehta had emailed students and faculty addressing them as “Dear Superheroes”. The letter was an acknowledgement of the agitation the students have announced demanding a divestment of powers from those who fund the university to elected student and faculty representatives and the administrators who run the institution. Mehta’s email said: “Ashoka as an institution stands indicted before your bracing moral clarity and deep political wisdom. Your protests instantly grasped what we, your elders, failed to adequately understand. Your protest was not about two individuals. It was about Ashoka’s institutional integrity. But it was also about the dark and ominous shadows that loom over India(n) democracy. “As we worry about Ashoka, you also reminded us that the challenges we face pale in comparison with what our academic colleagues in universities elsewhere in India face. You connected the dots. Your protest was focussed on Ashoka. But it was about values larger than Ashoka.” The email added: “So what can we, those who let you down, say to you? The first thing I will say is this. In all candour, this episode will be seen to have hurt Ashoka’s reputation. But in a larger sense Ashoka’s reputation will be enhanced, not by what the university did but what you did…. “I hope the trustees and faculty will work with you to secure your renewed trust and confidence. With your guidance they will be able to secure the institutional autonomy and freedom Ashoka needs. You embody the courage, reasonableness and understanding of democratic values that will take the university forward. I request you to work with them to make Ashoka a success.” Mehta also said: “The underlying circumstances that led to the resignation will not change for the foreseeable future, in my case, at any rate. So I must close this chapter. I urge you not to press on this matter. I know you will be disappointed. But if I may exercise one last bit of professorial discretion: your mission is larger than the fate of two professors.” Mukherjee and Dhawan too wrote long letters to the varsity community. The flurry of letters comes a day before the start of the class boycott that the Ashoka University Student Government has called against the resignations, which it has attributed to “a gross violation of academic freedoms”. On Saturday it had been reported that four of the university’s founders had obtained a licence from the Union home ministry to receive foreign funds to start another university in Chandigarh. The administration was already being accused by students of having forced Mehta out to pave the way for easier land acquisition and the recognition of a course. Dhawan, three other founders and Sarkar met students and alumni online on Sunday. Besides denying allegations of foul play and underhand deals with the government, Dhawan stressed that Mehta had not been asked to quit. A source who attended the meetings told The Telegraph: “The founders said there were conversations about whether his writings could be misconstrued as the views of Ashoka. They did not ask students to call off the strike.” Dhawan said in his letter: “I deeply regret any lapses that led to this situation — this was not something we had anticipated or planned…. As we move forward, there are certain things that need to change. For one, the last few days have taught us it is really important for us to build an open line of communication and also listen to you.” Mukherjee asserted the founders “have never interfered with academic freedom” while interpreting this as freedom for the faculty to decide curricula and the methods of teaching and assessment. Neither Mehta nor Subramanian has alleged interference over these matters. The eminent historian and chancellor said: “Today when the founders are being attacked for trying to compromise and curtail academic autonomy and freedom of expression, I find it necessary as chancellor, and given my association with Ashoka from its inception, to state unambiguously that the founders have never interfered with academic freedom: faculty members have been left free to construct their own courses, follow their own methods of teaching and their own methods of assessment. They have also been left free to carry out their own research and publications.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||JNU meet on entrance exam ||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) will on Monday discuss a proposal to take part in the government-conceived Central University Common Entrance Examination by discontinuing its own test for admission. The Academic Council chaired by in-charge vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar will take up the matter at a time around 20 members have questioned the 2018 decision to outsource the JNU Entrance Examination to the National Testing Agency (NTA). The National Education Policy has recommended a common entrance exam for admission to central universities. The old central universities conduct their own entrance tests. Around a dozen new central universities admit students through a common exam. The education ministry wants all central universities to participate in the common entrance test in the coming academic session itself. The Academic Council and Executive Council of each university have to pass a proposal on joining the common entrance exam plan. After the JNU Academic Council meets on Monday, the Executive Council will discuss the matter on March 26. The JNU Teachers’ Association on Sunday questioned the authority of the in-charge VC to hold a meeting of the Academic Council on such a crucial issue. The JNU statute is silent on the powers of an in-charge VC. Kumar completed his tenure in January, and is now officiating as VC till a regular appointment is made. The JNUTA called Kumar’s decision to hold the meeting an “abuse” of power. “The continuation of Prof. Jagadesh Kumar as the VC as per the order of the MoE is not an extension of his term and places him only in a position of an interim administrator until the appointment of a new VC. Implicit in this arrangement is the understanding he will not indulge in exercising powers in this interim period that are otherwise part of the official duties of a regular VC,” the JNUTA said in a statement. JNUTA secretary Mousumi Basu said she had written to the education ministry and the University Grants Commission, the higher education regulator, asking them to clarify if the in-charge VC enjoys all the powers of a regular VC. The Telegraph sent an email and made phone calls to VC Kumar to ask about the teachers questioning his authority to hold the meeting but received no reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Tag of ‘largest illiberal democracy’ on India||India was derided as “the world’s largest illiberal democracy under Narendra Modi” during a festival of ideas organised by the Financial Times in London and watched by an influential cross-section of its readers in over 100 countries. The comment came during an exchange between Edward Luce, once the Financial Times’ South Asia bureau chief based in Delhi and author of In Spite of the Gods: The Strange Rise of Modern India (2007), and the author and journalist Fareed Zakaria, who was the recipient of the Padma Bhushan in 2010. The FT Digital Festival Spring Edition, from March 18-20, managed 60 sessions and brought together “over 100 of the world’s brightest minds for an epic three days of talks, tastings, performances and demonstrations”. Speakers included Nobel Laureates Venkatraman Ramakrishnan and Kazuo Ishiguro; former Bank of England governor Mark Carney; the married Turkish origin scientists behind the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, Özlem Türeci and Ugur Sahin; Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, the first woman to hold the post; China expert Rana Mitter of Oxford University; historian Simon Schama; and Martin Wolf, the Financial Times (usually very pro-India) chief economics commentator. In the concluding session on Saturday, which discussed, “Can Biden’s America regain world leadership?”, Luce, now the Financial Times’ US national editor and columnist, reminded viewers that although Zakaria had lived in America for over 40 years, he was “born and raised in what was then called Bombay”. “And India is of course a much bigger power than it was when you left,” he began. “It is also just about able to claim it is the world’s largest democracy — I would argue (it is) the world’s largest illiberal democracy under Narendra Modi,” added Luce, setting the tone of his exchange with Zakaria. He suggested that world’s 10 acknowledged leading liberal democracies, including notably the US, “would have to criticise it (Modi’s government) for turning non-Hindu citizens gradually into second class citizens. Yet India is critical as a counterbalance to China. How does Biden thread his needle through that one?” Zakaria, who is considered a foreign affairs expert, was equally critical of the Indian Prime Minister. “So far the Biden administration has seemed to essentially ignore the decay of democracy in India,” he said. “I think it’d be very hard to find much discussion of it.” “Let me give you one example. There is an enormous amount of attention on how the Chinese government is treating Muslims in Xinjiang, the Uyghurs — correctly so, properly so. What the Chinese are doing is appalling, (it) is probably a crime against humanity. “Where there’s very little attention to (is) how the Indian government is treating Muslims in Kashmir, which is also appalling. If you look at what has happened to Kashmir — and in some ways this goes back to before Modi — but over the last 40 years, Kashmir has essentially been ruled by martial law.” He went on: “The rule of law does not apply; democracy does not apply; the habeas corpus does not apply. And that’s just one example.” Zakaria added: “I think that the tragedy of what is going on in India — and it is a tragedy — is that Hinduism, by its nature, is a very pluralistic, open, accommodating religion. It may be the most accommodating religion in the world. To be a Hindu, you can believe in one God, you can believe in 300, you can believe it is absolutely necessary to be a vegetarian not to kill God’s creatures, you can absolutely believe that it’s entirely alright to eat meat. “It is so synchronistic and open — in its core, there is such a sense of tolerance and non-violence that it’s a tragedy that Hindu nationalism — which is really a kind of imported European weaponised conception of Hinduism — has begun to dominate the country.” “And you’re absolutely right,” Zakaria agreed with Luce. “Muslims in India have already become second class citizens. And I think it’s fair to say it’s not just Muslims; it is happening to the small number of Christians as well. It’s happening to other religions. “What you’re seeing is India behaving in ways that are typical of autocracies, expelling foreign journalists, expelling or harassing in some way or the other NGOs.” Zakaria went back to the past: “The great pride of India, even in the 1960s and ’70s, even when it was very poor, was that it was very open and had a vibrant free press — the Rockefeller and Ford Foundations were welcomed and honoured. “And now what you see is a country that behaves more like Putin’s Russia, Erdogan’s Turkey, with the kind of deep suspicion of independent media, deep suspicion of NGOs: people are locked up, jailed, questioned, intimidated. These are some of the softer elements that have gone as well.” Zakaria then dealt with the question Luce had raised: “And to your point, the democratic 10, or whatever you call them, it’s only going to have meaning if it has deep moral legitimacy, because ultimately, these countries don’t all share strategic interests in common. “Many of them have very different attitudes towards geopolitical issues, but they could have a shared conception about democracy and the great threat to democracy right now is illiberal democracy. “We’re not seeing a lot of coups: what we’re mostly seeing is the degradation of democracy from within — what is happening in Hungary, what is happening in Turkey, what happened in Russia. People forget now, but then 2000 in Russia was actually a democracy. So it’s that which has to be criticised, which has to be judged which has to be shored up against. And what do you do in India (when it) is one of the key perpetrators of the problem rather than the solution to it?” It is not known whether anyone sent in a question or comment challenging the characterisation of Modi advanced by Luce and Zakaria. Luce moved on to the rest of the discussion with a cryptic: “It’s a very good question. And I’m sure we’ll return to it another time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Pressure on Modi govt on Sri Lanka human rights situation||The Narendra Modi government faced pressure from both electoral ally and foe on Sunday to vote for the UNHRC resolution voicing concern over the “deteriorating human rights situation” in Sri Lanka, after Colombo claimed India had promised support during Tuesday’s vote. Referring to the claim by Sri Lanka foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage, DMK chief M.K. Stalin said this had shocked all Tamils. “The Government of India should never take any stance that means injustice for Sri Lankan Tamils,” he said, adding that the Prime Minister should take steps for a probe by the International Court of Justice into Sri Lanka’s actions. Stalin claimed New Delhi had over the past decade always voted against Colombo in the matter of Sri Lanka’s rights record. This is only partially correct. During the seven times the matter came up since the end of the Sri Lankan civil war, India has voted once with Colombo, twice against it and abstained once. During the abstention, India had argued that the resolution did not take into account the reconciliation measures Sri Lanka had adopted. The last three resolutions were adopted without a vote as the Sri Lankan government had co-sponsored them. The PMK, a BJP ally in the AIADMK-led coalition for the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, too has demanded that India vote in favour of the UNHRC resolution. The resolution urges Colombo to undertake a thorough and impartial investigation and, if necessary, prosecution relating to all the allegations of gross human rights violations and serious breaches of international humanitarian law. There has been no official word from the external affairs ministry on how India will vote on Tuesday. When the damning report of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights was presented to the UNHRC last month, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva had referred to New Delhi’s consistent position supporting Sri Lanka’s unity and territorial integrity. The official had also called for the full implementation of the 13th Amendment conceived in the India-Lanka Accord of 1987, which provides for power-sharing with provincial councils.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Mumbai allies sniff plot in top cop charges||Maharashtra’s ruling combine sees in former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations a larger conspiracy to destabilise the state government but hasn’t ruled out sacrificing home minister Anil Deshmukh in this political battle. Singh, recently removed as Mumbai police chief in the aftermath of the discovery of a car with explosives near Mukesh Ambani’s Mumbai home, has accused Deshmukh of setting the city police a target of collecting Rs 100 crore per month through extortion. All the three ruling allies — the NCP, Shiv Sena and the Congress — seem to have closed ranks, suspecting a deeper political motive. However, they are dealing separately with the question of “image crisis” and will meet on Monday to decide on NCP politician Deshmukh’s continuance. While NCP veteran Sharad Pawar has made it clear that removing or retaining a minister is the chief minister’s prerogative, he has said his party would offer its views on Monday after hearing Deshmukh. Pawar has summoned Maharashtra NCP chief R.R. Patil and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, also the legislature party leader, to Delhi for discussions. Sena chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said to be image-conscious, had removed Sena minister Sanjay Rathod after he was accused of links with a woman who committed suicide. Sources, however, said Uddhav was aware of the possibility that the sacked police chief was playing a deeper game. Congress leaders declined to discuss the issue publicly as the NCP and Uddhav were tackling it, but hinted at a conspiracy. Pawar, who has acknowledged that “all alternatives, including the removal of the home minister” are on the table as the allegation is serious, has stressed that the former police commissioner has hit back only after being removed. “The allegation that the home minister instructed collection of Rs 100 crore per month is serious. But there is no information about actual collection and handing over of the money to the home minister or his staff. This is an allegation,” Pawar told a news conference. “The former police commissioner made the wild allegation after the government decided to transfer him. There are allegations against the home minister and there are allegations against the former police commissioner.” He added: “I have been told that Sachin Waze, the sub-inspector who was suspended 16 years ago, was reinstated by the (then) police commissioner (Singh), not by the chief minister or the home minister. And soon after his reinstatement, the (then) police commissioner gave him a sensitive assignment.” Waze has been arrested in connection with the purported murder of Mansukh Hiren, an auto dealer who was once in possession of the car found near Ambani’s home and was found dead in a creek in Thane this month. Admitting serious lapses by the Mumbai police, Pawar said: “The wife of Mansukh Hiren... has blamed Waze for his death. The government made a conscious decision to remove Singh as police chief. He did not want to register a case in the suicide of seven-term MP Mohan Delkar, saying Dadra and Nagar Haveli police should investigate. That was wrong when he committed suicide in Mumbai. “My suggestion is that the allegations made by the former police commissioner should be investigated by Julio Ribeiro, the former (Mumbai) police commissioner, who has a very high reputation.” Asked if Rs 100 crore can be collected through extortion in Mumbai in a month, Pawar said: “Talk to any officer in Mumbai, they will laugh.” He said any effort to topple the state government would fail and flagged the Delhi visits by state BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis and Singh before the controversy broke. Many NCP and Sena leaders suspect Singh of acting in collusion with Fadnavis and accuse him of playing a double-game while he was Mumbai police chief. They allege that even the TRP case against Arnab Goswami was weakened. The Congress chose to accuse the BJP of hypocrisy and corruption instead of directly dealing with Singh’s allegations. Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi flagged yet another high court stricture against Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa and wondered why Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union home minister Amit Shah hadn’t uttered a word on the subject.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||India||Kobad Ghandy revisits years in jail||Ten years in jail could either cripple one’s mind and body, or remove its clutter and give one unique insights into life behind and outside the bars. Kobad Ghandy, the 74year old activist who spent a decade in seven jails of six states, experienced the latter. Londoneducated Ghandy, from a wealthy family in Mumbai, is a living relic of an era of intellectual churning and youth angst that swept India from the late 60s. Several courts have acquitted him on charges of being a member of the banned CPI(Maoist). In 2016, a Delhi court acquitted him of terrorism charges but held him guilty of cheating and forgery for using fake identities. He was released in 2019, and lives with his sister in Mumbai still attending court hearings in several states and coping with multiple ailments. In an interview over email about his recent book Fractured Freedom: A Prison Memoir, Ghandy spoke about his evolved views on socialism, his late wife and activist Anuradha’s critique of communism and caste, and his time in jails. Academic and fellow activist Anuradha died in a Mumbai hospital in 2008 of complications caused by falciparum malaria. Also suspected of being a Naxalite, she was wanted by police at the time of her death. Q. Could you please explain the nature of your and Anuradha’s activism in the years preceding your arrest? Are there any misgivings you have with electoral democracy and what is your view on how these problems can be resolved? Ghandy: In Maharashtra, Anu and I mostly lived and worked amongst Dalits. We also did a lot of trade union work amongst workers. In the 1970s when we were in Mumbai, we worked in the Dalit bastis and we were part of the Dalit Panther movement. Also, amongst the unorganised workers. After the Emergency we initiated the formation of the CPDR and the civil liberties movement in Maharashtra by the formation of the Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights (CPDR).  In 1982, we shifted to Nagpur and after a couple of years settling in, moved to the biggest Dalit basti in Maharashtra, Indora. In Nagpur, while Anu taught sociology to postgraduate students in the university we also worked extensively amongst the working class and Dalits of Vidarbha. Anu became a mass leader much in demand to address public meetings all over the region. Taking up the caste/Dalit question was not acceptable to the Marxist/Naxalite circles which saw it as a diversion from the ‘class’ struggle. Right from the time of the Panther movement in 1993, we wrote article after article that it is incumbent for Marxists and revolutionaries to take up the caste question which is a specificity of the Indian situation. But initially there was much resistance. We wrote internally within the group and also our articles were printed in English (like in Frontier) and Marathi (like Satyashodak Marxsvad). Finally, it was Anu’s magnus opus over 100page analysis which was printed posthumously in the book Scripting the Change which has given the most extensive analysis of the caste/Dalit issue from a Marxist/revolutionary point of view. The important points are: (a) no democratisation of the socioeconomic system is possible in India without the annihilation of the caste system, which is intrinsically undemocratic and hierarchical. (b) there are probably three reasons why the Marxists in India of all hues (including the Naxals) did not give sufficient attention to the caste/Dalit question though all maintain the stage of revolution in India is democratic: (i) the Indian Marxists have tended to be very dogmatic taking mechanically from the Soviet of Chinese experiences (ii) The leadership came mostly from the uppercastes, which in itself was not a problem as generally Marxist leaders anywhere  are mostly from intellectual background; but the problem lay in that the subtle impact of their subconscious mind, programmed chiefly in childhood, were not able to change radically by the mere change in ideology. This obviously reflected in subtle forms of caste, patriarchal and other such feelings; and (iii) the practical problem; that the bulk of the cadres and masses under their influence would be from OBC or higher caste with their biases; so it would be convenient to brush the caste issue under the carpet while mobilising them on economic issues and for votes. Q: Which was the worst prison you had to live in, and why? Is there any prison that you have fond memories of or which was better than the rest? Ghandy: The worst prison was Tihar where in fact I spent the longest time as there the legal process too was the worst — the single case dragged on for nearly 7 years in a fasttrack court even though I had very fair judges and an excellent team of top lawyers!!! For details you could see in the book: in the living conditions and the regular transfers; the mulaqaat (visitation) system which was demeaning and tiring for any visitor and the transport system (to court and hospital) where I was de facto locked within a cage in the police van with three levels of gates all locked from the outside in spite of twenty AK47 wielding cops. All other jails had none of this. Though in Surat and Patiala, I was there for barely a month the best was Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam which were more like hostels where Naxalites are given the status of political prisoner. (His book mentions a report of his failing health in this paper that led to his transfer from Tenughat SubDivisional Jail to Loknayak Jaiprakash Narayan Central Jail, Hazaribagh, where access to health care was easier.) Q: Who were the most interesting people you met in prison? Did you and them have any impact on each other's political views? How did your worldview evolve during your incarceration? Ghandy: The most interesting was (Parliament attack convict, executed in 2013) Afzal Guru as he was wellread and introduced me to subjects that I knew little about like Rumi, Islam etc. Also there was Sudheendra Kulkarni (a former aide to PM Vajpayee), but he was there very briefly. Besides these, there were the dons of North India in Tihar and Jharkhand jails who were interesting, the aides (Narayan) Ganju and (Popular Liberation Front of India guerrilla Bajiram) Mahto (who was killed in a gun battle with police in 2019) in Jharkhand (Hazaribagh) jail and some tribal inmates who gave me a picture of the state and its long history of tribal revolts; and there was the alleged tribal leader (Chadda Bhushanam of the CPI(Maoist)) in Visakhapatnam jail from that area who gave me a picture of the Odisha movement. Q. The rise of Hindutva nationalism has also led to the unity of hitherto disparate political dispensations, like the alliances of Congress with communist parties including the CPIMLLiberation? As a Marxian economist how do you view this new found unity, and what advice would you have, if any, for revolutionary (ML) school of communism in India? Ghandy: Whichever party is in power they are following the neoliberal agenda in their economic policies, basically dictated by the International Monetary Fund, World Economic Forum, and the US ‘thinktanks’. It is not a coincidence that the bulk of our financial advisors and think tanks are linked to US universities. As I mention in my book these polices are highly antinational and lead to a huge drain of the wealth of our country to the West. Over and above this, all top corporates, politicians, bureaucrats, etc. transfer both legally and illegally massive amount of wealth to tax havens abroad. (Vijay) Mallya, Nirav Modi, arms dealers in the list are only the tip of the iceberg. That is why only a genuine swadeshi policy (not a fake one) which prevents this massive drain (if calculated it may be more than in British times) there is no question of the development of our country. Add to that the loot of the crony capitalists of the Adani, Ambani types, real estate mafia, financial bloodsuckers, not to mention the gigantic NPAs of the banks - how can our country develop? Today it is not the question of the rich vs the poor but the question of a handful of top corporates/financial blood-suckers and their huge retinue of hangers-on (in politics, bureaucracy, police, etc) versus the rest of the Indian people. We need a Bajaj-type entrepreneurship not the crony capitalist types nor those surviving off fraud, govt. doles/gifts and foreign funds. On a one-acre farm a family of five can comfortably survive then why are the bulk of our peasants so deep in debt and starving and committing suicide? Q. In your book, you have mentioned that, “The goalposts have to be changed from fighting inequality to happiness for all.” Can you explain this? Is this your rejection of the basic tenets of Marxism-Leninism? Ghandy: I have clarified that giving the necessities of life is the starting point to happiness. But what I am maintaining is that it cannot be restricted to a mere economic demand and has to go beyond. In fact, what I mention is the essence of Marx’s utopia, which I have quoted. I have clearly shown in the book that capitalism have only brought horrors for the people (worse are to come) while a form of socialism is the only answer. If one seizes the wealth of the 3,300 billionaires of the world, for example, and also that of the illegal wealth in tax haven one can veritably build a paradise on earth rather witness the destruction of millions and wrecking of nature. The entire third section of the book is devoted to a vision of the future drawing lessons from my half century of activism. I ask the question as to why when I came to communism in the late -1960s half the world was moving in that direction and just in my life time when the situation is much worse no such alternative exists? To answer that question, I say that into the project for radical change we must incorporate threes aspects: happiness, freedom and democracy and a new value system based on the Anuradha model of simplicity and naturalness. Q. In a recent interview you mentioned the diverse nature of Maoists you observed in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Is armed struggle towards establishing a socialist society now a lost cause? Ghandy: I don’t know enough to speak on the issue. But whatever is the form of struggle we find the communist on the back-burner everywhere. Not only in India but also worldwide. Also, we must remember that the successful armed revolutions took place during the world wars where violence had reached unprecedented levels between sections of the ruling classes. Why even the first communist revolution – the Paris Commune – took place amidst the Franco-Prussian war. So, we have to take all experiences including Cuba, Latin America and elsewhere as well as those of Russia and China. The fact is that the capitalist existing system is already resulting in horrors for the masses; an alternative is urgently needed. Just see what the head of the World Economic Forum, (Klaus) Schwab, has written in his latest books – it is a blue-print for a 1984 and worse. His Great Reset formulation protects the billionaires, says robots will take over production and people must survive on the mercy of the governments. It seems the concept of Universal Basic Income which governments are trying to push through is part of his Great Reset formula. Q: How has life been on the outside? Any Rip Van Winkle like experiences that you would like to share? How emotionally difficult has it been for you to reconnect with your family, the Zoroastrian community, and Mumbai—which you had been distant from for several decades? Ghandy: It has no doubt been difficult adjusting back but I have been surprised by the type of support I have been getting from the Parsi community as also my Doon School class mates. Actually, both Anu’s and my parents fully supported our activities and Anu’s brother’s family and my sister’s family have been supportive all through the incarceration and now even after release. With no home to turn to, it is my sister and her husband in whose house I stay in Mumbai and it was my sister-in-law who showed me the ropes to settle back into society helping with getting my documentation. I have been very fortunate. Also, some old friends have been very helpful in correcting and improving this book. Q: It must have been difficult to de-class yourself when you returned from London to do activism in India. Was it also difficult to be accepted by the people you lived and worked amongst? Any advice to those who wish to de-class themselves for political reasons? Ghandy: It is no doubt that de-classing and living in a basti was difficult and travelling by cycle and bus in the hot Nagpur heat was not easy to adjust to, but then both of us would have found that living an ordinary middle-class life and talking of revolution a bit hypocritical. By giving our full to the movement and the poor, I have been able to more easily draw the conclusions I have in the third section. If we had participated half-heartedly one could not have authoritatively made the same comments. Of course, there is no question of now returning to grass roots work as my health would not take it given my age, 74. And after all, in all professions one retires at a particular age. Besides, I feel I have more to give by conceptualising my lengthy experiences from which, maybe, future generations can gain. As far as acceptance from the people I think if one is sincere poor people accept you for what you are. It was not difficult. Lately I went back after 40 years to the slum from which I started in Worli, Mayanagar. Even after so long the youth of that time was so warm telling the journalists that it was I who awakened them. I am just thinking that I had then just returned from London, would have hardly known any Hindi, let alone Marathi, but their warmth was very touching.  As far as what the young generation needs to learn, the entire third section of the book is geared to them, to partake in the project for change with the lessons I have outlined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
22-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP making false poll promise of free ration, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused the BJP of making a false promise to supply free ration ahead of the assembly elections in the state and said the saffron party will "never fulfil this". Addressing a rally here in Bankura district, she described the BJP as a "party of outsiders", and alleged that it is bringing "goondas to create terror" in the state. "The BJP has made a false promise of free supply of ration. It will never fulfil this. "BJP goons will come to your house and seek votes for their party. Be ready with household utensils to chase away such people if they threaten you," the TMC supremo told the rally. Accusing the BJP of issuing diktat to women about what to wear and what to eat, the CM also said, "They will make you think that Narendra Modi is bigger than BR Ambedkar." "Have you seen how a cricket stadium in Gujarat was renamed after Modi? One day, they will change the name of the country. They are selling PSUs to private parties," she said. Alleging that the Congress and the Left Front have a deal with the BJP, Banerjee said, "CPI(M) goons unleashed terror in Kotulpur, Chomkaitala, Jairambati areas when I was in opposition. They had attacked me and are now with the BJP." PTI SUS BDC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Roadblock in Manikpur to demand chemical factory shift||Hundreds of women living in Manikpur under Englishbazar police station on Sunday blocked the state highway to demand an under-construction chemical factory be shifted from their locality. The densely populated site was unsuitable for such a factory  and could cause health hazards for them once the unit became operational, the protesters claimed. “We have been protesting against construction of the factory in our area for long. We had knocked on the doors of the block administration and some state departments. But our efforts yielded no result and recently, construction work started at the site. That is why we blocked the road,” said protester Sarathi Talukdar. According to them, different chemicals will be produced at the upcoming unit and effluents can pose health hazards for them. “Many vacant plots in deserted locations are available with the government in the district. We want the administration to take the initiative and shift the factory to one such place. Ever since the construction has started, we are fearful of our health,” another woman who joined the protest, said. The blockade halted traffic in the area till a police team from Englishbazar police station went to the spot and spoke with the demonstrators. When the police tried to remove them, an altercation erupted and the protesters alleged that the police had beaten some of them with batons. “They misbehaved with us and even charged batons. Some of us have suffered injuries,” said Talukdar. Police have denied the allegations of baton-charge. Englishbazar block officials, when asked about the issue, said they would look into it. “Now that a section of local residents are aggrieved, we will talk to them. We will also check out whether their apprehensions are correct and whether those building the factory are adhering to all necessary anti-pollution measures,” said an official. A team of Maharashtra police conducted a joint raid with the Malda district police in Sahapur area of Old Malda on Sunday and arrested resident Ranjit Mahato. Police sources said Mahato was a cook at the house of a state government official of Maharashtra in Haraprasad police station area of Pune. A few days back, he allegedly decamped with gold and platinum jewellery worth Rs 13 lakh. The police track him through his cell phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang camp of GJM fields relatively known faces from three hill seats||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha fielded relatively known faces from three hill seats, purportedly to encompass “minority, youth and women empowerment” but said they would not seek votes on the Gorkhaland demand in this Assembly elections. The Tamang camp fielded Ruden Sada Lepcha from Kalimpong, Tshering Lama Dahal from Kurseong and Keshav Raj Pokhrel from Darjeeling. “Ruden Sada Lepcha represents the minorities, Keshav Raj represents youths and Tshering Lama (Dahal) represents women empowerment,” said Binay Tamang, president of the Morcha faction. Having lost two previous elections — the Darjeeling Lok Sabha election and Darjeeling Assembly bypoll in 2019, it is a do-or-die situation for this Morcha camp. But speaking from Mungpoo, some 35km from Darjeeling, the Binay Tamang camp this faction categorically said they would not waver from the politics of reality over emotions. In the hills, Gorkhaland has been a predominant and winning election formula for the past three decades. But Tamang said they were raising issues specific to the Bengal government, thereby hinting Gorkhaland was not a state subject. Asked if it was difficult to fight an election without the Gorkhaland slogan, Tamang, admitted it was. “It is difficult to convince voters, but we are hopeful and confident as the hill voters are educated and will not be fooled by false promises this time,” Tamang said. The head of this Morcha faction admitted that “BJP and not Bimal Gurung” was their main contender for this election, despite BJP not having a strong organisational strength in the hills. But Tamang was confident of their success based on three factors. “The BJP has not fulfilled any of their promises, be it ST status for hill communities or permanent political solution. Also, in the last elections nine parties (including social organisations) had supported the BJP but they are fragmented now. In the last one-and-half years, Anit Thapa (Tamang’s trusted aide who heads the GTA) and the GTA have worked for the benefit of the hill people,” Tamang justified his confidence. “Don’t seek votes on a promise you cannot fulfil,” added Anit Thapa, general secretary and chairman, board of administrators, GTA.  “If Gorkhaland were an outcome of elections, we would have achieved 10 Gorkhalands by now,” he added. Aware of the importance of Gorkhaland emotions in the hills, Thapa said his land “belonged to the Gorkhas” but the problem lied in linking “this emotion with elections.” Tamang and Thapa, the only two speakers at the public meeting organised to announce the candidates, swore by the slogan “Hamro ghar, afnai bhari (we will build our house on our strength)” in an effort to underscore regionalism. “We have made many outsiders leaders of the place but this time our slogan is hamro ghar, afnai ghar,” said Thapa. The party released a 52- point election manifesto with land rights for tea gardens and cinchona plantations topping the list. The land issue was the core issue of the Tamang camp when they lost the 2019 elections. “I had said that despite losing we will work for the hills and we have made some progress on the land rights issue,” said Tamang who said all issues listed in the manifesto had been done after consultations with ally Trinamul’s chief Mamata Banerjee. Tamang also hinted at a two-tier panchayat election in the hills in 2022. The last rural elections had been held in 2000. “If the BJP wins the state elections, they will implement the NRC and of the 15 lakh hill population 12 lakh will be in detention camps,” claimed Tamang. The two influential leaders of the Morcha said it was time for the hill people to decide whether they want leaders who set hills on fire or ones who want development, a statement seen as an attack on bete noire Bimal Gurung. The Tamang camp has directed their candidates to file their nomination papers on March 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP releases West Bengal election manifesto||The essential ingredients of the Sonar Bangla that the BJP wants to serve up: the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), an infiltration net so tight that even a bird will be unable to fly in, Durga Puja celebrations without having to seek court permission, daily Ganga Aarti on the banks of the Hooghly and “tweaked” welfare schemes implemented or promised by Mamata Banerjee. A decision to implement the CAA will be taken at the very first cabinet meeting if the BJP comes to power, says the BJP manifesto — Sankalpa Patra — released on Sunday. Union home minister Amit Shah referred to the citizenship law while highlighting miscellaneous points of the manifesto. “By implementing the CAA, the BJP (government) will complete the task of giving citizenship to all of them (non-Muslim refugees from neighbouring countries),” Shah said. The Centre had passed the CAA on December 11, 2019, but the act has remained on paper as the rules have not been framed yet. After Shah’s announcement on the CAA on Sunday, some BJP insiders wondered how the state government would implement the new citizenship act unless the rules were framed. The committee on subordinate legislation for the Rajya Sabha has extended the deadline for framing the rules till July 9, 2021. Sources in the BJP said the mention of the CAA in the manifesto was important as the party was keen to retain its base among the Hindu refugee community of the Matuas, who have a key role in deciding the outcome in 25-odd seats. “Through the Chief Minister Refugee Welfare scheme, every refugee family will be transferred Rs 1,000 through DBT (direct benefit transfer) for five years so that they can rehabilitate themselves with honour,” Shah said, adding that the new government would also provide a monthly pension of Rs 3,000 to Matua dalapatis or team leaders. Shah juxtaposed the CAA announcement with another key polarisation pitch -- infiltration. “We have decided that not only human beings, even a bird will not be able to fly in from beyond the border, such will be the security arrangements at the border,” Shah said. The polarisation objective was clear in the manifesto with Shah saying that no one would have to “take permission from the courts” to organise Durga Puja or Saraswati Puja under BJP rule. “We will enhance the liveliness of Calcutta’s Durga Puja by putting it on the international map. We will ensure tourists from all parts of the world and make sure that no one has to seek permission from the courts to celebrate Durga Puja,” Shah said. This year, the high court had suggested restrictions because of Covid. The norms — and the willingness by the people to follow them — were widely credited with averting a surge in the Covid cases during the festival season. Since 2017, the BJP has tried to establish that Mamata Banerjee is against Durga Puja by highlighting a 2017 government order and alleging she had stopped the immersion of Durga idols to make way for Muharram processions. The temporary government order was issued to avoid chaos, and Durga Pujas were never banned in the state. Shah said a BJP government in Bengal would establish a purohit welfare board and provide the priests with an honorarium. Kirtankars — artistes who perform devotional songs — aged over 60 will be given a monthly pension of Rs 3,000. Shah said a BJP government would develop an international ghat on the Hooghly’s banks where Ganga Aarti will take place every day. He added that Rs 100 crore would be spent to renovate and repair Hindu temples across the state. “Polarisation is their politics. There is almost no economic programme, only polarisation. They have announced an honorarium for priests but our government already offers Rs 1,000 a month to them. They are trying to present it in such a way that polarisation takes place,” said Trinamul spokesperson and MP Saugata Roy. The BJP has promised employment for at least one member of each family. “There will be no family in which at least one member will not be employed in five years,” Shah said. The promise stands out at a time the unemployment rate in the country has touched a 45-year high under the Narendra Modi government. Shah said that 33 per cent of government jobs would be reserved for women. All women will be offered free education from kindergarten to postgraduate level. Women will also be eligible for free rides on government transport. The widow pension will be increased from Rs 1,000 a month to Rs 3,000 a month. Under a scheme called Balika Alo, girls from marginalised segments will be provided a stipend for their education. The BJP manifesto says that if voted to power, the party’s government will introduce Annapurna Canteens across the state to provide meals thrice a day at Rs 5 each. The promise has echoes of the Mamata government’s Maa Canteens that provide a plate of rice and egg curry for Rs 5 once a day. Trinamul has said that most of these announcements are tweaks of the party’s pledges. “The BJP is following our lead and imitating us. Most of the programmes they announced are already in implementation in Bengal,” Roy said. One key difference does exist between the BJP and Trinamul manifestos. Mamata has promised a Universal Basic Income scheme for the women heads of 1.6 crore families. “It is true that they have followed us in their manifesto. But the UBI scheme empowers the women of Bengal…. Such an initiative doesn’t even come to their minds. They don’t have that sensitivity,” said Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Kanhaiya appeals to vote for Sanjukta Morcha candidates||Former JNU president and CPI national council member Kanhaiya Kumar made an emphatic appeal, firmed on ideological grounding, asking people not to choose the BJP to defeat Trinamul but vote for Sanjukta Morcha candidates instead. Kanhaiya’s comments, made at a rally on Saturday in support of the CPI’s Patashpur candidate Saikat Giri, come two weeks ahead of the electoral face-off between Mamata Banerjee and her former aide Suvendu Adhikari, both of whose candidature has turned nearby Nandigram into an ideological battleground. Minakshi Mukherjee of the CPM is the Sanjukta Morcha’s candidate for the Nandigram seat. Kanhaiya's speech laid down his belief that the BJP and Trinamul were both “poison packaged in different bottles” and pointed to the unrest over the BJP's recent nomination of several Trinamul turncoats to poll candidacy as proof. “Poet Mirza Ghalib had once said that Bengal is that kind of place that exists one hundred years in the past and one hundred years in the future simultaneously. All of you have been raised here and understand the region’s politics better than I do,” he said  in a speech sprinkled with jest aimed at his north Indian origins. “You have witnessed the Left Front’s reign... You also know those people who came to power riding on promises of change," he added, referring to the Trinamul. “You are not simply subjects of the state... Do you agree with me? Your vote is your sovereign right... But certain people are already declaring themselves winners. Then why is their party continuing to spend lakhs and crores of rupees on securing a victory," he asked, referring to the BJP's recent overdrive of rallies in the state. Referring to his own experiences in student elections, and the need for integrity, he exhorted the crowd not to fall for strongman politics and instead question candidates' competence in regards to ground change on issues such as education, infrastructure and job creation. Kanhaiya also spoke for the need of “integrity in an age of expression”, explaining the need for clear judgment relating to voting was now made all the more important by “widespread and readily available information”. The said only the Left had the ideological grounding to defeat a “fascist party” like the BJP and it would be wrong to opt for the saffron party in the desire to oust the Trinamul. “You might be angry with the functioning of a government but don’t let the BJP come to rule you,” exhorted Kanhaiya while arguing for the need to defeat the Trinamul and vote in a Sanjukta Morcha government in Bengal to fulfil the cry for better governance, jobs and education. Throwing his weight behind the Morcha's promises, he slammed the BJP’s communal politics, saying: “God is supreme, so who are you (the BJP) to come in between?” “Such things are not a government’s job. Their job is to respond to the faith reposed in them by voters by building roads and bridges and providing jobs...,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb introduces 'Samadhan'- a grievance redressal mechanism||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb, who is contesting from Dabgram-Fulbari of Jalpaiguri, has introduced “Samadhan” (solution), a round-the-clock helpline-cum-grievance redressal mechanism for voters of his constituency. The helpline (96474-96475) — that seems to be launched on the lines of “Didi Ke Bolo” (a similar state-wide campaign launched by chief minister Mamata Banerjee) — became operational on Saturday and will be managed 24 hours by a team of Trinamul workers. “For the past couple of months, I have been reaching out to people of my constituency and have covered almost 80 per cent of the areas. During my campaign, I felt the need to launch such a facility that can enable any resident of the constituency to reach me for any help at any time. That is why the system has been introduced,” said Deb, who is considered to be the tallest Trinamul leader in north Bengal. The minister, while speaking on the facility, which has been taken up by a political leader of north Bengal for the first time, said he intended to make it a permanent service. “Even after the elections are over, I will continue to run the service so that people can be provided with necessary help and their grievances can be redressed,” he added. According to political observers, the new mechanism that has been evolved by the minister seems to be the part of a strategy to open up a new window other than the traditional campaign, which can help him connect to his voters. They said Deb had won from the Dabgram-Fulbari seat in 2011 and 2016. In 2016, he could win by a margin of over 26,000 votes but in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP could secure a lead of around 86,000 votes in his Assembly segment. “It is obvious that Gautam Deb and his party will have to toil hard to ensure that he wins in the seat for the third time. That is why they are exploring all possible options to reach out to people,” said an observer. The Dabgram-Fulbari seat that comprises 14 wards of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats falls in Jalpaiguri district. So, for any official and legal works, residents living in these areas have to travel to Jalpaiguri town, that is 45km away. As there had been rapid urbanisation in the rural areas which are next to the wards, there is also a demand for a separate civic body. The tourism minister, who is well aware of this issue, is thus underscoring some of the infrastructure developments which the Trinamul government has carried out in the past 10 years, which include two fire stations and a registry office, the Uttarkanya and the Bengal Safari Park. Simultaneously, he is speaking out the new plans he has for his constituency. “We will approach the state government to declare the entire Dabgram-Fulbari area as a new civic area. We would work to ensure that a separate administrative set-up is opened for the convenience of the residents, along with a metropolitan court so that people do not need to travel to Jalpaiguri,” added Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah promises daily wage of Rs 350 for Bengal tea workers||Union home minister Amit Shah and his party have come up with a promise for the tea population of Bengal that the BJP could not meet in neighbouring Assam where it has been in power for the past five years — a daily wage of Rs 350 for tea workers. Shah, who released the Sankalpa Patra (election manifesto) of the BJP in Calcutta on Sunday, said that if voted to power, they would hike the wage of tea workers to Rs 350. Bengal’s tea workers receive Rs 202 a day, after it was revised by the Trinamul government in January. In Assam, the BJP’s Sarbananda Sonowal government revised tea wages last month to Rs 217 a day except in the Barak valley where it is Rs 195 a day. “It is surprising that the BJP has claimed to increase the tea wages to Rs 350 in Bengal….We doubt tea workers will believe in a promise that the BJP could not fulfil in a state it rules,” said Alok Chakraborty, a senior tea trade union leader and coordinator of INTTUC, Trinamul workers’ front, in north Bengal. These past few weeks, the tea wage issue has been raised frequently by political parties in both these poll-bound states that are also India’s top tea producers. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, during his recent trip to Assam, had said that if his party wins in the state, they would increase the daily tea wage to Rs 365, underlining that the BJP could not hike it to Rs 350 despite being in power. An observer said BJP workers in Bengal’s tea belt will have to face uncomfortable questions now. “People will ask how can they commit to a wage of Rs 350 in Bengal when they could not implement it in Assam,” he said. The BJP manifesto also said it would look into conferring tribal status to 11 hill communities and the demand of a permanent political solution in the hills would be taken care of. However, a veteran watcher of hill politics said this was yet another round of hollow promises which the BJP had been making to the hill residents since 2009. Through the manifesto, the saffron brigade tried to stoke the sentiments of north Bengal residents, a region where the party did well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, by making a slew of announcements. Among these include a separate development board for north Bengal, upgrading Bagdogra into an international airport, a training centre for paramilitary forces in the name of Chilla Roy (the fiercest fighter of the Cooch Behar royal family) in Cooch Behar, an IT park in Siliguri, an AIIMS in north Bengal and conferrment of land rights to tea workers and forest dwellers. Reacting to these, Trinamul leader and state tourism minister Gautam Deb said: “We doubt how many of these would be met…there are seven BJP MPs from north Bengal since 2019. So far, none of them could come up with any major infrastructural project for the region, barring some announcements which we believe are poll sops.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Was a trusting donkey: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday berated herself for being so “gullible” after her party’s Contai MP Sisir Adhikari, like his sons Suvendu and Soumendu, joined the BJP. “I am a very simple person. A gadha (donkey)…gullible...I should have figured out these traitors earlier. I love and trust people too easily,” she said. She flagged their alleged corruption, fiefdom and intimidation tactics, and said Midnapore had to be freed from them. She also brought up the old punar musiko bhava (Become a mouse again) story where a mouse was made a tiger by a rishi, but when it wanted to eat the rishi, it was reduced to a mouse again. “There was a time when I used to respect and love them (the Adhikaris). I had painted a picture of goddess Tara and gifted them, for their home. Now, that gang of traitors has brought in the BJP…after conspiring with them since 2014,” she added. Till her relations soured with the Adhikharis, the Shanti Niwas residents of Contai enjoyed immense clout in Trinamul and its government. Prior to going to the BJP, Suvendu Adhikari was one of Trinamul’s tallest leaders, part of its seven-member apex steering committee as a general-secretary, a senior member of the state cabinet and former MP. Father Sisir was the party’s East Midnapore chief and brother Soumendu Contai’s civic chairman. Another brother Dibyendu, the Tamluk MP from Trinamul, is yet to clarify his position. Mamata referred to them as lobhi (greedy) and bhogi (hedonist), and claimed all the development in the region was carried out by her government, while they hogged the credit. “Even I was not allowed to conduct rallies in Contai, because all of this used to be someone’s fief…jotdar (landlord), jomidar (liege lord), raja (king)… whatever they said used to happen here,” she said, accusing the clan of virtually handing the reins of the region to the Centre over the past few years. “The Midnapore region must be set free from these people, then only will the people of Midnapore taste freedom afresh,” she added, claiming the Adhikaris maintain a horde of goons for intimidation. Mamata alleged that the Adhikari clan’s people have been threatening people to leave the place and look for new homes elsewhere, as they now want to wipe out Trinamul from the region. “Soon, you are the ones who will have to look for a new address, in Delhi or Mumbai,” she said, bringing up the mouse tale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari joins BJP||Trinamul Congress MP and East Midnapore heavyweight Sisir Adhikari, 79,  joined the BJP on Sunday afternoon in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. “The day he (son Suvendu Adhikari) joined, I also (virtually) joined (the BJP),” Sisir said. The Contai South MP remains a Trinamul representative in the Lok Sabha and unlike son Suvendu, is yet to tender formal resignations as the legislator. “I will remain in the posts that I hold. Let them (Trinamul) do what they can about it,” he said. Sisir ddin’t accept a BJP flag on the dais. Delivering a brief speech on stage, he said: “I have been in politics for over 60 years, but my family had never been disrespected like this.” “This is a fight for our self-respect…. Only if the same government is both at the Centre and in the state can there be development. I repose my faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah,” he added. After the rally, he attacked Trinamul and Mamata, calling the party a factory and her the proprietor. “She does as she pleases. Once Suvendu wins in Nandigram, we will wipe Trinamul out of this district,” he said. Asked, senior Trinamul leader Somen Mahapatra said Sisir Adhikari’s conduct was “unbecoming” of his stature. “We are surprised as we did not expect such behaviour from a veteran.… To be fielding questions on behalf of an opposing party while he is still formally with us is unethical. The party will take steps,” he said. Sisir Adhikari was first elected MLA from Contai South in 1982. His induction into Trinamul came in 1999, following which he was elected its MLA in 2001 and 2006, and MP in 2009, 2014 and 2019. Shah’s comments on Sunday were confined to the ambit of the bhaipo (nephew) discourse, with the Union home minister repeatedly asserting that Modi would transform the state into “Sonar Bangla” in five years. “Trinamul’s downfall is imminent, it is inevitable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Narendra Modi defends BJP candidate list||Narendra Modi on Sunday said that for the Bengal polls, the BJP had fielded both experienced and new faces to work towards building Sonar Bangla, the Prime Minister’s comment coming in the backdrop of protests by party workers across the state ever since the second list of candidates came out on March 14. “The BJP has fielded experienced candidates. The party has given chances to freshers too. The young and experienced candidates will together help build Sonar Bangla,” Modi said at a rally in Bankura’s Tilabedia grounds on Sunday. Many party offices were ransacked or set ablaze by local BJP leaders accusing the party of nominating several Trinamul turncoats and “outsiders” with no link to the Assembly segments concerned. Many questions how “asol poribarton” would happen under Trinamul turncoats, who till they switched sides were allegedly attacking BJP workers. Though Modi did not refer to these protests, he spoke about BJP’s candidate from Bankura’s Saltora, Chandana Bauri, the wife of a mason, apparently to send the message that his party had picked names from the grassroots, not just turncoats. “Didi, you may dislike my face but you will have to remember faces like Chandanaji and many more from the BJP for a long time.... Chandanaji is not only a BJP candidate from Saltora Assembly constituency but also the face of Bengal’s aspiration,” Modi said to a crowd of over 50,000. Chandana said that she and her husband had started working for the BJP after they were not allowed to cast their votes in the 2018 panchayat polls. “I have been working for the BJP for the past three years after we saw how Trinamul robbed us of our voting rights. The government housing scheme that came for me was given to another woman with the same name as mine. I did not know that the party had chosen me as a candidate till the list was announced,” said Chandana. Modi referred to Chandana as a symbol of development and a victim of Trinamul. BJP insiders said other than Chandana, the party’s candidate from Ausgram in East Burdwan, Kalita Maji, worked as a domestic help. BJP leaders said Modi through his reference to Chandana’s candidature tried to douse the flames of protest against the choice of nominees. “It seems that Modiji wanted to mean that Trinamul defectors were experienced hands and a balance had been struck by choosing freshers like Chandana as well. However, candidates like Chandana are very few,” said a BJP leader. However, BJP leaders said despite the Prime Minister citing Chandana as an example, there were people like Tanmoy Ghosh who has been made a candidate within 24 hours of quitting the Trinamul to join the BJP. Ghosh will contest as the BJP’s candidate from Bishnupur in Bankura. “If there are examples like Chandana, there are examples like Tanmoy Ghosh, who was with the Trinamul a night ago and got picked as a BJP candidate. Such decisions have angered party old-timers,” said a BJP leader from Bishnupur. Modi in his speech also accused Trinamul leaders of making money through extortion and pilferage of sand. He said the illegal money had helped Trinamul leaders in Bankura become rich and own big houses and branded cars. Modi also criticised Trinamul for a wall graffiti that showed Mamata’s fractured leg placed on the head of the Prime Minister. The graffiti had gone viral on social media and attracted Modi’s attention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Why is it a big deal||The Assembly elections that will kick off this Saturday cover five states but it is Bengal that finds itself back in the national crosshairs exactly a decade after it sealed the fate of one of the longest running regimes in the world. If Bengal was the cynosure in 2011 for voting out the Left after an unhindered and improbable run of 34 years, 2021 places the state at the centre of a battle that it did not start and a question only its voters can answer. Will Mamata Banerjee be able to stop what has so far been the unstoppable juggernaut powered by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah? Or will the duopoly conquer the last frontier in the east, painting India with such a gigantic saffron brushstroke that only a sliver called Kerala will remain the sole holdout? The once-hackneyed phrase — “the battle for the soul of Bengal” — has acquired some resonance and urgency because of the fear of the unknown and its unfamiliarity with the culture that has made Bengal what it is. Toss into this cauldron concerns about abiding values such as  personal liberties, communal harmony, cosmopolitanism, dissidence, the right to protest and minority rights — not to forget immediate issues such as farm laws — and you have one of the most significant electoral contests in recent memory. The eight-phase elections scheduled to continue for over a month till April 29 will not only pave the way for the next government but also shape the course of politics in the eastern state. The significance of the results, to be declared on May 2, will have consequences beyond Bengal’s borders, impacting the entire region’s geopolitical and geostrategic dynamics. For Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul, retaining power for the third time is paramount as she is aware that she needs to win to keep her party alive at a time the BJP is leaving no stone unturned to chip away by engineering defections. For the BJP, a saffron Bengal is critical to establish a pan-India presence. Ahead of the elections, the BJP’s focus has been to create the narrative that it is coming to power in Bengal — with 200-plus seats (the state has 294 seats). The party is also striving to create the impression that a “double-engine government”, at the Centre and in the state, will result in unprecedented growth. Trinamul has fallen back on its most bankable asset — Mamata. By pitching herself as the party nominee in all 294 Assembly seats, she is travelling the length and breadth of Bengal, on a wheelchair and her leg plastered, and listing her achievements and countering the narrative spun by the “outsider” BJP. The Telegraph takes a look at the factors that have made the contest so intriguing. One of the most striking pre-poll developments in Bengal has been the exodus of leaders from Trinamul, and also from other parties, to the BJP. Bengal had long been insulated from the “Aaya Ram, Gaya Ram” phenomenon, which loosely describes the politics of defections in India, till Trinamul began signing up legislators from Opposition parties after it came to power in 2011. Cut to 2021, the BJP appears to have taken a leaf out of that book, effecting defections. Notable among the deserters have been former ministers Suvendu Adhikari and Rajeeb Banerjee. The fact that the defections had nothing to do with ideology became clear when many of them made it to the candidate list of the BJP. The overwhelming presence of turncoats — around 150 of the 283 BJP nominees announced till Saturday are from other parties — has triggered vehement protests from BJP old-timers across the state. Two questions remain: (i) Will the turncoats deliver? (ii) Do the Trinamul faces in the BJP camp fit Narendra Modi’s narrative of bringing asol poriborton (real change) to Bengal? Identity politics, based on caste, language and ethnicity, to woo voters is another new phenomenon in Bengal, where class ruled the political discourse for years thanks to the Left. Ahead of the polls, while Mamata has promised setting up of a special task force to seek reservation from the Centre for the Mahishyas, Tamus, Sahas and Tilis as OBCs, BJP president J.P. Nadda has said these communities deserve reservations. In doing so, both leaders were trying to court these communities, whose votes matter in East and West Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly and the two 24-Parganas. Trinamul and the BJP are also trying to win over the Matuas by spinning divergent narratives on the new citizenship matrix for electoral gains in 30-odd seats in Nadia and North 24-Parganas. The Kurmis in Purulia and Bankura have also been showered with the promise of reservation for electoral dividends in 15-odd seats. The battle for Rajbanshi votes in north Bengal has seen both parties competing to pay respect to Panchanan Barma and making promises for the uplift of the community and to recognise their language. And, not to forget the contest to woo voters based on linguistic identities. Mamata has already announced that schools will be set up to promote languages other than Bengali and English and has even set up a Dalit Sahitya Academy. But there are two questions: (i) Will there be caste-based conflicts? (ii) Will the focus on identities take Bengal back to the early 19th century when caste identities had cast a shadow on societal progress? Bengal had never seen such political temple tourism ahead of any election. Almost all the nominees of the major political parties — barring the Left, of course — are busy visiting shrines, especially Hindu temples. An estimate suggests Mamata and Suvendu, the contenders for the Nandigram seat, have visited at least 25 temples in the area. Not just the celebrity politicians, even the newcomers are making it a point to visit temples and pose for the cameras with red tilak on their forehead. The significance of Jai Shri Ram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai slogans are being hotly debated. Mamata, who has been reciting sholaks and mantras at rallies, may have become a victim of competitive politics at a time the Prime Minister is accusing her of appeasing Muslims and not allowing Durga Puja immersions. BJP insiders admit in private that they are happy with this change as the public display of Hindu identity and nationalism even by someone like Mamata means the Hindutva agenda has entered the political discourse of the state will remain firmly rooted there. While the BJP is waiting to gain from the change, there are two questions: (i) Is this trend desirable in a plural society? (ii) Will the rise in Hindu nationalism result in conflicts in a region that has been immune to such tensions? Several political observers believe that Trinamul’s move to hire poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-Pac is a key addition to the poll game in Bengal. Trinamul insiders think that the professional approach by Team I-Pac — with over 1,000 men and women working across 294 constituencies — has helped them better strategise for the elections. The important questions here are: (i) Can all parties afford to appoint consultants? (ii) Is this trend of getting poll strategists here to stay?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
22-03-2021||Opinion||Just a button: right not to vote||The right not to vote is as important as the right to vote. The voting option, ‘None of the above’ or Nota, has been operative in most elections since 2009. Responding to a public interest litigation brought by a Bharatiya Janata Party leader asking for fresh elections when Nota polled more votes than any candidate, a Supreme Court bench headed by the Chief Justice of India issued notice to the Centre and the Election Commission. The professed purpose of the PIL is to ensure a perfect democracy by honouring people’s rejection of the candidates in the running and, by this possibility, forcing political parties to field honest and ‘patriotic’ candidates. At present, even when Nota polls the most votes in an election, the candidate running second is declared the winner. The reasoning behind the Nota option was to allow scope for negative or neutral votes, so that more people would be willing to participate in elections. The Supreme Court in 2013 had emphasized the importance of secrecy that would be permitted by the Nota option — no one would know if someone were disapproving — and had also hoped for ‘sound’ candidates as a result of this expression of people’s dissatisfaction. With regard to this PIL, the Supreme Court reportedly expressed concern regarding seats left unfilled in Parliament when Nota votes exceeded votes of candidates. The expense, manpower and organization needed for any election would delay a fresh vote. Establishing the people’s wishes would, ironically, create greater stress on them in the matter of time, energy and, ultimately, funds. The court’s reported remark that an influential political party may get many candidates rejected and hence make it difficult for Parliament to function could point to discomfiting possibilities. Power, manifested by money and muscle — including threats not physical — is an undeniable feature of elections in India, especially now. The corruption in the system is reflected in the number of sitting legislators under the shadow of criminal cases. That the Supreme Court should mention the possibility of an influential party bringing Parliament to a standstill by ensuring Nota victories when the BJP leader’s PIL wishes to make elections free of corruption throws an unexpected cross-light on how and why Nota may be abused. It seems that the same option can make democracy perfect or render Parliament irrelevant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Opinion||Soft target: prisoners and pandemic||Wilful amnesia may be a universal phenomenon, but it does not make problems go away. This was evident from a report by Amnesty International that highlighted the sufferings during the pandemic of an already-beleaguered constituency: prisoners. The plight of the latter, in India and around the world, appears to be two-fold. To begin with, the opacity of prisons makes society easily forget the asymmetrical relationship that binds inmates to the authorities, manifest in routine violations of prisoners’ rights and dignity. The pandemic — this is the other challenge — seems to have heightened these transgressions. Last year, the Supreme Court had ordered all Indian states to consider releasing some prisoners on parole to reduce overcrowding in jails during the Covid-19 outbreak. The apex court had also directed that video conferencing be introduced for prisoners so that they can stay in touch with their families. The findings of the Amnesty report are damning in this respect. Not only was the rate of release insufficient to mitigate the magnitude of the risk but detainees, according to a source in Jammu and Kashmir, were also allowed just one call to their families in 15 days. The State’s apathy towards the health of prisoners is unlikely to change even as some states face a second surge of the coronavirus. Given that prisons are particularly vulnerable to the infection on account of congestion — around 27 per cent of prisons across India are still overcrowded — it stands to reason that inmates, nearly 70 per cent of whom are undertrials, ought to be prioritized for vaccination. Yet, while prison staff were listed among three priority groups for vaccination, prisoners were dropped from the list. The embedded moral ambivalence towards the condemned may have played a part here. The pandemic could have been used as an opportunity to assess the weaknesses in India’s prison system and institute reform. Sadly, this has not been the case. This is especially ironic given the apex court’s push in this direction — the overall prison occupancy came down to 93.3 per cent from 117.6 per cent between April 1 and June 30 last year on account of the Supreme Court’s directive. This momentum must be taken forward to address a number of challenges that confront prisoners — deplorable sanitary conditions, poor medical facilities, the flouting of social distancing norms and absence of protective gear — each of which can turn the country’s prisons into Covid-19 hotspots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Opinion||Live and let others live||Polls in the time of a pandemic, compounded by a vaccine conundrum and spiralling Covid-19 cases, have been aggravated by the propensity of the populace to abandon face masks. In a show of one-upmanship, political parties are striving to draw crowds to election rallies, yet no one sports a mask. This was an opportune time for politicians to caution the electorate to maintain pandemic protocol, but none of them appears to have anything but securing an assembly berth on their mind. With the initiation of Covid-19 vaccination, even domestic air travel is back to the jostling, mask-abandoned-at-will, protocol-flouting melee. Against this backdrop, the decision of the Delhi High Court judge, C. Hari Shankar, who travelled on a national carrier this month and found passengers refusing to use masks, to register a suo motu writ petition was a timely and necessary step. During my last couple of flights, there were several passengers without masks or donning them like appendages under the chin. We had paid for aisle seats and the passenger in the middle seat next to me on a flight from Calcutta had to be coaxed into wearing his PPE gear. Even before we took off, he removed his mask and began to snore. Finally, I had to opt for a seat change. Obstinate fellow passengers often refuse to comply despite repeated exhortations. So it was in the fitness of things that the Delhi High Court, acting on Justice Hari Shankar’s petition, said “it is constrained to pass the order because of an alarming situation which was witnessed” during the Air India flight from Calcutta to New Delhi on March 5. In response, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said on March 13 that passengers would be “de-boarded” from flights if they don’t wear masks properly inside the aircraft or follow “Covid-19 appropriate behavior”. Passengers violating protocol despite repeated warnings will be treated as “unruly”, the aviation regulator said and conveyed this to the Delhi High Court on March 17. The court then disposed of the petition. As a result, passengers are now being handed over to the police for refusing to adhere to norms and wear masks. Hopefully this will act as a deterrent to insensitive and obtuse individuals. In his petition, the judge had said: “It was only on repeated entreaties made (by me) to the offending passengers that they condescended to wear their masks properly... [T]he cabin crew... stated that they had directed all the passengers to wear masks, but were helpless in case they did not comply.” Not just in the skies, there is concern on the ground too, with Covid cases peaking alarmingly again. Nilakshi Roy, professor of English at a college in Mumbai, was hospitalized with Covid-19 last month. “For all of us who have got vaccinated, awaiting their turn, or got Covid and antibodies, well... there’s no way of getting out of the face mask. There is really no alternative to protecting oneself and others by using the only thing that is proven: wearing the mask. I am isolating myself at home after a second bout of hospitalization after my first quarantine. I use the mask if I ever step out of the room or if anyone comes near my otherwise locked bedroom. And I will wear the mask at least till the year-end,” she stressed. Octogenarian Manjusha Dasgupta of Calcutta, who has just been vaccinated, was categorical: “Mask is a must to keep Covid at bay.” Headlines on the “record rise in active Covid cases” are back. With several states going into stringent control mode, the least we can do is adhere to safety measures. Thank you, Justice Hari Shankar, for taking a stand on the mask, which all of us should have, but didn’t.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s child brides||‘Banglar meye’ is at the centre of a political campaign in West Bengal. That could well be because women, particularly school-going girls, have been the primary beneficiaries of numerous welfare schemes in the state. The first visible outcome of these targeted welfare schemes run by the Trinamul Congress government is that girls have outnumbered boys in secondary-level school enrolment in Bengal. Several independent studies of ‘Kanyashree’, and ‘Sabooj Sathi’ have revealed positive outcomes as far as enrolment and girls’ education is concerned, particularly among scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and the Muslim population. However, recent data from the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) do not indicate any improvement when it comes to child marriage in West Bengal. The percentage of women aged 20-24 married off before the age of 18 remains high at 41.6 per cent. The figure was the same in the NFHS-4 report from 2015-16. In rural Bengal, child marriage, according to NFHS-5, is much higher at 48.1 per cent: the figure is 26.2 per cent for urban areas. The fact that four out of ten women aged 20-24 are married off before 18 should ring alarm bells for policymakers. A closer look at data from the districts would reveal more details about the malaise. Of the 23 districts, only nine have shown some improvement when it comes to reducing child marriage. Jalpaiguri, Malda, Uttar Dinajpur and Purulia have done particularly well. Murshidabad, Purba Medinipur, Bankura, Hooghly and Howrah have registered a surge. Child marriage has adverse impacts on the health of the girl child as well as on human development indicators, including infant and maternal mortality. It also cuts short girls’ schooling, restricts their entry into the workforce and brings along life-long subjugation and sufferings.  In short, child marriage is a hindrance to meeting Sustainable Development Goals set for 2030.  Among these, target 5.3 specifically highlights the elimination of harmful practices, including early and forced marriage that amounts to violence against children. The question is this: despite the rise in girls’ enrolment, why have there not been a corresponding positive outcome for child marriage? Child marriage was once considered to be an upper-caste practice that sought to protect the sanctity of caste lines. Population explosion, poverty and such other social factors made child marriage a common phenomenon. The notion of keeping family honour intact by marrying off the girl child by the age of 10 still accounts for some percentage of child marriage. Research conducted by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (Mitra and Parasuraman, 2015) on the lived experiences of early marriage shows that ‘bad girls’ — those expressing sexual agency — are likely to be married off early to keep adolescent sexuality in control. These interventions are influenced by the notion that the value of a woman is contingent upon her ‘chastity’. Data from 2007 suggest that marriages before 14 are common among Muslims, followed by STs and SCs. Girls getting married below 18 are more prevalent among STs, followed by caste Hindus. However, a closer look at the NFHS-5 data makes it difficult to arrive at a pattern. Significant improvement in the reduction of child marriage has been reported from Malda, Uttar Dinajpur and Purulia. These districts have Muslim and tribal representations. Similarly, Murshidabad, Purba Medinipur, Bankura, Hooghly and Howrah, which have higher mixed populations, have registered a rise in child marriage cases. Child marriage is not always a response to economic deprivation.  Several cases reveal individual volition, or are the result of trafficking.  Deeper penetrations of social media and mobile phones seem to have had an effect on child marriage.  Covid-19 has also triggered such instances. The closure of schools and greater economic burden — the outcomes of the pandemic — have aggravated the crisis. Greater access to secondary education should also be seen in the context of girls not pursuing higher education and their abysmal representation in the workforce. Thus, the success in girls’ enrolment will make little sense if urgent action is not taken to identify the hotspots of child marriages in West Bengal, identify their underlying causes, and ensure that girls have access to higher education and employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Opinion||Restoring nature||We live in an Age of Extinction. Halting the extinction of species and protecting the diversity of life are widely seen as the premier environmental challenges of our times. In this effort, India is a key arena and the site of new attempts. This may not be evident at first sight for this is a country with over 400 humans to a square kilometre. Over half the land is under the plough or, rather, the tractor. Over the last half a century, more than five per cent of the landmass has been brought under some form of State protection as park or sanctuary or conservation area. Much larger areas still harbour a rich variety of life forms. In the recent past, there have also been efforts to go beyond preserving ecosystems to restoring them. Prominent among these are steps to restore populations of wild birds or animals to parts of their former range. In a recent book, Rewilding: India’s Experiments in Saving Nature, Bahar Dutt catalogues a range of such initiatives. One of the most significant of these initiatives concerns the world’s smallest (and most handsome) wild pigs — the pygmy hog. Over the last quarter of a century, more than 100 of these animals have been bred at a centre near Guwahati and released into three sanctuaries. Goutam Narayan is a veteran ecologist of the wet grasslands who oversaw and led the project for much of this time. He faced a common question in all such schemes. Is there habitat that can serve as secure home? The pygmy hog — it has had a precarious existence — had been considered extinct and was even ‘rediscovered’ in the 1970s. Much of its extensive grassland home from Assam to Bhutan has been cleared. There are sanctuaries for the state animal of Assam, the greater one-horned rhino, where the small wild pig has found refuge. The rhino was, in conservation parlance, the umbrella species. Reserves created in its name sheltered other lesser-known creatures. But to make it easier to hunt game or to herd cattle, many managers of grassland light fires before the rains. These may have suited large herbivores that flee the fire and return later. But the fires were fatal to pygmy hogs in many areas. The return of the pygmy hog has helped us learn much more about the ecology of fire in the grasslands. The answer is not to abolish it but to control it. For the tapestry of life to be complete, it needs mending: the return of even this small mammal is a step in the right direction. More recently, the debate on the re-introduction of the cheetah has taken a new turn. The last cheetahs vanished — as was shown by Divyabhanusinh — as recently as 1967. The usual narrative places their extinction in 1947 when Ramanuj Pratap Singh Deo shot dead three specimens. But possibly the latest records of its sightings were from 1967 and 1968 from Surguja district. At the time of writing, experts from South Africa and Namibia are to arrive shortly to advise on how best to re-introduce a few cheetahs to protected areas of grassland and scrub jungle. There is here a commonality between the pygmy hog and the cheetah: both are mainly inhabitants of grasslands, not dense forests. This, in itself, makes it worth following through with such efforts. Nature conservation in India was taken up on a war-footing around half a century ago. The tiger was the poster symbol of a nationwide effort to secure habitats and species. The vanishing tiger and the dwindling forest were the two dimensions to the government effort. Project Tiger was launched in 1973. A year before that, new legislation to protect wildlife was enacted at the Union level. In 1980, the Forest (Conservation) Act was put in place. Today, over 160,000 square kilometres are under sanctuaries and parks. There are more than 50 tiger reserves. It is not surprising that forests were the centre of attention. Therein lies a problem. Much of the focus in the British era was on securing forests for timber. The major works, including the great magnum opus by Harry G. Champion and S.K. Seth, saw the country in terms of different forest types. New research led by Jayashree Ratnam from Bengaluru has re-looked at the records. She also examined pollen samples and other material remains and came to a new conclusion. Much of India — mainly in the Deccan, the Northwest and the North — was not densely forested in historic times. It was grassland and scrub jungle. The ecology and the diversity of these tracts have been much harmed by the expansion of cultivation, human settlements and mining. Their protection and restoration should be a priority. As with fire in Assam’s grassland sanctuaries, there may be space for some human presence and use. But the study and care of the fauna and the flora of these dry and wet grasslands are the major challenges of our times. The flora and the fauna and the cycles of nature apart, they may be even more crucial as sites of study in times of rapid climate shifts. There is little doubt that bringing back a locally extinct species can pose challenges at a human and a scientific level. The return of the wolf to the Yellowstone National Park in the United States of America faced strong opposition from ranches adjacent to the park. Labelling the predator “Saddam Hussein of the Animal World”, the ranchers of Wyoming and Montana pledged to shoot them on sight. After extensive dialogue, wolf-recovery teams were put in place for packs that entered private lands. Such initiatives may be even more critical in India where restoration entails the return of large predators. Cheetahs  may prey on domestic livestock and engender conflict. One key feature of many grasslands, both in semi-arid and high-rainfall zones, is that they are grazing grounds for cattle, goats and sheep. There is much debate on how many livestock are too many. Ecologists often point to overgrazing of the grass and the shrubs; anthropologists record co-habitation of wild plants and animals with pastoralists. The challenge is that exclusive nature protection zones with no extraction of biomass are bound to be rare. However extensive, they will still have wild animals moving in and out and some livestock grazing within. This calls for systems to redress the loss of amenity for the people as well as protection for the predator. Keeping spaces for nature intact was the key challenge half a century ago. Now restoration may well be a key word. Bringing back stable breeding populations in biologically productive habitats will not be easy. But it is a challenge worth taking up. Restoration is a small step. Restoring the fabric of nature may unleash new, creative energies. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt fails to debate farm laws in Assembly ||In a major embarrassment for the ruling coalition, the JMM-Congress-RJD government failed to hold a debate and pass a  resolution against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year due to a "technical glitch" and ruckus by the Opposition BJP,  forcing Assembly speaker Rabindranath Mahto to adjourn the House till Tuesday. After House coonvened at 2pm, the treasury benches tabled three Bills that were  later passed through voice-vote. Later, CPI(ML) MLA from Bagodar Vinod Singh and Congress lawmaker from Poriyahat Pradeep Yadav tabled notices before the Speaker to debate on inflation and the farm laws. But even before a debate could begin, BJP MLAs ran to the Well of House in protest. Ranchi MLA C. P. Singh later told the Speaker that the debate was technically invalid. “We are ready to debate if it concerns issues regarding farmers and farming but not farm laws. To our knowledge, there is nothing called farm bills that exist anymore. The Bill has become an Act after Parliament passed it. The notice for debate on farm Bills is technically invalid,” he claimed. MLAs of the ruling alliance didn’t wish to speak immediately on it. Later, a senior Congress MLA spoke to the media outside the House. “There should have been a greater consensus and thought process if the treasury benches wished to debate the farm laws. Congress has been critical about the laws and supporting the farmers' agitation and it would have wholeheartedly voted against it in the House.” At least three state governments—Delhi, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh _ have already passed a resolution against the contentious  laws calling them anti-farmer. The Jharkhand government, including chief minister Hemant Soren, has also been critical of the laws. But on Monday, it failed to get a resolution against the laws passed in the Assembly  despite a clear majority. It remains to be seen if the state government tries again to initiate a debate in the Assembly on Tuesday which is the last working day of the ongoing budget session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Smoking in public will attract Rs 1,000 fine in Jharkhand||Sale and consumption of tobacco in public places will henceforth invite a fine of Rs 1,000 while hookah bars will not be allowed to operate in Jharkhand from Monday. The state Assembly passed The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to enact stringent provisions to curb the use of tobacco that which several lives in the country. Health minister Banna Gupta told reporters that Jharkhand had become the first state in the country to have successfully passed all the amendments of the central Act to pave way for stricter laws. “The new law will give more teeth to our fight against tobacco to save public lives,” he said. The provisions in Bill that was tabled on Monday also prohibit the sale of all kinds of tobacco within 100 meters of government offices and educational institutions. The Bill also prohibits the sale of tobacco products to those below 21. Gupta said tobacco was one of the biggest killers in the country. “More than 40 per cent of non-communicable diseases like cancer, heart and lung disorders are because of the use of tobacco. Studies suggest that in India, more than 13.5 lakh people die every year because of this. As per the Global Addicts Tobacco Survey (GATS) of 2017, 27 crore people above the age group of 15 consume tobacco of which 59.7 per cent are male. In Jharkhand, 38.9 per cent of the total population in this age group are estimated to consume tobacco. Hence, the government has come up with stringent laws now,” he said. He said the reason behind banning hookah bars was to curb the trend of minors and youths visiting these places and getting addicted to tobacco and its various varieties. The state government also tabled two more Bills, namely, Jharkhand Harit Urja Upkar Vidheyak 2021 (green cess on power tariff to promote renewable energy) and Jharkhand Goods and Service Tax (amendment), 2021. These were also passed by the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Drugs seized from steel city medicine shop||A team of drug inspectors and police on Monday recovered huge quantity of narcotic drugs from a medical store on Dimna Road under Ulidih thana area in Mango. The raid took place following a tip off from a drug-peddler. After the recovery of the stock of drugs, the police arrested the owner of the medical store while the team of drug inspectors sealed the medical store. Revealing about the breakthrough, Ulidih police station OC Meghnad Mandal said a youth named Mohammed Afzal had been nabbed with a consignment of various narcotic drugs at Sitaramdera bus terminus on Sunday evening. Mandal said following interrogation of Afzal who was a carrier, the police could know that the drugs like Nitrosun-10, which is supposed to be sold on the prescription of a doctor only, is being sold clindestinely to the drug-addicts at a premium. "On the basis of the information gathered from Afzal, the superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat instructed the police and the drug inspection office to carry out a joint raid at the medical stores where such restricted drugs are being sold freely. We raided one of the medical stores, Dasmes Medical in Ulidih and recovered a huge stock of Nitrosun-10," said Mandal while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said the medical shop owner, Ankit Kumar, was arrested as he could not produce valid papers against the stock of the seized drugs. Drug inspector Jaya Kumari, who was accompanied by two other drug inspectors Kunj Behari Chaudhury and Rajib Ekka, said they seized 10,000 strips of Nitrosun-10 from Dasmes Medical store. "We have information that the owner of Dasmes Medical store used to sell one tablet of Nitrosun-10 for Rs 25 whereas one strip containing 10 tablets costs Rs 47 only, " Jaya Kumari said while talking to this website. The drug inspector said Nitrosun-10 is a highly-intoxicating drug and promotes criminal activity. The drug inspector said they will continue the raid against narcotic drugs being illegally sold in the medical stores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant launches hygiene campaign for schools||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Sport climbing gains in popularity in steel city ||Craze for sport climbing is increasing steadily in the steel city with the number of trainees at the cradle run by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) witnessing an upward climb. Over 40 trainees are honing their skills at the training centre at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. There were 30 trainees before Covid struck but it has increased after the cradle reopened nearly a month back after being non-operational for months due to the global pandemic. "Craze for sport climbing is on the rise in Jamshedpur. Though trainees in the young age group (7-15) form the core of the group but off late even those in above-25 age section have started training at the cradle," said TSAF's sport climbing coach Bibhas Roy. Roy, who hails from Calcutta and is with the cradle for some years now, said people are becoming aware about sport climbing. "I think inclusion of sport climbing as a discipline in the upcoming Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan has done a world of good for this exciting game which is all about strength and endurance. It has made people aware of the game, which is a positive sign to say the least. Earlier, people related climbing to mountains," he explained. The premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit boasts of  the only sport climbing facility in Jharkhand. The cradle has three separate artificial walls for speed bouldering and lead. Speed climbing pits two climbers against each other, both climbing a route on a 15m wall. In bouldering, athletes scale a number of fixed routes on a wall in a specified time. In lead climbing, one climber has to take the lead while the other climbers follow. TSAF has also approached some schools to generate interest among students towards sport climbing. "Some schools have been approached. This will have a positive bearing on the number of trainees at the cradle," an official said on condition of anonymity. TSAF also utilised Covid times  by continuing training virtually. Wooden boards called ‘monkey boards’ measuring 2x2 ft had been handed over to the children and fixed at their respective homes. The objective behind the online training was to keep the children connected to sport climbing. The adventure outfit also has ambitious plans to set up an academy (for sport climbing) on the lines of Tata football and archery cradles. It has produced three international climbers namely siblings Anisha and Aman Verma and Talim Ansari. Moreover, trainees have claimed medals in state, zonal and national competitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||On World Water Day, Jharia lives through its daily trauma ||As the world celebrates water day on Monday, more than one lakh residents of Jharia are being forced to remain awake for the entire night, waiting for water to which comes during the odd hours of night after a gap of two or three days. The long queue of water outside the limited number of public water standposts are other glaring examples of water crisis in Jharia, with localities like Rajmata Colony, Mishra Para, Poddar Para, Upper Kulhi, Fatehpur lane etc being the worst affected parts. A host of factors, including regular leakages in over 50-year old water supply pipeline of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), malfunctioning motor pumps at Jamadoba based water treatment plant, allotment of huge number water connection without increasing the capacity for water supply are deemed to be responsible for the water crisis. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Jitendra Modak, a resident of Rajmata Colony of Jharia said, “Tap water comes between 9 pm to 3 am during the night after every two-three days, compelling us to stay awake the entire night. Sometimes, when all family members fall asleep, we fail to acquire the water.” “We have exchanged the phone numbers of each other within the locality to pass on information to one another during the night about the arrival of water in the tap,” said Modak, a BCCL employee, adding that they have written to the JMADA authorities several times without any improvement in the situation. Echoing sentiments, Arjun Sahni, a neighbour of Modak in the Rajmata Colony said, “We used to get water twice during the day but the situation deteriorated since the last five years”. Worst is the situation in Baniahir locality of Jharia where the people are compelled to bring water in buckets from an adjoining pond. “Lots of students, working people, house makers have to wake up early in the morning to procure water for the family” said Prem Bachchan Das, a social worker of Baniahir locality of Jharia. Manju Devi, a housewife of the same locality said, “My husband, who works at a construction site, leaves early in the morning. Consequently, I have to spend two hours every day to fetch water from the adjoining localities” When contacted, Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA, said, “We have taken several measures during the recent days to improve the water supply in Jharia but the night supply in water in some areas might be due to irregular power supply leading to delay in filling of water tanks. We will try to solve this problem as soon as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Holi Milan in the time of Covid, even state assembly wants to celebrate ||At a time when neighbouring Bihar has imposed a ban on Holi Milan festivities in the wake of rising  Covid-19 cases, several political and non-political organisations in Jharkhand, including the State Assembly, have started sending out invites for grand ceremonies in the state, a practice doctors fear may increase chances of transmission. While the BJP organised a Holi Milan ceremony at its state headquarters in Ranchi on Monday, the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha is set to hold a Holi Milan ceremony at the assembly premises on Tuesday, for which it has already sent invitations to media persons and others. Assembly Speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto said that all Covid protocols will be followed during the ceremony at the assembly. “We will maintain social distancing during the ceremony. All MLAs have already been tested for Covid-19 prior to the commencement of the Budget session. A detailed SOP will be issued soon related to the Holi Milan,” said Mahto. Earlier this month, Bihar decided to impose a ban on Holi Milan ceremonies in the wake of rising Covid cases, which is being seen as a second wave of the virus spread by experts. On the other hand, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have ordered special drives to ensure adherence to Covid protocols during the festival. However, Jharkhand is yet to come up with any such directive. Covid cases have witnessed a sudden rise in Jharkhand in the past one week. Last Monday, the active caseload in the state was 556, and in a week, it has jumped to 756, as per data compiled by National Health Mission (NHM). Ranchi, in particular, has reported the bulk of fresh cases. The count of active cases here jumped from 329 to 404 in the past one week. “It is our humble request to the people of Jharkhand, please do not play Holi,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, the nodal officer of Covid management at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, warning against an unprecedented spike in Covid cases if Holi celebrations go out of control. Dr. Kumar said that he had treated patients in Ranchi when Covid was at its peak, and he would not want that situation to return at any cost. “Playing Holi will not only put you at risk of getting infected, but also put your family members at risk,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ajsu party leader joins BJP to contest Madhupur bypoll||The BJP, in all likelihood, will field Ajsu-P's Ganga Narayan Singh for the Madhupur byelection after he formally joined the saffron camp at the state party headquarters on Monday morning, ending days of speculation ahead of the start of the nomination process from Tuesday. BJP legislative party leader Babulal Marandi, MLAs Narayan Das (Deoghar), Randhir Kumar Singh (Sarath), among other senior party leaders, were present to welcome him. Singh, 42, contested from Madhupur on a Sudesh Mahto-led Ajsu Party ticket in the 2019 Assembly elections but finished third, garnering about 45,000 votes. While JMM’s Haji Hussain Ansari won the seat, BJP’s Raj Paliwar came second. Ansari, who was in charge of the minority welfare department in the Hemant Soren cabinet, died last October necessitating the byelection in the seat in the tribal stronghold of Santhal Pargana. The byelection in Madhupur is scheduled for April 17. Results will be declared on May 2. Singh said he was glad to join the  BJP, which under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been working tirelessly for the uplift of various strata of society ever since it came to power at the Centre in 2014. On his expected candidature for Madhupur, he said, “As a party worker, I shall do whatever is expected of me from the central and state leadership.” Reacting to his joining, Marandi said, “Ganga’s entry will strengthen the party in the entire Santhal Pargana.” BJP and Ajsu-P are part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Jharkhand. Singh joining the BJP is as per a tacit understanding between the two allies to stay united in the state, said BJP sources. Although AJSU-P had initially staked claim to the Madhupur seat, it dropped the demand after the BJP allowed it to contest one seat (Baghmundi) in the coming Bengal assembly elections. A senior BJP leader said, “Ganga Narayan Singh’s name is on top among potential candidates recommended to the BJP high command by the state BJP election committee. With his joining the party fold, it’s only a matter of time that his candidature is announced formally.” Another contender, BJP’s Raj Paliwar, had won from Madhupur in 2005 and 2014 but lost in 2019. Another leader said that the reason the BJP is preferring a fresh face in the form of Ganga Narayan is because of his performance in the last election. “Even though he came third, he got over 40,000 votes on his own as AJSU-P doesn’t have any base in Madhupur. In a sense, the BJP candidate lost only because of AJSU-P which ate up our votes after contesting separately. We didn’t want that to happen this time,” he said. The JMM-Congress-RJD coalition on the other hand will field Hafizul Ansari, son of Haji Hussain Ansari,  as the joint candidate. Ansari will fight on a JMM ticket and is expected to file his nomination on March 25, said JMM insiders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand inoculates over 1.4 lakh residents in a day||The Jharkhand government on Sunday vaccinated over 1.4 lakh people, including a 107-year-old woman from Koderma, on Day 2 of its mass Panchayat level vaccination campaign against Covid-19 virus, figures with the health department highlighted. Makina Khatun, the 107-year-old woman who got the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Koderma, said that she did not feel any discomfort after the jab and was willing to take the second jab on time. Born in 1914, Makina does not suffer from any comorbid conditions and was accompanied to the vaccination centre by her family. “All I could feel was a slight pinch on the arm. I did not feel any discomfort after getting the injection,” said Makina. Besides Makina, the state also administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 1.14 lakh other senior citizens on Sunday, a majority of who were rural residents, health officials said. State health secretary KK Soan inspected vaccination centres at Tamar and Bundu blocks in Ranchi on the day and interacted with the beneficiaries there. He also sought details about the various challenges faced by healthcare workers during the ongoing vaccination drive and lauded them for their efforts. The state on Sunday achieved 88 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine. As per government data, of the 1,43,575 people inoculated on the day, as many as 1,14,534 were senior citizens and 25,638 were middle-agers with comorbid conditions. The health department, which has set a target of vaccinating at least 10 lakh people during the Panchayat level drive, has achieved more than 20 per cent of its target in the first two days of the campaign. Since the launch of the vaccination campaign on January 16, over 8.8 lakh people have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state. More than 4.21 lakh senior citizens and nearly 75,000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been administered the first dose of the vaccine so far, reveals government data. However, Jharkhand managed to administer the second dose of the vaccine to only 3771 beneficiaries, hardly 5 per cent of the target, on Sunday. So far, the state has administered the second dose of the vaccine to more than 2.12 lakh people. Meanwhile, 83 fresh Covid cases against 48 recoveries took the count of active cases in Jharkhand to 756 on Sunday, a bulletin released by NHM stated. Besides reporting 48 fresh cases of infection, Ranchi also reported a Covid casualty, which took the Covid toll in the state to 1096 and that in Ranchi to 251, the bulletin added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
