23-03-2021||Calcutta||IIM-Calcutta’s first woman director resigns||Anju Seth, IIM-Calcutta’s first woman director, has resigned, almost a year before her term was scheduled to end, said an official of the institute. Seth, who is on leave since Thursday, sent her resignation letter to the Prime Minister’s Office and the IIM-C board on Sunday night. Prashant Mishra, dean (new initiatives and external relations), who has been officiating as the acting director since Seth left for Gurgaon, was on Monday morning asked by the board to continue as the acting director for the time being, sources on the campus said. IIM has a tradition in which whenever the director goes out of station, the director nominates one of the deans as the officiating director. “Mishra was apprised by a senior member of the board that the board has accepted the resignation of Anju Seth and he has to continue as the acting director till further announcement,” said an official of the institute. On March 10, IIM-C had called for applications for a new director who, the advertisement said, “is expected to provide strong academic leadership”. An official of the institute said Seth’s “position became untenable as she embarked on a collision course” with a large section of the teachers and members of the board, including the chairman of the board, Srikrishna Kulkarni. Last year, several teachers of the B-school had written to the Centre and the institute’s board of governors twice, accusing Seth of lacking leadership quality, eroding the autonomy of the institute’s academic council and conceding space to peers like IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Bangalore. Seth had of late alleged that chairman Kulkarni was infringing on her executive powers. The board, in response, had accused her of improper conduct. A full-scale turf war over the governance of IIM-C broke out between Seth and Kulkarni. “The board had dropped a broad hint that they wanted her to leave when the search for her successor started 10 months before her term was to expire in February 2022. Usually, the selection process commences three to four months before the expiry of the tenure of the existing director,” said the official. Seth had relocated from the US and joined the institute in August 2018. She will turn 65 in January 2022. The IIM Act, 2017, sets the age of director’s superannuation at 65. Repeated calls to director Seth went unanswered. She did not respond to text messages either. Metro had reported on December 6 last year that 60 of 76 teachers of IIM-C had written to the Union education ministry, raising concerns about the “decline in academic and research environment’’ and “systematic undermining’’ of the academic council, the institute’s principal academic body. On June 24 last year, 51 teachers had signed and sent a letter to the board, pointing out what they termed “deficiencies in the current administration’’ and an “absence of plurality of views on the campus’’. “Even the students were not happy with the director,” another official said. The students’ council wrote to her last month alleging that the institute did not have “facilities to provide a stable Internet connection in their hostel rooms”. Following the absence of stable Internet connections at home amid the pandemic, some IIM-C students, who had returned to the campus, had complained that the premises of one of India’s premier B-schools was lacking in IT infrastructure. “A combination of all these factors created a situation where she was forced to put in her papers. Her relation with the board became so strenuous that late last month, the board had passed a resolution against her and stripped her of powers to make appointments and initiate disciplinary actions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Sensors to keep tabs on Majerhat bridge health||Any deviation in the weight bearing capacity, any minor displacement of a bearing or any faint change in the frequency of oscillation of the cables will flash on the computer screen of engineers because of sensors installed on the Majerhat bridge. The state government has fixed seven sensors on the bridge, spanning 650 metres over railway tracks, which will throw up different kinds of data related to the bridge's daily performance and its weight-bearing capacity so engineers responsible for its maintenance are forewarned about any deviation. Officials of the PWD, which is responsible for the upkeep of the Rs 160-crore cable-stayed bridge, said another 45 sensors would be installed over the next two months. This is the first time such sensors are being fitted to any bridge in Calcutta, the official said. A consignment of sensors, made in Germany, reached the city recently. “These are the latest of all sensors used globally. They will ensure that even the slightest of structural changes of the bridge, including its load-bearing capacity, will flash on computer screens,” said a PWD engineer. Engineers said each component of the Majerhat bridge - which has replaced the one that collapsed in September 2018 and was inaugurated in December — has a fixed “threshold value.” The sensors, which will remain fitted on the cables, will read the value of each of these components, including the bearings, and the load-carrying capacity of the deck slab and the cables. Engineers said that if, for instance, there was a sudden increase in the load-bearing value because of movement of heavy vehicles, the sensors will immediately send warning signals. “Each sensor will measure stress, vibration and flexibility of the cables. In case of any change, engineers will get to know the exact location of the problem and the issue can be immediately addressed,” a PWD official at Nabanna said. “This will reduce the time of trying to locate the problem-point. It will also make the team at work accountable.” Members of the bridge monitoring committee, set up by the state government following the collapse of the old Majerhat bridge, said sensor-based monitoring of a bridge’s health was the globally accepted protocol. “We will recommend the use of such sensors for a few other structures,” said a member of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Workshop at Xavier’s College on mental health and career counselling||A two-day virtual workshop at St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Calcutta focussed on mental health and career counselling. The workshops on Saturday and Sunday were organised by the college’s entrepreneurship development cell. “While pursuing a career, students often face situations that are stressful and detrimental to mental wellbeing. Job aspirants and professionals are facing a tough time because of the pandemic. The objective of the workshops was to reach out to such people,” said Arup Kumar Mitra, the coordinator of the cell. “Some 500 people had registered for the virtual sessions. Around 2,000 more watched it on our YouTube channel. The participants included students and professionals,” he added. Psychiatrist Devendra Save and clinical psychotherapist Sejal Desai held a session on mental health and Abhijit Deshmukh, a career coach, held a career counselling session as part of the workshops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||One-year jail for creating fake profile of woman||A city court on Monday sentenced a man in his 30s to a year in jail for creating a fake profile of a woman on social media 10 years ago and posting objectionable photographs with the intention of maligning her. The convict was granted bail by the same court. The victim, who was a student in a city college when the offence was committed, is now a lawyer in Delhi. Based on a complaint by her father in 2011, a few years ago, the CID tracked the Internet protocol address of the device used to create the fake profile. The man whose name had emerged turned out to be the friend of a woman who was a close friend of the victim, a CID officer said. “He had apparently committed the offence to avenge the victim after she and their common friend (the woman) had a fight. He wanted to teach her a lesson.” The state CID had submitted a chargesheet against him. “The forensic reports proved that the photographs and data posted on the fake profile were found on the hard disk seized from the accused’s house,” said Bivas Chatterjee, special public prosecutor in the case. The accused has also been fined Rs 1.5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to launch door-to-door vaccine campaign||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start a door-to-door campaign to request elderly residents and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities to get vaccinated against Covid-19, an official of the civic body said. The BMC operates 12 centres in Salt Lake, Baguiati, Rajarhat, Ashwininagar and other places, where these two categories of people are getting Covid shots. However, the turnout at nearly all the centres is low. An official of the corporation’s health department said they wanted to reverse the trend and maximise the number of people turning up for vaccination against Covid. Each vaccination centre run by the BMC can administer at least 300 Covid shots daily. They are administering around 70 shots on an average, an official said. Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the areas under the BMC. “There has been a rise in the number of positive cases being reported from Salt Lake, Rajarhat, Teghoria and other places under the civic body,” the official said. “In the past four days, 50 coronavirus cases have been reported from various areas under the civic body,” said Kusum Adhikary, the health officer of the BMC. Public health professionals and other experts have been saying that only rapid vaccination and strict adherence to safety protocols could prevent another surge in Covid cases. Another reason for launching the door-to-door campaign is to let people know about the civic clinics that are administering Covid shots. “A lot of people are still unaware that coronavirus vaccines are being administered at health units and primary health centres run by the BMC. Our health workers will hand over lists of the centres to the residents,” the official said. The health teams will also distribute a printed form in which a doctor has to certify whether someone between 45 and 59 has comorbidities. Only the doctor’s certificate in the prescribed format will be considered, said officials. The format can also be downloaded from mygov.in/covid-19/. Officials of the BMC’s health department said that during the door-to-door campaign, they would also ask residents to avoid crowded places, wear masks in public places and follow the physical distancing protocol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Rise in number of Salt Lake hawkers amid job loss||Hawkers in Salt Lake, who already took up the footpaths of the township, have now set up stalls on roads. Several hawkers have also put up their stalls on the driveways or on the premises of houses whose owners don’t live there. The number has shot up manyfold in the past few months because several who lost their jobs during the pandemic have had to take to selling vegetables and fast food. A civic official said no eviction drive had been conducted in the past two years by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Metro went around Salt Lake and spotted stalls on the pavements in Sectors I, II and III. There were stalls on the footpaths in Karunamoyee, opposite the Geological Survey of India building, in front of the Punjab National Bank rotary, lanes in several blocks like DL and EE, and the newly-renovated stretch along the Kestopur canal near AL Block. Stalls have sprung up in front of the CGO Complex and the East-West Metro stations. This newspaper saw more than 30 stalls near the Karunamoyee intersection, one of the busiest in Salt Lake. DL Block and the lane and the walkway adjacent to the headquarters of the Geographical Society of India, in DK Block, have a number of hawkers. A stall selling vegetables and tea has been set up on the driveway of a house in DL Block. “The owner does not stay here. Our relative is the caretaker of this house so we have set up shop here,” said Shyamal Maity, who had set up the stall. DL Block resident Amit Ganguly said that it gets difficult to walk or drive out of the block.“There are hawkers everywhere. Nobody from the civic body or the police comes to tell them to not keep their wares on the roads.” A pice hotel has been set up in the courtyard of a house in CJ Block. “The owners don’t stay here.... We asked the caretaker and he said we could use the compound to run our hotel,” said the man at the shop. Vegetable peels, fish scales and feathers from poultry lined a pavement opposite the Anandalok Hospital where over 25 stalls have been set up. A resident of EE Block, who boards buses from the bus stop nearby, said it was difficult to stand there because of the stench. “After the day’s sales, most hawkers dump waste, including fish offal and guts, on the road giving rise to this unbearable stench. Something has to be done,” said Chandrani Bhattacharya, who works in Sector V. The walkway in front of the CGO Complex, which houses several central government offices, had pice hotels, tea and paan stalls. Workers of the hotels were seen washing utensils and dumping food waste on the road. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of councillors, said that the eviction drives had stopped. “We cannot evict them. We can only rehabilitate. We are trying to fix up an empty plot where we can construct a hawkers’ market. I don’t know why there is a sudden influx of hawkers here. We have not disturbed hawkers who had set up stalls in Salt Lake since the past many years but now there seems to be several new ones. I don’t know who is authorising them to set up such stalls. We don’t want to deny the opportunity of earning an honest livelihood now as many have lost their jobs due to the pandemic,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||South Point Alumni backs mate’s film on trafficking ||When a film on trafficking that uses sign language for communication among the main protagonists failed to find financiers, the director fell back on an unusual resource— his school alumni. Now Shimul Palash Katha is ready for release, backed by Pointers Business Forum (PBF), comprising a group of entrepreneurs who have passed out of South Point School. “The group was floated in the middle of 2020 with 250-plus members in business or independent professions, with the aim of helping each other out. Our presence so far is only on social media,” said Atin Dutta, one of the coordinators of the group. Som Mukherjee of the Madhyamik 1987 batch, who has acted in the film, brought word of the filmmaker Ashrujit Nandi’s predicament to the forum. “Four cast members, the script writer and the assistant cameraman are from our school too. We added Ashrujit to the forum’s WhatsApp group, floating units of Rs 15,000. He needed to raise Rs 12 lakh. Seventeen of us picked up stakes in the film,” said Dutta. The major backers, buying multiple units, were  Kaushik Dasgupta, based in Australia, and Suranjan Som of England, neither of whom knew Ashrujit. “The market was down with the pandemic last year. Moreover, no one was ready to finance a film where a significant portion would have sign language rather than words. My crowdfunding efforts too came a cropper. The forum was godsent,” said Ashrujit, of the class of Madhyamik 2000. The lead couple in the film, Shimul and Palash, played by Koushani Mukherjee and Pushan Dasgupta, are deaf-mute. The activist Katha, who helps reunite them, also speaks to them using sign language. Once the money was raised, workshops were held for all three. “It was conducted by a trainer in Indian sign language, with a deaf-mute person helping them out,” said Ashrujit. The story is partly based on a real life incident.  “In 2014-15, I was working for an NGO and came across this deaf-mute girl from the Sunderbans whose poverty-stricken father had put her on a Calcutta-bound train, thinking he would not be able to marry her off. She had got trafficked before she was rescued by the NGO,” he said. This is how the film starts before Palash sets off for the city to look for his lady love, gone missing from the village. Condition of many of the families in the Sunderbans villages has worsened after migrant labourers returned jobless, he pointed out. There is also a trafficking syndicate that exists which lures girls to other cities with false promises of jobs. The film was shot on iPhone over 11 days in end November, with four spent in the Sunderbans. “We took some local jatra artistes who played the families of the lead pair. A workshop was held for them too.” The most part was shot in Narendrapur village in Raidighi. “It was a Covid-free zone. Since we were travelling from outside we took Covid detection tests before going and hired a house to stay by ourselves,” said the Ganguly Bagan resident, who teaches in a government school in Naktala. The 91-minute film is now being sent to festivals. It won its first bunch of awards at a film festival in Santiniketan. It was also screened at a PBF meet last Thursday. Ashrujit hopes to debut the film on a web platform. “We will help him in marketing the film as well. If there is a profit, we will all get a share based on the number of units we invested in,” said Dutta, of the class of 1982 Madhyamik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta private hospitals to receive only Covaxin ||Some private hospitals who were till Monday administering only Covishield to elderly people and those who are between 45 and 59 with comorbidities will administer only Covaxin to those turning up for their first dose, sources said. This will continue for some time from Tuesday, the sources said. Those who got Covishield as their first jab will get the same in the second dose, too, officials in the health department said. Officials of the department called up the private hospitals saying they would receive only Covaxin vials for a few days. Hospitals and public health experts fear that the health department’s decision might result in many people refusing to get vaccinated. An official of a private hospital said they would ask doctors to explain to reluctant recipients that Covaxin was as effective as any other Covid vaccine. Unlike Covishield, Covaxin was still undergoing trial when it was granted emergency use approval. The manufacturers have since announced that the vaccine is 81 per cent effective. Health department officials said there were two reasons why hospitals had been asked to administer only Covaxin to those who would turn up for their first dose from Tuesday. Many Covaxin vials are nearing their use-by dates as a large number of hospitals and government-run clinics are administering only Covishield. Secondly, sources said, the Centre has reduced the supply of Covishield compared with Covaxin. “Many Covaxin vials are lying unused and are nearing their use-by dates. So we are trying to use these vials as much as possible,” a health department official said on Monday. “From Tuesday, we will be administering only Covaxin for the first dose. Those who will agree to be given Covaxin will be vaccinated,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Those who will be given the Covaxin shot will no longer be required to sign a consent form, as they were to do earlier, said an official of a private hospital. Metro has reported that many elderly people and those above 45 with comorbidities were making it clear that they would not like to be vaccinated with Covaxin. “This could be because initially the efficacy data of the vaccine was not available. The manufacturers have now announced that the vaccine has 81 per cent efficacy,” said a public health expert. “However, there is this negative perception about the efficacy of the vaccine because of the initial lack of data. Also, the requirement that recipients had to sign a consent form had increased doubt and reluctance. It is now going away but still there is a large percentage of people who have doubts,” said a public health expert in Calcutta. At AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, where both Covaxin and Covishield are being administered, officials said most people were opting for Covishield. “Initially, only 10 per cent of the recipients were opting for Covaxin. Now, 40 per cent are opting for it,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. At a meeting with private hospitals on Monday, health department officials said the vaccination drive should be accelerated. Those administering the vaccine to 300 people should increase it to 500 through campaigns. However, an official of one hospital said administering only Covaxin could prevent them from increasing the number of recipients immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||App cabs bill for AC but drivers turn it off  ||Many Calcuttans who depend on app cabs are facing the heat literally as drivers are allegedly refusing to switch on the air-conditioner despite a fare that includes the payment for an AC ride. Many drivers are citing an unwritten instruction “from office” to not switch on the AC, while some are using the dearth of enough riders as an excuse to not switch on the cooler. One of them told a rider that it was impossible to run the AC after paying an increased commission to the aggregator, while another said it was in protest against the fuel price hike. A spokesperson for Uber said: “We have never instructed our driver partners to switch off the AC…. We understand drivers are facing some challenges, and remain sensitive to those issues. However, Uber expects all drivers to deliver the best possible customer service.” Ola did not respond to Metro’s query till late on Monday evening. An app cab ride from Narendrapur to Sector V on Monday cost Sayantan Chatterjee Rs 475 — an 18km-ride that usually costs him from Rs 350 to Rs 380. To add to the pinch, the driver allegedly refused to switch on the AC, saying there were not enough riders through the day and he could not afford AC expenses. “I had to pay for the AC but did not get the AC service at all,” Chatterjee complained. He said that on Sunday the driver of the app cab he had hailed told him that his office had instructed him not to run the AC. A complaint lodged with the operator through the app did not yield any result till Monday evening, he said. Sujit Bhaduri, a resident of Nayabad, shared a similar experience. “On March 14, I had boarded a cab from Nayabad to travel to Howrah. When I asked the driver to switch on the AC, he said he could not afford the AC expenses after paying 25 per cent of his earnings to the aggregator as his commission. Earlier, he said, it was 15 per cent,” Bhaduri said. The Covid pandemic has prompted debates on whether it was better to avoid the AC in an enclosed space to prevent transmission of the virus. Health experts, however, told Metro on Monday that keeping the AC off in sweltering heat might result in sweat, which could diminish the efficiency of masks. Bibhuti Saha, the dean at the School of Tropical Medicine, said: “With the Celsius soaring, it may not be possible to avoid the AC. The risk can be minimised if the passenger and the driver are properly masked up. If I don’t switch on the AC, I will sweat and my mask will get wet. Once a mask gets wet, it loses its efficiency.” App cab rides have increased especially because many try to avoid commuting by more crowded public transport amid the pandemic. The surge in the Celsius is another reason. Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu and Subhajoy Roy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal health department asks hospitals to prepare for surge in cases||The state health department has asked doctors to send people with symptoms of Covid-19 for tests and asked hospitals to stock up personal protective equipment (PPE) and take other measures to stay prepared for a renewed surge in cases. The number of people undergoing Covid tests has dropped significantly over the past few months. The number of daily new cases, too, had been steadily going down till a few weeks ago. The rise in the number of daily cases since the beginning of March prompted the health department to ask doctors of government hospitals during a webinar on Sunday to send anyone with Covid symptoms for a test. On Monday, the department wrote to government medical colleges asking them to check whether all ventilators and other tools required for treatment of Covid patients, such as the MGPS system, were functional. The MGPS system is a network of pipelines that carries high-flow oxygen to the wards. Officials of the hospitals have also been asked to adequately stock PPE. Calcutta and the rest of Bengal have been witnessing a rise in the number of new cases for the past few weeks. A bulletin published by the health department on Monday said Bengal reported  368 new cases in the previous 24 hours, 128 of them in Calcutta. On February 28, Bengal had reported 198 new cases, 62 of them in Calcutta. A month back on February 20, the state had reported 182 new cases, 61 of them in Calcutta. Health department officials said that though the rise in numbers in Bengal was not alarming, there was a need to stay prepared for a surge. An official said hospitals now had more Covid patients than in February. “We were told to send all people with symptoms of Covid for tests so that they can be isolated if they are positive,” said a doctor who attended Sunday’s webinar. An official said some doctors were advising patients with Covid symptoms not to undergo tests but stay at home if complications did not arise. The risk in such advice is that people would mingle with others in the family and neighbours once the fever subsides. A positive test result will make a psychological impact and force the person to stay isolated for a certain period, minimising chances of spread of the virus. Also, if someone tests positive, the health department and the local civic body will then be able to trace their close contacts and get them tested if they show symptoms. This way the spread of the virus can be checked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Schools worried about Covid during board exams||Schools are worried about what to do if a student or a teacher tests positive for Covid-19 during the board exams. The worry stems from the news that two city schools had to shut down their campuses for about a week after a student at one of the institutions and a teacher at another were found to have been infected with the coronavirus. A student at La Martiniere for Boys and a teacher at St Lawrence High School, who had last gone to their respective campuses on Friday, have tested positive. La Martiniere for Boys will remain closed till March 27 and St Lawrence High School till March 29. A number of school heads said they were not empowered to shut down institutions if any teacher or student tested positive during board exams. The heads of schools affiliated to various boards said several questions remained unanswered in the absence of any clear guidelines. Some of the unanswered questions: Public health experts said that it was difficult to do contact tracing during a board exam. At the most, a school might isolate students who have come in contact with the infected child, but that might not be enough, said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a public health expert associated with the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. “It is difficult to identify all the students who have come in contact with the infected student.” At least four school heads said any decision during the board exams had to be taken by the respective boards. Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point school, which is affiliated to the CBSE, was among those who expressed concern about what would happen if an examinee or a teacher tested positive during board exams. The CBSE Class X and XII exams are to begin on May 4, and so are the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) theory exams. Madhyamik starts on June 1 and the Higher Secondary theory papers on June 15. The principal of a south Calcutta school who did not want to be named said “perhaps the two incidents in the city will make the boards come up with clearer instructions”. Terence Ireland, the principal of St James' School, said there would have to be a clear roadmap on how schools would conduct the exams for the rest of the students if any examinee tests positive. “During a school exam, a school can shift to the online mode. But if an incident like this happens during the boards, the school has to conduct the exam for the rest of the students. How is it going to do that?” wondered Ireland. Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls, said:  "I'm sure the ICSE council has an alternative because it is not the child's fault and they can't be expected to sacrifice a year." Public health experts said the only way to minimise the risk of infection is to maintain distance among each other and wear masks. “The board will also have to keep alternative centres ready so that if one centre has to be shut down, exams can be conducted at another,” said Rita Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Business||India files appeal against Cairn arbitration award||India is believed to have challenged in a court in The Hague an arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes from Cairn Energy Plc -- the second time in three months that it has refused to accept an international award against retrospective tax. The appeal was filed on Monday, a source with knowledge of the matter said. The Finance Ministry spokesperson did not immediately respond to an e-mail sent for comments. The appeal against a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague invalidating India's Rs 10,247 crore tax claim on Cairn Energy and ordering the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld, comes weeks before UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson's visit to India. The British Prime Minister is widely expected to broach India honouring international arbitration awards during his April 26 visit, another source said. In December, the government had challenged in a Singapore court an international arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes from Vodafone Group Plc. Since the seat of Vodafone arbitration was Singapore, an appeal was filed in a court in that country. In the case of Cairn, the seat was The Hague and so an appeal has been filed in a court in the Netherlands, the first source said. The appeal was filed on a day when Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur had told the Lok Sabha in a written reply that "any such decision on filing of appeal or otherwise is taken only after careful consideration of all aspects of the matter." The tribunal's 582-page detailed verdict that asked India to return USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and cost to Cairn was registered in the Netherlands on January 8 and New Delhi acknowledged it on January 19, the source said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier this month indicated the government's intent of appealing against the award on grounds of it questioning the sovereign powers of India to levy taxes. Her ministry feels taxation is not a subject of bilateral investment treaties, like the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty under which Cairn had sought rescinding of the tax demand raised, and so the award should be appealed. It is of the opinion that Cairn set up a tax abusive structure in 2006 when it reorganised its India business to list the local unit, and did not pay taxes anywhere in the world on the gains that it made in India, they said, adding India had made an unsuccessful case of tax not being part of the treaty before the arbitration panel as well. However, the arbitration award specifically made it clear the base of the judgment was not a challenge to the 2012 law or India's sovereign right to tax. "The issue at stake is thus not a matter of domestic tax law, it is rather whether the fiscal measures taken by the state, valid or not under its own tax laws, violate international law," the tribunal had said in a unanimous verdict. The Hague panel found that a 2012 law passed by the Indian Parliament was a new tax, not a clarification of prior law that could be applied to earlier years. Cairn has moved courts in nine countries to enforce the award against India. The award has already been recognised by courts in the US, the UK, Netherlands, Canada and France and the same is in the process in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and the Cayman Islands. The registration of the award is the first step towards its enforcement in the event of the government not paying the firm. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can then petition it for seizing any Indian government assets such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, to recover the monies due to it, sources said. Sources said the government believes that taxation is not covered under investment protection treaties with various countries and the law on taxation is a sovereign right of the country. While the treaties are primarily aimed at the protection of investments, the tax is levied on 'returns' earned by entities. But the Hague tribunal had gone into this claim and rejected it. Vodafone had challenged before the arbitration tribunal the demand for Rs 7,990 crore in capital gains taxes (Rs 22,100 crore after including interest and penalty) under the Netherlands-India Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT). The demand pertained to Vodafone's USD 11-billion acquisition of 67 per cent stake in the mobile phone business owned by Hutchison Whampoa in 2007.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||Sensex ends 280 points higher, Nifty tops 14,800||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 280 points on Tuesday following gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries despite a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 280.15 points or 0.56 per cent higher at 50,051.44. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 78.35 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,814.75. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Titan, Axis Bank, SBI and Maruti. On the other hand, ONGC, PowerGrid, ITC, NTPC, M&M and HDFC were among the laggards. Domestic equities rebounded sharply despite weak global cues mainly supported by sharp recovery in financial stocks, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "The Supreme Court pronounced that waiver of compound interest during loan moratorium should be for all. While there is still ambiguity about who will be bearing the additional burden, the comfort about the possible end of uncertainty about banks' NPAs led bank stocks to see sharp up-move," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 3.53 per cent lower at USD 62.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||No compound, penal interest from borrowers during loan moratorium period, rules SC||In a relief to borrowers, the Supreme Court Tuesday directed that no compound or penal interest be charged during the six-month loan moratorium period announced last year amid the COVID-19 pandemic and the amount already charged shall be refunded, credited or adjusted. The apex court refused to interfere with the Centre's and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI's) decision to not extend the loan moratorium beyond August 31 last year, saying it is a policy decision. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that the top court cannot do judicial review of the Centre's financial policy decision unless it is malafide and arbitrary. The apex court said it cannot interfere with the government's decision to fix priorities for relief during the pandemic which has affected all across the country and the government has been under severe financial constraints. The bench said this in its verdict on a batch of pleas filed by various trade associations, including from real estate and power sectors, seeking extension of loan moratorium and other reliefs in view of the pandemic. The RBI had on March 27 last year issued the circular which allowed lending institutions to grant a moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31, 2020, due to the pandemic. Later, the moratorium was extended till August 31 last year. In its verdict, the top court said that from various steps taken by the government, it cannot be said that the Centre and the RBI have not considered the relief for the borrowers. The bench said it cannot strike down a policy decision merely at the behest of petitioners on grounds that the other view is possible and the other decision could be more beneficial. While refusing to go into the financial policy decision taken by the government, the bench said it is not open for the court to embark upon judicial review of policy decision merely at the behest of petitioners. It said that complete waiver of interest is not possible as it will have huge financial implications. The apex court had reserved its judgement on the batch of pleas on December 17 last year. The Centre had earlier submitted before the top court that if it were to consider waiving interest on all the loans and advances to all categories of borrowers for the six-month moratorium period announced by RBI, then the amount foregone would be more than Rs 6 lakh crore. If the banks were to bear this burden, then it would necessarily wipe out a substantial and a major part of their net worth, rendering most of the lenders unviable and raising a very serious question mark over their very survival, it had said. The government had said this was a main reason as to why waiver of interest was not even contemplated and only payment of instalments was deferred. Giving an illustration, it had said that in case of State Bank of India alone, waiver of six months' interest would completely wipe out over half of the bank's net worth which has accumulated over nearly 65 years of its existence. It had pointed out the sector-specific relief measures taken by the government for the small and mid-sized business/MSMEs including from sectors such as restaurants and hotels. The Centre has promulgated emergency credit-linked guarantee scheme (ECLGS) of Rs 3 lakh crore providing additional credit at lower rate of interest, with 100 per cent government guarantee and no fresh collateral, it had said. The scheme has been extended with higher financial limits to twenty seven COVID-19 impacted sectors including restaurant and hotel sectors, it had said. On November 27 last year, the top court had asked the Centre to ensure that all steps be taken to implement its decision to forego interest on eight specified categories of loans paid up to Rs 2 crore in view of the pandemic. The eight categories of loans are MSME (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises), Education, Housing, Consumer durable, Credit card, Automobile, Personal and Consumption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 301.17 points or 0.61 per cent higher at 50,072.46, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 94.40 points or 0.64 per cent to 14,830.80. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, UltraTech Cement and Maruti. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra and NTPC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 86.95 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 49,771.29, and Nifty dipped 7.60 points or 0.05 per cent to 14,736.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Monday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 786.98 crore, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be modestly good at the moment, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. "A resurgence of Covid-19 cases in various parts of the country and resultant restrictions have clearly made investors jittery. This could continue to restrict market performance in the near term unless the virus spread is controlled. "However, recent drop in crude prices and resilient INR against dollar offer comfort. We further believe that 10-Year USA treasury yield is unlikely to move beyond a limit given rising yields factor in better prospects of economic recovery," he said. US markets finished higher yesterday mainly led by a sharp rebound in technology stocks, Modi said, adding that investors also got comfort after AstraZeneca cited that its COVID-19 vaccine was safe and 79 per cent effective in preventing the virus. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.91 per cent lower at USD 64.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||Microsoft to allow more workers back into its headquarters in Redmond||Microsoft announced on Monday that it would begin allowing more workers back into its headquarters in Redmond, Washington, starting on March 29. In this stage of reopening, which Microsoft described as Step 4 in a six-step “dial”, the Redmond campus will give non-essential on-site employees the choice to work from the office, home or a combination of both. Microsoft will also continue to require employees to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Microsoft plans to open its office without restrictions only once the virus acts “more like an endemic virus such as the seasonal flu,” wrote Kurt DelBene, an executive vice-president at the tech giant. But even then, office life for Microsoft’s 160,000 employees is not likely to look like what it did before the pandemic. “Once we reach a point where Covid-19 no longer presents a significant burden on our communities, and as our sites move to the open stage of the dial, we view working from home part of the time (less than 50 per cent) as standard for most roles,” DelBene wrote on the company blog. Microsoft also released on Monday the results of a survey that shows the work force has changed after a year of working remotely. In the survey of more than 30,000 full-time and self-employed workers, 73 per cent said they wanted flexible remote work options to continue, and 46 per cent said they were planning to move this year now that they could work remotely. “There are some companies that think we’re just going to go back to how it was,” Jared Spataro, the corporate vice president for Microsoft 365, said in an interview. “However, the data does seem to indicate that they don’t understand what has happened over the last 12 months.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business|| Two Calcutta retail outlets start dispensing CNG commercially||Calcutta’s long wait for clean fuel compressed natural gas (CNG) ended on Monday as two retail outlets started dispensing the gas commercially to consumers. A BPCL pump at Garia and an Indian Oil outlet at Rajarhat added the city to a long list of urban agglomerates where the gas is available. At least five more outlets are expected to come up in and around the city to expand the network. The possible locations include Alipore, Belgachia, Rajarhat (Action area III), Chinar Park and Kalyani. Oil industry executives say expansion of the footprint of CNG stations would be critical to nudge customers to explore the possibility of buying dual feed vehicles or retrofit CNG kits to their existing cars. Some car owners like Beltala (Hazra)-resident Saumi Biswas did not wait. She bought a Maurti Alto which can run both on petrol and CNG. “Operating cost of the car should be 40-50 per cent lower. Moreover, it is going to be environment friendly,” Biswas said. Installation of a CNG kit, which includes the storage gas cylinder, in a passenger car is going to eat into the boot space. Yash Khara of Tomasetto Achilles, an Italian firm which deals in CNG and LPG kits, said the apprehension about luggage space has not deterred many passenger car owners from installing the kit in Delhi and Mumbai. “Bigger the boot space is better. However, small car owners are also installing,” he said. Suresh Bajla of Greenland petrol pump at Garia said 20-25 potential customers have over the last few days enquired about the availability of CNG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||Zomato and MobiKwik reportedly planning an initial public offering||The activity in the primary market is not showing any signs of dying down with Zomato and MobiKwik reportedly planning an initial public offering (IPO) in the coming months. This comes even as four companies are set to debut on the bourses later this week. These are Kalyan Jewellers India Ltd, Anupam Rasayan, Craftsman Automation and Laxmi Organic Industries. Meanwhile, casual dining chain Barbeque Nation Hospitality on Monday fixed a price band of Rs 498-500 per share for its initial share sale. The offering will open for public subscription on March 24. According to a Bloomberg report, One MobiKwik System Pvt, the domestic digital wallet and payments start-up, is targeting an IPO before September wherein it could raise up to $250 million. The report added that it could file draft documents with the market regulator by May and the IPO could value the firm at $1 billion. Restaurant aggregator and food delivery start-up Zomato is also reportedly planning to file a draft prospectus for its initial share sale next month. It could mobilise close to $650 million from the issue. Barbeque Nation’s IPO will close for subscription on March 26. At the upper end of the price band, the IPO is expected to garner Rs 453 crore. The company has already raised Rs 150 crore through a pre-IPO placement  from Xponentia Capital and Jubilant Foodworks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Govt collects Rs 2,94,482 crore in fuel excise duty during April-January of current fiscal||The Narendra Modi government seems to have raked in profits during the pandemic as it has collected Rs 2,94,482 crore in excise duty during April-January of the current fiscal, an increase of 68.7 per cent over the same period last year amidst plummeting global crude prices. During the six years of the BJP-led government, data showed that the central government’s tax collections from petrol and diesel have jumped over 300 per as excise duty on the two fuel was hiked. Excise duty collection during April-January of 2020-21  was Rs 2,94,482 crore, up from Rs 1,74,528 crore mopped up a year ago. As the pandemic spread and global crude oil prices dropped, the Modi government hiked the duties to shore up its revenues. In April last year, the US crude plunged deep into negative territory and Brent dropped below $20 per barrel, hit by the pandemic and a price war between oil giants Saudi Arabia and Russia. The excise duty rates on petrol and diesel as on March 1, 2020, was Rs 19.98 per litre and Rs 15.83 per litre, respectively. As on March 1, 2021, these rates are Rs  32.90 a litre and Rs 31.80 a litre, respectively. The increase represents a 64.66 per cent increase in the duty on petrol and a 100.88 per cent rise in the case of diesel and shows the extent to which the Centre gouged money from motorists and commercial vehicle fleets in the country. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had also acknowledged that consumers have a case for petrol and diesel prices to be brought down, but she faced dharamsankat or a piquant situation. The government has room to cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by up to Rs 8.5 per litre without impacting its target for revenue from the tax on the two fuels, analysts said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Sebi sets crash code for bourses||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Monday directed market infrastructure institutions to switch operations to their disaster recovery site within 45 minutes of any disruption in trading. This diktat comes in the wake of the technical glitch at the National Stock Exchange on February 24, which halted trading for nearly four hours. In a circular, the market regulator said that with advancement in technology and improved automation of processes, it was felt that the extant framework needs to be re-examined to reducing the time period specified for moving from Primary Data Centre to Disaster Recovery Site. The watchdog has, therefore, come out with a new framework. Sebi added that in the event of a disruption in any one or more of the ‘critical systems’, the institution would, within 30 minutes of the incident, declare it as ‘disaster’ and take measures to restore operations, including from disaster recovery site within 45 minutes of the declaration of the disaster. The new guidelines should be implemented within 90 days. Critical systems for an exchange or clearing corporation would include trading, risk management, collateral management, clearing and settlement and index computation. For a depository this will include systems supporting settlement process and inter-depository transfer system. Further, MIIs have been told to ensure that the Recovery Point Objective (RPO) — the maximum tolerable period for which data might be lost due to a major incident — would be 15 minutes. This means the exchanges will have to backup data every 15 minutes. This was 30 minutes earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Parliament passes bill to increase FDI limit in insurance sector||The Parliament on Monday passed a bill to increase the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. Piloting the Bill, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the insurance sector faces a solvency ratio issue and the increase in the FDI limit would help them raise additional funds. “If growth capital is hard to come by, there will be a stress situation. In order that the stress situation is not left unattended, we need to raise the FDI limit,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill 2021 introduced in the Lok Sabha||The National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill 2021 introduced in the Lok Sabha says the proposed development finance institution (DFI) will get government guarantee support and direct access to liquidity from the Reserve Bank of India, which would help fund about 7,000 infrastructure projects . According to the statement of objects and reasons, introduced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the bill seeks to enable the central government, multilateral institutions, sovereign wealth funds and such other institutions to hold equity in the NaBFID. The DFI will start with 100 per cent government ownership and raise low cost funds. Its borrowings can be guaranteed by the government, the bill said. “The Central Government may, on a request being made to it by the Institution, guarantee the bonds, debentures and loans issued by the Institution as to the repayment of principal and the payment of interest at such rate, terms and conditions as may be agreed by the Central Government.” The guarantee will be provided at a concessional rate, not exceeding 0.1 per cent. This guarantee may be extended to the DFI for borrowings from multilateral institutions, sovereign wealth funds and such other foreign institutions as may be prescribed, the bill said. Hedging costs in connection with any borrowing of foreign currency may be reimbursed by the central government in part or in full, it added. The bill said the developmental financial institution (DFI) will be permitted to “borrow money from the Reserve Bank repayable on demand or on the expiry of fixed periods not exceeding ninety days”. These short term funds can be “borrowed against the security of stocks, funds or securities (other than immovable property) in which a trustee is authorised to invest trust money by any law for the time being in force in India.” The DFI will also be able to borrow money from the Reserve Bank  against bills of exchange or promissory notes arising out of bona fide commercial or trade transactions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Delhi high court bench removes stay on Future deal||A division bench of the Delhi high court on Monday stayed an order of a single judge that restrained Future Retail (FRL) from proceeding with its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. It also stayed the single-judge order directing Future group founder Kishore Biyani and others to appear in the court on April 28. Similarly, the single judge’s direction imposing a cost of Rs 20 lakh on Future Group as well as its directors, asking them to deposit it in Prime Minister’s Relief Fund within two weeks for providing Covid-19 vaccination to senior citizens below the poverty line in Delhi was also stayed. The development led to a rally in Future group stocks. Shares of Future Retail jumped 6.27 per cent to settle at Rs 59.35 and Future Enterprises finished 9.92 per cent higher at Rs 9.53. Future Consumer Ltd shares surged 9.97 per cent to Rs 7.06, Future Market Networks rose 4.65 per cent to Rs 15.75 and Future Lifestyle Fashions Ltd gained 7.09 per cent to Rs 69.45 on the BSE. “We hereby stay the order of the single judge dated March 18, 2021 till the next date of hearing,” the division bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said while listing the matter for further hearing on April 30. In the hearing on Monday, senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for Future Group, urged the court to stay all the directions passed by the single judge on March 18. Meanwhile, Future group on Monday said the National Company Law Tribunal can continue its hearing over the sale and merger of its retail business with Reliance Industries’ retail arm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Sebi relaxes rules on valuation of perpetual bonds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Monday relaxed the rules on the valuation of perpetual bonds by mutual funds. The capital market regulator has announced a glide path to prevent the immediate erosion in fund values of the perpetual bonds or additional Tier-I (AT-1) bonds . In a late evening circular, Sebi said the mutual funds can adopt “deemed residual maturity’’ to value existing as well as new bonds issued under the Basel III framework. Consequently, the deemed residual maturity will be 10 years till March 31, 2022. It will rise to 20 years from April 1 that year to September 30, 2022 and 30 years from October 1, 2022 till March 31, 2023. However, from April 1, 2023 onwards, they will be considered as 100 years from the date of issuance of the bond. Sebi had consulted the mutual fund industry to prepare the glide path. After the market regulator’s circular on March 10, the Department of Financial Services (DFS) of the finance ministry asked it to withdraw the directive to treat these bonds as of 100-year-tenor. North Block’s apprehensions arose from the fact there was no 100-year bond on the market to value the security. It also feared the abrupt drop in valuation will lead to NAV swings and the capital raising by PSU banks through AT1 bonds will be affected. Fund houses value the perpetual bonds to the call option date which could be five years or 10 years. Sebi’s current rules on valuation of securities that have a call date stipulate they should be done “at the lower of the value as obtained by valuing the security to final maturity and valuing the security to call option’’. Sources said that the relaxation announced by Sebi should be welcomed as it is now giving the industry sufficient time to converge towards the 100-year maturity valuation. Sebi had come out with the circular to protect retail investors from exposure to riskier instruments such as AT-1 bonds. Last year, the market regulator had said that banks can only issue these instruments to qualified institutional buyers. Further, the minimum allotment should be at least Rs 1 crore and the minimum trading lot size should be Rs 1 crore. This was made to put these bonds out of reach of the retail investor. Perpetual bonds which are generally issued by banks offer high interest rates and therefore they are popular with debt mutual funds but carry more risk. For instance, the issuer can even skip coupon payments in case of certain adverse events or they can even be written-down if a bank’s common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio falls below a certain threshold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||RBI announces five-member panel to vet applications for new banks||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday announced a five-member panel to vet applications for new banks and small finance banks, resuming an exercise after a five-year gap and almost four months after an internal working group of the apex bank proposed the entry of large industrial houses in banking. A standing external advisory committee (SEAC) will evaluate the on-tap applications for both universal banks and small finance banks. The draft guidelines for on-tap licences to universal banks were announced in 2016 and the small banks in 2019. Shyamala Gopinath, former deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), will head the panel. The other members include Revathy Iyer — director, central board, RBI; and B. Mahapatra, former executive director, RBI and at present chairman, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). T.N. Manoharan, former chairman, Canara Bank, and Hemant Contractor, former MD, State Bank of India and former chairman, Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority, are the other two members. The tenure of this panel will be three years. The RBI had earlier said it will screen applications for both the types of lenders to ensure their prima facie eligibility. The applications will go to SEAC . The panel’s recommendations will go to another screening committee, comprising the governor of the RBI and deputy governors, and finally the central board of the RBI will take the decision for in-principle approval. The validity of the in-principle approval will be 18 months and it would thereafter lapse automatically. Rejected applicants can also appeal against the decision within a month of receiving the communication from the RBI. According to the RBI’s guidelines, released in August 2016, individuals or professionals who are “residents" and have 10 years of experience in banking and finance at a senior level can apply for a universal bank. Further, entities or groups in the private sector that are “owned and controlled by residents” and have a successful track record for at least 10 years can also apply. The initial minimum paid-up voting equity capital for a bank was set at Rs 500 crore. In November 2020, an internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India has suggested major reforms in banking by allowing the entry of corporate houses and promoters to have higher stake over the long run. The working group has also recommended that large non-banks with asset size of Rs 50,000 crore, including those which are owned by a corporate house be allowed to convert to banks, subject to certain conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||India||Bihar police bill passed by Assembly amid unprecedented chaos||Unprecedented chaos erupted inside the Bihar assembly on Tuesday when police was called inside to assist the marshals in evicting unruly opposition members who tried to physically prevent the Speaker from taking his Chair.  Sources in the five-party Grand Alliance said on condition of anonymity that there were instructions from "leadership" that the House must not be allowed to function on the penultimate day of the month-long budget session.  The bone of contention was Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which the Nitish Kumar government has introduced in a bid to give its police more teeth, deemed necessary in view of the increasingly complex security needs of the state which has been witnessing rapid economic growth.  The opposition, however, termed it as a "black" legislation, taking strong exception to provisions that empower the Special Armed Police, previously known as the Bihar Military Police, to conduct searches and arrests without producing a warrant.  The Bill was, nonetheless, passed by the assembly late in the evening, well past the stipulated time, amid a "walkout" by opposition MLAs who squatted outside the building and raised slogans, slighted by the manner in which they were ousted from the hall by the men in uniform.  Things had come to the pass after the Speaker was thwarted from taking his seat by a handful of women legislators of the RJD who had clambered on to the podium even as many other MLAs created ruckus in the well, threw away the chair of the Vidhan Sabha secretary and prevented staff from bringing in another piece of furniture.  Tempers flared up in the treasury benches as well. The normally affable cabinet minister Ashok Choudhary was seen getting physical with an RJD MLA who tried to snatch away the papers from BJPs Prem Kumar, who occupied the chair while Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha took his time to recover from the shock over the turn of events during the day.  Sinha had around 3 P.M. adjourned proceedings till 4.30 P.M., for the umpteenth time during the day.  He was held hostage inside his chamber by opposition legislators who surrounded it from all sides preventing his exit.  Top officials of the district and police administration had to contend with an RJD procession led by Tejashwi Yadav earlier in the day, taken out in protest against the bill and rising unemployment, which resulted in injuries to many protesters and police officials as stones were hurled and lathi charge use of water cannons was ordered.  The Dak Bungalow crossing, where the protestors clashed with the police upon being prevented from marching to the assembly, witnessed lawlessness as vehicles parked by the roadside were vandalized and many journalists covering the event also suffered injuries.  The officials were summoned to the Vidhan Sabha premises in the afternoon to rope in police personnel for helping the marshals who were far outnumbered by the legislators laying siege to the Speakers chamber.  A few MLAs of the RJD and its ally CPI(M) fell unconscious outside the Vidhan Sabha premises where they were dumped by the security personnel. Later, they alleged that they were "severely beaten up".  Another RJD MLA appeared before the camera with his hand wrapped in plaster and declared "members of the ruling coalition broke my arm in presence of the Chief Minister who chose to look away".  Disturbing images of some legislators being pulled by the hair and kicked and male police personnel dragging a female MLA have also gone viral on the social media.  Tejashwi Yadav, who was inside the Vidhan Sabha premises in the afternoon, having spent the first half leading the procession and courting arrest, tweeted angrily "Nitish Kumar, if you are indeed a man, get us shot instead of getting us beaten up".  It was a day of uncharacteristic anger shown by the cool- headed young leader who was seen engaged in an angry spat with an Additional SP in the evening after the police was done with helping the marshals in eviction of problematic opposition legislators.  Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who witnessed many of the unsavoury incidents with distaste, said "there seem to be many new legislators who need to be trained in parliamentary behaviour.  "Had the opposition allowed the House to run, the government would have addressed its concerns. But, that opportunity was frittered away".  The Speaker, visibly shattered by the utter chaos of which he happened to be at the receiving end, said before winding up, "many unfortunate things have happened. This cannot be allowed to recur.  "Action will be taken against those members who might have indulged in vandalism on the floor of the House"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||Suspension of scheduled international passenger flights extended till April 30||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till April 30, Indian aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Tuesday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the DGCA added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with 27 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
23-03-2021||India||Enhance RT-PCR tests, Centre tells states in fresh guidelines||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country, the Centre on Tuesday asked all states and union territories to enhance proportion of RT-PCR tests, strictly enforce test-track-treat protocol and speed up the pace of vaccination to cover all priority groups. Issuing fresh guidelines for April, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said keeping in view the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, the new positive cases, detected as a result of intensive testing, need to be isolated or quarantined at the earliest and provided timely treatment. The state governments and UT administrations should strictly enforce the test-track-treat protocol in all parts of the country, ensure observance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour by everyone and scale up the vaccination drive to cover all the target groups, the guidelines said. All contacts have to be traced at the earliest, and similarly isolated and quarantined, it said. The Home Ministry said based on the positive cases and tracking of their contacts, containment zones shall be carefully demarcated by the district authorities at the micro level taking into consideration the guidelines prescribed by the Union Health Ministry. The states and UTs where the proportion of RT-PCR tests is less should rapidly increase it to reach the prescribed level of 70 per cent or more of total tests. The authorities, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions at district or sub-district and city or ward level, with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19, the guidelines said. The ministry said the government of India has launched the world's largest vaccination drive against Covid-19. While the vaccination drive is proceeding smoothly, the pace is uneven across different states and UTs and, the slow pace of vaccination in some states and UTs is a "matter of concern", it said. The guidelines said that the vaccination against Covid-19, in the present scenario, is critical to break the chain of transmission and hence all state and UT governments should rapidly step up the pace of vaccination to cover all priority groups in an expeditious manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Centre opens up vaccination drive, all above 45 can get jabs from April 1 ||All people above 45 years of age can get vaccinated against Covid-19 from April 1, the Centre said on Tuesday amid a surge in cases in several states. "I appeal to every citizen who is 45 or above to register for vaccination," Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, announcing the expansion of the drive that started in January. According to the minister, 4.85 crore people had received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine and 80 lakh have received the second dose. More than 32.53 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered on March 22, which is the highest single-day vaccination so far, taking the total number of people inoculated to over 4.8 crore, the health ministry said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those who are over 60 years and for people aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions. Tuesday’s decision, taken by the cabinet on the basis of the advice of the Coronavirus Task Force and experts, comes on a day the  health ministry said the doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India had decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23. Six states _ Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu _ have reported a surge in daily new cases and together account for 80.90 per cent of the new infections reported in a day. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 24,645 (60.53 per cent). It is followed by Punjab with 2,299 cases and Gujarat with 1,640 new cases. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan -- are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. India's total active caseload is rising after touching its lowest mark in mid-February, the ministry highlighted. It increased to 3.45 lakh (3,45,377) on Tuesday, a net rise of 10,731 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Three states -- Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab -- accounted for 75.15 per cent of total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounted for 62.71 per cent of the total active cases in India. The doubling time decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1,11,81,253, with 29,785 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 199 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Fourteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. Javadekar was asked on Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's appeal to the Centre to widen the scope of vaccinations to younger people, given the spike in cases of the UK variant in his state. The Union Minister said he was "not a health expert and did not know the nuances of the UK variant".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Vaccination for all above 45 years from April 1||From April 1, all people above 45 years of age are entitled to get COVID-19 vaccine, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet, he said even people without comorbidity and above the age of 45 years, can get vaccinated. "I appeal to every citizen who is 45 or above to register for vaccination," Prakash said, announcing the expansion of the drive that started in January. According to the minister, 4.85 crore people have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine and 80 lakh have received the second dose. Javadekar was asked on Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's appeal to the centre to widen the scope of vaccinations to younger people, given the spike in cases of the UK variant in his state. The Union Minister said he was "not a health expert and did not know the nuances of the UK variant". The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||81 per cent of 401 samples tested positive for UK variant of coronavirus: Amarinder||Eighty-one per cent of the 401 samples sent by the government for genome sequencing have tested positive for the UK variant of Covid-19, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday. Expressing concern over the Covid-19 situation, the chief minister urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination ambit to cover those younger than 60 as the mutant has been found to be infecting young people more, an official statement quoting him said. Amarinder Singh also appealed to people to get themselves vaccinated and stressed the need for the Central government to urgently open up vaccination for a larger section of the population. “The process needs to be expedited,” he said, pointing to the fact that experts had found the existing Covishield vaccine to be equally effective against the UK variant - B.1.1.7. It was essential to vaccinate more and more people to break the chain of transmission, he said. The health ministry on Tuesday said that the doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India has decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23, highlighting that six states have reported a surge in daily new cases and together account for 80.90 per cent of the new infections reported in a day. Punjab is one among these six states which account for 80 per cent of cases, and among 10 states showing an upward trajectory of the infection. The state reported 2,319 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 2,15,409, while 58 fatalities pushed the death toll to 6,382.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||India emerged stronger despite facing odds during pandemic, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told BJP MPs on Tuesday that despite facing odds such as tension at borders, cyclones and earthquakes during the coronavirus pandemic, India emerged stronger and the entire world realised its potential, said Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal. Addressing the BJP parliamentary party meeting, Modi said he relished all these challenges during the pandemic and the country also overcame them. "Sharing his experiences of the pandemic, Modi told MPs that during the period, the country was not only facing the challenge of the virus, but on others fronts as well. There were tensions on the LAC, cyclones, earthquakes and then there was locust swarm attack but despite all these odds, India emerged stronger and the entire world realised its potential," he said. Meghwal said the prime minister also mentioned that he has been holding public office for more than two decades, first as the chief minister of a state and now as the prime minister, and he has never taken a day off. Besides Modi, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also addressed the BJP parliamentary party meeting. Jaishankar asserted that India's stature rose in the world during the pandemic because of its medical diplomacy of providing antibiotics and testing kits to other nations earlier and for its vaccine diplomacy later, Meghwal said. The external affairs minister also shared details of the Centre's Vande Bharat mission of bringing back stranded Indians from abroad, Meghwal said. Giving a presentation on the Union Budget to the party MPs, Sitharman emphasised that despite the economic impact of coronavirus pandemic the government did not impose any additional tax on the public and came with a comprehensive budget for all, Meghwal said. The prime minister also emphasised on the need for MPs to regularly attend Parliament, sources said. Modi also cited the panchayat elections in Pali, the constituency of BJP MP PP Chaudhary, saying the party won more than 90 per cent seats amid protests on farm laws as he and the party clearly put forward the benefits of these laws to the people and sought votes, the sources said. He also underlined to party MPs that the government's intent behind bringing these farm laws is good and those who are opposing it now will applaud these legislations later, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||SC stays pending proceedings in HCs to regulate OTT platforms||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed proceedings pending before several high courts across the country on pleas related to regulation of over-the-top (OTT) platforms. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that despite the apex court's earlier order issuing notice on the transfer plea filed by the Centre to club all such petitions filed in various high courts, the Punjab and Haryana High Court is proceeding in the matter pending there. The bench observed that notice on transfer petition means that proceedings going on have to stay. Mehta said several fresh petitions are being filed in different high courts on the issue. Then we will stay proceedings before all high courts and hear the matter in second week after the Holi break, the bench said. The top court had earlier issued notice on a transfer petition filed by the Centre seeking to club all petitions filed in various high courts on the issue of regulating OTT platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Doubling time of Covid-19 cases decreases to 202.3 days from 504.4 days||The doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India has decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday, highlighting that six states have reported a surge in daily new cases and together account for 80.90 per cent of the new infections reported in a day. Meanwhile, more than 32.53 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered on March 22, which is the highest single-day vaccination so far, taking the total number of people inoculated to over 4.8 crore. Six states -- Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu -- collectively account for 80.90 per cent of the 40,715 infections reported in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 24,645 (60.53 per cent). It is followed by Punjab with 2,299 cases and Gujarat with 1,640 new cases. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan -- are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. India's total active caseload is rising after touching its lowest mark in mid-February, the ministry highlighted. It increased to 3.45 lakh (3,45,377) on Tuesday, a net rise of 10,731 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Three states -- Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab -- accounted for 75.15 per cent of total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounted for 62.71 per cent of the total active cases in India. The doubling time decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23. Over 4.8 crore (4,84,94,594) vaccine doses have been administered through 7,84,612 sessions, as per the provisional report till Tuesday 7 am. The first dose administration crossed 4 crore mark on Tuesday (4,06,31,153). The 4,84,94,594 people include 78,59,579 HCWs (first dose), 49,59,964 HCWs (second dose), 82,42,127 FLWs (first dose) and 29,03,477 FLWs (second dose), 42,98,310 beneficiaries aged more than 45 to 60 specific co-morbidities (first dose) and more than 2 crore ( 2,02,31,137) beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on day 66 of the vaccination drive (March 22), more than 32 lakh (32,53,095) vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 29,03,030 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 48,345 sessions for the first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 3,50,065 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of the vaccine. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1,11,81,253, with 29,785 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 199 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states accounted for 80.4 per cent of the daily deaths, with Maharashtra and Punjab each reporting 58 casualties. Kerala and Chhattisgarh followed with 12 deaths each. Fourteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||India records 40,715 Covid-19 cases, 199 deaths in a day||India recorded 40,715 coronavirus cases in a day, taking the nationwide infection tally to 1,16,86,796, while the active caseload at 3,45,377 registered an increase for the 13th day in a row, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The active caseload now comprises 2.96 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.67 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am stated. The Covid-19 death toll of the country increased to 1,60,166, with 199 daily new fatalities, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,81,253, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.37 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on -November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 23,54,13,233 samples have been tested till March 22, with 9,67,459 samples tested on Monday. Out of the 199 fresh fatalities, 58 each were reported from Maharashtra and Punjab, 12 each from Kerala and Chhattisgarh, and 10 each from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,60,166 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country, including 53,457 from Maharashtra, 12,609 from Tamil Nadu, 12,444 from Karnataka, 10,963 from Delhi, 10,308 from West Bengal, 8,759 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,191 from Andhra Pradesh, the ministry said. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Covishield dosing window widened between 6-8 weeks||India’s health ministry on Monday asked the states to administer the second doses of Covishield between six and eight weeks after the first dose, citing evidence for greater protective efficacy associated with the longer gap than the current four-to-six-week gap. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a note sent to the states, said the ministry had accepted recommendations from two national expert panels to revise the dosing gap for Covishield, AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine produced in India. “Keeping the existing scientific evidence in view, it appears that protection is enhanced if the second dose of Covishield is administered between 6-8 weeks, but not later than the stipulated period 8 weeks,” Bhushan wrote. A health ministry official said the longer interval would be implemented immediately. The official’s statement implies that  that recipients who get their first doses of Covishield from Tuesday onward would need to return for their second doses between six and eight weeks later. Recipients currently awaiting their second dose would also need to wait longer and take it between six and eight weeks from the date they had taken the first dose. AstraZeneca had on February 3 announced that a study in the UK, South Africa and Brazil had found that the vaccine’s efficacy increased to 82 per cent after an inter-dose interval of 12 weeks or longer compared with about 55 per cent with an interval shorter than six weeks. “The data shows a better response with a longer interval,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of clinical microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “The question is whether lengthening the gap improves performance even more than we know now. We will not know until we measure this,” Kang added. Kang said another open question was whether a longer gap would lead to better long-term protection. The ministry’s decision to increase the dosing interval for Covishield follows reviews of emerging evidence and recommendations by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation and the National Expert group on Covid-19 Vaccine Administration. India had till Monday evening administered over 47 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to recipients across the country, featuring around 42.8 million doses of Covishield and 4.2 million doses of Covaxin, a home-grown vaccine. The revised interval does not apply to Covaxin, whose dosing interval is 28 days. AstraZeneca on Monday released interim results of its vaccine’s clinical trial in the US that have shown that the vaccine is 79 per cent effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 and 100 per cent effective in preventing severe disease and hospitalisation. The US trial, which involved around 32,000 participants, had adopted a protocol where the two doses were administered at a four-week interval. A few European countries had earlier this month temporarily suspended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine while probing concerns about blood clots in some recipients. The World Health Organisation has, however, said there is no causal link between the vaccine and the clots and that the vaccine’s benefits outweigh any risks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||UGC drafts undergraduate history syllabus: mythology drives ‘Idea of Bharat’||The University Grants Commission has come out with a draft undergraduate history syllabus that some teachers and students said attempted “saffronisation and distortion” by playing up the Vedic period and Hindu religious texts and diminishing the importance of Muslim rule. This is the first time the higher education regulator is attempting to draw up a full-fledged history syllabus instead of issuing general guidelines, academics said. The commission had in the past suggested that individual universities would be allowed only “20 to 30 per cent deviation” from any syllabus it framed. The commission put up the draft Learning Outcome-based Curriculum Framework on BA (history) on its website on February 15 and sought feedback by February 28. ⚫ The first paper of history (honours) in Delhi University (DU) now covers pre-historic times and the early historic period. But the first paper in the new syllabus is on the “Idea of Bharat”, and includes topics such as “Eternity of Synonyms Bharat” and religious literature like the Vedas, Vedangas, Upanishads, Smritis and Puranas. Jeetendra Meena, assistant professor of history at DU’s Shyam Lal College, said the new syllabus glorified religious literature and dropped ancient secular literature such as Kautilya’s Arthashastra, the poems of Kalidas and the ayurvedic text Charak Samhita. “Religious characters and mythological concepts have been given importance,” he said. A third-year history student at St Stephen's College, Delhi, said the new syllabus had introduced uncritical glorification of ancient Indian civilisation by equating it with “eternity”. “History is about understanding the processes of continuity and change. Nothing is eternal in history. To say something is eternal is against the principles of historical research," the student said. ⚫ In the draft syllabus, the third paper, "From Earliest Times to 550 CE", includes features of the "Indus-Saraswati Civilisation" and its continuity, fall and survival. The Saraswati is mentioned in the Vedas but its provenance is disputed. The Sangh parivar insists that the Saraswati existed and symbolised continuity from the Harappan era to later Hindu periods, in contradistinction to the theory of the Aryan invasion. "No such term as the 'Saraswati civilisation', which has been introduced here, existed before," Meena said. "We study the Harappan civilisation. Now the 'Indus-Saraswati civilisation' has replaced it in the draft syllabus. With this term, they have attempted to establish continuity," the St Stephen's student said. ⚫ The 12th paper, on "Cultural Heritage of India", includes topics such as "Ramayana and Mahabharat: Tradition of cultural heritage". The St Stephen's student said some class discussion of the two epics did take place under the current DU syllabus, but the new syllabus's formal coverage of the two books under a separate head sounded ominous. "There's nothing wrong with the teaching of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata as 'sources' of history, but to uncritically valorise them for their own sake will be problematic," the student said. ⚫ The existing DU syllabus has three papers, taught over three semesters, devoted to the period from the 13th century to the 18th. But the new syllabus has just one paper, the seventh, covering this period, reducing the importance of Muslim rule. "Mughal history has in a way been sidelined," Meena said. ⚫ The new syllabus uses the word "invasion" in connection with several Muslim rulers such as Babar - a term the current DU syllabus shuns. "In the draft syllabus, the term 'invasion' has been used only in the case of Muslim rulers, not even against the East India Company," Meena said. ⚫ The seventh paper in cludes topics such as "Hindu society: caste and occupational groups, lifestyle, education, customs and traditions" and "Muslim society: Divisions and occupational groups, lifestyle, education, customs and traditions". "The effort is to suggest a division in terms of Hindu and Muslim society in the mediaeval period," Meena said. "Earlier, we studied how all communities have co-existed and have variously interacted over time. They cannot be studied in isolation." ⚫ Works by several prominent historians have been dropped from the reading lists, such as R.S. Sharma's book on ancient India and Irfan Habib's book on mediaeval India. On the other hand, books by little-known authors, some of them believed to be pro-Sangh, have been included. ⚫ The existing DU history paper that covers the period from 1857 to 1950 features references to Dalit politics, which are absent from the new syllabus. The draft syllabus describes the 1857 uprising against the British as the "First War of Independence", a term coined by Sangh ideologue Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. However, it makes no mention of the uprisings that took place before 1857, such as the Sanyasi Rebellion in Bengal, Paika Rebellion in Odisha and the Polygar Rebellion in Tamil Nadu. The new syllabus is also silent on the 1905 partition of Bengal and the resistance to it. ⚫ Leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel and Bhim Rao Ambedkar receive less attention compared with the current syllabuses, and there is little content on the spread of communalism in the early 20th century. RSS ideologue Sri Prakash Singh, who teaches political science at DU, defended the changes. "Previously Mughal history occupied too much space. It's not being sidelined but a course correction is being made. There was less content on the kings of south India and other parts. Now they are getting space," Singh said. On the allegation of the glorification of mythology, Singh said: "Oral history is a recognised tool for historical research. These narratives were being ignored but people believe in these narratives." An email and a text message brought no response from UGC chairman D.P. Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
23-03-2021||India||Neither Amma nor Karuna, but ‘so many in the field’ ||As the day temperatures soar, young Kalpana is sweating it out selling fruits piled up into a cone in an aluminium vessel along the highway just outside Chennai. A graduate and a Dalit from a village near Panruti, 150km from Chennai, Kalpana commutes every day to sell guavas in the state capital’s sprawling suburbs. Her women’s self-help group forks out Rs 500 daily to have the fruits transported in a minivan, and at sundown Kalpana returns home with her day’s earnings. “(Narendra) Modi and the BJP have no idea of Tamil Nadu realities,” Kalpana fumed on Sunday, castigating the “cultural imposition from the north” and underlining the lingering after-effects of the 2016 demonetisation that crushed the vast cash-based informal sector. “I’m qualified and should not be doing this job now,” she said. Kalpana always wanted a government job but, barring Covid-time fill-ins, the state administration has virtually frozen recruitments for the past four years. Which is why she is angry not just with the Modi government but also with the AIADMK government of Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “At least (DMK leader) M.K. Stalin learnt politics from his late father M. Karunanidhi,” Kalpana added. Nearby, an elderly Mariamma was selling flowers. “For long years, we used to see only two symbols, of the DMK and the AIADMK. But now there are too many in the field,” she sighed, making her scepticism plain. “As long as Jayalalithaa Amma was there, she would reach out to women and the poor like her predecessor M.G. Ramachandran. But we can’t say that now.” After a pause, she added, “Nobody came to our rescue when the coronavirus broke out....” “The prices of essentials, including petrol and diesel, have gone through the roof. But you can never tell what will happen as long as Modi is at the Centre,” Senthil, an auto-rickshaw driver in small town Kumbakonam, sounded uneasy. The April 6 polls will be the first Assembly election in Tamil Nadu since the deaths of Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa, whose rivalry had dominated state politics for nearly three decades. Segments of the urban middle class, the core constituency of the AIADMK-BJP alliance, are unhappy too. “Chief minister Palaniswami’s performance has exceeded expectations in the last two years, yet the AIADMK’s strike rate in its western bastion of the OBC Gounders (which accounts for 58 of the state’s 234 constituencies) will be less than 50 per cent this time,” said Sathish, an IT professional in Coimbatore. “The younger voters are looking up to Kamal Haasan.” The three new farm laws will definitely go against the AIADMK for being “yoked to the BJP on all major policy matters”, said Perundurai Periyasamy, a CPI leader from the western “Kongu” belt. Purushottaman, panchayat president at Thulasendhrapuram, the ancestral village of US Vice-President Kamala Harris in Tiruvarur district, cautioned against jumping to conclusions. “It’s a tough, multi-party contest this time, and caste is not the only issue. The trend is in favour of the DMK-Congress alliance. But with competitive populism gripping both sides — the ruling party’s offer of free washing machines to housewives being the latest sop — the mood among the neutral voters can change,” he said over the phone. V. Durai Manickkam, president of the CPI farmer body Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, 60 of whose members participated in the farmers’ protests on Delhi’s borders for a week, slammed the “anti-people” farm laws. Seeking to court the minorities, the AIADMK has in its poll manifesto done an about-turn and promised to press the Centre to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act. After much haggling, the BJP has been given 20 seats while ally PMK will be contesting 23, mostly in its northern stronghold. The DMK has managed to keep its formidable 2019 Lok Sabha poll alliance intact with the Congress, CPI, CPM, the Vaiko-led MDMK, IUML and the VCL, led by Dalit MP Thol Thirumavalavan, among others. Stalin has presented a clear “vision document” for Tamil Nadu’s growth over the next 10 years. “We have carefully avoided freebies in our poll manifesto and focused on need-based, direct income-support schemes,” said DMK parliamentarian T.K.S. Elangovan. Four more combinations make the contest six-cornered. Kamal Haasan, actor and founder-president of the Makkal Neethi Maiyam, spearheads an alliance with the All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi — led by fellow actors Sarath Kumar and Radhika — and the Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi of educationist Pachamuthu. As Kamal Haasan takes on a BJP senior, Vanathi Sreenivasan, from Coimbatore South, he is aghast that both the DMK and the AIADMK have “hijacked” his party’s poll promise of a monthly cash assistance for housewives. The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, led by V.K. Sasikala’s nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran and contesting from Kovilpatti in the south, leads a fourth front. Sasikala, recently freed from prison after serving a sentence for corruption, has tactically stepped aside from politics for the time being. Dhinakaran has allied with the DMDK of actor Vijayakanth, who has quit the AIADMK-BJP alliance, and tied up with Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM in three seats. Actor-director Seeman’s Naam Tamizhar Katchi, a Tamil nationalist group, and the Dalit party Puthiya Tamizhagam, headed by K. Krishnasamy, complete the field.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||Pawar dismisses possibility of Anil Deshmukh’s resignation||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday toughened his stance, ruling out the possibility of Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s resignation and dismissing the entire conspiracy as an attempt to divert attention from the real issue of planting explosives near Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Though the other ally, the Congress, was guarded in its response, arguing that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take the final decision in the light of clarifications by Deshmukh and the NCP chief, Pawar shed the ambiguity he demonstrated on Sunday and firmly said that “question doesn’t arise,” about the home minister’s resignation. Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut also showed aggressive intent saying: “If somebody is conspiring to get President’s rule imposed in Maharashtra, let me warn them that they will get charred in this political fire.” Pawar said at a news conference in Delhi: “Anil Deshmukh was hospitalised on February 5 due to Covid and was discharged on February 15. He was advised home quarantine till February 27 and he stayed in his Nagpur home. The former Mumbai police commissioner (Param Bir Singh) said in his letter the meeting (in which he allegedly instructed the police officer to collect Rs 100 crore per month) took place in mid-February. I have the hospital’s documents showing Deshmukh was not in Mumbai at that time.” BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya created a flutter in the middle of Pawar’s news conference by tweeting a video of Deshmukh’s media interaction on February 15, saying this is how lies fall flat. Though Pawar could not effectively handle this bolt from the blue, Deshmukh issued a video statement saying: “I was discharged from the hospital on February 15. Mediapersons were waiting at the hospital to talk to me. I sat there as I felt weak and answered their questions. Then I left for home.” Pawar emphasised that the crux of the matter was who planted explosives in the jeep near Ambani’s residence and how was Hiren (the owner of the vehicle) murdered. He also referred to the investigation by the Mumbai ATS which was looking into other aspects like some people seen getting down from that vehicle and fleeing in an Innova car. “The vague allegation against the home minister was made only to divert attention from the ATS investigation,” he added. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has been hyperactive in the case, gave a different argument, saying that the meeting in question when the Rs 100-crore instruction was delivered happened in February-end. Though he initially tweeted about Deshmukh’s news conference on February 15, he soon followed up with another tweet saying: “It seems Sharad Pawar ji is not briefed properly on Parambir Singh letter. In this letter only, the SMS evidence (texts between Param Bir Singh and fellow officers) shows that the meeting date was mentioned as end of February. Now who is diverting issue?” The letter, however, mentions mid-February. Congress in-charge of Maharashtra, H.K. Patil, said in a statement that he discussed the issues with senior leaders Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan and asked them to meet the chief minister. Referring to the clarifications given by Pawar on Sunday, which said even resignation of the home minister was possible, Patil said the core group of the ruling coalition will meet and deliberate on the issue. While the Congress is clearly moving cautiously, some leaders privately admitted this issue could take nasty turns as Singh had moved the Supreme Court in this case and hence there was no need to rule out the resignation of the home minister. Singh on Monday filed a petition before the Supreme Court seeking quashing of his transfer to the home guard department and also demanded a CBI inquiry into the “corrupt malpractices” of Deshmukh. Fearing destruction of evidence, Singh repeated the charges he made against Deshmukh in the letter to the chief minister and also accused him of interfering in police investigations. He said in his petition that the home minister was pressurising him to implicate BJP leaders in the suicide case of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||BJP corners Uddhav Thackeray government in Lok Sabha||The BJP on Monday sought to corner the Uddhav Thackeray government by repeatedly raising in the Lok Sabha the extortion allegations that former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh has levelled against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. BJP member Rajendra Agarwal, who was presiding over the House in the absence of the Covid-infected Speaker Om Birla, allowed five BJP members to raise the subject one by one during Zero Hour. As they demanded the resignation of Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, Sena and Congress MPs protested, accusing the BJP of plotting to topple the state government. The BJP’s Mumbai Northeast MP, Manoj Kotak, raised the issue first. He referred to Param Bir’s allegation that Deshmukh had instructed the now arrested Mumbai assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants. “This is a very serious matter. It shows that those in the government were using officials to extort money from businessmen,” Kotak said. “The home minister should resign, the Maharashtra government should resign and there should be a CBI probe.” Agarwal then allowed another BJP member, Rakesh Singh from Madhya Pradesh, to raise the same subject. “What was the compulsion of the chief minister to defend an API-rank official?” Singh asked, seeking to accuse Uddhav of involvement in corruption. He said the issue had national implications and demanded the state government’s resignation. Singh and another BJP member who spoke after him, Kapil Patil, targeted NCP chief Sharad Pawar although they did not name him since he is not a member of the House. After these three BJP members, Sena House leader Vinayak Raut was called to speak. He asserted that the controversy was part of a BJP design to defame and destabilise the Maharashtra government. “For the last 14 months, they (the BJP) have been hatching a conspiracy. Even the central government is trying to destabilise the (Maharashtra) government,” Raut said. He termed Param Bir the “most corrupt police officer”. The Congress’s new House leader, Ravneet Singh Bittu, said the allegations against Deshmukh were serious, but he also questioned the Centre’s intention and accused it of trying to topple the Maharashtra government. “Why do central agencies interfere in Opposition-ruled states only?” he asked, opposing the BJP demand for a CBI probe. “Maharashtra will not accept central agency interference. You want to topple the Maharashtra government after MP (Madhya Pradesh).” Two more BJP members – P.P. Chaudhary and Poonam Mahajan -- were later allowed to raise Param Bir’s allegations. They too demanded the resignation of the Maharashtra government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||Assembly polls 2021: EC issues ad to back EVMs||The Election Commission of India on Monday published full-page advertisements in leading dailies as well as tweeted a graphic of poll results since 2004 to bolster credentials of the electronic voting machines. The uncharacteristic blitz came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a dig at Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s fears of EVM’s being rigged. Former chief election commissioner S.Y. Quraishi, who weathered a storm of EVM skepticism during his tenure, said it was better to allay concerns through traditional means of outreach like news conferences. The EC’s full-page ads on Monday list the various parties that won the highest number of seats in 127 Assembly polls and four Lok Sabha elections which were conducted with EVMs since 2004. In large fonts, the ad says that 325 crore voters have used EVMs since 2004, and 98 crore voters have used voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines too since 2017. R.K. Laxman’s Common Man character says: “I am an empowered voter,” in the advertisement, with the slogan: “Pride of Indian Democracy EVM & VVPAT.” The logical fallacy in the statement is that the EC has counted the total number of votes cast and not the number of voters. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, almost 61.47 crore people voted. The ad does not touch upon the most serious doubt over the machines, that is bureaucrat Kannan Gopinathan’s claim in 2019 that paper trail machines were vulnerable to being used as Trojan horses to rig the voting machines. The outreach came a day after the Prime Minister told a rally in Bankura on Sunday: “Didi is alleging EVM rigging and manipulation; and this even before elections have begun. She is sensing imminent defeat and is readying an excuse already.” Modi’s statement was preceded by Mamata’s charge that the “BJP goons will try to rig EVMs”, and her party’s demand for a 100 per cent tally of VVPATs with corresponding EVMs — in effect a return to paper ballot. This demand was echoed by CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury in a letter to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Monday in which he cited a recent report on EVMs by a group of former civil servants, academics and journalists, headed by former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur. The Supreme Court had rejected demands of a 50 per cent paper trail count in 2019. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also said at a meeting in Thoothukudi last month: “I don’t believe EVMs are cent per cent secure as they are not accessible and are kept out of the reach of political parties.” The first volume of the NGO, Citizens’ Commission on Elections, report released in January reiterated Gopinathan’s claim, and says: “Due to the absence of End-to-End (E2E) verifiability, the present EVM/VVPAT system is not verifiable and therefore is unfit for democratic elections. It recommends that “The electronic voting system should be redesigned to be software and hardware independent in order to be verifiable or auditable.” Quraishi was CEC in 2012 when the BJP released G.V.L. Narasimha Rao’s book on EVMs titled Democracy at Risk, and when Subramanian Swamy, now a BJP MP, moved court to introduce the paper trail — which the SC ordered the following year. Quraishi told The Telegraph: “We were always open to the media, called news conferences on the issues and held all-party meetings to explain EVMs to them. Chief electoral officers (of states and Union Territories) placed ads on how to use an EVM, but the EC did not advertise for support for EVMs. I have said repeatedly that the best response to criticism is to quickly call a news conference, repeatedly if required, and address the concerns.” He added: “The EC’s argument that different parties have won through EVMs is valid, but did not require an ad. This ad does not even answer Kannan’s objections. A news conference could have been called with technical experts who could have been asked to defend EVMs. We need to take people along because once public trust fades, even ads or news conferences won’t work. The public trusts the EC enough that if we accept our mistakes, they will not suspect us of covering anything up.” Quraishi has questioned the silence of the EC’s technical experts from IITs, which the poll panel had called an “attempt to sully their reputation”, and said it was impractical for them to go public at every instance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||Gandhi Peace Prize for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman||The Narendra Modi government on Monday conferred the Gandhi Peace Prize on Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, ahead of the Prime Minister’s Bangladesh visit that coincides with the first phase of polling in Bengal. On March 27, the first day of voting in Bengal, Prime Minister Modi is scheduled to pay obeisance at Orakandi in Bangladesh, the birthplace of Harichand Thakur, founder of the Matua sect that the BJP is wooing in these elections. The Prime Minister will reach Bangladesh on March 26 for the two-day visit. On Monday, he tweeted: “Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 has been conferred on Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, one of the greatest leaders of our subcontinent. Year 2020 marked the birth centenary of Bangabandhu.” “Bangabandhu’s vision continues to light the India-Bangladesh friendship,” Modi said in another tweet. “I had the privilege of honouring his memory during my previous Bangladesh visit and will again pay homage to him, alongside PM Hasina, during the #MujibBarsho celebrations,” he added. Conferring the award on Bangabandhu is seen as an effort to strike a chord with the people of Bangladesh, given the fears that the Prime Minister could be accused of using a foreign country for electoral gains back home. Santanu Thakur, the Bongaon MP and a leader of the Matua community, is scheduled to accompany Modi on his visit to Orakandi where Harichand Thakur was born on March 11, 1812. The Matua Dalits migrated from Bangladesh during and after the Partition and have a decisive presence in nearly 40 of Bengal’s 294 Assembly constituencies. The promise in the BJP’s Bengal manifesto to implement the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is aimed at wooing this community. The Bangladesh government issued a statement to acknowledge “with deep gratitude” India’s decision to confer the Gandhi Peace Prize on Mujibur Rahman, “posthumously for the first time”. “It is an honour for Bangladesh and its people for the Father of the Nation to be bestowed with this prestigious award,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||India- China likely to hold 11th round of talks this week||India and China are likely to hold the 11th round of military talks later this week to discuss disengagement of troops from the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, sources in the defence ministry said on Monday. The armies of the two countries had disengaged last month from the south and north banks of Pangong Tso Lake. A ground assessment by the Indian security establishment earlier this month had suggested that the Chinese army was continuing to strengthen its position at Ladakh’s Depsang Plains, where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines, amid the ongoing dialogue for disengagement from all friction points. Sources said the disengagement at the Depsang Plains was going to be a serious challenge as the Chinese troops have continued to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points at the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff in May last year. The Depsang Plains is strategically very crucial for the Indian Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||Kovind donates Rs 1 lakh to Puri Jagannath Temple||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday donated Rs 1 lakh to the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration after offering his prayers to Lord Jagannath at the 12th Century shrine in Puri. Chief administrator of the SJTA Dr Krishan Kumar said: “President was quite happy after the darshan of the trinity.... He presented Rs 1 lakh cheque to the temple administration for the overall development of the Shree Jagannath temple. We explained to him about the state’s initiatives in taking steps for development around the shrine.” Earlier, Kovind had donated Rs 5 lakh for construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. Kovind was accompanied by his wife Savita to the 12th Century shrine. He was welcomed by the Puri Gajapati Dibya Singh Dev. The temple administration presented him a photo of the trinity. Later Kovind visited the 13th Century Sun Temple at Konark before leaving for Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||Tension at Super Speciality Hospital in Rourkela||A day after President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the Super Speciality Hospital at Rourkela in Odisha, patients and workers led by the Left parties barged into the hospital premises on Monday and demanded treatment at Rs 10 per patient as charged by the All India Institute Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi and its other branches. A scuffle ensued after the workers engaged in a heated argument with the hospital staff on the issue of affordable treatment. Sources said some people entered the hospital building taking advantage of the tension and went on a rampage, breaking chairs and tables. However, neither the workers nor the hospital authorities admitted to any loss of property. Rourkela Nagarik Mancha (citizen forum) convener Bishnu Mohanty told The Telegraph: “When we went there with about 20 patients, we found the hospital gates closed. When we tried to enter forcibly, they opened the gates. But all hell broke loose when the hospital authorities demanded Rs 500 as ticket fees instead of Rs 10 charged by AIIMS. How can poor people afford to pay such high fees?” Mohanty said: “We have been cheated. The Prime Minister had announced in 2015 that a super speciality hospital along with a medical college will be set up. Now only the super speciality hospital has been set up. But it lacks staff including doctors. Besides, we want the hospital’s management should be handed over to AIIMS Bhubaneswar so that people will be able to get affordable medical treatment.” Following the intervention of senior officials of the Rourkela Steel Plant, the situation was brought under control. The people of Rourkela had joined hands and formed a 18km-long human chain on March 19 to protest after the proposed medical college was not set up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||Editors Guild seeks PM's intervention in revoking IT code||The Editors Guild of India has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in revoking the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, reminding him of his public commitment towards protecting freedom of speech and expression in India. The Guild released the letter sent over a fortnight ago on Monday, having got no response whatsoever from either the Prime Minister or the two ministers concerned who were also sent similar letters asking that the new ethics code be put on hold till detailed consultations are held with all stake-holders. The letters underscore that there was no consultation with stakeholders before the rules were notified. In the letter to the Prime Minister, the Guild said that the new rules have the potential of fundamentally altering how publishers of news operate over the Internet and undermine freedom of press in the country, identifying the  cumbersome three-tier structure to regulate digital media, with an “Inter-Departmental Committee” at the top as the most alarming aspect. Apart from the fact that this gives excessive powers to a government officer to block, modify and delete content, the letter notes that other provisions in these rules place unreasonable restrictions on digital news media, and as a consequence, media at large. “These rules have been brought in without due consultation with the stakeholders and deepen the worry that freedom of press in India is being seriously compromised.” In the letter to the ministers, the Guild has gone into greater detail about the problematic aspects of the code. On the three-tier structure, it urges the ministers to withdraw such an “onerous and regressive regulatory mechanism”, and initiate consultations for putting in place a more equitable self-regulatory system. “We believe that the question whether any speech violates any law in force, or be bound to a Code of Ethics, or whether it should be evaluated in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Constitution, is a complicated question of not only facts but also of law. Therefore, any action on such speech should be taken only after adjudication by an independent judiciary, rather than the executive.” Further, they have questioned the use of the IT Act, 2000, to introduce the rules, pointing out that the government went beyond the scope of the legislation without the approval of Parliament. Also, according to the Guild, there is lack of clarity on the applicability of the rule that states it is applicable to publishers of news and current affairs content as long as the publishers have a physical presence in the territory of India and are conducting the “systematic activity” of making their content available in India. “Such application is overbroad as there is no threshold requirement of readership to differentiate between Digital News Media based on scale. The consequence of this is that even blogs, individuals reporting news through social media and nascent news organisations will have to comply with the onerous obligations imposed by the Rules.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||India||No accident claim for death by drinking, rules Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that the family of a person who had died because of excessive drinking was not entitled to any insurance benefit as the death was not caused by an accident. A bench of Justices M. Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran passed the ruling while dismissing the appeal of a family from Himachal Pradesh challenging the concurrent findings of the State Consumer Forum and National Consumer Forum that New India Assurance Company was not liable to pay any benefit to the family of Omprakash, a deceased chowkidar of the Himachal Pradesh State Forest Development Corporation. “From a bare perusal of the insurance policy… it is clear that only if the insured sustains any bodily injury resulting solely and directly from accident caused by outward, violent and visible means, the insurance company would be liable to indemnify the insured. “The post-mortem report clearly indicates that there were no injuries found on the body,” the apex court said. It said the probable cause of death was asphyxiation caused by alcohol consumption and regurgitation of food into larynx. “Further, the expert opinions … also show that the cause of death was due to consumption of alcohol,” the apex court stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi’s ‘factory of lies’ will remain after Centre’s selloff of govt concerns: Mamata||Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged that the Centre is selling off government concerns and only Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "factory of lies" will remain. Mamata said that the BJP is advertising tall claims about what it will do for the people of Bengal, but the party has reneged on promises made in its manifesto for the Assembly elections in Assam and Tripura. Addressing an election rally at Para in Purulia district, the Bengal chief minister claimed that BJP governments in the two northeastern states have rendered thousands of government employees jobless. "They are closing down all central concerns. Only one factory will be there, that of Narendra Modi's lies and the BJP's fraud," she said. Reciting 'Chandi slokas' at the public meeting here as she has been doing in other poll rallies, the TMC supremo asked people not to indulge in any communal politics. Urging people not to vote for "goons from outside", Mamata asserted that she is not afraid of any intimidation and will fight back if threatened. She has on several occasions accused the BJP of bringing in outsiders to the state for the Assembly elections in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah accuses TMC of swindling Amphan relief funds||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday slammed the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal for allegedly "swindling" the money sent for cyclone Amphan relief in the Sunderbans region. Criticising the TMC's "cut money" culture, Shah claimed that "Bhatija (nephew) and company swindled central funds sent for Amphan relief". If voted to power, Shah said the BJP would constitute a committee to probe the alleged siphoning off relief funds. "The central government had sent relief funds for the affected people. But the TMC leaders siphoned off the funds and did not allow it to reach them. "If we are voted to power, the BJP will constitute an inquiry committee to probe corruption in disbursement of funds. All those involved in scam would be sent to jail," he said while addressing the election rally here. "The Centre had sent Rs 10,000 crore for Amphan relief. Did you get a single penny? Where did all the money go? 'Bhatija' and company swindled the central funds sent for Amphan relief. We will probe everything," he said. He attacked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her government for "not allowing implementation of central schemes in the state". Shah alleged that Banerjee has been working only for her nephew's welfare instead of the common people. "Didi is only interested in making his nephew the next chief minister. Do you want the nephew to be the CM? If not, then vote for the BJP," he said. The Union minister said the BJP is ready to take on the "goons and syndicates" of the ruling TMC. "We have to end this syndicate rule of the TMC. We will end this culture," he said. Elections to the 294 assembly seats will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: BJP fields 11 new candidates||The BJP on Tuesday announced another list of candidates for 11 seats for the Assembly elections in Bengal and also changed its nominees in two other constituencies. The party continued with its strategy of fielding personalities from different walks of life as it nominated former Deputy Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha from the Rashbehari seat in South Kolkata. Former Chief Economic Advisor Ashok Lahiri, who was earlier pulled out from the Alipurduar seat in north Bengal after local party workers held a protest against his candidature, will now contest from Balurghat as a BJP candidate. Lahiri was replaced with local leader Suman Kanjilal from the Alipurduar seat last week. The saffron party also fielded new candidates from Chowranghee and Kashipur-Belgachia seats, after its earlier nominees had refused their tickets. Nominations were given to Sikha Mitra, wife of former state Congress president Somen Mitra, from Chowranghee and Tarun Saha, husband of TMC MLA Mala Saha, from Kashipur- Belgachia. In an embarrassment for the BJP, both Sikha Mitra and Tarun Saha had refused their tickets and said they did not join the party. The BJP has been facing protests and resignations as many of its aspiring old-timers did not find their names in the list of candidates. Despite protests over recruits getting more importance than old-timers in the candidates' list, the party gave a nomination to Biswajit Das, who was a TMC MLA from Bongaon (Uttar) and had joined the BJP some time ago. Das will contest from Bagda constituency as a BJP candidate. Subrata Thakur, brother of BJP MP Santanu Thakur, was given a nomination from Gaighata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Covid case count rises ||Bengal on Monday reported the 11th consecutive day of rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases, by 70. The number of active cases stands at 3,574. The state on Monday reported 296 recoveries but 368 new cases, besides two deaths, one in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP manifesto promises better irrigation networks and new canals in Bhairab-Sialmari-Jalanga basin||Hercules had to change the courses of the Alpheus and Peneus rivers to clean the Augean stables. The BJP will have to go one up on the mighty mythological hero and translocate three rivers from south Bengal to north Bengal if the party wins the Assembly elections and wants to implement a promise made in its manifesto. “We will introduce the Utoject for the Bhairab-Sialmari-Jalanga basin with a 2,000 crores rupees fund for upgradation of existing irrigation network and construction of new canals,” reads the BJP manifesto, which was released on Sunday in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. The promise has left riparian experts racking their brains on how rivers flowing southwards through Murshidabad, which is part of south Bengal, can help develop a command area in the northern districts of the state. A river expert said that using south Bengal rivers for irrigation in north Bengal was an impossibility. If the BJP has a plan that actually gets around such geographical obstacles, the party so far does not appear to have shared the specifics with some of those associated with drawing up the manifesto. Subhash Sarkar, the BJP’s Bankura MP who was in charge of the manifesto committee, was measured in his response. “When we have put it in the manifesto, there must be some plans to channel the water from these rivers towards the northern districts,” Sarkar said. If the BJP is unable to clear the air soon, its opponents are certain to cite the promise as another example of the party’s unfamiliarity and disconnect with Bengal. A perceived cultural schism with Bengal has already given the Trinamul Congress a stick to beat the BJP with. The three rivers mentioned in the 13th page of the manifesto are on the right bank of the Ganga, the mighty river that divides north and south Bengal, and flow through Murshidabad district. The Bhairab and the Sialmari merge with the Jalangi (referred to as “Jalanga” in the manifesto) at different locations in Murshidabad district and the Jalangi eventually joins the Hooghly near Mayapur in Nadia district. “All these three rivers are distributaries of the Ganga and flow southwards…. How can they help develop a command area in the northern districts, which are on the left bank of the Ganga and beyond?” asked renowned river expert Kalyan Rudra. A retired officer of the state irrigation department could not hide his astonishment when told about the promise involving the three rivers. He said that if any command area had to be developed in the northern districts of the state, water from the Ganga itself could be channelled for the purpose. “Also, several other rivers flow through north Bengal and their water can be used to irrigate the northern districts. There appears to be a lack of understanding among those who drew up the manifesto,” he said. Tuhin Subhra Mondal, a Balurghat-based researcher who has worked on river conservation for years, said the promise involving the rivers meant very little. He said the manifesto’s silence on the conservation or use of rivers that flow through north Bengal made it clear there was no plan on river or basin management. “It seems that those who have penned the point lack basic geographical knowledge. There is not a word about the rivers of north Bengal, particularly the Teesta, which has been emerging as an issue for the various political parties because the water-sharing treaty is still pending with Bangladesh,” said Mondal. Sarkar, the BJP MP, said: “We also have plans for the Teesta.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur and Alamgir Hossain in Murshidabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Turncoat Prabhash Sarkar in Priya Ranjan's bastion||The Congress has fielded a leader who quit Trinamul barely three weeks back in Kaliaganj — the ancestral place of late Congress leader Priya Ranjan Das Munshi in North Dinajpur district. Prabhash Sarkar, who was the working president of Trinamul in the Kaliaganj block and walked out of Mamata Banerjee’s party hardly a month ago, has been declared as the Congress candidate in the seat. The decision hasn’t, however, gone down well with a section of Congress leaders in the district who feel that fielding Sarkar can send a wrong message to Congress and Left supporters of the Assembly constituency. “It is unfortunate that our party could not find a Congress leader or worker who had been with us for years and is not a defector or a new entrant even in a place like Kaliaganj that had bred a leader like Priya Ranjan Das Munshi. It is a bitter truth but we have to admit that it raises a question over the Congress’ support base in Kaliaganj. It is high time that state leaders focus on this constituency to revive our support base,” said a senior Congress leader in Raiganj. Sources said as the Congress had started scouting for candidates, it could not find anybody who was ready to contest from Kaliaganj. Eventually, the district and block leaders could zero in on Sarkar, a schoolteacher. Sarkar has said he hails from a Congress family. “My father had been a panchayat member of the Congress for 15 years. I was also with the Congress and had joined Trinamul in 2014. Now, I am back at home and have severed all my ties with Trinamul. The party has fielded me as the candidate in Kaliaganj and I am putting all my efforts,” he said. Pabitra Chanda, a vice-president of North Dinajpur district Congress, tried to put up a brave face. “It is wrong to perceive the Congress has weakened in Kaliaganj. Prabhash Sarkar has been selected as a candidate because we feel he can give a better contest to our contenders,” he said. In the 2006, 2011 and 2016 Assembly elections, Pramath Nath Roy of the Congress had won Kaliaganj. After Roy had died in 2018, a bypoll was held in 2019 and Trinamul won Kaliaganj for the first time. The Congress finished third in the bypoll. “The defeat came as a jolt for the Congress and many walked out of the party in Kaliaganj. The decision to field a former Trinamul leader has exposed the Congress’s pitiable organisational strength in the seat,” said an observer. In Malda, over 200 Congress supporters reached Kotowali, the ancestral house of the Khan Choudhury family, on the outskirts of the district headquarter, and held a demonstration. They were demanding a change in the candidate declared by the party in the Ratua Assembly seat. Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, the district Congress chief and Malda south MP or Isha Khan Choudhury, his son and an MLA, did not meet the protesters. The protesters have threatened to resume their movement if their demands are not met, said sources. BJP showcause The North Dinajpur BJP leadership has showcaused six conveners, asking them to explain within three days what led to the ransacking of party offices of the district. Last week, after the BJP had announced its list of candidates, there were protests across the district by a section of supporters who wanted that some of the candidates be changed. They had even accused Raiganj MP and Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri of indulging in corruption while distributing tickets and had even ransacked the district office. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Siliguri leader Nantu Paul quits Trinamul Congress, to contest as Independent||Senior Trinamul Congress leader Nantu Paul, who was peeved with the party’s nomination of Omprakash Mishra in the Siliguri Assembly segment, on Monday announced his contest in the same seat as an Independent. Paul said he had severed his ties with Trinamul and would submit his nomination papers on March 24. “I have quit Trinamul and will contest the election as an Independent. I have launched my campaign,” said the former Trinamul leader. When Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee had announced the names of the party’s candidates for 291 Assembly seats, Paul with a political legacy of over three-and-a-half decades had openly expressed discontent with Mishra’s nomination in Siliguri. In 2011, Rudranath Bhattacharya had bagged the Siliguri seat as the Trinamul candidate. But footballer Bhaichung Bhutia contested on behalf of Trinamul in the 2016 Assembly polls, CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya won the seat. After Mishra had been declared as the candidate, Paul said: “A local Trinamul leader should have been chosen for the seat to ensure that the party wins Siliguri again.” Following Pal’s outburst, Trinamul served a showcause notice on him last week. “I sent my resignation letter to the state Trinamul leaders and they have received the same. My wife Manjushree (also former Trinamul councillor), has also left the party,” said Paul. Earlier, he had stepped down from the post of the vice-chairman of the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority. “I had worked in different development bodies and sports associations for years. I will put before voters a 10-point development plan I have readied for the city,” said Paul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘CM has given water, light and roads’||Name: Basant Kumar Khedia Occupation: Owns a garment shop in Purulia town Age: 35 Education: Graduate. Annual income: Rs 7 lakh Size of family: Mother, wife and two children (an eight-year-old daughter, a three-year-old son) Seat: Purulia Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? Not one, but the combination of a few issues will decide my vote. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? Yes, I will vote for the same political party I voted for in 2016. It is because the party has done substantial amount of development in our area. Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you? One, Purulia suffers from water scarcity and Mamata Banerjee has changed the situation in her second term as chief minister. Pipelines were laid and now water reaches our homes free. Two, travelling in the town at night was a nightmare. Not just main roads, street lights have been installed in small lanes too. Three, roads have become better and that has helped my movement within the district and to places like Bokaro and Dhanbad in Jharkhand. As I frequently travel to the neighbouring state, I can vouch that roads in Bengal are far better. Three things Mamata has done that hurt you. One, her stand that led the Tatas to relocate the Singur automobile plant to Sanand in Gujarat continues to have an adverse impact on the overall industrial scenario in the state. Two, as chief minister her intemperate reactions when faced with uncomfortable slogans is unacceptable. Three, her inability to crack down on Trinamul leaders involved in taking cut money from the poor to provide them welfare schemes. Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? She certainly works for the poor and that was demonstrated during the pandemic and the lockdown. Purulia is a poor district but her government reached out to all needy people during the lockdown. Her government did support migrant workers when they returned from their workplaces outside Bengal. What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? Are questions raised about Akhilesh Yadav, the son of Mulayam Singh Yadav? Or for that matter, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who is the son of Shibu Soren? If they can groom their children, what’s wrong in Mamata Banerjee grooming her nephew Abhishek to be her political heir? Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefit you. Sorry, not one central government scheme has benefited me directly or indirectly. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? One, building a wall to hide slums during then US President Donald Trump’s visit to Ahmedabad did hurt my self-esteem as a citizen of this country. Two, appeasement of a few industrialists and privatisation of public sector units. Three, failure to control inflation is adversely affecting our livelihood. Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? There are some central schemes for the benefit of the poor but the major policy decisions of the Modi government are aimed at helping his cronies. Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? Life has got better but I need to work far more to make my business grow. What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? I don’t think that the Left or its alliance stands a chance to win a clear majority. I also don’t think that the Left alliance will become a deciding factor in the formation of the government. Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Yes, there is harmony between the two communities and I enjoy the bonding. I have 10 employees in my shop and interestingly five are Hindus and five are Muslims. Their bonding is such that they celebrate festivals together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul Congress worker killed in Jhargram clash||A skirmish between two gangs of villagers in Jhargram’s Jungle Mahal, who also happened to be rival supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, spiralled into a clash leading to the death of a political worker. Around 8pm on Sunday, Trinamul worker Durgapada Soren, 55, and his wife Sakro were reportedly returning home in Pindorakula when the latter was leered at by a group of youths. Sources said Soren, who was allegedly killed later that night in the ensuing clash, went home without reacting and informed Trinamul workers in the area. “The youths who had allegedly leered at Soren’s wife denied any wrongdoing, and also gathered their forces, turning this unfortunate incident into something much worse,” said an eyewitness. Sources said the opposing group of BJP workers, led by the brother of Aguigani gram panchayat member Manik Sahoo, encountered the Trinamul group from Pindorakula, following which a full-blown fistfight between the two groups ensued. Durgapada’s son Rupnath, who was also part of the group, said the fight was broken up soon and each party went its own way.“But after about 15 minutes, I realised that my father was not part of our returning group. So, we backtracked, and found him lying unconscious in a nearby field,” he said, adding that Durgapada was rushed to a local hospital where he was pronounced dead. Later, police arrested two BJP workers. Panchayat member Manik Sahoo denied allegations of violence saying Durgapada had “tripped and fallen”. Trinamul has termed the incident a “planned attack”. “Such incidents show their true nature. It is important to recognise this before the vote,” said anchal sabhapati Jagadish Mahato. “Police have been asked to take action as they are now reporting to the Election Commission,” added a local Trinamul youth leader. The death resulted in a two-hour blockade by Trinamul workers on the Jhagram-Lodhasuli road on Monday. Jhargram’s superintendent of police, Indira Mukherjee, confirmed the two arrests and said a post-mortem was ongoing. In a separate incident in East Midnapore’s Bhagabanpur, a road show by Trinamul MP and Tollywood actress Mimi Chakraborty was halted when local BJP workers accused Trinamul workers of attacking the car of BJP nominee Rabindranath Maity. Skirmishes ensued, leading both sides to stage a road blockade that was promptly removed by central forces. Asked, Trinamul spokesperson Kajal Burman said the BJP had “staged” the incident to “interrupt” Mimi’s rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Saradha case: CBI searches offices and residence of three Sebi officials||The CBI on Monday searched the offices and residence of three officials of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) in connection with the Saradha case, ratcheting up the probe ahead of the Assembly polls. It is learnt that the top official targeted by the CBI is a chief general manager who headed operations of the market watchdog in Calcutta between 2009 and 2013. The other two are general managers who were also based in the city during that period. There was no official comment from the market regulator on the searches. The Saradha group of companies has been accused to duping lakhs of people of around Rs 2,500 crore by promising them high rates of returns on their deposits. In April 2013, Rajeev Kumar Agarwal, Whole Time Member, SEBI had passed an order directing Saradha Realty India Ltd. and its managing director, Sudipta Sen, to wind up its collective investment schemes and refund the money collected under the schemes at the promised rates within a period of three months from the date of the order. The company was also asked to submit a winding up and repayment report to the market regulator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Left-Cong-ISF attempt to catch the youth’s imagination ||He promises food and security, is open to lending a sympathetic ear to stories about your cheating ex, and is willing to wait a while for that first date. Interested? But don’t rush in to get a “match” just yet. For what the suitor is out to win is not your heart or your hand but your vote. The Left-Congress-ISF is trying to catch the youth’s imagination with a virtual poster of its alliance, the Sanjukta Morcha, that consciously resembles profiles on the dating app Tinder. The Sanjukta Morcha profile, created on a Left-leaning Facebook page titled “Propaganda: Let the voices be heard”, offers you a date on May 2, the day the Bengal Assembly poll results will be announced. It paints Sanjukta Morcha as one who shuns bigotry and promises “food, jobs and security for all”. In a dig at the epidemic of defections in poll season, the profile says: “Changing sides is a big turn off.” It also skewers the Left’s two rivals just by being “open to listening to how that toxic ex cheated with the new perverted boss”. The same page has come up with two more imaginative posters. One of these mimics a transport aggregator app and promises a ride from a “Useless Government” to a “Sangjukta Morcha Government”. The other resembles a food delivery app and pledges the home delivery of good governance. “The young faces on the Left list of candidates pushed me to come up with something unique,” said Arijit Mondal, who designed the posters with friend Mousumi Nandi, activist of CPM student wing SFI. “But I had no clue that so many people would like the campaign.” A CPM leader said these posters mirrored a drive to communicate the Left’s “vision for Bengal” to the youth in an eye-catching way. “If we have to gain the youth’s trust, they need to feel connected to us first,” a CPM state committee member said, adding that the party was keen to shed its tag of a “house of elders”. Which is why the CPM has also come up with a raft of peppy parodies, flash mobs and fluorescent posters as part of its poll campaign. The focus on the youth had already become evident by February 28 when, at the Brigade Parade Grounds, the Left veterans left the front stage to the young faces. When the candidate list came out later, it featured more people under 40 than above. “The peppy songs are being played alongside Tagore and IPTA songs,” said Srijan Bhattacharya, state SFI secretary and CPM candidate from Singur. “But the content is always about the people’s daily struggles.” So far, the CPM has released about a half-dozen songs on social media. Two of these draw their inspiration from Tumpa Sona, a popular independent song released last October. First came a parody on February 20 that went Tumpa tokey niye Brigade jabo. After CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra posted it on his Facebook page, the video was shared around 3,400 times and received over 10,000 reactions. It has close to 1.5 crore hits on YouTube. The CPM has borrowed the tune of Lungi Dance, from the 2013 Hindi film Chennai Express, for the song Haal Pherao, Laal Pherao, whose title exhorts people to bring the Left back to turn Bengal’s fortunes around. Written and sung by SFI members Rahul Paul and Nilabja Niyogi, both songs deal with the topics of jobs and industrialisation and build up the Left-Congress-ISF alliance. On March 17, Left-leaning theatre artist Saurav Palodhi revisited the Tumpa song with new lyrics that urge voters to back the Left. Released on Wednesday morning, the video of Tumpa 2.0 has so far attracted over 15,000 reactions, 166,000 views and nearly 5,000 shares on Facebook. CPM veteran and Raidighi candidate Kanti Ganguly had taken to Facebook on March 15 to seek “a few young people with digital knowledge” who could help his campaign. Within 24 hours, Rahul and Nilabja had come up with a song highlighting Ganguly’s work in his coastal constituency after the Amphan rampage. The latest song, released Sunday night, is a parody of the popular Usha Uthup number Uri Uri Baba from the 1990s and equates the BJP and Trinamul. It’s written and composed by Rahul and Nilabja. Pro-Left singer Arko Mukhaerjee too had composed a song, Brigade Chalo, before the February 28 rally. A dance that actor Joyraj Bhattacharya has choreographed on this song has been performed in flash mobs across Calcutta. Palodhi too is organising flash mobs across the city to campaign for alliance candidates. The CPM released six flashy posters in fluorescent orange, violet, red, yellow, blue and green on social media a few days ago. While resembling the cheap posters frequented on suburban trains, they speak of issues such as communalism, price hike, joblessness, political turncoats, industrialisation and bribery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress vows Rs 5,700 a month for poor homes||The Congress  released its manifesto for Bengal on Monday, promising  that if voted to power, it would provide a monthly financial assistance of Rs 5,700 to economically backward families. The promise is in lines with the Trinamul Congress’s vow to offer universal basic income to 1.6 crore families. Although Congress state chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury didn’t elaborate, he said the financial assistance scheme fell under his party’s promise to provide social security. “Keeping Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy’s ideologies ahead of us…we are releasing this manifesto where we have made eight promises…the promise to provide social security is one of them…” Chowdhury said. While releasing her party’s manifesto last week, Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee had said if she was voted back to power, a monthly amount of Rs 500 (Rs 6,000 a year) to general category households and Rs 1,000 (Rs 12,000 a year) to SC/ST category households would be directly deposited in the bank accounts of the female heads of 1.6 crore families. The Congress scheme, however, is a conditional direct benefit transfer scheme for poor families which make up 20 per cent of the total households in the state, according to the Congress’s own estimates. It was Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who had first announced a UBI scheme before the 2019 general election. He promised that the scheme that pledged to provide Rs 72,000 annually to each family would benefit over 250 million of the poorest Indians. In the Economic Survey of India 2016-17, a UBI scheme has also been advocated as an alternative to various social welfare schemes meant to eradicate poverty. Congress, which is contesting the Assembly polls in alliance with the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front, has repeatedly attacked the Trinamul government for allegedly failing to maintain law and order in the state. Hence, it promises to establish rule of law and ensure security of women in the manifesto. The manifesto iterates that three contentious farm laws will not be implemented in Bengal and promises to double farm income through various means. Congress also promises to focus on expansion of industrialisation, setting up a politics-free educational environment, strengthening the state’s healthcare infrastructure, ensure arsenic-free drinking water and stop soil erosion in the districts of Malda and Murshidabad. Taking a dig at Mamata’s “outsider” against “insider” theory, Congress manifesto states that people from several parts of India have come and lived here. They have become a part of Bengal’s culture. The manifesto vows to protect the cultural diversity in Bengal. Promising that it would bring Bengal out of the “politics of dole”, the Congress in its manifesto says: “Bengal experienced the maximum stable development during the reign of Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy. We want to bring back the Bengal of Dr. Bidhan Roy’s dreams.” However, the issue of CAA is conspicuously missing from Congress’ manifesto for Bengal, being dubbed as Banglar Disha (the Way for Bengal) by the party. The absence of such an issue from the manifesto gains importance at a time when Congress leaders have been regularly saying that the contentious citizenship matrix will not be implemented in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP candidate at rebel’s home to stop nomination||The BJP candidate for Uttarpara Assembly seat on Monday went to a dissident’s house to prevent her from filing nomination as an Independent. Although the efforts did yield desired result at Uttar­pa­ra, problems persisted in several other seats across the state. Krishna Bhattacharya had decided to contest as an Independent as she was upset with the nomination of Trinamul turncoat Prabir Ghoshal. “About 9.45 in the morning, Prabirda came to my house with his men and requested me not to file my nomination. He stayed back for almost two hours till past 12 in the afternoon,” Bhattacharya said. “I almost felt gheraoed in at own house,” she added. Not only Ghoshal, the pa­rty’s Serampore organisational district president Shyamal Bose had called Bhattacharya on Monday morning to persuade her from going ahead with the nomination. Later, wh­en Bhattacharya we­nt to the local court for a personal wo­rk, she found representati­v­­es of the party’s national le­adership waiting for her there. “A close aide to UP’s de­puty chief minister Keshav Pr­asad Maurya was there. Mauryaji himself spoke to me on phone and asked me not to go ag­ainst the party,” Bhattac­harya said. By day fall, the cumulative efforts of the party bore fruit. Bhattacharya, along with BJP leader Shyamal Bose, told the press that she would not contest as an Indepe­nde­nt. “Krishnadi is with us. I’ve spoken to her, Prabirda had gone to her house, even national leaders called her up because she is an important person |for us,” Bose told The Telegraph. While the party has been able to suppress a possible dissidence in Uttarpara, all is not quite well in the Matua front for them. Party MP and Matua Mahasangha chief Shantanu Thakur is apparently unhappy over the party’s decision to overlook his choices while fie­lding candidates in 30 Matua dominated assemblies. On Sunday night, Shanta­nu called upon Union home minister Amit Shah — who was in Calcutta for the release of the party’s manifesto — and requested him to let him decide the candidates for Bagda, Gaighata and Bongan North. “If Shantanu doesn’t get candidates of his own choice, his hold in the party and the community loosens. He doesn’t want that,” a BJP source said. “Amitji has asked him to contest himself in one of the seats. But he is unwilling to do so. He wants to field his brother, father and wife from each of these seats,” this source added. Manjul Krishna Thakur, Shantanu’s father, met the press on Sunday and said the BJP had deprived the Matuas. “We had organised several massive rallies under the leadership of MP Shantanu Thakur. Lakhs of Matua members participated in these rallies. Why will our people still remain deprived?” Manjul Krishna had asked. Bengal BJP’s Scheduled Caste Morcha president and Congress turncoat Dulal Bar is the sitting MLA from Bagda. It is unlikely that he will be replaced for the sake of Shantanu, BJP sources added. In Hooghly’s Chandernagore, a dissident leader and former secretary of BJP’s state unit Tandra Bhattacharya has filed nomination as an independent candidate on Monday. The party’s official candidate for the seat is RSS backed Deepanjan Guha. However, a section of local party leaders termed Guha was an “outsider” and wanted him replaced. Posters alleging that BJP’s Galsi candidate Tapan Bagdi is an accused in a rape case were put up in East Burdwan’s Panagarh and Budbud on Monday. Bagdi, however, saw a Trinamul hand behind these posters. Reacting to these allegations, Trinamul sources in Burdwan claimed that this was another example of the ongoing conflict between old and new BJP leaders over distribution of tickets. Several agitators gathered in front of the BJP’s election office in Calcutta’s Hastings demanding the removal of the party’s official candidate from Calcutta Port seat, Awad Kishore Gupta. In Birbhum’s Murarai, a group of BJP old-timers agitated demanding the replacement of the party’s candidate from that seat. If protest by party supporters was not enough for the saffron camp, Trinamul supporters agitated in front of Union minister and BJP’s Tollygunge candidate Babul Supriyo’s car when he reached the South 24 Parganas DM’s office in Alipore to file his nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee drills holes into BJP poll promises||Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi had fulfilled his 2014 promise of depositing Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of each Indian. The Trinamul Congress chief threw the question at the audience in three back-to-back public meetings as she tried to convince people that the BJP’s poll promises remained only on paper. “I will ask those who voted for the BJP earlier whether they received Rs 15 lakh in their accounts as per their promise? Then, why will you vote for the BJP? They deliver sweet words before elections, they promise to give rice, pulses, jobs and everything. After the election, they just vanish,” Mamata said while addressing her second rally in Bankura’s Katulpur on Monday afternoon. Drilling holes into the BJP’s manifesto — or Sankalpa Patra as mentioned by Union home minister Amit Shah while he released it on Sunday — was the main theme of all the three addresses Mamata delivered in Bankura on Monday as she led the Trinamul campaign to recover the ground the party had lost to the BJP in the Jungle Mahal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In its manifesto, the BJP has promised several schemes for women, including 33 per cent reservation for women in all government jobs in the state and free travel in public transport. “It is just a false assurance that the BJP will secure 33 per cent jobs for women. They have promised only 33 per cent reservation for women whereas our government ensured 50 per cent reservation in rural bodies and municipalities. Our party is the only political party which gives 40 per cent reservation for the women members in Parliament. I will empower my mothers and sisters with a lot of projects,” Mamata said in Katulpur. The fact that the saffron camp has done little for women empowerment is evident from the fact that such reservation for women doesn’t exist at the Centre or in any of the 17 states where it is in power, either exclusively or in alliance. Mamata’s doubts about the veracity of the BJP’s pledges were echoed by the Left parties, especially the CPM, which ridiculed the BJP’s promise of employment to at least one person in each family in five years. Citing the example of neighbouring Tripura, where the Left Front ruled before the BJP came to power in 2018, CPM leaders said the BJP had promised 50,000 government jobs in the first year itself in the northeastern state. “Three years down the line, the BJP is now planning to do away with government jobs altogether. It has planned to hire people as and when required from private agencies," a CPM leader said. The fact that the unemployment in the country has worsened under the BJP rule has been established by available data in public domain as there has been record joblessness under the Modi regime. The BJP’s another big bang promise — implementation of the 7th Pay Commission in Bengal — can also be questioned by looking at the Tripura experience where the BJP government has not paid the promised dearness allowance to government employees and the arrears are only mounting with each passing month. The Sankalp Patra’s promise of hiking stipend to windows from Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000 is unlikely to evoke much interest as the widows in Tripura get Rs 1,000 a month even three years after voting the BJP, which had promised to raise it from Rs 700 to Rs 2,000 after coming to power. “The BJP manifesto is like an audio cassette, which you will only hear, but cannot see,” said Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee. Mamata, from her Bankura rallies, also accused the BJP of copying her call of poriborton and including schemes in the manifesto, which were already present in the state. “Porborton is my slogan. They are copying it,” she said. Mamata also criticised the BJP for its promise to implement Citizenship Amendment Act in Bengal, a promise the BJP has not made in poll-bound Assam before launching an attack on the BJP for trying to divide the country in the name of National Register of Citizens and National Population Register, which she has been opposing. “I will request my brothers and sisters to ask those who live outside the state to come and cast his or her vote here. Otherwise, the BJP will use the NRC and the NPR to remove their names from the list just like what they did with 14 lakh people in Assam. I will not allow the NPR or the NRC till my last breathe,” Mamata said. She also said the BJP’s promises about refugee rehabilitation schemes didn’t mean anything. “They are saying about refugee welfare and colonies. We have already given citizenships to all and you don’t need to dig soil in it,” she said. The fact that the BJP manifesto, which has large sections on PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and claims on free education to the children of small, marginalised and landless farmers, is silent about the three contentious farms bills has also drawn criticism from the opposition parties in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Blast kills 6-year-old boy, Election Commission seeks report||A six-year-old boy was killed and his eight-year-old cousin seriously injured when a crude bomb they appa­rently mistook as a ball expl­oded at Rasikpur in Burdwan town on Monday afternoon. Sources said the Election Commission had sought a detailed report from both district and state administration within 48 hours with a note of action taken against those who had kept the bomb openly. Police sources said Sheikh Afroz was killed and Sheikh Ibrahim seriously injured after they picked up a bomb reportedly kept near the office of a welfare society in Rasikpur. Afroz, son of car driver Sh­eikh Bablu, lived in Rasikpur, while his cousin Ibrahim had come from Memari, 28km aw­ay, to spend a few days at his maternal uncle’s home. Ibra­him has been admitted to Burdwan Medical College and Hospital with multiple splinter injuries to the leg, chest and other parts of his body. After primary investigation, police sources said the bo­mb had been kept in an earthen pot that was hidden at a small hell strip. The boys took out the bomb and threw it on the road and it exploded with a bang. “I don’t know how the bo­mb came there. I don’t know who had kept the bomb that claimed my son’s life. I want punishment for them,” said Sheikh Bablu. “It was very pathetic that a boy got killed and another has been injured. We have already asked the forensic department and squads that handle bombs and explosives to inquire into the matter. The area has been cordoned off and I have visited the spot with senior officers. We have started questioning local residents to know how the bomb came there,” said Bh­askar Mukherjee, East Bu­r­­dwan police chief. At her rally in Bankura’s Indus, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “I always help those in trouble and in accidents. If the house of anybody is burnt, I am the first to take care of this. Today I heard about the bomb explosion in Burdwan in which a child became the victim. Despite my campaign he­re, I asked to take care of the family and the matter.” BJP leaders have accused the state government of maki­ng different clubs and local societies storerooms to stockpile bombs and arms. “It is pat­h­e­t­ic that a child has to lose his li­fe because of negligence of ad­­­m­i­nistration and governm­e­nt. It is not new but an example of how the ruling party is stockpiling explosives, bombs and arms to attack on rivals in co­m­ing polls. We want a stern ac­t­­ion from the election com­m­­i­s­s­ion,” said Abhijit Tah, BJP pr­esident of East Burdwan. Trinamul leaders, however, said it was the Election Commission that was looking after the state’s law and order and raised questions about activities of a large number of central forces. “We are really sorry for the death of a child but the Election Commission can’t deny its responsibility. I have a question about the role of the central forces. Let the commission find the culprits and take action against them,” said Debu Tudu, a Trinamul spokesperson in Burdwan said. CPM leaders said the incident proved that the state was standing on the heap of explosives and established the negligence to seize arms and bombs across the state. “It is not only Burdwan but the death of a child proved that Bengal is standing on a heap of explosives. The large number of central forces which have been brought for free and fair election should conduct sear­ches for such explosives with help of police,” said Amal Haldar, CPM leader and the state secretary of All India Kisan Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Officials to helm five municipal corporations||The Bengal government has appointed Khalil Ahmad and Surendra Gupta as the administrators of the civic bodies in Calcutta and Siliguri, respectively, in the wake of a directive from the Election Commission to place officials at the helm of five municipal corporations in the state. Ahmad, who is picked to run the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, is the urban development secretary. Gupta is the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration secretary and will take charge as the administrator of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation The EC had on Saturday asked the chief secretary to appoint government officials as the administrators replacing political persons at five municipal corporations — Calcutta, Bidhannagar, Siliguri, Chandernagore and Asansol. “We have appointed government officers as administrators at five municipal corporations where political leaders were the chairpersons of board of administrators. A compliance report had been sent to the EC by 10am today (Monday),” said a senior government official. The outgoing mayors of the municipal corporations had been appointed to head the boards of administrators after the expiry of five-year tenure of the elected boards in the past one year or so. The BJP had lodged complaints with the EC saying the civic body offices were being used as extended offices of the ruling party. The Trinamul Congress said the outgoing mayors were given the responsibilities to run the bodies as the government wanted a continuity in the backdrop of Covid-19 as elections could not be held because of the pandemic. “We did not discriminate against any party and that was why the CPM’s Asok Bhattacharya was appointed as the chairman of the board of administrator in Siliguri,” said a Trinamul insider. Sources said in case of Calcutta and Siliguri, two senior IAS officers had been posted considering that those two civic bodies needed special attention. At the three other municipal corporations of Bidhannagar, Chandernagore and Asansol, existing municipal commissioners have been appointed as the administrators. “At these three civic bodies, the commissioners can run the daily activities. But in Calcutta and Siliguri, two senior officers were posted as these are large bodies and need special attention. The two senior officers would be able to run the daily activities with the support of the commissioners,” said a source. The decision to appoint Ahmad as the administrator of the CMC was taken as the ruling establishment didn’t take any risk with the services of the CMC. If the services of the CMC get disrupted, it could affect the poll prospects of the ruling party, sources said. “Khalil had been the commissioner of the CMC for eight years. He knows every function of the civic body. His experience will help run the daily activities smoothly in the city,” said a source. As there was no clear instruction to remove political persons from the post of chairman of the board of administrators at 100-odd municipalities, the state did not appoint government officers as administrators at those civic bodies. “The DMs have been asked to send daily reports on the decisions taken by these civic bodies to the chief secretary for review. The EC has asked the chief secretary to ensure level playing field by reviewing decisions of these civic bodies,” said an official. The sources said since the model code of conduct was in place, the civic bodies couldn’t take any new decision or launch projects. “But still, daily reports have been sought to ensure that nothing wrong is done at these civic bodies,” said an official. Ban on bike rallies The EC has imposed a ban on motorcycle rallies 72 hours prior to the day of voting, citing such programmes are being organised to intimidate voters. The sources also said the EC had made it clear police officers involved in the activities of police welfare boards should be kept out of poll-related duties. “The BJP was repeatedly complaining that a section of police officers was trying to manipulate postal ballots of policemen through the police welfare board. It appears the EC has taken the complaint seriously,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||West Bengal||New exhibits pull crowd to North Bengal Science Centre||Three new attractions — a fighter aircraft, an energy drum and a magic water tap — which have recently been installed at the North Bengal Science Centre (NBSC), located on the outskirts of Siliguri, are drawing crowds of different age groups at the centre. Among these exhibits,  a HPT-32 “Deepak” aircraft and an energy drum were introduced at the centre on the occasion of National Science Day on February 28 this year. The third is a giant magic water tap that was inaugurated on Monday on the occasion of World Water Day. According to sources in the science centre, India’s indigenous Hindustan Piston Trainer HPT-32 aircraft is used for initial pilot training and other utility tasks. Christened as “Deepak”, the aircraft was developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) for the Indian Air Force (IAF) to undertake a range of other utility roles like armed patrol, observation, liaison work, supply dropping, recon, target-towing and weapon training and light strike. The HAL made Deepak first flew in 1981 and it was delivered to the IAF training command in 1984 for formal instructions in basic flying. Notably, many of the top IAF officers have been trained on HPT-32s, which were grounded in 2009. “The aircraft has been donated for display purposes to this centre by the Indian Air Force,” said a source in the science centre. The second exhibit energy drum is equally attractive. Ritabrata Biswas, the project coordinator of the NBSC, said: “Get into the drum and start walking, the drum begins to rotate in the opposite direction you walk. As you walk faster, the speed of the drum increases. The forces of action and reaction in this exhibit are subjects of Newton’s third law of motion.” “The energy produced by the rotation of the drum is used to pump water in a fountain. A new science demonstration lecture (SDL) on light and colour has also been launched on the National Science Day,” he added. The installation of magic water tap has been made to underscore the importance of freshwater conservation. “The tap is fitted to a transparent tube through which water is pumped up and it falls down uniformly from the top end of the tube. The tube wall material is transparent…. Hence, the water that is pumped up, is not visible,” said a source. Biswas also mentioned that the centre that had closed down because of the Covid-induced lockdown and was reopened in November last year is drawing a considerable number of visitors these days. “These new attractions are drawing a good number of visitors. Since November last year, we have witnessed a footfall of over 90,000 visitors,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
23-03-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi alleges torture in custody||Anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi in a letter from jail on Tuesday alleged physical and mental torture in custody and claimed that he was offered instant bail by NIA interrogators if he joined either the RSS or BJP. The letter released by Gogoi's newly floated political outfit Raijor Dal said that the peasant leader was taken to Delhi on December 18, 2019 without the Court's permission. "At the NIA headquarter, I was lodged in lockup no 1 and was given only one dirty blanket. I slept on the floor in 3-4 degree celsius of temperature," he claimed. During interrogation, the NIA officials offered him instant bail if he joined the RSS, the letter claimed. "When I was arguing against the insulting offer, they came out with another proposal of joining the BJP. They said I could contest the Assembly against a vacant seat and become a minister," Gogoi claimed. The RTI activist also alleged that he was offered Rs 20 crore to start an NGO by leaving the peasant body Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) and work against conversion of Assamese people into Christianity. "When I did not accept any of their proposals, they offered me a meeting with the chief minister and an influential minister of Assam. I turned down that too," Gogoi said. He alleged that when he accepted none of the NIA offers of the NIA, he was called a "disobedient citizen" as charged in extreme cases. "I was threatened with dire consequences if I don't accept their proposals. Death threats also came. I was threatened with at least 10 years of imprisonment. With so much physical and mental torture, I became restless on the night of December 20," Ggogi wrote. He was admitted to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital for treating COVID-19 and remains there for other ailments. The NIA had arrested him in December 2019 for his alleged role in violent anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
23-03-2021||North East||CAA will be implemented in due time, asserts Nadda||BJP President J P Nadda on Tuesday asserted that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) has been passed by the Parliament and will be implemented "in time". Nadda, after releasing the party's manifesto for the Assam elections said that the law, (which does not find a mention in the manifesto), is a central legislation and the Congress claim that they will not allow its implementation in the state, if voted to power, may be either "due to their ignorance or they are trying to fool the people of the state". "I do not want to comment on the Congress thinking but their approach is not only problematic but also dangerous for the state", he said. The highly contentious CAA seeks to provide Indian citizenship to Hindus, Jains, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsis entering India on or before December 31, 2014 from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan after five years of residence here. Assam's identity is inextricably linked to Vaishanav saint Srimanta Sankardeva, Bharat Ratnas Dr Bhupen Hazarika and Gopinath Bordoloi and "now can we allow it to be linked with Badruddin Ajmal" (AIUDF chief with whose party the Congress has entered into an alliance for the state polls). The BJP is committed to protect and preserve the "identity and culture" of Assam, keeping the "natural process of cultural change intact". Referring to the issue of infiltration, the BJP president said that the party is committed to strengthening and scientific management of the international borders. "Border management is a continuous process and we will continue to improve it", he said. Asked about the implementation of clause six of the Assam accord to ensure the constitutional safeguard of the linguistic, cultural, social identity and heritage of the Assamese people, Nadda said, "it is under process and we are committed to it". The BJP in its manifesto has made "ten commitments" for an 'Atmanirbhar Assam' which include initiation of process of correction and reconciliation of the entries under the Supreme Court mandated National Register of Citizens to "protect genuine Indian citizens and exclude all illegal immigrants". The BJP has also pledged to protect the political rights of the people of the state through a delimitation exercise. The party also promised that Assam will be made free from the vagaries of flood by launching "Mission Brahmaputra" with a multi-pronged strategy involving the dredging of the river and building reservoirs to store excess water from Brahmaputra and its tributaries. The party committed to enhance payments to women under the 'Orundoi' scheme to Rs 3000 per month from the existing Rs 830 for their economic empowerment and will cover 30 lakh women in a phased manner. A task force will be set up to recover lands of Sattras (Vaishnav monastery) and places of worship from illegal encroachment and strengthen all 'Namghars' (prayer halls) and places of worship of the tribals in the state by providing grants in aid upto Rs 2.5 lakh each. The party also promised to launch 'Mission Shishu Unnayan' to provide free education to every child of Assam in government institutions and provide free bicycles to all school students from class eight onwards to increase access to schooling. The party also pledged to provide two lakh government jobs to the youths of Assam and of these one lakh will be provided by March 31, 2022 and also enable the provision of eight lakh jobs in the private sector, making the state the fastest job creator in the country. It also assured to create 10 lakh youth entrepreneurs through the Swami Vivekananda Assam Youth Employment Yojana (SVAYEM) with two lakh youths to be supported each year for the next five years. BJP also pledged to launch the 'Assam Aahar Atmanirbharta Yojana' to deploy technology, financial and administrative incentives to steer the state towards self-sufficiency in essential food items, especially fish, poultry, piggery, dairy and horticulture products within the next five years. It also promised to empower people with land rights by distributing land pattas with requisite rights to all landless citizens of the state in a phased manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
23-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly polls: BJP releases ‘10 commitments’ manifesto||BJP national president J P Nadda on Tuesday released the party's manifesto for Assam Assembly polls, promising to protect the political rights of people through a delimitation exercise. The party also made 'ten commitments' in the manifesto -- one of which is initiation of a process to "correct and reconcile" the entries made as part of the Supreme Court- mandated National Register of Citizens exercise, as it seeks to "protect genuine Indian citizens and exclude all illegal immigrants". The manifesto underlined that the BJP, if voted to power, will provide free education to every child, make arrangements to control floods and ensure that the state achieves "self-sufficiency" when it comes to production of essential items. It further gave assurance that payments made to women under 'Orunodoi' scheme will be increased to Rs 3,000 from the current Rs 830, and eligible residents would be empowered with land rights. Nadda, after releasing the document, said that Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) will be implemented in Assam when the time is right. Taking a dig at the Congress, he said, "The party had been claiming that it wouldn't allow implementation of CAA, which is a central legislation. They are either ignorant or trying to fool the people of the state."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
23-03-2021||Opinion||Sucker punch: India's middle class shrinks||In a recent report, the Pew Research Center in the United States of America found that India has experienced a deep impact of the coronavirus-related economic recession during 2020. According to the report, India’s middle-income group — the middle class — has shrunk by 32 million. It was estimated that during the period between 2011-2019, about 57 million Indians had improved their economic position to join the middle-income group with earnings between $10 and $20 per day. The number of very poor people, with incomes of less than $2 per day, has actually increased by 75 million during the period of the pandemic. India’s economic contraction is estimated by the World Bank to be around 9.6 per cent for 2020. A comparison with China, based on the same report, revealed that poverty in China — people living on less than $2 per day — has remained more or less unaffected. The decline in the size of the middle-income group in the country was around 10 million compared to India’s much larger 32 million. These disturbing numbers have emerged despite the economic support through relief packages provided by the Government of India. The upshot of these data indicates an erosion of economic gains made over a decade. Unemployment will remain high and the demand for goods and services will remain muted for quite some time going forward. While it is true that all countries of the world have had their own share of economic woes, India’s impact remains one of the worst. Two interrelated reasons can be cited to explain this debacle. This might help policymakers evaluate future interventions to reduce poverty and unemployment. The first is the large number of people whose standard of living is so fragile and unstable that the slightest perturbation can send them reeling down the income scale. Hence the level of income must be coupled with the stability of livelihoods to assess well-being and quality of life. The second reason is the absence of a well-defined safety net for workers and some kind of legislative protection that covers low-paid labour contracts. Unless these are addressed decisively, the level of deprivation will remain alarmingly high in the economy. These problems will become more severe with the emergence of new technologies that are essentially labour-saving in character. One way the government might address these problems is by diverting the proceeds of its privatization strategy, provided it can accumulate a sizeable kitty, to offer solutions that are creative and sustainable for people at the bottom of society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Family man: New RSS gen sec close to Modi||A subterranean tension has, over the years, marked the relationship between the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The RSS, the ideological parent of the BJP, has usually kept BJP-led governments on a tight leash. The parental-offspring relationship has not been without turbulence. For instance, Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s prime ministership witnessed quiet battles of attrition between the former prime minister and the orthodox sangh. But it was the RSS that usually prevailed over party and government on most occasions. This inner dynamics in the parivar appears to be changing, and the prime minister, Narendra Modi, could well claim credit for that. This is because Mr Modi  appears to be succeeding in leaving an indelible imprint within the parent body of the BJP. The elevation of Dattatreya Hosabale — apparently Mr Modi’s man — as the general-secretary of the RSS is a testament to the new churn in Nagpur. There are several explanations for Mr Modi’s greater leverage on the RSS. He has been a loyalist as well as an energetic proponent of the sangh’s vision and mission. His electoral popularity is an additional advantage; it makes it difficult for the RSS to confront the prime minister. The parivar is likely to attribute Mr Hosabale’s anointment in terms of his skill sets. His organizational skills, the RSS-BJP must be hoping, would help the fraternity make deeper inroads into southern India — presumably the sangh parivar’s next frontier. His patronage of RSS affiliates in the West may have consolidated his candidacy. But what tilted the scales undoubtedly in Mr Hosabale’s favour is his endorsement of this government’s pivotal policy visions, be it the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or the National Register of Citizens. There are several advantages of a pliant RSS sarkaryavah for the government. The RSS’s tepid criticism of the manner in which Mr Modi has dealt with farmers is there for all to see. It is possible that the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh and the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh would be equally docile while responding to Mr Modi’s thrust in favour of privatization. The ebb and flow in the bond that binds the RSS and the BJP reinforces another fact. The sangh parivar, just like any other Indian family, has its own paterfamilias. There is little doubt that at the moment, the title belongs to Mr Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Ominous sign: Delhi NCT bill||Sir — The recent introduction of the government of national capital territory of Delhi (amendment) bill, 2021 in Parliament has revived apprehensions of a bid by the Centre to circumscribe the powers of Delhi’s elected government (“Move softly”, March 19). This proposed law, in effect, will undermine the elected government and sends out the message that the Centre will extend support for the greater autonomy of the Delhi government only if the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power. The Aam Aadmi Party — it is currently in power in the Union territory — is right to feel indignation towards the government. There is little to disagree with in the AAP’s contention that the ‘democratically and constitutionally dangerous move’ will render the elections and elected government meaningless. Making it mandatory for an elected government to route all files through the lieutenant governor, in an effort to tilt the balance of power, infringes upon its autonomy. It also all but ends the hope of full statehood for Delhi. The Centre must rethink this ill-advised move. It would do well to revisit D.Y. Chandrachud’s note in the 2018 verdict pertaining to the autonomy of Delhi: “In a democratic form of government, the real power must subsist in the elected arms of the state”. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — In a massive blow to the federal structure of this country, the Narendra Modi government at the Centre tabled the government of national capital territory of Delhi (amendment) bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on March 16. The bill defines the term “government” with reference to any law passed by the Delhi assembly as the “lieutenant governor”. The bill is in direct conflict with the Supreme Court’s 2018 verdict that gave the Delhi government primacy in legislative matters. This has put a dampener on the AAP government’s aspirations for full statehood for Delhi. It is clear that after being rejected by the people in the Delhi assembly elections, the BJP is trying to curtail the power of the elected government through an unconstitutional bill by taking advantage of its majority in the Lok Sabha. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Clear cut: Gender sensitive judiciary||Incongruity produces laughter, they say. Yet while Indian society is forever eager to have its sensitivities hurt in matters such as religion or fiction posing as history, it remains stolidly insensitive to survivors of sexual violence. This incongruity is not funny. Else the Supreme Court would not be directing the National Judicial Academy and the Bar Council of India to arrange for programmes and syllabi aimed at gender sensitization for judges and Bar Council examinees. The court reportedly directed judges to display sensitivity when hearing a sexual violence case, to ensure that the complainant experienced no further trauma during the proceedings and did not lose confidence in the court’s impartiality because of the judge’s words. The instructions expose the depths of prejudice against survivors of violence and show that the impulse — among some — to go easy on the perpetrators of sex crimes is still unchanged. The court referred to the Madhya Pradesh High Court order that granted bail to the accused on condition that he get a rakhi tied by the survivor, give cash presents to her and her son and sweets to the family. Such orders diminish the crime and can traumatize the survivor further. In an incisive list, the Supreme Court has prohibited bail conditions such as permission to the accused to meet or apologize to the survivor, go for mediation or marriage — which the Chief Justice of India did not suggest recently — or practise community service. Another list prohibits claims used to lighten the crime and trivialize the complainant’s pain. These are much-repeated requirements, indicating a deliberate refusal to acknowledge the meaning of sexual violence, a fact that demonstrates society’s misogyny. The complainant’s clothing, behaviour, charges of promiscuity, earlier consent cannot be used in assessing the seriousness of the assault, and that the complainant did not act like a ‘chaste’ Indian woman cannot be an argument for defence. Patriarchal notions about a woman’s place should not influence bail terminology, and the court should consider protection for the survivor in cases where it feels harassment is possible. This last is of particular importance in the country of Unnao and Hathras. Sexual violence is nurtured by predominant values in society and often by political patronage. Courts can neutralize much of their effects by responding to the Supreme Court’s directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Great game: India-Nepal ties||Seldom has a relationship between two nations been so deep and all-encompassing as that shared by India and Nepal, with a common culture, civilization and intimate contact between people marked by free movement across a porous border. But owing to geopolitics and power contestations both New Delhi and Kathmandu seemed to have forgotten their shared historicity and civilizational ethos. However, the present situation in Nepal is such that New Delhi has been vested with a golden opportunity to reinvigorate the ties between the two countries. The prime minister of Nepal, K.P. Sharma Oli, is having a hard time in office; he not only dissolved Parliament but also called for early elections in April. These decisions have alienated the Nepali people and led to a deterioration in Oli’s ties with Pushpa Kamal Dahal, former prime minister and a key member of the Nepali communist party, as well as the former deputy prime minister, Madhav Kumar Nepal. Oli has been expelled from the party and has been asked to resign, but he remains defiant. To make matters worse, Oli’s political legitimacy has been undermined by the massive pro-monarchy protests and the vociferous calls to declare Nepal a Hindu country. These led the beleaguered premier to shun his atheist image and embark on temple hopping. The political turbulence has rung alarm bells in Beijing, so much so that the Chinese ambassador to Nepal and the vice minister of the international branch of the communist party of China had to intervene to try and iron out the differences between the two factions of the communist party of Nepal and to consolidate the leadership ranks. Surprisingly, China was snubbed by the ruling Nepali elite, who subtly made it clear that on some extremely fragile internal matters, Nepal does not require advice from Beijing. Beijing was clearly taken aback by this volte-face, primarily because of the fact that the communist party of Nepal was firmly pro China. Beijing has invested billions in Nepal in areas of hydroelectricity, railways, intelligence and so on and has made the Himalayan nation an important part of its flagship Belt and Road Initiative. The idea that Nepal is another vassal state because of the debt trap that it has fallen into seems to have backfired on Beijing. The mandarins of foreign policy in China have been forced to revisit the drawing board to find out what went wrong with Beijing’s Nepal policy. The domestic unrest in Nepal has proven to be a blessing in disguise for New Delhi, providing it the golden opportunity to resuscitate old ties. New Delhi should shed the Panchsheel policy of non-interference in the internal affairs of a country and must proactively reach out to Nepal. The Indian dispensation should abandon its ideological rigidness and engage all stakeholders involved in the power politics of our Himalayan neighbour; this involves negotiating, first and foremost, with Oli because in spite of threats he appears to be firmly in control. Then New Delhi must engage with the top brass of the army leadership of Nepal as calls have been growing for the army to intervene to put an end to the anarchical situation in Nepal. India must also use the economic carrot-and-stick approach by forging a new trade agreement with Nepal, encouraging more Nepali imports and promoting the ‘Make in India’ scheme as ‘Encourage Investment in Nepal Scheme’. New Delhi must forgo the dues on Nepali economic loans and provide it with generous lines of credit. New Delhi can also send vaccines to Nepal to bolster its image as a benevolent neighbour. It must desist from using the ‘enlightened hegemon’ attitude to try and decouple Nepal from the Chinese influence. Time is running out for Delhi. It must let go of its Cold War era attitude and alter the status quo in Nepal because a pro-India Nepal will bring a lot of strategic and institutional benefits, giving India the upper hand in the great game in the Himalayas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
23-03-2021||Opinion||Bhagat Singh: That young, bright spark||Today is the 90th death anniversary of Bhagat Singh. He was one of the tallest revolutionary freedom fighters, sacrificing his life at the age of 23. Many other revolutionaries died even younger. But Bhagat Singh was different. He was not only a martyr, but also a political and social visionary. In the introduction to his book, Inquilab, the historian, S. Irfan Habib, explains why this is so: “We do great injustice to his memory when we extol him only as a martyr. Bhagat Singh left behind a corpus of political writings underlining his vision for an independent India.” Bhagat Singh lived a very short life but with a privilege that very few had. He was born into a family of nationalists. His father’s younger brother, Ajit Singh — he spent most of his life in exile — was a crusader against imperialism; another uncle, Swaran Singh, underwent many years in prison, defying the British; his father, Kishan Singh, was a Congressman who participated in the Non-cooperation and Civil Disobedience movements and swore by the Mahatma’s ideology and the objectives of the Indian National Congress. Given this political background, Bhagat Singh matured early as a great patriot and revolutionary thinker. He spent a great deal of time reading and writing. When he was only 17, he wrote an article on ‘Universal Brotherhood’ in which he says: “Vishvbandhuta! For me the greatest meaning of the word is equality and nothing else…” In 1926, at the age of 19, Bhagat Singh founded the Naujawan Bharat Sabha, an organization of a secret group of young revolutionaries. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had been founded in 1925 and the Muslim League two decades earlier. Despite the positive impact of the Khilafat and the Non-cooperation movements on Hindu-Muslim relations, polarization was on the rise, once again. To his credit, the young revolutionary took a completely secular approach. The members of the Sabha were asked to sign a pledge that they will “place the interest of their country above that of their community”. A part of its manifesto read: “Religious superstitions and bigotry are a great hindrance in our progress… and we must do away with them. The thing that cannot bear free thought must perish.” Bhagat Singh wrote regularly for Kirti, a journal founded by the communist leader, Sohan Singh Josh, who influenced his move away from anarchism towards socialism, a creed which Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose were propagating from the platforms of the Indian National Congress. Their charisma and popularity among the youth influenced Bhagat Singh and the other revolutionaries. The year, 1928, was eventful in the history of the Independence movement. It was the year of the Simon Commission, the Bardoli Satyagraha and the presentation of the Nehru Report prepared by Motilal Nehru, who presided over the 43rd session of the Congress in Calcutta. In a column written for Kirti in July 1928, Bhagat Singh talks of Nehru and Bose in glowing terms: “Many new leaders with modern thoughts are emerging... The most important young leaders in the present scenario are Bengal’s Subhas Chandra Bose and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. These two leaders are making their presence felt and are participating in the movements of the youth in a big way. Both are wise and true patriots. Still there are considerable differences between the views of these two leaders. One is called the worshipper of ancient Indian culture while the other is called a staunch disciple of the West.” He goes on to explain the differences and exhorts the youth to understand the true meaning of Inquilab: “Subhas favours complete independence because he says that the English are from the West and we are from the East. Nehru says that we have to change the entire social system by establishing our government. For that it is important to obtain complete independence, Subhas sympathises with the workers and he wants to improve their situation. Nehru wants to change the system itself by a revolution. Subhas is sentimental, for the heart... Nehru is a revolutionary who is giving a lot to the heart as well as the head... They... should aim at Swaraj for the masses based on Socialism...” Even though Bhagat Singh went to the gallows avenging the death of Lala Lajpat Rai following a brutal lathi charge, a few months earlier, he had castigated the ‘Lion of Punjab’ for his association with the Hindu Mahasabha. Lajpat Rai responded by calling Bhagat Singh a ‘Russian agent’. Despite this exchange, Bhagat Singh could not tolerate Punjab’s tallest national leader being beaten at the hands of an Englishman. Bhagat Singh’s most popular work, Why I am an Atheist, was written in October 1930 while he was in jail. In this long article, Bhagat Singh raises many questions: “I ask why your omnipotent God does not stop every person when he is committing any sin or offense?… Why did he not kill war overlords or kill the fury of war in them and thus avoid the catastrophe hurled down on the head of humanity by the Great War? Why does he not produce a sentiment in the minds of the British people to liberate India? Why does he not infuse altruistic enthusiasm in the hearts of all capitalists to forgo their rights of personal possessions... and redeem the whole society from the bondage of Capitalism?” Bhagat Singh had a message for the press that seems relevant today: “The real duty of the newspapers is to… cleanse the minds of the people, to save them from… sectarian divisiveness and to eradicate communal feelings to promote the idea of common nationalism.” How should we remember Bhagat Singh today? The best homage citizens can pay is by fighting fearlessly the forces that propagate communalism, hatred, superstition and economic disparity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
23-03-2021||Opinion||The Ides of March||Time is a slippery customer. You turn away for a minute and whole swathes of years get consumed. Turning back, you find you are simultaneously not that far away from when you last looked and, yet, in a completely different place. In 2003, we watched helplessly as the American president, George W. Bush, and his ‘team’ managed to force together a ‘coalition’ of countries willing to launch an invasion on Iraq. Just over a year and a half had passed since the attack on the World Trade Center in New York; the retaliatory war in Afghanistan — aiming to cleanse the country of al Qaida and Taliban — was very far from ‘finished’; it did not take a degree in international relations to see that an attack on Saddam Hussein’s Iraq would be a deadly distraction from resolving the mess of Afghanistan and adjacent areas (very much affecting us in India) as well as a long-term disaster that would keep pumping toxic radiation into the political atmosphere of what the United States of America and Europe call the Middle East. As large masses of people protested against the impending invasion in Europe, America and the world over, many opinion columns (including this one) railed against the monumental misstep from which the world still continues to suffer. The Bush administration’s chief arguments for attacking Iraq were specious and dishonest from the day they were trotted out: Saddam was a cruel dictator oppressing his people like no other in the world (no, there were others who were equally bad: in China, North Korea, Saudi Arabia); Saddam was a psychopath who possessed weapons of mass destruction which he was about to deploy at any moment against civilian populations in neighbouring countries (a complete lie — Iraq had no such weapons, and Saddam was far too logically fond of his own skin to launch such weapons and invite destruction, especially when everyone could see the firepower that had been unleashed upon nearby Afghanistan). Whether it was the lust for complete hegemony over a troublesome chunk of the world or the greed for Iraqi oil or both, George Bush and Tony Blair, the British prime minister, supported by Australia, Poland and Spain sent in their armies on March 20, 2003. What followed was predictable. The ‘war’ was over within a few weeks, the Iraqi military overwhelmed and dismantled in rapid time, with a smugly grinning Bush unfurling a banner on one of his aircraft carriers proclaiming ‘Mission Accomplished’. As one saw the coverage of this crude triumphalism, a replying banner unfurled in the minds of many viewers: ‘Hey pal? You’re so tempting fate.’ Upon inspection of suspected sites, it was revealed that Iraq never did possess any chemical or biological weapons of mass destruction. Further revelations showed how various American and British intelligence agencies had knowingly participated in perpetrating fraudulent scare-mongering among their politicians and the general public. The Coalition forces proved completely unequal to containing the various Iraqi factions. A bloody tapestry of civil wars broke out and spilled over the Iraqi borders into Syria and Turkey. Local Islamo-fascist forces metastasized into Daesh aka ISIS, a terrorist outfit that made al Qaida look mild in comparison. Iran’s ruling establishment benefited hugely from this exploded cesspit and strengthened its position domestically and in the region. Till date, a full 18 years after the launch of the so-called ‘shock and awe’ campaign, American troops are still mired in the quicksands of Afghanistan and Iraq. Among the roll call of the US generals who, one by one, took command of the failing operation in Iraq was one General Lloyd Austin who had won a Silver Star during the initial invasion. As to the name given to the invasion, ‘Operation Iraqi Freedom’, people are still arguing about how to define and put numbers to the body count of Iraqi civilians, with the contesting figures of death being in lakhs — hundreds of thousands — with one survey suggesting over one million violent deaths till the year 2007. History is a card-sharp, constantly bamboozling you with concurrent card-shuffling in different places. One of the immediate fall-outs of 9/11 was that it unleashed hate against Muslim populations the world over, also helping cold-eyed operators to put into motion long-desired pogroms against their Muslim minorities. In that sense, the allegedly planned killings of Gujarati Muslims between the late February and May of 2002 can be seen as a direct gift from Osama bin Laden to Hindutva forces in India. By the time the war-hungry politicians in Washington and London were readying the massive ordinance that would kill lakhs of innocents in Iraq and its environs, the first anniversary of Godhra and the violence that began with the torching of the train carriage there had just passed. As with the Bush cabal’s Iraq agenda, you did not need a doctorate in political science from Harvard to see the writing on the wall in Gujarat. The cases against the perpetrators of the 2002 violence against Muslims were either caught up in interminable blockages, the first information reports missing or mis-recorded, or they had been sabotaged by various investigative authorities. The Muslims who had been fire-bombed out of their houses and businesses were still trapped in camps or newly burgeoning ghettos labelled ‘mini-Pakistan’ with no hope of any redressal or compensation. Police officers and civil service officials who produced testimony critical of the state government had been punitively sidelined and disabled. The local media in Gujarat were now operating under a huge pall of fear. Businesses and factories that continued to employ Muslims received threatening calls: ‘We are watching. Why is that Muslim worker still coming to your office?’ The Gujarat Model was by now firmly in place. Looking back to that moment 18 years ago, the shock and awe come from remembering that there were actually apologists for the Iraq invasion among the liberal left commentariat. Conversely, there is no shock or doubt about this: after Gujarat, any political commentator outside the sanghi camp who had anything but deep dismay and trepidation about Narendra Modi becoming prime minister was either ludicrously naive or writing in some perverse bad faith, allowing the revulsion for the Congress to blind him/her to the much greater danger to the Republic and the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Five children drown to death in a pond at Hazaribagh village||Five children, including four girls, drowned in a pond at Gadokhar village on Tuesday. The village falls under Pelawal outpost in Katkamsandi block, 10km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. The incident occurred as one Jhalo Devi went to wash clothes at the pond. She was busy with her work, when her daughter Kajal went into deep waters. The other four children ran to save her but drowned one after another. Jhalo also jumped into the pond and started drowning. She was saved by a few villagers. Villagers retrieved the bodies and sent them for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital (HMCH). Other than Kajal (14), the deceased include Nikita Kumari (13), Durga Kumari (11), Riya Kumari (11) and Rishu Kumar (10). Riya and Rishu were siblings, studying in Hill Green Public School, Gadokhar. Circle officer of Katkamsandi, Anil Kumar said the family of each of the victims will get compensation of Rs.4 lakh under the disaster management act. He also announced to run an awareness campaign in the village to prevent any future disasters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two children charred to death in a fire mishap||Two children were charred to death while playing near a pile of straw under Jhinkpani police station area in West Singhbhum district, about 100 kms away from here on Tuesday morning. The tragedy struck the victims identified as Rohit Gope (3) and Rajdeep Gope (4), both cousin brothers, in front of their home in Aashura village, about 11 am today. According to a relative of the victims, the two children were playfully making a house of straw when suddenly the heap caught fire, without anyone taking notice of the mishap. "A passerby saw the smoke and the two children writhing in pain on the ground. The children were rushed to Sadar Hospital, Chaibasa where the doctors declared them dead," said the relative while talking to The Telegraph Online. Jhinkpani police station OC, Ravi Ranjan said at the time the two children were playing with the straw-heap, causing the fire mishap, a loudspeaker was on full volume at a marriage ceremony nearby. "The children must have cried in pain on catching fire, but their cry and scream must have been buried in the high volume of the loudspeaker," said Ranjan, who earlier visited the spot. "If only the volume of the loudspeaker was low, perhaps the people around them would have heard the children's screams and would have rescued them before it was too late," the OC added Both the bodies of the victims were sent for autopsy at the Sadar Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ban orders issued in Ranchi for two days of Holi  ||Ranchi district administration announced the imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC within city limits on Tuesday in view of the two-day Holi festival on March 28 and 29. The order, enforced in areas under the jurisdiction of Sadar sub-divisional office, also banned the use of DJs and loudspeakers, airing songs or speeches hurting religious sentiments and rallies or processions. While the administration has not issued any specific directive on Holi Milans (gatherings) that are already taking place across the district in spite of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the district Covid-19 task force, headed by the deputy commissioner, has banned all kinds of religious processions on the occasion of Sarhul, a tribal festival that is scheduled to be held in the second week of April. Ramnavami will fall days ahead of Sarhul, which officials said, would also be restricted. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan, after chairing a meeting of the task force, said, “Although the state government’s earlier unlock orders have already banned religious processions and gatherings, the district administration is issuing a fresh notification to reinforce the orders in toto in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Both SDOs—Utkarsh Gupta of Bundu sub- division and Sameera S of Ranchi Sadar _ have been directed to notify the curbs.” Covid cases in the state, including Ranchi, have seen a rise in recent weeks. In one week, active cases in the state almost doubled to 800. Ranjan said the district administration was stepping up measures to curb infections, which he feared, may rise during the upcoming festivities. “At Tuesday's meeting, concerned officials have been directed to intensify testing at transit points like the airport and railway stations. At railway stations, our main focus is to minutely scan travellers coming from Maharashtra and Kerala,” he said. Ranchi civil surgeon V. B. Prasad has been directed to increase testing facilities at transit points if the need arises, he added. On contract tracing and other measures, Ranjan said all officials and frontline workers have been asked to revisit all procedures to prevent any confusion in the wake of the spike in cases. “We are getting ready for the battle again. Besides  keeping a record of availability of hospital beds at Covid centres, everyone has been asked to follow prescribed SOPs and send daily reports to the headquarters,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Mask violations net Rs 8 lakh in fines in Ranchi in five days  ||Police collected over Rs 8 lakh in fines from  nearly 1,800 people in Ranchi over five days for not wearing masks during a special campaign to enforce Covid safety norms in the wake of the recent spike in cases in parts of the state. An official of the police traffic department confirmed that anyone without a mask was slapped a fine of Rs 500 under section 179 (1) of the Motor Vehicle Act in the campaign that began on March 18. Figures procured from traffic police till Monday night suggest that 415 people were issued challans and fined Rs 2.5 lakh on March 18. The next day, 304 people were caught without masks and Rs 1.1 lakh in fines was collected from them. On March 20, 436 people were fined and Rs 2.18 lakh collected from them. On March 21, 300 people were slapped penalties worth Rs 1.50 lakh, while on March 22, Rs 1.5 lakh was collected from another 300 people in fines. On the other hand, various teams of the district administration conducted surprise inspections at markets, namely, Pandra, Chutia, Jagannathpur, and Namkum among others, and issed notices to 34 shops and business establishments for violation of norms. “The notices were to serve as the first warning for those not adhereing to Covid safety norms. If they repeat such behaviour, we will then seal their shops,” said an official belonging to the district administration. Of the total 796 active cases in the state, Ranchi alone accounts for 406. The district currently has a positivity rate of 6.48 per cent. Ahead of the Holi festival, the local administration is taking all measures to curb a further rise in cases. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that the special drive to ensure people wore masks would continue daily across public places as a part of the administration’s plan of action to prevent the spread of the virus. “The drive will be intensified in the coming days if things don’t improve. Individual precaution is the first step towards curbing the pandemic. Hence, all are requested to comply with the prescribed guidelines such as use of masks, maintaining social distancing, among others, while moving out,” he said. The administration, he added, was also trying to focus on increasing the vaccination coverage through special drives among the vulnerable population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Halfway homes to come up in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad soon ||The Jharkhand government will come up with halfway homes in three of the most populated cities of the state – Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad – in a bid to help mental health patients adjust with  mainstream society after they undergo treatment at psychiatry institutes and are fit to leave the hospital premises, officials from the Women and Child Welfare Department said on Tuesday. The halfway homes coming up in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad, officials said, will not only give mental health patients a new lease of normal life, but also ease the pressure on various state and Centre-run psychiatry institutes which have become a dumping yard of mental patients who are staying on even after being treated as their families have refused to accept them. “The halfway homes will come up in the next financial year in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. The government has already allotted funds for the project,” said state Women and Child Welfare Secretary Avinash Kumar, adding that the project will be jointly run by the health department and the welfare department. A halfway home, popular in some western countries, is a place that allows people with physical, mental, and emotional disabilities to learn social skills necessary to re-integrate into the society, say psychiatrists. “As the name suggests, halfway homes, are a stoppage for mental health patients in their journey from a mental asylum to the mainstream society,” said DK Saxena, special secretary in the women and child welfare department of Jharkhand. Saxena, who is a member of the team working on the project, said that after spending several years in mental asylums, patients face many challenges in adjusting to the mainstream society. The halfway homes, he added, will impart livelihood skills to the inmates and it is expected that their families too might start accepting them once they heal completely and are ready to lead a normal life. Doctors at the Ranchi Institute of Neuro Psychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS), the largest state-run psychiatry institute in Ranchi, claim that at least 50 patients are staying on at the institute after being treated as they have no place to go. Some of these patients, doctors said, suffered from diseases such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorders and have been staying there  for more than five years. In many cases, police patrol vans pick up mental health patients from roads and take them to RINPAS. Most of such patients, doctors say, are abandoned by their families and do not have a place they could return to after treatment. Dr Siddharth Sinha, a Senior Consultant Psychiatrist at RINPAS, said that the count of such patients has reduced at the hospital lately, but there were still several such patients waiting for discharge. “There are quite a few patients in the male as well as female sections of the institute with nowhere to go despite being ready for discharge,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||People have realised what BJP stands for, says senior Left leader ||Left leader Dipankar Bhattacharya has accused the BJP of "muddying" Bengal's water to "fish for votes" and rebuked the party for trying to appropriate the state's cultural and historical icons even though its own ideology was diametrically opposit to theirs. The general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist Leninist) Liberation also claimed that the BJP's appeal had declined substantially post 2019 during the Modi-2 era due a host of factors like rising unemployment, escalating prices, regular hikes in the cost of petrol and diesel and disinvestment. Talking exclusively to The Telegraph Online at the Circuit House here on Tuesday, Bhattacharya said, “Earlier, the people of Bengal had a remote experience with the BJP, even thinking, 'why not the BJP this time?'. But as the poll campaign progressed, they have come face-to-face with it and realised what the BJP stands for." “People of Bengal have understood that the BJP uses people to gain power and after assuming power makes a mockery of the Constitution, destroys law and order and gets engaged in 'selling the nation'," added Bhattacharya, who is in Dhanbad to attend  a two- day conclave of Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC). Referring to the BJP's promise in its Bengal manifesto about making education free for girls from KG to PG , Bhattacharya posed a simple question. "Why hasn't the BJP not made education free in so many states where it is in power ?" he said. Asked about the Sonar Bengal slogan of BJP, the Left leader said the BJP was in the business of selling dreams. "Why not  Sonar Bihar or Sonar Asam? After all, didn’t they make Jharkhand Sonar Jharkhand during the Raghubar Das rule?," he said sarcastically. The BJP, he added, was using emotional slogans and jugglery of words to usurp power. “BJP is also using Bengal’s historical icons, from Subhash Chandra Bose to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Rabindranath Tagore, portraying them as legacy of BJP and RSS. But they are acting contrary to the teachings of these historical figures,” Bhattachrya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma tourists can enjoy their stay in a bamboo cottage from April||The bamboo cottage at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary will be made available by the authorities for tourists from April, while all the resorts are already booked after the elephant abode re-opened post-pandemic earlier this month. Orders for upholstery for the bamboo furnitures inside the facility will be shortly placed before it is formally opened. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the cottage was ready to be let out to the tourists. "It will be a major attraction for visitors who want to spend quality time amid natural surroundings. Upholstery on furniture will be completed soon and the facility will open next month," he added. Built at a cost of Rs 7 lakh under an eco-tourism project, the cottage is situated adjacent to the plush AC and non-AC accommodations at Makulakocha. A forester said funds for the upholstery has already been sanctioned and work would start at the earliest. "Fund for upholstery is not an issue now," he added on condition of anonymity. The cottage has two bedrooms, a drawing-cum-dining room, two attached toilets, bamboo furniture, a veranda in the front and landscaping near it. The facility is implemented by the state forest department. Plans are on to install air-conditioners at the facility which will add to the comfort quotient. The facility is all set to be a huge attraction for tourists from Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Another bamboo cottage is also located near the main entrance but it is yet to be commissioned and the facility is not yet completed. Tourists visit Dalma sanctuary mainly to watch elephants. They will not be disappointed now since the jumbos  are presently scattered across the sanctuary after their return from the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. They will have ample opportunities to click pictures of jumbos near the watering holes and can also visit the shiva temple on the hill top from where they can enjoy a panoramic view of the sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||71-year old dies two days after vaccination in steel city||A 71-year-old man died at Tata Main Hospital here in the we hours of Monday two days after taking the first dose of the Covishield vaccine at Seraikela-Kharsawan district on March 20. The deceased, Chandredeo Singh was a retired state government employee. He received his vaccine dose at the panchayat-level health hub on the morning of March 20. "My husband fell sick few hours after the vaccination. Since his condition deteriorated, we got him admitted to the Tata Main Hospital the same day (March 20). Early on Monday morning, we were informed that my husband had died," said Sankari Singh, who is mukhiya of Kandra panchayat. A senior officer in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration said an autopsy of Chandradeo's body was conducted by a medical board at MGM Medical Colege and Hosptal late on Monday night. "Though the autopsy report is yet to come, it has been confirmed that the recipient of the Covishield was not Covid-19 positive. The cause of his death will be known after the autopsy report is available," said the officer. Neither Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner Rajkamal nor district civil surgeon Himanshu Bhushan Barwar could be contacted despite repeated attempts. But Rajkamal's counterpart in East Singhbhum district, Suraj Kumar, confirmed that the autopsy had ben done. "The deceased, Chandradeo Singh, who was 70 plus, had been vaccinated in Seraikela-Kharsawan district on March 20. Two days after the vaccination, he died at Tata Main Hospital. As the matter pertains to Seraikela-Kharsawan district, the local deputy commissioner has all the other details," Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia residents march against corruption in Dhanbad corporation||Over 50 Jharia residents on Tuesday rallied on foot from JP Chowk at Katras to the Dhanbad district headquarters in protest against the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation accusing it of engaging in corruption over developmental work. The protesters, comprising young activists, also burned effigies of Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar and Executive Engineer Anup Kumar Samanta and submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, demanding action against them . They said that the civic body is engaging in corruption regarding the ongoing renovation and beautification work of the Nehru Park at Katras More, the Children’s Park at Dharamshala Road and several other parks of the area. Akhlaque Ahmad, the founder of social organization Youth Concept, alleged that the boundary bricks at the Nehru Park are being laid atop the existing dilapidated wall instead of constructing a new one, putting the lives of children in danger. “When we objected to it, the contractor said that they have to pay more than 36 per cent  commission to the municipal corporation authorities so they don’t have any option,” said Ahmad. Vikash Kumar, a resident of Katras More alleged that substandard quality material is being used for the construction, and the wall can collapse any day. “The walking track developed in Children’s park at Dharamshala road has developed cracks at several places while around 150 trees have been cut in the name of construction work devoiding the park of greenery,” Anil Jain, a Jharia-based trader, said. Deepak Kumar, Junior Engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation refuted the claims. “As per the estimate of the  project only 45 per cent of the construction work at Nehru park is supposed to be done anew. Moreover, grill laying work is also being carried out, and so there is no provision of construction of a new boundary wall,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Close to 800 active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand as state reports 110 cases||The active Covid-19 caseload drew close to 800 in Jharkhand and crossed the 400 mark in Ranchi on Monday as the state reported 110 fresh cases against only 69 recoveries, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The death toll reached 1,097 on the day as a resident of Deoghar died during treatment, the NHM bulletin stated. Ranchi reported 46 cases against 41 recoveries and the count of active cases here reached 406, the NHM bulletin stated. Ranchi accounts for more than half of the active cases in Jharkhand and has reported the bulk of fresh cases in March. Meanwhile, as many as 29,051, including over 20,000 senior citizens and nearly 6,000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday. The special Panchayat level vaccination drive was not run in the villages on the day, health officials said. In the past two days, Jharkhand vaccinated over 2.6 lakh people, especially rural residents, as special vaccination camps were set up at different villages of the state. The Panchayat level vaccination drive will resume on Tuesday, health officials said. While the state has inoculated several thousand senior citizens since the launch of the second phase of the immunisation programme on March 1, it has performed poorly in vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers registered for the first and second jabs of the vaccine, reveals government data. As per a report released by the NHM on Monday, only 2816 healthcare and frontline workers got the first jab of the vaccine on the day, while as many as 5925 got the second jab. The state achieved 8 per cent of its target for the second jab and 47 per cent of its target for the first jab, the NHM report stated. Since the launch of the immunisation programme, Jharkhand has vaccinated as many as 9,55,846 Jharkhand residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine and over 4.5 lakh of them were senior citizens, highlights NHM data. Over 1 lakh middle-agers with comorbid conditions have also been inoculated. The second dose has been administered to 2,20,641 of the over 9.5 lakh people who got the first dose of the vaccine. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday flagged off a mobile van under the 'Apni Suraksha Apne Haath' campaign, which aims at spreading awareness about hygienic practices and Covid-19 precautions among school students in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
