24-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Differently-abled people narrate hurdles faced in exercising voting rights||The entrance to the electronic voting machine (EVM) room was so narrow at a booth in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls that a woman on a wheelchair found it difficult to negotiate. “You can ask your husband to cast your vote,” a polling official had whispered into her ear. A man with cerebral palsy, who also uses a wheelchair, reached the ground floor of a polling booth but there was no ramp. He could not make his way past a flight of four-five stairs. He had to be lifted by others before he could cast his vote. Differently-abled people and activists narrated the hurdles faced in exercising their voting rights in front of politicians during a panel discussion at a city club on Tuesday. The facility of home-based postal ballot system has been available for voters with disabilities since 2019. But many of them are still to be included in the electoral rolls, said representatives of NGOs. Saswati Acharya Mahanty, 52, a special educator with the Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy for over two decades, has polio herself and uses a wheelchair. “During the last election (2019), I could not enter the EVM room on my own. The polling staff finally helped me enter but not before an official suggested that my husband ‘cast my vote’. Why should that happen? My husband and I are entitled to have separate political preferences,” said Mahanty. A visually impaired voter had asked for a Braille ballot guide at another booth during the 2019 elections. “The polling official sounded surprised at hearing the word,” the man recounted. There were close to 3,00,000 voters with disabilities in Bengal during the 2019 polls, according to government estimates. District magistrates are supposed to have a database of voters with disabilities specifying the nature of disability on the electoral rolls. The Election Commission’s Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation mandates the following: “Assured Minimum Facilities” at polling stations — “signage, help desk, polling booth at ground floor, obstacle free wide levelled pathway from entrance to voting compartment, ramp as per GOI standards, accessible toilets, drinking water, separate entry and exit, lighting, accessible furniture, Braille ballot guide, adjustable Braille embossed EVMs, wheel chairs, booth volunteers and display of accessible posters on information pertaining to voting”. But on the ground, many of the facilities are absent, the speakers pointed out at the programme organised by NIP, an organisation that works with differently-abled people. “The election manifestos give very little space to differently-abled people. Is it because they are not part of a vote bank?” asked Debajyoti Roy, the secretary of NIP. Amiya Biswas, who represented Blind Persons’ Association, spoke of parliamentarians’ “general indifference” to the plight of people. “A 2019 hunger index placed India in 102nd place among 117 countries. A minister contested the report, saying India was a place where stray pups are also given food. There is a clear lack of empathy in the government and the parliament,” he said. Many activists concurred that the problems would not be solved unless there was sufficient representation of differently-abled people in legislatures, from state assemblies to the parliament. “Elections and campaigns come and go. But there are hardly any differently-abled candidates fielded by any party,” said Roy. They called for “reservation of seats for differently-abled candidates in the legislatures”. Tuesday’s panel comprised Fuad Halim of the CPM, Soumya Aich Roy of the Congress, Rajib Biswas of the BJP, Ambikesh Mahapatra, Jadavpur University professor, and Mita Banerjee, former disabilities commissioner of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||Hospitals prepare  for change||Hospitals are drawing up plans to adhere to Centre’s guidelines that anyone above 45 will be given a Covid shot from April 1 and the second dose of Covishield should be administered between six and eight weeks of the first dose for better protection. Some hospitals are calling up Covishield recipients whose second dose is yet to be administered and offering them a fresh date. The hospitals are also flooded with calls from the recipients seeking new dates, in accordance with the Centre’s new guideline. Officials of several hospitals said that if anyone turned up for the second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first dose, they would offer him or her a new date 42 days after the first dose. But if someone insists on taking the second dose 28 days after the first, the hospitals will not resist. “The Centre’s new guideline says the second dose of Covishield can be administered between four and eight weeks of the first. So, if someone wants to take it after four weeks, we will give him or her the second dose,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. In a letter to state health secretaries on Monday, the Union health secretary wrote the “recommendation has been revised to provide 2nd dose of COVISHIELD at 4-8 week’s interval after the 1st dose instead of the earlier practiced interval of 4-6 weeks”. The letter added: “It appears that protection is enhanced if the second dose of COVISHIELD is administered between 6-8 weeks.” Tondon said Belle Vue was flooded with calls from people who wanted to reschedule the date for the second dose of Covishield. When they had taken the first dose, they were given a date after 28 days for the second jab because the previous guideline had said that the second dose should be taken between four and six weeks of the first. “We are calling up as many people (whose second dose of Covishield is due) as possible. Some people have called us and requested a new date, which is six weeks after the first dose,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN tagore hospital is the flagship unit. He, however, said that if an elderly person landed up for the second dose between four and six weeks of the first, they would vaccinate the person. The hospitals are also drawing up plans to accommodate an increase in the number of vaccine recipients from April 1, from which day anyone above 45 will be eligible for a Covid shot. “We have decided to extend vaccination hours from April 1. Vaccination will begin at 8am and continue till 8pm from April 1 at our hospitals in Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake. We will also start vaccination on Sundays from April,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. RN Tagore hospital will keep two sites for the two categories of recipients. People aged 60 and above and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities will be vaccinated at one site, and people above 45 without any comorbidity will be vaccinated at the other. “We have two sites now. One is reserved for healthcare and frontline workers. Administering their second doses will be over by March. We will reserve the site for those above 45,” said Venkatesh. Officials at Belle Vue said they were using only 2,500sq ft of an 8,000sq ft floor for Covid vaccination. If required, more sites will be opened to accommodate more recipients. Bengal on Tuesday had 82 active Covid cases. The total active cases now is 3,656. The state had 320 recoveries and 404 new infections, besides two deaths, one in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||State health department spots vaccine lapses||Vaccination done with pre-filled syringes, vials stored outside refrigerators for long, lack of trained vaccinators. These are some of the shortcomings identified by the state health department while inspecting Covid-19 vaccination facilities run by some private healthcare units. The findings and recommendations were sent to all private healthcare units on Tuesday, officials said. The issue was discussed at a meeting with the private units and the minutes were sent to officials of these units. Senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities are being administered Covid jabs from March 1. Those getting vaccinated at a private unit are paying Rs 250 for each dose. A health department official said among the most significant anomalies detected at some of the vaccination facilities is that jabs are being administered in pre-filled syringes. "The rule is that the vaccine should be taken out from the vial in a syringe and administered immediately. If a syringe is pre-filled and kept for some time, there is a high chance of the vaccine getting contaminated. In some sites, vaccinators are prefilling syringes, going against the rule, to save time,” said an official of the health department. At some centres, officials found vaccine vials kept on ice trays, instead of refrigerators. A health department official said the Covid vaccines approved in India - Covishield and Covaxin - needed to be stored at temperatures between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. Before vaccination, vials should be brought to room temperature. "If vials are kept on an ice tray, there is a possibility that the required temperature will not be maintained. A vaccine’s efficacy will be compromised if it is stored at more than the required temperature for four hours or more,” a doctor said. Health department officials also observed that vaccinators were not properly counselling recipients at many private vaccination sites. A vaccine recipient has to be verbally asked whether he or she is having any comorbidity. The recipients also need to be informed which vaccine - Covishield or Covaxin - is being administered. “Also, recipients have to be told that after vaccination, they could suffer from adverse events like allergy, fever, headache, pain in the hand and general weakness. They should be told that paracetamol should be taken for fever or pain. One must consult a doctor if the problem aggravates,” an official said. The monitoring teams have observed that such counselling was not being done at some sites. Improper management of biomedical waste and inadequate space at the vaccination site have also been observed. The health department has recommended proper training of personnel before they are deployed at a vaccination site, refresher orientation for all concerned, strict adherence to safe injection practice and supportive supervision of the sites. The health department has also recommended that all recipients be properly escorted to Covishield and Covaxin sites at facilities where both vaccines are being administered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||App cab drivers cite rising fuel prices for turning off AC||Many passengers in the city have complained that app cab drivers have been refusing to switch on their car’s air-conditioner. Several drivers cited rising fuel prices as the reason for not being able to afford ACs anymore. The Telegraph spoke to some drivers and cab owners. Here are three accounts. Vijay Gupta, 47 Owner-driver of a Swift Dzire, registered with Uber Family: Gupta is a resident of Haridevpur. Apart from his two children and wife, Gupta has to take care of his elderly parents and a bedridden brother and his family. He managed to repay his car loan in April 2020 but is now finding it difficult to make ends meet with the rise in fuel prices. Income: In 2016, he used to earn Rs 1 lakh a month and could take around Rs 60,000-Rs 70,000 home after spending on fuel and incurring the driver’s expenses. Now, he drives the car himself. With reduced incentives from Uber and increased fuel prices, the monthly earning he takes home has gone down to Rs 25,000 a month, he said. Impact of AC: Not switching on the AC enables him to save around Rs 200 a day. “That means a lot of money for a family that has two school-going children and two patients. My brother also has a car but he suffered from brain haemorrhage while on a trip in January. He has been bedridden since. I am taking care of his family as well,” Gupta said. His mother is suffering from a lung infection, he said. Mahmood Alam, 39 Driver of a Swift Dzire, with Ola Family: A resident of Pilkhana, Howrah, Alam has a joint family of elderly parents, his wife, two children, two brothers and their families. He used to drive an auto in Howrah’s Salkia, before he started driving for Ola in 2016. Income: “My earning has become half of what I used to earn before the lockdown last year,” he said. Alam used to earn between Rs 22,000 and Rs 25,000 a month earlier. Now, this has come down to around Rs 10,000-Rs 12,000, he said. He blamed multiple factors — from the fuel price hike to reduced incentives from Ola — for the decline in his income. “Earlier Ola used to offer an incentive of Rs 500 for 12 trips. Now, the amount has been halved but the number of trips has been increased to 13,” Alam said. Impact of AC: “If I keep the AC off, I get more mileage and save between Rs 150 to Rs 200 a day, depending on the kilometers covered. At the end of the day, when I report back to my employer and inform him that I have saved his Rs 200, which he would have to spend on fuel otherwise, my chances of getting an incentive from him gets brighter,” Alam said. The owner has to pay for fuel, maintenance, tax and traffic fines. “How can I expect anything from him if I don’t save anything for him?” Alam added. Sukesh Panda, 41 Owner of a Swift Dzire, with Uber Family: Originally from Odisha, Panda’s family still stays there. He stays in Tollygunge Income: Around the end of 2017, when Panda enrolled with Uber, his monthly income used to be around Rs 72,000, out of which he would pay around Rs 26,000 (Rs 60 per trip) to his driver and spend another Rs 24,000 on fuel. “Now, after paying the driver and purchasing the fuel, I only have around Rs 16,000. My income is actually less than what I have to pay as EMI for the car,” Panda said. Earlier, the company was paying Rs 12 per kilometer but now the rate has been slashed to Rs 8 per kilometre, he said. Impact of AC: Panda said he has instructed his driver to first explain that the fuel price hike has prompted them to keep the cooler off. “I have told him to switch on the AC in case the passenger insists,” he said. Panda said by keeping the AC off, he saves around Rs 1,000 a month (depending on the number of trips and kilometers covered). “I have told my driver to keep it on in the afternoon. Anyway, my income from this business is less than what I am paying as EMI and I have to pay from my pocket. I don’t mind spending another Rs 1,000 from my pocket if that gives comfort to my passengers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||Frank Anthony Public School shuts down for a week ||Frank Anthony Public School on Tuesday shut down for a week after a Class X student who attended school on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19. Frank Anthony is the third school in the city that has had to suspend on-campus activities in the past two days. The school was conducting the pre-board exams for Classes X and XII. “...We received information that one of our Class X students who attended school on Saturday (20/03/2021) tested positive for Covid. In view of this, the School will remain closed till 29th March, 2021,” read a notice from principal Ian Myers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||Safety  protocol for Chrism Mass||The Chrism Mass, the religious service conducted a week before the Holy Week, will be held from 10am on Thursday at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary. Priests can attend the Mass and the rest may witness its live streaming on the archdiocese channel. The vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta has requested that priests who are “aged and/or infirm” and those with comorbidities need not attend in person. “To maintain distance we have asked for only two Sisters/Brothers from each institution from the city,” said Dominic Gomes, the vicar general.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||69-year-old gets brain stent in Howrah||A stent was implanted in the brain of a 69-year-old man, who had suffered multiple strokes, at a hospital in Howrah last week. Doctors said implanting a stent in the brain was “rare”. The man is stable and is likely to be discharged on Wednesday. When the elderly man was admitted to Narayana Superspeciality Hospital on March 16, he had difficulties in seeing and speaking. “After a scan we found that he had suffered multiple strokes,” said Kaushik Sundar, stroke and interventional neurologist at the hospital. He started slipping into a coma on March 18. A brain angiogram showed that the artery supplying blood to the brain stem was blocked. The doctors decided to perform a mechanical thrombectomy, a process in which the clot is sucked by a vacuum syringe. Even after the procedure, they found dirt inside the blood vessel. “That is when we decided to implant a stent in the blood vessel to ensure unhindered flow of blood thro-ugh the vessel,” said Sundar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Business||Sensex dips 871 points, Nifty below 14,600||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 871 points on Wednesday due to across-the-board selling amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 871.13 points or 1.74 per cent lower at 49,180.31.While the broader NSE Nifty declined 265.35 points or 1.79 per cent to 14,549.40. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by SBI, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, ITC and NTPC. Bucking the overall trend, Asian Paints and PowerGrid closed with gains. "Domestic equities fell sharply on weak global cues and continued apprehensions among investors from a surge in coronavirus cases in the country,'' said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, a sharp rebound in dollar index aggravated concerns despite dip in US bond yields and crude prices, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul plunged up to 2 per cent. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.78 per cent higher at USD 62.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business||Petrol price cut by 18 paise, diesel down by 17 paise per litre||In the first reduction in rates in over a year, petrol price on Wednesday was cut by 18 paise per litre and diesel by 17 paise a litre as international oil prices tumbled to the lowest since early February. Petrol price was cut to Rs 90.99 a litre in Delhi from Rs 91.17 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel now comes for Rs 81.30 a litre in the national capital, down from Rs 81.47 previously. Rates have been reduced across the country and vary from state to state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT). This is the first reduction in fuel prices in over a year. Prices were last reduced on March 16, 2020. Despite bouts of rate freeze, prices had gone up by a record Rs 21.58 per litre on petrol in the last one year. On diesel prices had increased by Rs 19.18 a litre. Prices which last month hit record highs including crossing Rs 100 mark in some places in Rajasthan, Maharasthra and Madhya Pradesh, had been on freeze since February-end when elections to five states including West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala were announced. In Mumbai, the petrol price was cut to Rs 97.40 a litre on Wednesday from Rs 97.57 while diesel rates were reduced to Rs 88.42 from Rs 88.60, the price notification showed. The rate reduction followed international oil prices tumbling to the lowest since early February as the second wave of Covid-19 infection clouded the prospects for a speedy recovery in consumption. West Texas Intermediate for May delivery was down to USD 57.76 in New York on Tuesday, the lowest close since February 5 while Brent for the same month lost USD 3.83 to USD 60.79 a barrel, the lowest since February 8. The rise in coronavirus cases is threatening the economy's recovery from the recession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 300 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 325.15 points or 0.65 per cent lower at 49,726.29, and the broader NSE Nifty declined 94.60 points or 0.64 per cent to 14,720.15. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's PowerGrid and Sun Pharma were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 280.15 points or 0.56 per cent higher at 50,051.44, and Nifty advanced 78.35 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,814.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Tuesday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 108.24 crore, as per exchange data. "The sudden surge in Covid-19 cases globally is a cause for concern. Markets had discounted sharp recovery in global GDP growth in 2021. But now, with parts of Germany, France and Italy going through the third wave and regional lockdowns, global GDP growth is likely to be below estimates," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The recent crash in crude is a reflection of reduced demand emanating from declining economic activity, he said, adding that in India, the second wave in some prominent cities is adding to the concern. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.07 per cent higher at USD 60.83 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business||Nissan India and Hero MotoCorp to raise prices of all model variants from April 1||Nissan India and Hero MotoCorp have said they intend to raise prices of all their model variants from April 1. Nissan India has announced a price hike across all available models for Nissan and Datsun. “There has been continuous escalation in auto component prices, and we have tried to absorb this escalation over the last few months,” said Rakesh Srivastava, managing director, Nissan Motor India. Nissan retails the new B-segment SUV Magnite, the SUV Kicks and the Datsun brand offers the Redi-Go, Go and the Go +. Hero will make an upward revision in the ex-showroom prices of its motorcycles and scooters to partially offset the impact of increased commodity costs. The price increase across the range of two-wheelers will be up to Rs 2,500, and the exact quantum of the increase will vary on the basis of the model and the market. Jaguar I-Pace Jaguar Land Rover India on Tuesday announced the launch of the all-electric Jaguar I-Pace in India with a starting price of Rs 105.9 lakh (ex-showroom India). The Jaguar I-Pace is powered by a 90 kWh battery that delivers 294 kW power and 696 Nm torque, allowing it to accelerate from 0-100 km/h in just 4.8 seconds. Rohit Suri, president & managing director of JLR India, said: “Jaguar I-Pace is the first all-electric SUV that we’ve launched in India and it marks the beginning of our electrification journey.” About 22 retail outlets of JLR across 19 cities are now EV ready with over 35 EV chargers installed and more underway. To charge the Jaguar I-Pace, customers can use a Home Charging Cable that is provided with the vehicle or use a 7.4 kW AC wall mounted charger that is installed by Tata Power Ltd at the customer’s house for free. Customers can access Tata Power’s fast expanding EZ Charge network of around 200 I-Pace compatible charging points on a use and pay basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business||Aramco still in talks with RIL for O2C stake||Saudi Aramco remains in discussion with Reliance Industries for a potential deal to buy a 20 per cent stake in its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) unit, Morgan Stanley said on Monday citing the Saudi firm’s analyst call post announcing 2020 earnings. Mukesh Ambani had in August 2019 announced talks for the sale of a 20 per cent stake in the O2C business, which comprises its twin oil refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat and petrochemical assets, to the world’s largest oil exporter. The deal was to conclude by March 2020 but has been delayed. “Saudi Aramco’s calendar year 2020 conference call indicated that it is still in discussion with Reliance to evaluate existing opportunities as potential partners, regarding the non-binding MoU signed with Reliance for its O2C business,” Morgan Stanley said in a note. Besides refineries and petrochemical plants, the O2C business also comprises a 51 per cent stake in the fuel retailing business. It, however, does not include the upstream oil and gas producing assets such as the flagging KG-D6 block in the Bay of Bengal. Reliance had in 2019 put $75 billion as the value of O2C business after signing a non-binding letter of intent with Saudi Aramco. “Saudi Aramco remains in discussion with Reliance for a potential partnership,” Morgan Stanley said. With asset prices, industry outlook, and margins back to August 2019 levels, it saw a revival of the earnings upgrade cycle, led by energy. Multiples should surprise positively too as clarity on new energy investments rises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business|| Finance Bill 2021 passed in the Lok Sabha||The Finance Bill 2021 was passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday after the government conceded major changes in the equalisation levy on e-commerce firms and raised the tax-free threshold on provident fund contributions by employees. The bill also grants a 10-year income tax break to the proposed development financial institution (DFI) and a five-year income tax exemption to private development finance institutions licensed by the Reserve Bank of India. During the debate in the lower House, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said customs duties would be rationalised to help domestic businesses, especially the MSME segment. The bill said the 2 per cent equalisation levy on foreign-owned e-commerce companies will not apply if the companies have a permanent establishment in India. “Through the amendment I am moving today, I intend to clarify that equalisation levy is not applicable on consideration for goods which are owned by Indian residents," Sitharaman said. Rakesh Nangia, chairman of Nangia Andersen India, a consultancy, said “if goods or services listed on a foreign marketplace are owned or provided by an Indian resident or Indian permanent establishment of a foreign entity, it shall be out of the purview of the levy.” The government on Tuesday  also raised the deposit threshold limit to Rs 5 lakh per annum in provident fund for which interest would continue to be tax exempt, if there is no employer contribution. “The amendment shall impact only the government-sector employees, who contribute to the Statutory Provident Fund/ General Provident Fund. Consequently, while private sector employees earning interest on provident fund on annual contribution exceeding Rs 2.5 lakh would be required to pay tax on interest accruing on such excess contribution, for the government sector employees, the monetary ceiling shall be Rs 5 lakh,” Neha Malhotra, director, Nangia Andersen, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
24-03-2021||Business||India challenges Cairn arbitration tribunal verdict in Hague court||India is believed to have challenged in a court in The Hague an arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes from Cairn Energy Plc — the second time in three months that it has refused to accept an international award against retrospective tax. The appeal was filed on Monday, a source with knowledge of the matter said. The finance ministry spokesperson did not immediately respond to an e-mail sent for comments. The appeal against a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague invalidating India’s Rs 10,247 crore tax claim on Cairn Energy and ordering the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld, comes weeks before UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit to India. The British Prime Minister is widely expected to broach India honouring international arbitration awards during his April 26 visit, another source said. In December, the government had challenged in a Singapore court an international arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes from Vodafone Group Plc. The appeal was filed on a day minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur had told the Lok Sabha in a written reply that “any such decision on filing of appeal or otherwise is taken only after careful consideration of all aspects of the matter.” The tribunal’s 582-page detailed verdict that asked India to return $1.2 billion-plus interest and cost to Cairn was registered in the Netherlands on January 8 and New Delhi acknowledged it on January 19, the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
24-03-2021||Business||Large industrial houses unlikely to get permission to set up banks||Large industrial houses are unlikely to get the permission to set up a bank given the conditions set by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). On Monday, the banking regulator had announced a five-member Standing External Advisory Committee (SEAC) that will evaluate on-tap applications of both universal banks and small finance banks. It will be chaired by Shyamala Gopinath, former deputy governor, RBI. The RBI had last given permits for full-service banks in 2014. Industrial houses such as the Aditya Birla group, L&T Finance and Tata Sons had submitted applications. However, the central bank selected Bandhan Bank and IDFC. Subsequently, in 2016 it came out with the guidelines for on tap licensing of universal banks in the private sector. However, only one NBFC —  UAE Exchange and Financial Services Ltd, now renamed as Unimoni, applied for a license. A glance at the conditions set by the RBI shows it excludes large industrial houses with diversified lines of business. On promoters who could qualify for an on-tap universal banking license, the central bank has said that entities or groups in the private sector that are ‘‘owned and controlled by residents’’ and have a successful track record for at least 10 years can apply. However, if such an entity or group has total assets of Rs 5,000 crore or more, the non-financial business should not account for 40 per cent or more in terms of total assets or in terms of gross income. It added that existing non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) that are “controlled by residents’’ and have a successful track record for at least 10 years can also apply. However, any NBFC, which is a part of the group that has total assets of Rs 5,000 crore or more and that the non-financial business of the group accounts for 40 per cent or more in terms of total assets or in terms of gross income, is not eligible. Last year, an RBI panel has proposed that large corporates may be permitted to promote banks after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act. The group recommended that "large corporate/industrial houses may be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 to deal with connected lending and exposures between the banks and other financial and non-financial group entities”. Recommendations of the group are  yet to be accepted by the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
24-03-2021||Business||SC permits waiver of penal interest for loan moratorium||The Supreme Court on Tuesday permitted the waiver of penal interest for all borrower who opted for a loan moratorium between April 1 and August 31 last year. However, it refused to concede a plea for an extension of the moratorium scheme beyond August 31 and rejected the prayer for sector-specific reliefs for stressed small businesses, power producers and real estate companies. A three-member bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah also vacated its earlier interim order that said the accounts of defaulters after August 31 2020 shall not be declared as non-performing assets (NPAs). While extending the penal interest waivers to all borrowers till August 31, 2020 and not just to those with loans up to Rs 2 crore, the court said any amount charged shall be refunded, credited or adjusted. The apex court refused to interfere with the Centre’s and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI's) decision to not extend the loan moratorium beyond August 31 last year, saying it is a policy decision. The apex court said there could be no judicial review of the Centre's policy decisions unless these were deemed to be malafide or arbitrary. The apex court turned down the plea of the petitioners to offer sector-specific relief. It said it cannot interfere with the government’s decision to fix priorities for relief during the pandemic which has affected all across the country . “Every sector might have suffered differently and therefore it will not be possible to provide sector specific/sector­wise reliefs. The petitioners cannot pray for sector specific relief by either waiver of interest or restructuring by way of present proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution of India and   the   question   of   such   financial   stress   management measures requires   examination and consideration of several financial parameters and its impact.” Further, the bench clarified that the RBI circular of March 27 last year relating to the loan moratorium shall be applicable to all banks,  non­banking financial companies, housing finance companies and other financial institutions “compulsorily and mandatorily”. The clarification comes in the backdrop of doubts that the moratorium and other benefits announced by the RBI was applicable only to scheduled banks and not NBFCs. Bank impact Banks could see their bad loans rise Rs 1.3 lakh crore in the fourth quarter of this fiscal with the Supreme Court lifting the stay on the classification of defaults as non-performing assets (NPAs). Analysts said the lenders have already made adequate provisions and therefore it will not lead to any drastic impact on their bottomlines. Moreover, they can also begin resolution of such stressed assets. On the refund of interest penalty, the analysts said the key question was whether the government would compensate the banks. “As per our estimates, the compounded interest (waiver of penal interest) for six month of moratorium across all lenders is estimated at Rs 13,500-14,000 crore. The government of India had already announced relief  for borrowers having borrowings upto Rs 2 crore which was estimated to cost around Rs 6,500 crore to the exchequer,”  Anil Gupta, vice-president – financial sector ratings, Icra, said. “With the announcement of waiver for all borrowers, the additional relief of around Rs 7,000-7,500 crore will need to be provided to borrowers,”  he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
24-03-2021||India||Maharashtra logs 31,855 fresh Covid cases, 95 deaths||Maharashtra reported as many as 31,855 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, its highest ever single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, a health official said. This took the state's overall caseload to 25,64,881. Before this, the state's highest daily spike of 30,535 cases was recorded on March 21. With 95 new deaths, the fatality count rose to 53,684, the official said. As 15,098 patients were discharged during the day, the recovery count reached 22,62,593. The number of active COVID- 19 cases now is 2,47,299, he said. Mumbai city reported its highest single-day tally of 5,190 cases, which pushed its overall tally to 3,74,641. This is the first time Mumbai has reported over 5,000 cases in a single day. With six deaths, the fatality count stood at 11,610 in the city. On the other hand, 2,088 persons were discharged from hospitals, taking the tally of recoveries to 3,31,322. There are 30,760 active patients, the BMC said. The growth rate of the viral infection between March 17 and 23 in the city was 0.79 per cent while recovery rate was 90 per cent, it said. There are 39 active containment zones which include slums and chawls while 432 buildings have been sealed so far after patients were found there. Mumbai's two neighbouring cities Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli- reported 566 and 929 new cases respectively. Pune city and its neighbouring industrial township of Pimpri Chinchwad reported 3,566 and 1,828 new cases respectively. Aurangabad city reported 899 cases on Wednesday. In Nagpur city of Vidarbha region 2,965 new cases were found. In North Maharashtra region, Nashik city reported 859 cases, while Jalgaon district recorded 725 new cases. With 1,40,844 tests conducted during the day, the state has so far carried out 1,87,25,307 tests. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 25,64,881, new cases: 31,855, death toll: 53,684, discharged: 22,62,593, active cases: 2,47,299, people tested so far: 1,87,25,307. India has detected a new "double mutant" COVID-19 variant in states like Maharashtra and Delhi as it recorded the highest ever one-day spike in cases and deaths from the disease this year with the Centre on Wednesday saying the surge in Maharashtra and Punjab is of "grave concern". The Union Health Ministry said the new "double mutant" variant of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in Delhi, Maharashtra and some other places in addition to the three "variants of concern" -- first noticed in the UK, South Africa and Brazil -- that have been found in at least 18 states and union territories. The ministry, however, said it could not be sufficiently established yet if these variants were behind the recent spike in COVID-19 cases in some states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||INX Media case: Chidambaram, Karti summoned by Delhi court||On Wednesday, a Delhi court issued summons to former Union minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti in the INX Media money-laundering case on taking cognisance of the charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against them. Special Judge M K Nagpal issued summons against the senior Congress leader, his son and others directing them to appear before court on April 7. The court stated there was sufficient material to proceed against the Chidambarams, Karti’s chartered accountant S S Bhaslararaman, former CEO of INX Pratim Mukerjea and six firms including INX Media and INX News. After the court’s order, Chidambaram told “summoning the accused is a routine step”. The charge sheet filed under section 3 (money laundering) read with section 70 (offences by companies), which is punishable under section 4 (punishment) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “I find sufficient material and grounds for proceeding further in the matter against all the 10 accused persons named in the complaint, out of which six accused are companies, for commission of offence under section 3 read with section 70 of the PMLA, which is punishable under section 4 of the Act,” the judge said in his order. The charge sheet alleged that the first installment of illegal gratification of Rs 3,08,62,044 , in furtherance of criminal conspiracy, was paid by INX Media to M/s Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt Ltd (ASCPL) and two other shell companies. It said these firms, Kriya FMCG Distributors Pvt Ltd (Kriya) and CBN Placement and Management Centre (CBNPMC), were beneficially owned or controlled by Karti, and the amount was paid during 2007-08 through SpanFibre and Satyam Fibre (India) Pvt Ltd (Satyam Fibre). It further alleged that the amount was found to have been paid through 12 fake debit notes/ invoices raised by ASCPL, Kriya and CBNPMC on Span Fibre and Satyam Fibre at the instance of Mukerjea and it was shown to have been paid as a commission for sale of Polyester Staple Fibre (PSF) by Span Fibre and Satyam Fibre to different companies but no such transactions actually took place. “These fake invoices/ debit notes are also alleged to have been created as a part of the scheme to camouflage/ layer the illegal gratification as genuine business transactions. “The bank details of the three companies receiving payments against these debit notes/invoices confirmed that the amount of these companies were substantially utilized for the benefit of Karti P Chidambaram and other persons related to him,” the court noted in its order. It further said according to the probe agency, the alleged gratification received in ASCPL was invested in the shares of Vasan Health Care Pvt Ltd (Vasan Health Care) and AGS Health Care Pvt Ltd (AGS Health Care) and the proceeds of crime were multiplied by sale of these shares. The court mentioned that as per the charge sheet, Karti also subsequently distanced himself from the affairs of ASCPL when certain media reports appeared about his father’s alleged role in granting FIPB approvals. ED has alleged that besides the original illegal gratification amount of Rs 3.08 crore received by ASCPL and its associate companies, Rs 22.20 crore, Rs 18.64 crore and Rs 18.49 crore were also alleged to be the tainted money having been earned by way of multiplication of original proceeds of crime on account of profits derived on investments of the original amount. The court further said the probe agency had alleged in the charge sheet that about Rs 65.88 crore was of the properties involved in money laundering and the money was laundered by the accused persons in the form of various movable and immovable assets in India and some foreign countries. ED further alleged, “It has further been revealed during investigation that another subsidiary company of Advantage Strategic Consulting Singapore Pvt Ltd (ASCSPL), namely Advantage Estrategia Esportiva SLU, Barcelona, Spain and beneficially owned by accused Karti, P Chidambram, was also involved in laundering of the tainted money as proceeds of crime were transferred in this company from ASCSPL and were invested in properties in and outside India.” The charge sheet said further investigation to identify the remaining tainted amount and the assets of the Chidambarams allegedly acquired through tainted money in India and was pending. Chidambaram was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the INX Media corruption case on August 21, 2019. On October 16, 2019, the ED arrested him in a related money-laundering case. Six days later, on October 22, the apex court granted bail to Chidambaram in the case lodged by the CBI. In the ED case, he got bail on December 4, 2019. The CBI had registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to the INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007, during Chidambaram''s tenure as finance minister. Subsequently, the ED had lodged the money-laundering case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||CBI books DHFL over fictitious home-loan accounts||The CBI has booked the DHFL and its directors for allegedly creating over 2.60 lakh fictitious home-loan accounts, some of which were used to claim interest subsidies in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY), officials said on Wednesday.  The irregularities were pointed out in the report of auditor Grant Thornton, appointed by the present board of the scam-hit DHFL, they said.  Promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, both booked along with the company, allegedly opened a fictitious branch of the DHFL in Bandra and fake accounts worth Rs 14,046 crore of home-loan borrowers, who had already repaid their loans, were entered in the database, they said.  A total of 2.60 lakh "fake and fictitious" home-loan accounts were created in the non-existent branch from 2007-19 for total loan worth Rs 14,046 crore, out of which Rs 11,755.79 crore were deposited or routed to several fictitious firms known as Bandra Book firms, according to the FIR.  Several of these bogus loan accounts were allegedly opened in the PMAY to claim interest subsidies from the National Housing Bank in connivance with its officials, they said.  The DHFL had granted 88,651 cases under the PMAY till December 2018 and it received interest subsidy of Rs 539.40 crore, while it has to receive Rs 1,347.80 crore from the government, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||BJP releases Kerala manifesto promising jobs, free laptops, legislation to protect Sabarimala traditions ||The BJP lined up several promises, including a legislation to protect traditions of the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala and law against "Love Jihad", while assuring employment for at least one person from each family and free laptops to high school students, in its manifesto for the Kerala Assembly polls unveiled on Wednesday. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar released the manifesto of the saffron party-led NDA front along with senior state leaders O. Rajagopal, P.K. Krishnadas, NDA leader and Kerala Kamaraj Congress state chief Vishnupuram Chandrashekhar, among others. Describing the manifesto as progressive, dynamic, aspirational and developmental oriented, Javadekar said it guarantees a terrorism-free and hunger-free Kerala, among others. According to the manifesto, social welfare pension would be raised to Rs 3,500 and temple administration will be freed from political control and entrusted to devotees. The LDF government had promised to raise the social welfare pension to Rs 2,600 from the current Rs 1,600, while the opposition UDF has assured to increase it to Rs 3,000, if voted to power. It also assures ban on forcible religious conversion, six free LPG cylinders to each BPL family and restructuring ofKIIFB (Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board) in line with Constitutional provisions and subjecting it to CAG audit and amending the University Act in line with the New Education Policy of the Centre. As part of the saffron party's assurances on places of worship, the manifesto promises to take urgent steps to re-acquire encroached lands of temples and a legislation for an independent, non-political and devotee controlled temple administration in the state. The union minister said while Congress is fighting the Communists in Kerala, they are allies in West Bengal. "I am curious as to who is fighting who in Kerala. Because Congress and Communists are partners in Lok Sabha and everywhere else.Here they are fighting.This is a mock fight. Bengal me dosti aur Kerala me Gusti." "They passed two resolutions in the Assembly together. One was demanding release of Madani (PDP leader Abdul Nasser Madani) and another against the CAA," Javadekar said. Javadekar, who is Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, said "voting for the CPI(M) is like voting for the Congress and your vote for Congress is a vote for CPI(M)." Urging the Left government to come clean on the Sabarimala issue,he said "Their (Left party) stand is completely exposed now.Pinarayi (CM Pinarayi Vijayan) and Yechury (CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury ) are for the entry of women whereas Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran, the LDF candidate from Kazhakootam, is against it." "The government also needs to explain their role in the gold smuggling case," Javadekar said. The Union Minister also alleged that the state government was "hijacking" the central government projects and presenting them with minor changes as their own. "Pinarayi government has started hijacking central schemes by making little modifications and taking credit. We have given 80 crore people free ration for eight months which includes five kg dal and 40 kg rice to each family. "But the Kerala government wants to take credit. Mr Pinarayi Vijayan, it's not you but Modi, who has done all this," he said. The Centre has given houses to more than 1.27 lakh people along with toilets.With little modification, theLDF government has modified it into the Life Mission project, Javadekar claimed. "It's the Modi government which has done that.Not Pinarayi Vijayan," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||4 nuns harassed by Bajrang Dal activists, Amit Shah promises action||Four nuns were taken off an express train and detained for questioning by the railway police in Jhansi after local Bajrang Dal activists complained that two of the women were allegedly being taken forcibly for religious conversion, officials said on Tuesday. The police said there was no basis in the complaint and all four women later took the next train to their destination in Odisha. Following the ruckus created by local Bajrang Dal leader Ajay Shankar Tiwari along with the activists on March 19, the four nuns onboard the Utkal Express from Delhi to Rourkela were taken down from the train by the Government Railway Police (GRP) in Jhansi for questioning. Circle Officer of GRP Naeem Ansari said the complainant had said that they (the women) were being taken, possibly for forcible religious conversion. "However, during questioning, nothing as such came to light, and the four passengers were allowed to depart by the next train. No case has been registered in this regard," he said. During questioning, it was revealed that nuns Libiya Thomas and Hemlata, both residents of Delhi's Vikaspuri, along with Sweta and B Tarang (both 19-years-old and natives of Odisha) were travelling in a sleeper coach of the Utkal Express. SHO of GRP Jhansi Sunil Kumar Singh said no attack on the rail passengers emerged during the probe. Taking a note of the incident, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was campaigning for the BJP in poll-bound Kerala, assured strong action against the accused. Noting that UP was ruled by BJP government, Shah, while addressing a poll rally, said, "I want to assure the people of Kerala that the culprits behind this incident will be brought to justice at the earliest". The issue was raised before Shah by the party's Kanjirappally Assembly candidate for April 6 polls, K J Alphonse, who is his former ministerial colleague in the union cabinet. Reacting to the alleged harassment, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said it was the result of the "vicious propaganda" run by the Sangh Parivar to pitch one community against another and "trample" upon the minorities. "The attack in UP on nuns from Kerala is a result of the vicious propaganda run by the Sangh Parivar to pitch one community against another and trample the minorities," Gandhi said in a tweet. "Time for us as a nation to introspect and take corrective steps to defeat such divisive forces," the former Congress chief said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||Centre asks states to impose restrictions during festivals amid Covid surge||Amid a spike in Covid-19 infections in some parts of the country, the Centre on Wednesday asked states and union territories to consider imposing local restrictions in public observance of the upcoming festivals and limit or do away with mass gatherings for effective control of the pandemic. Additional Secretary in the Health Ministry Arti Ahuja, in a letter to state chief secretaries and union territory administrators, stated that the battle against Covid-19 is at a critical juncture with a rising number of cases and deaths being reported from many parts in the recent past. "...in view of upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Bihu, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr, etc., it is strongly advised that states may consider imposing local restrictions in public observance of these festivals and limit/do away with mass gatherings in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005," the letter read. Ahuja asked states to refer to the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on March 23 for effective control of Covid-19, and also attached the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority for reference. "Any laxity at this point in ensuring strict adherence to various SOPs issued by the Ministry of Health to contain the spread of Covid-19 may result in losing the impetus and benefits that our country has gained so far in managing the virus. Strict adherence to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour in public places and gathering is the key to break the chain of transmission and reduce the incidence of cases in the country," the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
24-03-2021||India||‘Double mutant variant’ of coronavirus detected in 18 states, says govt||A new "double mutant variant" of SARS-CoV-2 has been detected in India in addition to the several "variants of concern" that have already been found in at least 18 states, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Some of these "variants of concern" had earlier been detected abroad. The ministry, however, said it could not be sufficiently established yet if these variants were behind the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in some states. It said genome sequencing by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) has identified variants of concerns (VOCs) in several states and a new double mutant variant. Genomic sequencing and epidemiological studies are continuing to further analyse the situation. The Ministry of Health had established on December 25 INSACOG which is a grouping of 10 national laboratories for carrying out genomic sequencing and analysis of circulating COVID-19 viruses, and correlating epidemiological trends with genomic variants. Genomic variants of various viruses are a natural phenomenon and are found in almost all countries, the ministry highlighted. "Since INSACOG initiated its work, 771 variants of concerns (VOCs) have been detected in a total of 10,787 positive samples shared by states and UTs (union territories). "These include 736 samples positive for viruses of the UK (B.1.1.7) lineage. Also, 34 samples were found positive for viruses of the South African (B.1.351) lineage. One sample was found positive for viruses of the Brazilian (P.1) lineage. The samples with these VOCs have been identified in 18 states of the country," the ministry said. Genome sequencing and analysis have been carried out on samples from arriving international travellers, contacts of those positive for VOC and community samples from most of the states at INSACOG partner laboratories, it stated. The analysis of samples from Maharashtra has revealed that compared to December 2020, there has been an increase in the fraction of samples with the E484Q and L452R mutations, the ministry said. Such mutations confer immune escape and increased infectivity. These mutations have been found in about 15-20 per cent of samples and do not match any previously catalogued VOCs, the ministry said. "These have been categorised as VOCs but require the same epidemiological and public health response of increased testing, comprehensive tracking of close contacts, prompt isolation of positive cases and contacts as well as treatment as per National Treatment Protocol by the states and UTs," the ministry stated. From Kerala, 2032 samples (from all 14 districts) have been sequenced. The N440K variant that is associated with immune escape has been found in 123 samples from 11 districts. This variant was earlier found in 33 per cent of samples from Andhra Pradesh, and in 53 of 104 samples from Telangana. This variant has also been reported from 16 other countries, including the UK, Denmark, Singapore, Japan and Australia. "As of now these can at best be said to be variants under investigation," the ministry said. "Though VOCs and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, these have not been detected in numbers sufficient to either establish or direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some States," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||TMC MPs fly to Delhi to support AAP over new Delhi Bill||Trinamul Congress MP Derek O'Brien on Wednesday said his party MPs have rushed to the national capital to stop the "bulldozing" of a Bill that seeks to give more power to the Delhi Lieutenant Governor, in the Rajya Sabha. "Two days to go for elections in five States. Yet Trinamool's Rajya Sabha MPs air dash to Delhi to stop bulldozing of #GNCT Bill that disempowers an elected Delhi government. Another knife into the heart of democracy, the Constitution and Parliament. Worse still, Home Minister electioneering, not piloting Bill. Cruel irony," he tweeted. O'Brien had on Tuesday written to Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, requesting him to postpone the consideration and passing of the Bill in view of the absence of TMC members in the Upper House due to the Bengal Assembly polls. He had called the bill “an extremely important piece of legislation” that had an effect on each part of India and it would be a “gross miscarriage of justice” if the bill was rushed through. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday, seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor (L-G)". The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||CJI SA Bobde suggests Justice NV Ramana as his successor||Chief Justice of India SA Bobde has recommended Justice N V Ramana as his successor and the 48th Chief Justice of India in keeping with convention and seniority norms, according to sources. CJI Bobde, who is set to retire on April 23, has sent the recommendation to the government and handed over a copy to Justice Ramana, the sources said. As per norms, a written communication from the incumbent Chief Justice is sent a month before his retirement. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad Friday sent a letter to Justice Bobde, for his suggestion to recommend a successor. As per the Memorandum of Procedure governing the appointment of members of the higher judiciary, "appointment to the office of the Chief Justice of India should be of the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court considered fit to hold the office". It stipulates that the Law Minister would, at an appropriate time, seek the recommendation of the outgoing Chief Justice of India for the appointment of the next CJI. Under this process, after receipt of the recommendation of the CJI, the Law Minister puts it before the Prime Minister who advises the President on the matter of appointment. "Whenever there is any doubt about the fitness of the senior-most Judge to hold the office of the Chief Justice of India, consultation with other Judges...would be made for appointment of the next Chief Justice of India," the document stated. Justice Ramana is the senior-most judge in the top court after the CJI. Born on August 27, 1957 in Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, Justice Ramana was enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983. He was appointed as a permanent Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on June 27, 2000 and functioned as acting Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court from March 10, 2013 to May 20, 2013. Justice Ramana was elevated as the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court on September 2, 2013 and was elevated as a Judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Lockdown: a year ago today||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||India logs 47,262 Covid-19 cases in a day, highest rise this year||India recorded 47,262 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,17,34,058, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The active caseload registered an increase for the 14th day in row and was recorded at 3,68,457, comprising 3.14 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 95.49 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am said. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 132 days, while the country's COVID-19 death toll increased to 1,60,441, with 275 new fatalities, the highest in around 83 days. As many as 47,905 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 12 last year, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,05,160, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.37 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 23,64,38,861 samples have been tested till March 23, with 10,25,628 samples tested on Tuesday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Vaccines for all above 45 from April 1||Everyone above 45 years may register for Covid-19 vaccines from April 1, the Centre announced on Tuesday, expanding the government campaign’s pool of potential recipients to an estimated 347 million people or about 25 per cent of India’s population. The Union cabinet has accepted the recommendations of a national task force and scientists to open the Covid-19 vaccination campaign to everybody above 45 years of age, Prakash Javadekar, the Union information and broadcasting minister, said. “We request all eligible people to register from April 1 and get vaccinated. All above 45 should take the vaccination as early as possible,” the Union minister said, adding that India had sufficient quantities of vaccines. The campaign, currently vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers, everyone above 60 years and those between 45 and 60 with certain chronic health disorders, has already administered around 40 million first doses and 8 million second doses. The health ministry’s initial plan to vaccinate 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers and 270 million people aged 50 and above or afflicted with chronic health disorders would require 600 million doses. The decision to extend vaccinations to all between 45 and 50 years means the plan now is to vaccinate roughly 347 million people, which will require roughly 100 million extra doses, health experts tracking the campaign said. “This would be about 25 per cent of India’s population — it would be great if India is able to complete this by August or September as originally intended,” said Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore. The campaign’s pace needs to be synchronised with both the quantities of vaccines available and the rate at which recipients take them, an adviser to the Centre said. Opening up the campaign too fast could raise the risk of stock-outs, and a poor rate of acceptance could lead to wastage. Since the campaign’s start on January 16, the Centre has provided over 74.7 million doses of vaccines to the states, of which about 50 million doses had been administered till Tuesday. India last week administered on average about 2 million doses a day and on Monday logged over 3.2 million doses. India is currently using two vaccines — Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in the country by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, a home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Health officials say the government has been assured a supply of around 480 million doses of Covishield and 120 million doses of Covaxin by August. At a sustained current pace of around 3 million doses a day, it would take more than three months to cover 100 million people and the revised target of 347 million could stretch into early 2022. However, health officials and experts are hoping more vaccines will be approved in India during the year. Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine and a DNA vaccine made by the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila are under clinical trials in the country. More than 50 countries have approved Sputnik V.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Ragging: Rs 54,000 fine on 18 MBBS students in Sambalpur ||The Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research authorities have slapped a fine of Rs 54,000 on 18 students for allegedly ragging their juniors. The institute is located at Burla in Sambalpur in western Odisha. Sources said that fourth-year MBBS students had invited their juniors to play basketball on the campus. However, the juniors mostly from second year did not turn up for the game claiming they were busy with other work. Taking it as an insult, the seniors ganged up and came to the hostel for second-year students and again asked them to come to the basketball ground for a friendly match. But as soon as the juniors reached the ground, the seniors asked them to keep standing for five hours from 11pm to 4 the next morning, sources said. Later one of the junior students lodged a complaint with the institute’s ragging cell following which a probe was ordered. Institute director Lalit Kumar Meher told The Telegraph: “Following the complaint, we constituted a three-member committee to probe into the matter. The committee has found the seniors guilty of indulging in ragging. The ragging cell decided to impose a fine of Rs 3,000 each on the guilty students. Their parents will be informed about the incident and will be asked to guide their kids.” Asked when the ragging incident took place, Meher said: “The incident took place around 10 days back. The dean of students’ welfare is looking into it.” Stating that the authorities will not tolerate any kind of ragging on the campus, Meher said: “We would have been more harsh if the nature of ragging had been found to be more worse and if any other kind of physical torture was reported. Maintaining discipline is the most important aspect on the premises of the institute. Seniors and juniors have assured us to live on the campus as brothers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Odisha Assembly passes resolution to include the word “Ahimsa” in preamble to Indian Constitution||The Odisha Assembly on Tuesday passed a unanimous resolution to include the word “Ahimsa” in the preamble to the Indian Constitution as a mark of respect to the Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Father of Nation's first visit to the state. The Mahatma had visited the state on March 23, 1921. To demand for the inclusion of “Ahimsa” (non-violence) in the Preamble of the Constitution is important because it was the core ideology of the Mahatma. The Preamble talks of the basic ideals enshrined by the Constitution including democracy and secularism. Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “Odisha had a special place in the heart of Mahatma Gandhi, the father of our nation. Mahatma visited Odisha eight times and I am glad that this august Assembly is commemorating the 100th anniversary of Gandhi’s first visit to Odisha on 23rd March, 1921.” Naveen also said, “There is also an increasing polarisation and divisiveness globally. Gandhi’s commitment to pluralism and his message of tolerance and harmony are as relevant now as it was then. The Mahatma’s non-violent resistance is a spark that ignited peaceful movement around the world.” He also recalled the words of Martin Luther King, JR who once said, “If Humanity is to progress, Gandhi is inescapable — we may ignore him at own risk.” “I consider this statement to be relevant for today’s world as well,” Naveen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Odisha Assembly passes resolution to provide 15 per cent reservation to govt high schools students||The Odisha Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution to provide 15 per cent reservation to students of government high schools for admission into medical and technical education courses of the state. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik moved the resolution. Explaining why the need for reservation for students of the government run schools was felt, the resolution said, “After introduction of common entrance examinations like NEET (National Entrance cum Eligibility Test) and JEE (Joint Entrance Examination), the number of students from government schools and colleges of our state in these courses is getting reduced considerably. This is not due to lack of merit, rather the students are unable to fare better in these tests due to lack of proper coaching facilities.” The government said students studying in government schools and colleges lack both physical and economic access to coaching centres. This has resulted in inequitable conditions for a majority of the students. “In this backdrop the cabinet has resolved to reserve adequate number of seats for the students of government high schools in medical and engineering colleges of the state. A high-powered committee headed by Justice A.K. Mishra, retired judge of the Odisha High Court along with other members was constituted making necessary recommendation in this regard,” the resolution said. The state government said, “The high power committee after thoroughly studying the situation and analysing it, has come out with the following findings and recommendations — about 86 per cent of the students in Odisha are in government schools and they get 23 per cent seats in state medical colleges and 21 per cent seats in state engineering colleges. While 12 per cent of the students studying in private schools get almost 60 per cent seats in both medical and engineering colleges.” The resolution further said that the findings of the committee clearly show that there is inequity arising from physical and economic access to coaching institutions, which play a major role in national entrance examinations. “This inequity affects a majority of the students,” the state government said adding that the reservation would give a huge boost to talented and intelligent students who cannot have physical and economic access to coaching institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Bihar Assembly adjourns amid bedlam||Unprecedented scenes of violence were witnessed in the Bihar Assembly on Tuesday as the Opposition opposed a police bill tooth and nail and tried to hold the Speaker captive in his chamber. The police were called inside the premises and they, along with Assembly marshals, allegedly thrashed, abused and threw out several MLAs and journalists. The House was adjourned several times in between. On the other hand, the streets of the capital turned into a war zone as leaders and supporters of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) clashed violently with the police while trying to lay siege to the Assembly to protest the deteriorating law and order situation. Several protesters, journalists and police personnel were injured in the clash in which sticks, bricks and water cannons were freely used on the streets. RJD leaders Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav sported helmets while leading the protest and were detained by the police for some time before being allowed to go. Mayhem was the order of the day in the Assembly as soon as it met in the morning. Members of the Opposition parties — RJD, CPI-ML and Congress — trooped into the well demanding the withdrawal of the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. They tore papers and scattered them all around the House and shouted slogans against chief minister Nitish Kumar and his government. As the bedlam increased, Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha adjourned the proceedings till noon. The bill, which seeks to change the name of the existing Bihar Military Police to Bihar Special Armed Police, and provide it the power to arrest people or conduct searches without warrants while guarding various premises or installations, or in the course of duty, has become a bone of contention between the Opposition and the ruling parties since the day it was circulated. The Opposition parties took an aggressive stand on the bill on Tuesday as it was to be tabled in the Assembly for its passage. As the Assembly resumed at noon, the Opposition again disrupted the proceedings claiming that the bill will usher in police rule in the state as people will not be able to even approach the court against any atrocity by the men in uniform. They tried to overturn a table kept in front of the Speaker’s chair. The comptroller and auditor general’s (CAG) report on Bihar was tabled amid the ruckus and the House was adjourned till 2pm. When the proceedings resumed, the protests also resumed more aggressively and the Assembly was adjourned for an hour. When it met again, the Opposition legislators tried to charge the treasury benches and snatch the police bill that was being tabled by minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav. Somebody threw a paperweight at the Speaker’s chair. The marshals in the House formed a protective wall to safeguard legislators belonging to the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The Opposition also tried to overturn a table and broke it after being unsuccessful in their endeavour. The entreaties of the Speaker did not elicit any response and the proceedings were adjourned till 4.30pm. It was around that time when the situation worsened. The Opposition lawmakers shut the door of the Speaker’s chamber with a rope with Sinha inside and squatted outside in an attempt to confine him inside and not allow the Assembly to function. The police were called in after the marshals failed to remove the Opposition legislators. District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh and senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma also rushed to the spot. The police charged at the protesting legislators, thrashed, abused, dragged and forcibly threw them out of the Assembly building. Several MLAs suffered injuries in the clash. RJD legislator Satish Kumar Das became unconscious and was carried away in an ambulance to hospital. “We have been beaten up by the police. See how the government is treating elected representatives,” said RJD legislator Sudhakar Singh said. Another RJD lawmaker Sangeeta Kumari asserted that the “police atrocities on democratic institutions have made clear the intention of the government. This shows what will happen if the police are given unbridled powers”. The police and district administration officials present there also allegedly attacked the journalists trying to report on the incident. Meanwhile, the House failed to resume at the given time, but attempts were made to do so again at around 6pm. However, this time women MLAs surrounded the Speaker’s chair. Women constables were called in and they were dragged outside the House. Once they were removed, the male legislators from the Opposition parties took their place. The marshals and the police personnel forcibly removed them again. Opposition leaders and sons of RJD chief Lalu Prasad — Tejashwi and Tej Pratap — were present in their chambers in the Assembly during the mayhem. There was a scuffle between Tejashwi and police personnel in the evening, but the RJD leader restrained himself after being asked to step back. Meanwhile, Nitish told The Telegraph: “The bill is mainly to change the nomenclature of Bihar Military Police to Bihar Special Armed Police. They will be able to arrest somebody without warrant if he or she is threatening the security arrangements or is committing any crime. The arrested person would be sent to the nearest police station.” “Many states have implemented such provisions. We have incorporated steps that will ensure officials are punished with imprisonment from seven years to life term if they misuse the powers given to them,” Nitish added. However, Nitish said he has “not witnessed such scenes in the Assembly in his life”. A large number of police personnel and state rapid action force entered the Assembly late in the evening. They threw out any opposition MLA who was protesting against the bill. CPI-ML legislator Mehboob Alam was also marshalled out of the Assembly in the evening. “We are being beaten up inside the House for protesting against the black bill giving unrestrained powers to the police. We will not allow this bill to be passed. The House is not in order, but the Speaker is trying to get it passed through the backdoor. This is all being done at the behest of chief minister Nitish Kumar.” The police bill was passed at 7.34pm while the Opposition walked out after a few of its legislators tore copies of the bill and threw it around in the House. Speaker Sinha later announced: “Action will be taken against the legislators who have indulged in vandalism and inappropriate behaviour.” The Opposition legislators later demonstrated at the entrance to the Assembly and demanded the resignation of Nitish for the attack on democracy and undermining the democratic traditions at the hands of the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-252
24-03-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Sabarimala returns to haunt Left Democratic Front||A spectre haunts the communists in Kerala, that of a hilltop temple to a celibate god. The controversy over women’s entry into the Sabarimala temple is back in focus ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls, with a jittery Left making contradictory statements amid demands that all political parties state their position on the subject. “It’s back in focus since all the political parties have started debating it,” P.G. Sasikumara Varma, member of the Pandalam royal family that was once the temple’s custodian and retains the responsibility for certain rituals there, told The Telegraph on Sunday. “All political alliances should state their positions before the polls — that will give us believers some peace of mind.” For the Left, the subject represents anything but. After the state government facilitated the entry of women of childbearing age into the shrine, following a September 2018 Supreme Court judgment removing the traditional age bar on women, the Left Democratic Front had got routed in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Congress-led United Democratic Front won 19 of the state’s 20 seats, and this was widely described as a “lesson” for the Left government for implementing the court verdict ignoring the violent protests by devotees and some Opposition activists. The December 2020 local body polls, fought over local issues, provided a respite, with the Left winning at every level from the gram panchayats to the city corporations. But the Sabarimala issue always simmered — fuelled by a raft of review petitions pending before a nine-member constitution bench — and has now resurfaced in the political arena ahead of the Assembly elections. The Left appears unsure how to handle it. Recently, state devaswom (temple affairs) minister Kadakampally Surendran felt compelled to issue what seemed an apology of sorts. “The incidents that unfolded in the name of Sabarimala in 2018 should never have happened. It had pained everyone — me too,” Surendran, seeking re-election from Kazhakoottam, told reporters. Soon after, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury publicly defended the Kerala government’s handling of the Sabarimala agitation, pouring cold water on Surendran’s efforts to placate the orthodox Hindus. However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan later declared that even if the Supreme Court stood by its earlier judgment after considering the review petitions, his government would not do anything without consulting the believers. The UDF, the BJP and the believers want something more — a withdrawal of the Left government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court that had paved the way for the 2018 judgment. In 2007, the then Left government had placed an affidavit in the apex court saying it was against gender discrimination over entry to the temple. In February 2016, just before the last Assembly election, the then UDF government furnished a fresh affidavit backing the entry ban. However, in November 2016, the new Left administration reiterated the 2007 affidavit. On Sunday, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala sought clarity on the subject: “Will the government withdraw the affidavit or not? This is what the people should be told.” Under pressure, some Left leaders have tried to play the issue down. “What is the need to discuss it every morning when Sabarimala is not an election issue?” CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran told reporters. But Varma, president of the Pandalam palace managing committee, insists that Sabarimala is very much an election issue. The usually reticent palace and its members had become a rallying point for the believers who hit the streets in 2018 against the implementation of the apex court judgment. “I usually go to Sabarimala in a large group of 30-odd people. Four of them are Muslims, including a priest, and two are Christians. It’s one of the most secular temples, as all the pilgrims are required (by tradition) to visit a church and a mosque before entering the temple.” Political observer N.P. Chekutty said the Sabarimala issue had not died down at all. “The larger Hindu community had put it on the back burner. Now being the most opportune moment, they have taken it up again,” he told this newspaper. “Sabarimala was one of the reasons for the LDF’s debacle in the Lok Sabha polls, although the main reason was the people’s expectation of a Congress-led government helmed by Rahul Gandhi at the Centre,” he added. He cited the powerful Nair Service Society’s criticism of the contradictory statements from CPM leaders. “The chief minister now says he won’t take any decision without consulting the believers. But he had earlier (in 2018) said the government was on oath to implement court orders,” NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair recently said. “However, what their national general secretary said is contrary to all of this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
24-03-2021||India||Maharashtra chief minister lost moral authority to govern: Law minister||Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday said Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had lost the moral authority to govern, betraying signs of a spirited effort by the ruling dispensation at yet another effort to destabilise an Opposition-led state government. The allegations of corruption against Maharashtra’s home minister Anil Deshmukh levelled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh have extended an opportunity to the BJP to launch another all-out effort to wrest power in a state considered the economic hub of the country. “The Uddhav Thackeray government has lost the moral right to govern,” Prasad told reporters at the BJP headquarters, accusing the Opposition alliance government in the state of running an “extortion” syndicate. Prasad was joined by former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who addressed the media in Mumbai, seeking to pile all out pressure on the coalition Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government. Party insiders said the central leadership has assured Fadnavis of full support in his effort to dislodge the Uddhav government. “Fadnavis has claimed he has enough ammunition to torment the alliance government,” one BJP leader said. After the former police commissioner’s letter alleging corruption, Fadnavis on Tuesday sought to pile more pressure by claiming a transfer posting racket in the police department and sought a CBI probe. The BJP has been unable to get over the loss of power in the key state of Maharashtra since one of their oldest ally Shiv Sena parted ways and joined hands with the rival NCP-Congress block after the polls in November 2019. The Sena had contested the polls in alliance with the BJP and parted ways later. A brazen attempt to break the NCP and usurp power by aligning with Sharad Pawar’s nephew Ajit Pawar too failed. Fadnavis was sworn in along with Ajit Pawar in a midnight coup but had to ultimately bite the dust after failing to get the numbers. Since then, Fadnavis, the designated leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, has been desperately trying to destabilise the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “Fadnavis had claimed the Aghadi government will fall in two months. Now it’s over one-and-a-half years and so the desperation to use all kinds of means to defame our government,” NCP leader Nawab Malik said. The Opposition alliance has accused the BJP and the central government of using police officers and central agencies to tarnish their image and bring down the Uddhav government like they had done with the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. The BJP, driven by the declared dream of capturing power from “panchayat to Parliament”, has succeeded in dislodging two Opposition-ruled state governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh post their comeback in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A similar effort last year in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan failed but they appear determined on getting back Maharashtra. The presence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a seasoned politician, as the chief architect of the alliance government appears to have made the effort difficult for the BJP in Maharashtra. On Tuesday, both law minister Prasad and Fadnavis targeted Pawar for defending Deshmukh over the corruption allegations and ruling out his resignation. Prasad claimed Pawar had used wrong facts to defend Deshmukh and said his distinguished political credibility had been tainted. “If Sharad Pawar wants his credibility to be retrieved then he should use his authority to make Anil Deshmukh resign,” Prasad said. The BJP feels that if they can force the home minister to resign, they would be very close to dislodging Uddhav, who they feel had betrayed them by joining hands with the NCP-Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
24-03-2021||India||MP call for Bhagat Singh chair at central universities||A member of Parliament on Tuesday demanded setting up of chairs in every central university to pursue research on freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and study Indian democratic cultures and values. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader in Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha, said Bhagat’s ideas, espousing the cause of universal brotherhood, are little understood. Academic chairs dedicated to great leaders or any social theme conduct research and propagate those ideals. Jha said the astounding spirit of martyrdom of Bhagat during the anti-colonial movement resides in the heart of every free Indian today. In his brief life, Bhagat wrote extensively how independent India could transform itself into a truly egalitarian society. “Instituting a chair in his name in every central university in India would enable a systematic study and development of Bhagat’s philosophical ideas and their programmatic content. The chair would work towards translation of his writings and their dissemination throughout the country,” Jha said. Chaman Lal, a retired professor of Hindi from Jawaharlal Nehru University and a researcher on Bhagat Singh, said the JNU is the only university which had decided in 2008 to set up a Bhagat Singh Chair. However, no progress has been made till date on this decision. A chair usually is headed by an eminent scholar and engages young scholars in research work. The history department of JNU was supposed to start the Bhagat Singh Chair. Panjab University in Chandigarh has instituted a Bhagat Singh Professor in the political science department. No other institution has taken any initiative to study the freedom fighter. Several universities have instituted chairs on Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and B.R. Ambedkar. In the Rajya Sabha, chairman Venkaiah Naidu paid tributes to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev on the 90th anniversary of the martyrdom of the legendary heroes. “These martyrs not only strived to free our nation from the clutches of colonial rule but also envisioned a just and equal society devoid of communalism, hatred, economic disparity and retrogressive ideas. The trio have become household names in our country as shining beacons of selfless sacrifice and patriotism,” Naidu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
24-03-2021||India||Science, cooperation and cash behind Covid-19 vaccines||Exactly a year ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a complete lockdown to curb the spread of the virus that causes Covid-19. The sudden lockdown hit daily wage earners, migrant labourers and the economy hard. But it provided a window of time for India to prepare for the epidemic and manage Covid-19 well. While people remained home, authorities enhanced testing and organised hospital beds, intensive care and ventilators. India has recorded over 11 million lab-confirmed infections and about 160,000 deaths. From September 17, the number of infections declined steadily. Eureka, we said. We have stopped the coronavirus in its tracks. So why wear a mask? Why avoid assemblies? We started to party without masks. And, this year from February 15, infections began to rise. Whether genetically-altered forms of the coronavirus arising naturally are contributing to the rise is being investigated. But no one doubts that our relaxed behaviour is the main cause. Now elections are round the corner in many states, including Bengal. More assemblies. More physical proximity. Less masking. Expect the inevitable! A sense of security provided by the vaccines has added to the inappropriate behaviour. “Vaccines are available, so why wear masks?” many are saying. We have vaccinated over 45 million of our citizens. But that is less than 3 per cent of our population. The young people need to protect themselves with masks and refrain from partying. They are unlikely to get a vaccine very soon. While behaving appropriately to prevent Covid-19, let us celebrate the triumph of science. Vaccines for the coronavirus have been developed at breakneck speed. The fastest any vaccine has ever been developed was four years — for mumps in the 1960s. Usually, it takes about 10 years. And now, within a year of the emergence of the virus, a fully-tested vaccine for the coronavirus was approved for emergency use. That was the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Thereafter more vaccines have emerged. Three factors were responsible for this extraordinarily rapid success. First, there was a bedrock of earlier scientific research on related viruses and faster ways to make vaccines. Second, availability of enormous funding to enable testing of multiple candidate vaccines in parallel. Third, regulators acted much faster than normal. Our body’s natural immune systems protect us from infections. Conventional vaccines use killed or disabled forms of the virus to stimulate immune defences against infection by a live virus. Covaxin, developed in India, is one such. An alternative method is to package the genetic code of an important viral protein in a carrier and use that as a vaccine. One needs to be sure that the carrier is safe for humans. Oxford-AstraZeneca had many years of experience in developing safe carriers. Their vaccine (Covishield) uses a chimpanzee adenovirus (a flu-like virus) as a safe carrier (the virus cannot make copies of itself) that encases the genetic DNA sequence for the viral spike protein, which the virus uses to dock to human cells. When the vaccine is injected, our cells engulf the virus. The virus then pushes its DNA into our DNA. When our DNA makes our proteins, it also makes the viral spike protein which our body recognises as foreign and mounts an immune response. The immune proteins, thus artificially activated, protect us from the live coronavirus. But the remarkable Covid-19 vaccines are the first two that showed high efficacy in large human (Phase III) trials; invented by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. These vaccines are being widely used in the USA, but are not yet available in India. These are messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines. Our cells read mRNA to make proteins. Naked mRNA can be easily destroyed. Therefore, vaccine manufacturers package mRNA in tiny oily bubbles, called lipid nanoparticles. The mRNA used in Covid-19 vaccines code for the viral spike protein. Upon vaccination, the mRNA containing bubbles bump into our cells, fuse with them and release mRNA. Our cells then start producing the viral spike protein. Our immune system is then triggered. This technology is very simple but revolutionary. An mRNA vaccine can be rapidly synthesised in a chemistry laboratory and deployed. If one fails, another possible candidate can be quickly synthesised and tested. Almost like plug-and-play. Sounds simple? Conceptually yes. But technically no. Two decades of scientific research provided the knowledge base required to invent the mRNA vaccines so rapidly. There is an emphasis on translational research now. Rightly so. But basic research that generates knowledge essential for translation must not be curtailed. The slowest part of vaccine development is to prove that a vaccine is both safe and efficacious. Testing is first done on animals and then on humans, in three phases. In the final phase (Phase III) a large number of humans are tested to determine efficacy of the vaccine. Phase III trials require a lot of money and time. For Covid-19 vaccines, governments and philanthropists were generous. Billions of dollars poured in so that companies could take financial risks and test many potential vaccines simultaneously. Vaccine rollout is regulated by national and international agencies. Safety and efficacy are assessed using stringent criteria. For the first time in human history, national regulators exchanged information massively on Covid-19 vaccine trials under the auspices of the International Coalition of Medicines Regulatory Authorities, set up in 2012. The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations launched in 2017, also facilitated the process. This information exchange helped determine best end-points to measure efficacy and monitor side-effects. One hopes that this international co-operation will continue for future vaccine rollouts. We have to save ourselves by continuing to wear masks and avoiding proximity to others. We will all get vaccinated, possibly soon. Many more vaccine rollouts are expected; over 250 candidate Covid-19 vaccines are being tested. We must salute scientists who have collectively risen to the challenge imposed by the pandemic. We must also remember that these extraordinary feats didn’t happen overnight; could not have happened without a solid platform of basic science.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
24-03-2021||India||India skips vote on Sri Lanka’s human rights record ||India on Tuesday abstained from the vote on Sri Lanka’s human rights record at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC). The resolution, initiated by the UK, was adopted by a majority of 22 members voting for it with 13 other countries abstaining and 11, including Pakistan and China, polling against it. In abstaining, India sought to take a nuanced approach on the issue to balance the demands of domestic politics and bilateral relations. But it still fell short of the demand of its electoral allies and foes alike in Tamil Nadu where the AIADMK, DMK, PMK and CPI had all asked the government to vote for the resolution to meet the aspirations of the Tamil people in solidarity with Sri Lankan Tamilians. Sri Lanka, on the other hand, was happy with India’s vote and stated so publicly. Foreign minister Dinesh Gunawardena tweeted: “Sri Lanka appreciates the support shown at Geneva by Bahrain, India, Japan, Nepal, Indonesia, Libya, Sudan, Namibia, Gabon, Togo, Mauritania, Senegal, Cameroon and Burkina Faso.’’ Explaining India’s vote ahead of the actual polling through electronic ballot, first secretary at the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations in Geneva, Pawan Badhe, said: “India’s approach to the question of human rights in Sri Lanka is guided by two fundamental considerations. One is our support to the Tamils of Sri Lanka for equality, justice, dignity and peace. The other is in ensuring the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.... “India supports the call by the international community for the Government of Sri Lanka to fulfil its commitments on the devolution of political authority, including through the early holding of elections for Provincial Councils and to ensure that all Provincial Councils are able to operate effectively in accordance with the 13th amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution.’’ Further, India — which has itself had differences with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights of late — maintained that the work of the OHCHR should be in conformity with the mandate given by the relevant resolutions of the UN General Assembly. Japan, which along with India had lost the East Container Terminal project when Sri Lanka reneged on the trilateral agreement for its development earlier this year, also exercised the abstain option while many of the European countries voted for the resolution. China remained firmly in Sri Lanka’s corner as did Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
24-03-2021||India||Devendra Fadnavis asks for CBI, NCP cries ‘plot’||The political conflict over the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh intensified on Tuesday with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis petitioning the Union home ministry for a CBI probe and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) dismissing it as a conspiracy to topple the Maharashtra government. Fadnavis, who on Tuesday disputed the claims made by NCP chief Sharad Pawar about home minister Anil Deshmukh being in quarantine during the time Singh accused him of pressuring officers to collect extortion money, approached the Union home secretary in Delhi and submitted “evidence” in a sealed envelope while demanding a CBI inquiry. BJP leader Fadnavis said the Maharashtra government was trying to defend Deshmukh despite serious allegations of a transfer racket and instructions for collecting Rs 100 crore in extortion money per month. Fadnavis had earlier said at a media conference that police records of VIP movement in Mumbai showed Deshmukh had gone to Sahyadri guest house on February 17 and also met officers at his residence on February 24, a period during which he was claimed to have been in quarantine after contracting Covid-19. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik confronted Fadnavis, saying the former chief minister was trying to spread falsehood and that he himself had admitted he didn’t know whether Deshmukh had indeed moved around. Malik said Deshmukh was in home quarantine in Mumbai and had gone out only for workouts. On the allegation of a transfer racket run by the Maharashtra home minister, Malik said: “Officers mentioned in the report were never transferred. Fadnavis is trying to defame the government despite knowing the rules. No minister can directly transfer anyone. There is a Police Establishment Board for transfer of top-level IPS officers. This board makes proposals for transfers. The home ministry scrutinises the proposals and sends them to the chief minister.” He said two officers who had gone to Delhi after the change of government in Maharashtra were working for the BJP. Malik singled out Rashmi Shukla, who was a commissioner in the intelligence department, accusing her of tapping phones without permission. Arguing that tapping phones of people without permission was a crime, Malik said: “Rashmi Shukla was working as a BJP agent. Phones of senior leaders were also tapped during the process of government formation.” Fadnavis had said that Uddhav Thackeray overlooked a “very sensitive and explosive” report regarding corruption in transfer of IPS officers submitted by the director-general of police. He told reporters that the then commissioner of intelligence, Rashmi Shukla, reportedly intercepted some phone calls pertaining to police transfers and submitted a report to then DGP Subodh Jaiswal who subsequently sent it to the state government on August 25, 2020. The Congress on Tuesday evening called a meeting of its senior leaders and ministers to discuss the controversy. Although the party has extended support to the NCP line that there was a conspiracy to destabilise the government, there is considerable unease among a section of leaders about the grave allegations against the home minister. Purely as a matter of strategy, many Congress leaders believe the political battle could have been fought better by removing the home minister till the inquiry cleared him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
24-03-2021||India||Maoist attack: 5 policemen killed, 13 injured in Chhattisgarh||Five policemen were killed and 13 injured after suspected Maoists blew up the bus in which they were travelling in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur district on Tuesday. Personnel of the police’s District Reserve Guard (DRG) were returning in the bus to Naryanpur town, 300km away from capital Raipur, after a counter-insurgency operation, said inspector-general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P. “Five DRG personnel, including the driver, were killed in the explosion,” he said. Reinforcements were rushed to the spot and bodies and injured personnel were evacuated from the forest. The injured personnel are being airlifted to Raipur in an Indian Air Force chopper for treatment, the IG added. Earlier while confirming the incident, state's director-general of police D.M. Awasthi had said over 20 security personnel were onboard the bus. The bus was passing along the under-construction Barsoor-Palli road which is surrounded by dense forest of Abhujmad when the Maoist triggered a landmine blast near a culvert, said a police official. The impact was such that the bus fell off the culvert. This was the second major Maoist attack on DRG personnel — the frontline anti-Maoist force of the state police — in the span of one year. The DRG personnel are recruited from among local youth and surrendered Maoists in Bastar division. On March 21, 2020, 17 security personnel, including 12 from DRG, were killed in a Maoist ambush in Sukma district of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
24-03-2021||India||UK variant in Punjab Covid surge||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday asked the Centre to offer Covid-19 vaccines to younger people after a fast-spreading UK coronavirus variant was found in four-fifths of viral genomes sampled from the state this month. Singh has called on people to strictly adhere to personal safety protocols and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination campaign to cover those younger than 60 years as the variant has been found in younger people, the state said in a media release. The detection of the UK variant — also known as B.1.1.7 — that is known to be more infectious than earlier circulating coronaviruses, has amplified concerns that variants might be fuelling the Covid-19 resurgence in Punjab and other states. The state said 326 (81 per cent) of 401 samples collected between March 1 and 10 and sequenced at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, contained B.1.1.7. Singh has warned that the state would impose fresh curbs and restrictions if people do not follow precautions. Punjab is among multiple states across India where average daily new case counts have increased over the past three weeks, more than doubling the country’s daily count from around 15,000 on March 1 to more than 40,000 on March 22. In Punjab, average daily case count has increased nearly four-fold from 566 to 2,262 over the past three weeks, marking the state’s third Covid-19 wave after the first wave and peak in mid-September and the second in mid-November. The UK variant has mutations that make it more infectious and a fast spreader. Studies have indicated that it accounts for 98 per cent of new cases in the UK and 90 per cent of new cases in Spain. The NCDC, a unit of the Union health ministry, and nine partner labs across the country have since December been sequencing coronavirus genomes from samples across the country to look for unusual variants that might influence epidemic patterns. This effort has so far detected 795 samples with the UK variant or one of the other two variants of concern called the South Africa and Brazil variants, the health ministry said on Tuesday. The ministry did not respond to queries seeking statewise distribution of these 795 variants. The sequencing efforts by the NCDC in collaboration with labs in New Delhi and Pune have also revealed the presence of a coronavirus variant with a double mutation — designated E484Q and L452R — among nearly 20 per cent of samples from Maharashtra, another state with a surge in counts. Researchers are currently trying to collect more samples and sequence more genomes and correlate them with infection patterns to determine whether this double mutation variant has played any role in the sharp rise in cases in Maharashtra in recent weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-253
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief asks Mamata to wear bermudas, sparks outrage||A video of BJP state president Dilip Ghosh apparently suggesting West Bengal Chief Minister should wear bermuda shorts to display her injured leg has triggered controversy with the ruling TMC slamming it as a "distasteful comment" and women expressing outrage over the remark in social media. While no one was named in the purported speech by Ghosh, known for his controversial comments in the past, most commentators took the comments to be directed at Banerjee. In the video, veracity of which could not be confirmed by us, Ghosh was seen stating at an election meeting in Purulia on Monday that after the cast was taken off and the foot was bandaged, she is displaying the leg to everyone. "....she is wearing saree with one leg covered but kept another kept open for viewing. Haven't seen anyone draping a saree in such a way. "If she has to display her leg for viewing, she can very well wear bermuda shorts. That will help to have a better view," the BJP MP was purportedly heard stating. Sharply reacting to the purported comment by the BJP leader, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) said in a twitter post in Bengali, "We can expect such distasteful comments only from Dilip Ghosh. "His deplorable comments about a woman chief minister proves Bengal BJP leaders don't know how to show respect to women. "Mothers and sisters of Bengal will give a befitting reply to such insults to Mamata Banerjee on May 2." Trinamool Congress MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said in a tweet, "It now appears that the role of @BJP4Bengal State President has been merely reduced to that of venom-spitting. From scathing attacks towards the CM of Bengal to violence towards @AITCofficial workers - he has conveniently crossed all limits.Shocking words, once again!" TMC MP Mahua Moitra's tweet on Dilip Ghosh's remark said "@BJP WB Pres asks in public meeting why Mamatadi is wearing a saree, she should be wearing Bermuda shorts to display her leg better. And these perverted ... (people) think they are going to win Bengal?" BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya told PTI, there was no need to create a controversy over the remark. "I think such comments should not be taken seriously. The chief minister makes many intemperate remarks against the BJP and our leaders at public meetings. Dilip Ghosh is a generous person. Even if he made such a comment at a rally, it has to be kept in mind that many things are said at election meetings which should not be always considered seriously. "Ghosh has great respect for the chief minister. So no controversy should be created," Bhattacharya said. Ghosh who was campaigning in Purulia district on Tuesday could not be reached for his reaction. The BJP state president has earlier been in the midst of controversies for his comments which ranged from claims that `desi' (Indian) cows milk have gold content to demands that Balakot-like surgical strikes be carried out on Jadavpur university to drive out communists. His purported comment triggered protest in Facebook too with some women expressing outrage. "Dear Dilipda. If men can go out in public in bermuda shorts baring their legs, women hope you shouldn't have any issue with them wearing bermudas as well. "It is very comfortable for both genders. And certainly the CM can wear it if she wishes," Chaitali Biswas, a Facebook user, posted in her timeline inviting many likes. The chief minister sustained injuries on her left leg, hip, forearm, neck and shoulder at an incident in Nandigram soon after filing her nomination papers on March 10. She had alleged that the BJP hatched a conspiracy to prevent her from campaigning by organising an attack, a charge denied by the saffron camp. The Election Commission had concluded that the chief minister had suffered injuries following an accident, due to a security lapse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||In Bengal, a son of the soil will be BJP’s chief minister, vows Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee traded barbs and a rollout of promises on Wednesday, three days before the first day of polling in Bengal with Modi promising to anoint as CM a “son of the soil”, a phrase the two leading rival campaigners have been splitting hairs over lately. In the 176km between East Midnapore’s Contai, where the Prime Minister had his only rally in the state on Wednesday, and Bishnupur in Bankura district, where Mamata had her first campaign for the day, the vitriol flew thick and fast. Modi spoke about corruption during the Amphan cyclone relief and the syndicates thriving in Bengal under the Trinamul’s patronage and Mamata referred to crony capitalism and the ruling BJP’s stoking the communal fire, before calling each other liars. “She is telling lies one after the other to humiliate Nandigram before the entire country. She is insulting the people of Nandigram, which gave so much to her,” Modi said in his speech. On March 10, while campaigning in Nandigram, Mamata had sustained injuries and since then has addressed all her rallies from the dais sitting on a wheelchair. Modi did not make any direct comment on her injury. About 30 minutes after Modi was on his way to Assam’s Bihpuria, Mamata returned the barb in Bishnupur. “I have not seen a bigger liar than Modi,” she said. “We do what we say, while they make a lot of promises but do not keep even one. Has anyone of you received the Rs 15 lakh?” Modi reminded his party supporters, if the BJP was voted to power, a son of the soil would become the chief minister. He did not stop with that promise to counter Mamata’s “outsider” charge, instead named Bengal’s favourite sons like Rabindranath Tagore and Subhas Chandra Bose, Midnapore icons like Khudiram Bose and Matangini Hazra to hit at Mamata. “Bengal gave Vande Mataram to the country. Gurudev (Rabindranath Tagore) wrote, what we say everyday, Punjab Sindh Gujarat Maratha Dravid Utkal Banga, how can any Indian be outsider? We are being called tourists and insulted daily.” Mamata clarified in Bishnupur, that her comment was not for people from other parts of the country who reside in Bengal. “Goons are coming from Uttar Pradesh before the elections, chewing paan masala and damaging the culture of Bengal. These are the outsiders,” she said. She also referred to another BJP-ruled state, Tripura to emphasise that BJP’s promissory notes were not to be trusted. “What have you done in Tripura? There is no provident fund, no gratuity. Group-D employees have been outsourced to private agencies. Teachers have been sacked,” Mamata said. Earlier in his speech, Modi had referred to the neighbouring state of Assam, as a benchmark of development under the NDA to push his theory of “double-engine” government, the same party ruling at the Centre and the states. “Look at Assam. Earlier we would hear only about killings in Assam. Our government was formed five years ago and since then there is peace and development projects are being carried out. But here in Bengal, only echoes of guns and bombs can be heard,” he said. Without alluding to the Prime Minister’s claims, Mamata reminded the audience how she had brought peace to Junglemahal. The geographical area where Modi campaigned on Wednesday had turned into a stronghold of the Trinamul, courtesy the Adhikary family. From 2001 onwards, the Contai South seat has been a fied of the Adhikarys, with the father Sisir and his two sons Suvendu and Dibyendu having represented it in the Bengal Assembly. The adjoining Contai North, has swayed between the CPM and the Trinamul Congress in recent polls. In this election season the spotlight however is on neighbouring Nandigram where Mamata faces the son-of-the-East Midnapore-soil Suvendu and a 30-year-old Marxist woman, fielded by the CPM with the Congress support.  Bishnupur, which was once a Red-stronghold has since turned hands from the Trinamul to the BJP in recent times. Though the Prime Minister has yet to have any dialogue with farmers protesting outside the national capital for more than 100 days, he promised that the betel-leaf, cashew, paddy, jute and potato producers of East Midnapore would benefit from central schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi. Mamata promised more doles like credit cards for students, delivering free ration at doorsteps, doubling the number of days in the 100 days employment scheme among others. (Contai North and Contai South go to polls on March 27, Bishnupur on April 1).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal|| Only those who create trouble before polls are outsiders for TMC, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday claimed that her party considers only those people sent from other states to foment trouble before elections as outsiders and not those who have been living here for ages. While her party has labelled BJP leaders coming from other states for canvassing as outsiders, she said that those originally hailing from other parts of India but residing in Bengal for ages are not outsiders but her "own people". "Why should we label those living here for ages as outsiders? They are an integral part of our state. "We consider only those pan masala-chewing, tilak- sporting people sent from states like Uttar Pradesh to foment trouble in Bengal before elections as outsider goons. We will continue to call them as such," the TMC chief said. Lashing out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in the state to campaign for BJP candidates, Mamata said, "I have great respect for the PM's chair, but I am sorry to say that Modi is a big liar." "What happened to Modi's promise of crediting Rs 15 lakh to everyone's bank accounts? Why should an LPG cylinder cost Rs 900? Why is kerosene scarce? What is the fate of the Ujjwala scheme? "Why are Modi and (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah silent even as farmers are agitating out in the open for months? Why are iron nails being laid out at the farmers' protest site? Is Modi concerned only about a large industrial group and not agriculturists?" the feisty leader said. Claiming that the Centre's 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' scheme has been a non-starter, Mamata said, "I deliver what I promise but Modi fails to keep his promises." She cited the implementation of state government projects like Kanyashree, Sabuj Sathi and Swasthya Sathi to back her claims. Flaying the BJP for promising to constitute the seventh pay commission for state government employees if voted to power in Bengal, the chief minister said, "First answer why the PSUs are being closed down and at whose behest? You are rendering lakhs of people unemployed. People don't trust you."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Will make a ‘son of the soil’ the CM if voted to power, Modi says in Bengal||Bengal has brought together the nation through 'Vande Mataram', and on this land, CM Mamata Banerjee was terming people "bohiragoto", Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, announcing that if voted to power, a son of the soil will be made the BJP chief minister of the state. Addressing an election rally in Kanthi in the Purba Medinipur district, Modi said that Bengal was the land of icons like Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, Rabindranath Tagore and Subhas Chandra Bose and on this land, no Indian was an outsider. "Bengal brought together the people of India through Vande Mataram, and on that land, Mamata-didi is talking about 'bohiragoto' (outsider). No Indian is an outsider here, they are children of Bharat Mata," he said. "We are being called 'tourists', fun is being made of us, we are being insulted. Didi, people of Rabindranath's Bengal don't consider anybody outsider," Modi added. When the BJP forms government in Bengal, the chief minister will be a son of the soil, he said at the rally amid loud cheers from his supporters. Modi's comments came amid an "insider vs outsider" debate with Mamata asserting regularly that she won't allow Bengal to be ruled by "outsiders" from Delhi or Gujarat, in a reference to the BJP and the prime minister. The Trinamul Congress has even launched the 'Bangla Nijer Meyeke Chaye' (Bengal wants its own daughter) campaign, with party leaders calling BJP functionaries visiting the state as "election tourists". The prime minister said that Mamata insulted the people of Nandigram with false accusations, and people would give her a befitting reply. "You are maligning Nandigram and its people before the entire country. This is the same Nandigram that gave you so much. The people of Nandigram will not forgive you and will give you a befitting reply," he said, apparently referring to the March 10 incident in which the chief minister was injured. Modi said that BJP would make every scheme in the state scam-free and bring in transparency, hitting out at the TMC over 'cut money', 'tolabaji' (extortion) and ground-level corruption. "The relief for Amphan was looted through the 'bhaipo (nephew) window'," he alleged. The prime minister said that Mamata was talking about 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorstep), while she will be shown the door on May 2. The popular 'Duare Sarkar' programme was launched by Mamata’s government months ahead of the election, delivering services through special camps at neighbourhoods. The chief minister has also promised that she will ensure doorstep delivery of ration, if voted to power for the third time. The prime minister was campaigning in Kanthi, the hometown of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CM accuses BJP of buying off TMC's polling agents||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the BJP of trying to buy off her party’s polling agents and asked Trinamul workers and politicians to keep an eye on these agents. Her remark came amid huge seizures of money and liquor and an acknowledgement from Election Commission officials that much more cash was being “used” this election compared with earlier Bengal polls. “You (Trinamul leaders and workers) should closely watch whether the BJP has been buying off our party workers. I too am keeping an eye out,” Mamata said at a rally in Raghunathpur, Purulia. “They (the BJP) have been asking some of our booth agents (polling agents) to work for them on polling day in exchange for Rs 5 lakh. I will not let them.” Mamata’s allegation comes in the context of the seizure of Rs 23.52 crore in unaccounted cash across the state between February 26, when the model code of conduct came into force, and March 21. Liquor worth Rs 11.05 crore too has been seized. Officials said both figures were huge considering the Election Commission never saw Bengal as an “expenditure-sensitive” state. A poll panel source said: “As far as I can recall, a total of about Rs 9 crore was seized in the entire period ahead of the 2016 Assembly polls. It’s clear that much more money is being used this time.” Mamata also referred to a social media video that shows a candidate purportedly promising someone to take care of expenses a day before the polls. “This is their character,” she told a rally in the Para constituency in Purulia. “They come before the polls and seek votes by providing Rs 500, or Rs 1,000, or Rs 5,000. Don’t vote for money.” In the video, a man resembling Jhargram BJP candidate Sukhamay Satpathi is seen but it’s not clear who speaks the words. Satpathi denied the charge and accused the chief minister of playing “dirty politics”. “I went to a vegetable market in Jhargram for a poll campaign a few days ago. I never uttered such words. Maybe an outsider who was in the market said that. I never imagined that Mamata Banerjee would lie to malign me,” Satpathi said. Trinamul leaders in the Jungle Mahal districts claimed the BJP was “inundating” the remote areas with cash and bribes in the form of mobile phones and television sets to lure away Trinamul workers. Senior Trinamul leaders from Calcutta have directed the district leaderships of the constituencies that vote in the first two phases (March 27 and April 1) to build a network to monitor the party leaders and workers who have been appointed polling agents. “Didi is right. The BJP has already started abusing its money power here. We had been alerted earlier and assigned only the proven faithful workers as polling agents,” said Nabendu Mahali, a Trinamul general secretary and party spokesperson in Purulia. “We have set up a network to keep a watch on our party workers. We trust them, but the BJP is trying to win this election by hook or crook.” Trinamul had trailed from eight of Purulia district’s nine Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato of the BJP had won the parliamentary seat by more than 2 lakh votes. Across Jungle Mahal, Trinamul had trailed the BJP from 31 of the 40 Assembly segments. Sources said the police had seized around Rs 50 lakh in cash on Monday morning from a car in Purulia and handed the money over to the income-tax department. The Purulia district administration has now formed an all-women police flying squad to monitor the areas bordering Jharkhand, having been tipped off that political parties might use women cash couriers in the poll-bound districts. Mamata too has asked the police to beef up monitoring in the areas bordering Jharkhand, saying she has information that cars bearing Union government stickers are being used to distribute money in the region. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh asked: “How does she know? It’s her party that buys votes. She is being paranoid now, knowing she is going to lose.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Hindi target not being met, Centre tells India's oldest science research institute||The Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, India’s oldest science research institute where the Raman Effect was discovered, has been told that it is not doing enough to meet the Hindi language targets set by the Centre. “It is to be noted that after reviewing the official language activities in the institute, it has been observed that the institute is not yielding the desired results in achieving the official language targets as given by the Government of India, ministry of home affairs, department of official language. We have received an adverse letter issued by DST (the department of science and technology). This is a very worrying situation,” said a circular issued by the acting registrar of the Indian Association on March 19. The circular was sent to the director, deans, Chairs, heads of schools and some other sections at the institute. The circular added: “It is also for your kind information that a Hindi officer has already been appointed in the institute. He may be contacted for any help regarding the implementation of the official language Hindi.” Sections of scientists from several institutions expressed outrage at the attempt to harass one of Bengal’s most respected institutions in the name of the official language. When The Telegraph sought a response on Tuesday, the association’s acting registrar, Purbasha Banerjee, said the March 19 circular stood superseded. The revised circular issued on March 23 reads: “DST… conveyed inadequacy in implementing official language at IACS. Individuals are requested to make a note of the same and approach the part-time Hindi officer of the institute for any help and assistance if needed.” A teacher at the institute wondered whether the earlier circular had indeed been superseded or merely couched in a less accusatory tone. The Centre is known for “encouraging” the use of the official language, often drawing charges of a cultural imposition. But academics at the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science and elsewhere said they could not recall an instance in recent memory when they had been blamed and then compelled to achieve the language targets. “The institute was created for the cultivation of science by Dr Mahendra Lal Sircar, not for the cultivation of Hindi as official language,” said Sabyasachi Sengupta, a former professor of electrical engineering at IIT Kharagpur who was associated with the Paschimbanga Vigyan Mancha. Sircar was a renowned physician, a social reformer and an ardent propagator of science education and research. On July 29, 1876, the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science was founded in a house taken on lease at the intersection of College Street and Bowbazar Street (the institute is now located in Jadavpur). Sircar was the secretary of the institute till his death. The second doctor of medicine (MD) from Calcutta University, Sircar frequently gave lectures on subjects like electricity, magnetism, heat, light and sound. Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose, Acharya Prafulla Chandra Ray, Chunilal Basu and several other luminaries were regular speakers at Cultivation of Science at Sircar’s request. Some of the points listed by the “superseded” March 19 circular that was shared with the heads of departments were: ⚫ 55 per cent of the total correspondence should be in Hindi. ⚫ Letters received in Hindi must be answered in Hindi. ⚫ 33 per cent of file notings must be made in Hindi. ⚫ The names of the files should be bilingual (Hindi and English). They should be written in Hindi first and then in English. ⚫ The entries in the service books should be made in Hindi as far as possible. ⚫ During official work, signatures on the files may be written in Hindi, as and when required. ⚫ At the end of every quarter, each department should arrange to provide quarterly progress reports, with seal and signature, to the Hindi cell by the fifth of the following month. The circular added: “All are requested that the points stated above may be given special attention so that the institute can be saved from unpleasant situations at the time of official language inspection being carried out by the department of Official language, Kolkata/DST, New Delhi, in near future.” Veteran scientist Bikash Sinha said “it is a matter of deep regret” that an institution founded by Sircar was now talking about the neglect of Hindi instead of discussing science. “Today they are saying correspondence should be made in Hindi. Tomorrow they will issue an order asking teachers to deliver class lectures in Hindi. This may serve the purpose of those who love to impose Hindi at any cost as part of their political agenda but this will make an institute of higher learning more inward-looking and regressive as a result. An institute of higher learning cannot progress without English,” Sinha told The Telegraph. Sinha, former director of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, added that the erstwhile Left Front government of Bengal had done “permanent damage to a generation of students by promoting Bengali over English” at the primary school level. “Now by promoting Hindi over English, damage of a worse kind will be done,” said Sinha. Calls and messages to the institute’s director, Shantanu Bhattacharya, did not elicit any response. The institute was conceived and planned “in the backdrop of the great cultural and intellectual awakening of the nineteenth century Bengal and was desired by its founder to be an institution ‘solely native and purely national’”. C.V. Raman initiated serious research in the IACS as a part-time worker, while carrying out his duties in the Accountant General's office in Calcutta. The Raman Effect was discovered at the institute in 1928 and led to a Nobel Prize for Raman in 1930. The institute’s website says: “Till the early decades of this century the Association was the only place in India where higher research in Physical Sciences could be carried out. As a result, students from all over India began assembling at Calcutta to work in the creative atmosphere of the Association.” Bidhan Chandra Roy played a key role in providing land for the new campus in Jadavpur through a Bengal government gazette notification on November 20, 1947.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Mohanpur road blocked over school affiliation||Nearly 400 students of Garden High School-IISER, and their parents, blocked the entrance of the IISER-Calcutta campus in Mohanpur on Tuesday over the alleged inaction of school authorities on CBSE affiliation. Students and their parents blocked the NH12-Kalyani connector for about an hour and entered the campus for a heated verbal exchange with IISER director Sourav Pal, who accused parents of “manhandling” him. Haringhata police controlled the situation. The parents continued the protest and accused Pal of being “inhuman”. IISER director Pal said: “The matter is sub judice. But the parents were apparently forcing me for a resolution right here....They attacked me. I on my part, I have written to the (education) ministry, submitted an affidavit....Now the ministry and CBSE must decide.” Row over the school’s affiliation started in 2019 when the CBSE rejected its affiliation plea. In 2015, IISER-C chose the Satikanta Guha Foundation (SGF) to set up and manage a school on its campus. CBSE rejected the affiliation on the grounds that it had no wall and the NOC issued by the IISER-C was not vetted by the ministry. It prompted the SGF to move Calcutta High Court last August. On March 8, the HC directed the ministry to reconsider a provisional affiliation for the school in consultation with CBSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Sheikh Hasina goes global, Narendra Modi local||A tale of contrasts is unfolding not far from poll-bound Bengal — while Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina is earning respect for seamlessly taking a domestic celebration to international heights amid a pandemic, Narendra Modi will be crossing the border with an apparent eye on a state election. Hasina will receive Modi at Dhaka this Friday after having hosted several heads of state like President of the Maldives Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, Nepalese President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Bhutanese Prime Minister Lotay Tshering over the past five days. The world leaders are guests at the Bangladesh government’s celebration of the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the Liberation War that created Bangladesh. Although there are several pending bilateral issues — ranging from an agreement on Teesta water-sharing to expanding the scope of trade — between the two countries, the Indian Prime Minister’s visit to Bangladesh has not sparked any expectations in the neighbouring country. On the contrary, expectations are high on this side of the border as Modi’s party is locked in a crucial battle with Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul for the seat of power in Bengal. The BJP is hoping to reap political dividends from Modi’s Bangladesh trip, especially in the context of the crucial Matua vote bank back home. Modi will be the guest of honour during the National Day programme on March 26. On Day One of his trip, he will also hold meetings with Hasina, Bangladesh President Mohammed Abdul Hamid and foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen. It is the Day Two itinerary that appears to hold the kernel of the Indian Prime Minister’s trip to Bangladesh. Modi will be visiting temples, travelling outside Dhaka to visit the Jeshoreshwari Kali temple at Satkhira and also offer prayers at a temple in Orakandi, a sacred place of worship for the Matuas on both sides of the border. “Anyone can understand that the Prime Minister is going to Bangladesh to visit temples, which will not only facilitate the BJP’s polarisation agenda along religious lines but will also woo the Matuas,” a retired Indian diplomat said. The Matuas, lower caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh, play a key role in deciding the poll outcome in 30-odd Assembly seats in North 24-Parganas and Nadia. Although the community had voted en-masse for the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, sections within the community are now sulking because of the delay in the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act as promised by the party. “The Prime Minister’s proposed visit to Orakandi, which is a sacred pilgrimage for us, will really help us politically in the Assembly polls,” said Subrata Thakur, a Matua leader and the BJP nominee for the Gaighata seat in North 24-Parganas. Subrata’s brother Shantanu, the BJP MP from Bongaon and the president of the All India Matua Mahasangha, and a few other members of the family who are descendents of Harichand Thakur, the founder of the Matua sect, will accompany Modi during his temple trips in Bangladesh. “With his visit to Orakandi, the Prime Minister will send out a message that he is with the Matua community,” added Subrata. The fact that Modi’s trip to Bangladesh has not created the usual buzz is clear from the coverage in the local media. Unlike in the past, there are no discussions on what the trip would yield for Bangladesh. The gracious hosts in Bangladesh are not talking openly about their lack of expectations — there are no bilateral meetings lined up during the trip — but in private some are saying they are aware of the reasons behind Modi’s visit against the backdrop of the elections in Bengal. This departure from the usual dynamics of an Indian Prime Minister’s visit to Bangladesh is defining the tale of the two leaders from the sub-continent. “Despite the pandemic, Hasina has managed to expand the scope of the celebrations in the country and got so many leaders to Dhaka…. This has indeed raised her stature,” said a retired Bangladeshi diplomat. “Our Prime Minister has also done a remarkable job by ensuring social distancing at the highest level by staggering the visits of the heads of state,” the ex-diplomat added. The strict physical distancing protocol that the Bangladesh government is maintaining — the guest list for the National Day programme has also been selective — is not the only good news for Modi. Despite overtures from Pakistan, which is trying to court Hasina, none from Islamabad has been invited to the 10-day celebrations. “I can’t predict what will transpire between the two Prime Ministers when they meet, but I strongly think that India should take advantage of the visit to come up with something more concrete on the highly sensitive issue of water-sharing…. Simple promises of solutions will not be enough as we have been waiting for a breakthrough for around a decade,” said the former Bangladeshi diplomat. A former Indian diplomat, however, said New Delhi couldn’t probably have asked for bilateral meetings when the Prime Minister had been invited to take part in the celebrations. He also questioned the perception that Modi’s visit is linked to the Bengal elections. “I think that the Prime Minister is trying to give some confidence to the Hindu community in Bangladesh as they are often under attack from fundamentalist forces.… This attempt to boost the morale of the Hindus in Bangladesh is a welcome step,” said the former diplomat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Shah, Didi trade barbs on Amphan relief||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday alleged “nephew and company” had looted the funds sent by the Centre for Cyclone Amphan relief in Bengal, but chief minister Mamata Banerjee retorted that no financial assistance had arrived from Delhi. “Modiji is sending a lot of money. Amphan had come, right... Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) had sent Rs 10,000 crore, did you get anything? Where did the money go? This nephew and company have usurped it,” Shah told a rally at Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. Gosaba is in the Sunderbans which bore the brunt of Amphan which struck the state in May last year. Shah’s attack was apparently directed at Abhishek Banerjee, Mamata’s nephew and a Trinamul Congress MP, whom, Shah claimed, the chief minister wants to make her successor. Debunking Shah’s allegations, Mamata said the Centre had sent no money to assist the state after the cyclone had wreaked havoc in south Bengal. “I heard (he) said in Gosaba that they had given money during Amphan. They haven’t given a single penny… (They are) a bunch of liars, a bunch of robbers, a bunch of slanders, a bunch of Duryodhans and Dushasans,” Mamata said at a poll rally in Purulia’s Raghunathpur. Mamata’s claims were echoed by Trinamul leader and minister Firhad Hakim, who elaborated that an initial sum of Rs 1,000 crore had been despatched by the Centre. However, the state’s demand was of Rs 6,000 crore and nothing was sent thereafter. BJP sources said to speak on Amphan was a strategic choice of Shah since he was addressing a Muslim-dominated, cyclone-prone electorate. Shah’s words showed how desperate he was to make inroads into South 24-Parganas district, which has around 35 per cent Muslim voters and is a stronghold of Trinamul. “If we go by the Lok Sabha poll results, southern part of Bengal, especially South 24-Parganas, is our weakest point. This is mostly because it has a high density of Muslim population,” a state BJP office-bearer said. “Hence, Amitji quite tactfully refrained from the narrative of appeasement and polarisation in his speech at Gosaba. He rather focussed on highlighting misappropriation of Amphan funds,” the BJP leader added. Trinamul had won the Gosaba Assembly seat in 2016 by securing 51.24 per cent of votes. In 2019, Trinamul won the Joynagar Lok Sabha seat, of which Gosaba is one of the Assembly constituencies, with a vote share of 56.13 per cent. “Don’t worry, the BJP (government) will send everyone, who stole every penny of the funds Modiji had sent, to jail by forming an SIT,” Shah said at the rally. He reiterated the promises in the BJP’s manifesto, including turning the Gangasagar Mela into an international event, setting up of Sunderbans Development Board, construction of multiple bridges, allocation of Rs 6,500 crore over five years to complete development in cyclone-prone areas, and providing Rs 6,000 annual assistance to Bengal’s fishermen. The BJP heavyweight said the Sunderbans would be declared a separate district within a year if the BJP was voted to power. “I promise that...It is the promise of Narendra Modi...the next time I come to seek votes, all our promises will be fulfilled, trust me...Whatever promises the BJP has made across the nation, we have fulfilled them...” Shah said. On the other hand, Mamata claimed Shah’s poll promises were full of lies and were never meant to be fulfilled. “They are saying that they will give jobs…bring the manifesto of Assam, bring the manifesto of Tripura…they have laid off 1,000 teachers…they have privatised seven public entities,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Congress rift deepens over seats, names||Congress workers are not on the same page with ally Left on seat-sharing in Murshidabad and are protesting against the party’s own candidate list in Malda. In Murshidabad, the Congress and the Left were to field nominees in 17 and five seats, but in two of 22 seats, the alliance has come unstuck over political differences. Samserganj will see nominees from both allies. Nowda will see a Congress nominee and a Left-backed Independent candidate. In Malda, Congress workers have demanded that candidates of Ratua and Mothabari seats be replaced. In Murshidabad, the Left had fielded Modassar Hossain in Samserganj seat that it had won in 2016. However, sources said local Congress leaders opined that as their party had secured a lead in the Assembly segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, they would field their candidate Rezaul Haque. “As of now, both sides have started their campaign. Talks are on (for a truce) but none of the parties is ready to back off,” said a Congress insider. In Nowda, the Congress fielded Mosharraf Hossain Mondal, the sabhadhipati of Trinamul-run Murshidabad Zilla Parishad. A few weeks back, Mondal joined the Congress but is yet to resign from the sabhadhipati’s post. This decision angered local CPM leaders who announced the name of Samik Mondal, a local leader, as a Left-backed Independent candidate. CPM leaders said they did not endorse the move of the local party leaders and had expelled Mondal and another local leader Gorachand Ghosh from the party. However, local CPM leaders are unrepentant in their defiance. “All the local leaders and party workers are with us and we will contest against the Congress as it fielded a candidate who even a few months back had tortured our workers,” Ghosh said. On Monday, hundreds of party supporters had demonstrated for three hours in front of the ancestral house of the Khan Choudhury family (descendants of late Congress stalwart A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury), who are still at the helm of the Congress in the district, in Kotowali on the outskirts of Malda town. Protesters demanded the candidate of the Ratua Assembly seat, Najema Khatun, be changed. On Tuesday, Congress workers assembled in front of the district party office, demanding that Mohammad Dulal Sheikh, the candidate of Mothabari seat, should be replaced. Some later went to the block Congress office in Kaliachak and ransacked it. Police reached the spot and brought the situation under control. The protests, Congress sources said, prompted the district leaders to convene an internal meeting on Wednesday. “We will listen to our party workers’ grievances and resolve them at the meeting,” said Kalisadhan Roy, the working president of the Congress in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP shifts Lahiri, fields retired general in Calcutta||The BJP on Tuesday released its final list of candidates with 11 new names and two replacements. The party has denied ticket to Congress turncoat Dulal Bar, who is the sitting Bagda MLA. Trinamul turncoat and Bongaon North MLA Biswajit Das has been nominated from Bagda. The decision BJP sources said was a fallout of Bongaon MP and All India Matua Mahasangha chief Shantanu Thakur’s meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday night. Bar is considered opposed to Shantanu in the BJP’s scheme of things. “What can I say if this is the party’s decision? The party has seen the larger good I believe. I will not file nomination as an Independent and will discharge the duties the party assigns me,” Bar said. Shantanu and family had demanded 30 seats but the BJP did not concede. As a compromise, Shantanu wanted at least three candidates of his choice and opposed Bar. Subrata Thakur, Shantanu’s brother, has been fielded from Gaighata. Ashok Kritonia, the candidate from Bongaon North, is a close aide to the BJP MP. The party has fielded economist and former chief economic adviser to the central government Ashok Lahiri from Balurghat. While Lahiri was initially nominated from Alipurduar, he was replaced by local candidate Suman Kanjilal. Local BJP workers had refused to accept Lahiri and had termed him as an outsider. Lahiri had been a voter in Delhi, but in the meantime, he got his name registered on the Bengal electoral roll. Balurghat will go to the polls on April 26,. Another notable nomination is of former deputy chief of army staff Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha from the Rashbehari seat in Calcutta. Saha is often regarded as the poster boy for the Make in India initiative for the army and credited for setting up the Army Design bureau in 2016. The BJP also replaced two candidates — Shikha Mitra Chowdhury from Chowringhee and Tarun Saha from Kashipur-Belgachhia — who had said they were not members of the BJP after the list was announced on March 18. While Shikha is a Congress leader and wife of former state Congress chief Somen Mitra, Tarun is a Trinamul leader. On Tuesday, the BJP replaced the two with Debabrata Mazhi and Shibaji Singha Roy for Chowringhee and Kashipur-Belgachhia, respectively. While Shibaji is the president of the party’s North Calcutta organisational district, Debabrata is known as a staunch advocate of Hindutva. The BJP had already declared advocate Loknath Chatterjee as its candidate at Ballygunge, Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Survey hints at close race||The Trinamul Congress could emerge as the single largest party in the Bengal Assembly but fall short of majority by a narrow margin, according to the third survey conducted ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections by pollster CNX for ABP Ananda. The survey conducted between March 12 and 21, in which 11,920 people spread across 42 Parliamentary constituencies took part, predicted Trinamul would bag 136-146 seats. The BJP is predicted to win 130-140 seats. Key findings of the survey are below||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Alipurduar Trinamul leader cries neglect||Mohan Sharma, a prominent Trinamul leader in Alipurduar district, has stepped down from two posts he held in the party and also from as many as nine official posts. On Monday night, Sharma announced his decision and accused a section of party leaders of “spreading lies” about him and “ignoring” him ahead of the Bengal elections. Based in Kalchini, Sharma is known to have considerable clout among the Gorkha and tribal population of the district and also has followers in tea gardens. “A leader based in Calcutta and camping in Alipurduar now is spreading lies against me. He has alleged that I am involved in illegal activities. I was forced to speak with our party supremo (Mamata Banerjee) who has asked me to wait for some time. I feel disheartened and have thus stepped down from the party’s posts,” said Sharma. He also alleged that Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul chief, was ignoring him. “They are organising political activities in my place and across the district. Surprisingly, I am not privy to these programmes as the district president does not pass any information to me,” Sharma said. According to him, he was a member of Trinamul’s state-level core committee and an invitee member in the district committee of the party. “I have stepped down from both posts,” he said. These apart, Sharma also resigned from nine official posts but not from the post of the chairman of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union and from the membership of the Zilla Parishad. Goswami, the district Trinamul chief, was brief in his reaction. “I will not make any comment about his decision. Only our party supremo and other state leaders can do that,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: BJP hill nominees anger allies||The BJP on Tuesday announced its candidates for the three hill seats, opening a floodgate of protests not just from its two most important hill allies, the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM) but also from within. The BJP fielded Subha Pradhan from Kalimpong, B.P. Bajgain from Kurseong and Neeraj Zimba from Darjeeling. Pradhan and Bajgain are former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung camp) leaders. Pradhan, a former Kalimpong civic chief, joined the BJP less than a week ago. Bajgain joined the BJP a few months back. Zimba, sitting Darjeeling MLA, is a GNLF leader who had contested on a BJP symbol in the 2019 by-elections and will do the same this time too. After the BJP’s list went public, GNLF president Maan Ghisingh voiced his dissent over candidates of “Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong”. Later, the GNLF issued another statement stating its protest was against the choice of candidates in “Kalimpong and Kurseong”, not Darjeeling. “The party will make its stand clear on this issue soon,” Ghisingh said. The CPRM also decided to announce their candidates from the three hill seats after the BJP’s nominations. R.B. Rai, president of the CPRM, said the party had decided to back the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after assurance that the issue of the national identity of Indian Gorkhas would be solved and the mention of “permanent political solution for the region,” in the party’s poll manifesto. “But after the BJP’s one-sided decision (to field its candidates) without taking allies into confidence and its decision to ignore regional aspirations, we have decided to field our candidates in all three hill seats,” said Rai. The CPRM fielded Kishore Pradhan from Kalimpong, Sunil Rai from Darjeeling and Arun Ghatani from Kurseong. Both the GNLF and the CPRM said they would not walk out of the alliance, but were registering their protest against the BJP’s choice of candidates. Protests also erupted in the BJP camp in Kalimpong with many demanding that recent turncoat Pradhan be replaced with a party old-timer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Hill boards to back Binay Tamang faction, Trinamul||Representatives of 13 hill development boards have announced their support to candidates fielded by the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in the three hill seats and Trinamul candidates in the foothills. On Tuesday, office-bearers of all development boards formed by the Trinamul state government came here and made the decision. “We will support the Binay Tamang camp because since 2017 they have carried out a lot of development work through the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration in hill interiors and also restored peace. As far as seats in Terai and the Dooars go, we will support Trinamul candidates,” said Lyangsong Tamsang, a development board representative. After being voted to power, Mamata had taken up the onus to address the grievances of various hill communities. Her government formed development boards for 13 such communities and allocated funds for the socio-economic development of community members. Among these include the Lepcha, Tamang, Mangar, Bhutia, Limbu, Khambu-Rai, Kami, Damai, Bhujel, Khas, Gurung, Newar and Thami communities. According to representatives of hill boards, there are 2.5 lakh voters of these communities who live in Darjeeling and Kalimpong. “If representatives of development boards can confirm that all members of their respective communities will support candidates fielded by the Tamang camp in the hills and Trinamul candidates in Terai and the Dooars, it will be a major boost for both parties,” said a veteran in hill politics. Asked why the boards did not consider candidates of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Morcha, particularly when he has severed ties with the saffron camp to ally with Trinamul, they came up with a clarification. “He (Gurung) was with the BJP and we suspect he will continue to be with them… these days, he has lost his support base and many of his leaders have deserted him. There’s no question of supporting him,” said Sanjay Moktan, a representative of a development board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Electoral loyalties change contours in hills||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung announced his candidates from the three hill Assembly seats on Tuesday, and underlined the need to “safeguard regionalism” from the BJP’s party alleged expansionist plans. Gurung announced P.T. Ola, a lawyer, former Darjeeling civic chief and a former GTA Sabha member, as the party’s candidate from Darjeeling. R.B. Bhujel, an educationist, was fielded from Kalimpong. Narbu G. Lama, a former GTA Sabha member from Teesta-Takdha constituency, was named from Kurseong. Way back in 2009, Gurung had brought the BJP to the Darjeeling hills with the hope that the saffron party would play a pivotal role in helping them create the separate state of Gorkhaland. Thirteen years later, Gurung has been forced to confine Gorkhaland to a manifesto mention and spend most part of his speech on the threats to regionalism. The hill leader on Tuesday also did not talk about Gorkhaland though the first issue in his faction’s manifesto stated they would work towards the formation of statehood. “Regionalism is under threat (from the BJP). I appeal to the GNLF, the CPRM, the ABGL and all other hill parties to come together, let us work together. Without regional parties, regional issues cannot be raised,” said Gurung, who till a few months back was backing BJP to the hilt. Gurung had largely been responsible for ensuring three back-to-back victories for the BJP in the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat but on Tuesday he alleged that his one-time ally was now more focused in poaching his leaders than solving hill issues. “They poached our leaders and gave them tickets. They cannot even field their own candidates from the hills,” said Gurung. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader was speaking about Subha Pradhan, BJP candidate from Kalimpong, who had recently joined BJP after deserting Gurung’s camp. The saffron party’s candidate from Kurseong, B.P. Bajgain, is also a former spokesman of Gurung’s party. The BJP on Tuesday also decided to field sitting Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba from the Darjeeling seat. Zimba is a GNLF leader who had contested the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly by-elections on a BJP symbol and the same formula will be replicated this time. The GNLF, however, voiced their opposition against the BJP’s candidates from Kurseong and Kalimpong. The CPRM, also an ally of the BJP, has decided to field their own candidate from three hill seats, presumably annoyed by the BJP’s decision to go all alone in announcing hill candidates. Throughout Gurung’s speech it seems clear that the hill leader was worried about the regional party losing its relevance because of the BJP’s recent moves. “Until recently (after having joined Trinamul) I was still being asked to join them (the BJP). I had told them clearly that I will not put two feet in two boats. I took this decision (to leave BJP for the Trinamul) after pondering for nearly a month,” said Gurung, adding that it was according to his wishes that Trinamul had left the three hill seats to regional parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul accuses BJP of harbouring criminals at Nandigram||The Trinamul Congress and the CPM have written to the Election Commission, accusing the BJP of harbouring criminals at Nandigram in East Midnapore, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari are locked in a tight fight. The CPM has fielded young face Minakshi Mukherjee in the seat which will go to the polls on April 1. Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Derek O’ Brien on Monday wrote to the chief election commissioner, naming four locations in Nandigram where the BJP was allegedly sheltering criminals. The CPM also submitted a letter to the district electoral officer, making similar charges against Suvendu’s men on the ground. Sources say the allegations come in the wake of an “overwhelming” surge of BJP supporters at Nandigram ahead of the polls. The Opposition claimed they were “outsiders” and “antisocials”. Derek alleged in the letter the homes of four BJP functionaries Kalipada Shee, |Meghnath Pal, Pabitra Kar and Bhojohari Samanta had become the hideouts of bikeborne youths, including criminals. “Our candidate faces threat from criminals who have entered the area. It is the Election Commission’s job to look into the matter without delay,” said a senior CPM leader in Nandigram. On Monday, electoral authorities granted police cover to the Left’s Nandigram nominee Mukherjee following concerns expressed by the party regarding her safety. “It goes without saying that Suvendu holds sway here notwithstanding his defection to the BJP, and he will not give up without a fight,” said a source, referring to local support for the former Trinamul leader who spearheaded the 2007 land agitation. Trinamul turncoat and BJP leader Meghnath Pal denied the allegations. “Trinamul is being fearful and resentful. We have done nothing wrong. The local police are aware of all our activities.” The sources said local Trinamul leaders were on |the backfoot following a series of rallies conducted by Suvendu. “Suvendu has addressed at least 50 rallies, while Trinamul has not managed 10 in the past two weeks,” said a source. Earlier this week, Trinamul received another blow when over 50 leaders fled after police cases against them connected to the land agitation had been reopened following a Calcutta High Court order in response to prayer by the BJP nominee at Nandakumar in the district. Trinamul’s local election agent, Sheikh Sufian, claimed the BJP had been “terrorising the homes and families” of local Trinamul workers for the past week, taking advantage of their lull in activity. CPM sources concurred, with district secretary Niranjan Sihi adding: “The BJP has created an air of terror in the area and we are worried about our candidate’s safety.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
24-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly Elections 2021: CAA has to go, irrespective of polls||This Upper Assam town lost a part of its heritage — and sleep — in the winter of 2019 when frenzied anti-CAA protesters vandalised every government establishment in sight. The unprecedented arson in Chabua town, around 470km east of Guwahati, remains a nightmare for its 7,000-plus residents. A British Raj-era abandoned post office off National Highway 37 is a grim reminder of the mob fury unleashed on December 11 and 12, 2019, leaving unprepared locals and the administration shaken to the core. The railway station, another Raj-era establishment, the then United Bank of India branch, offices of the circle officer, the town committee, BSNL, ASTC and the panchayat were targetted and damaged. Also destroyed was the residence of the local BJP MLA, Binod Hazarika. The post office, railway station, circle office and the bank were set on fire. Although there is regret and remorse for the arson that followed the passage of the citizenship law in Parliament on December 11, 2019, the lurking fear of a repeat weigh heavily on the minds of residents as the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act takes centre-stage again in the run-up to the Assembly polls to be held on March 27, April 1 and 6. The opposition to the law played itself out again on Saturday when a group of AASU activists from Chabua staged a protest near NH37. They shouted anti-CAA slogans when a joint AGP-BJP campaign rally, led by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, passed by the protest site. Sonowal’s ancestral home is about 10km from the town. Security personnel stood as a wall between the protesters and the chief minister-led rally. No harm was done, but there was no missing the tension in the air. Sentiments across generations continue to remain strong against the CAA, which makes it easier for non-Muslims who entered India till 2014 from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. Both Pranabjyoti Dutta, the 29-year-old general secretary of AASU’s Chabua unit, and Haranath Dowerah, 71, retired headmaster of Assam Vidyapith, shared similar sentiments: What happened should not have happened and though life has returned to normal, the opposition to the CAA remains strong and will continue till the law is scrapped. “We will continue with our democratic and peaceful protests to protect the culture, language and identity of Assam from the ill-effects of the CAA. Our protests have nothing to do with the upcoming elections. The CAA has to go, irrespective of the poll results,” Dutta told this newspaper. The anti-CAA brigade is firm on the March 24, 1971, cut-off date as fixed in the 1985 Assam Accord for detection and deportation of illegal migrants. Dowerah said sentiments against the CAA were more pronounced in rural areas. And still is. “The heart aches over the destruction that rocked Chabua. We lost a part of our British era heritage — the railway station and the post office — but we also need to analyse why this happened. The CAA remains an emotive issue here. A flare-up cannot be ruled out once the CAA rules are implemented,” Dowerah said. Locals with whom this correspondent interacted said no one knew who the rioters were, except that they were from adjoining areas. Recalling the ordeal, one of them said they were cooped up inside their homes because the mob had asked the few who ventured out to join them. “It was a nightmare. There was no security. Those living close to NH37 were the most vulnerable, but luckily we were not targetted. There was tension for about a month. We still can’t sleep thinking about what happened. We had to fend for ourselves even though Chabua is well-protected from the security point of view. Both the army and the air force set-ups are located nearby,” one of them said. The unrest has impacted local politics. The sitting BJP MLA, Hazarika, has been shifted to the adjoining Lahowal constituency because of the still-strong anti-CAA emotions. Locals say neither Chabua nor the BJP can afford another round of unrest. The Opposition Congress-led 10-party alliance and the newly floated regional parties — Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad born out of the anti-CAA movement — have made the “unconstitutional and anti-Assam” law their key poll plank. Senior BJP leaders have shied away from referring to the CAA till now, focussing instead on the development plank. Elections will come and go, the locals said. But for a few like Abdul Rahim, gardener of the abandoned post office, life has changed. Like other staffers, he has to travel 10km to the Dikom post office from where the Chabua post office is functioning. Rahim shows us around, pointing to the trail of destruction, to the two words — “No CAA” — emblazoned in black on the front wall and on a signage, and then to the unkempt, small post office garden he used to maintain. “Everything is gone. The garden is gone,” Rahim said — like most locals, longing and lamenting for a Chabua untouched by the mayhem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
24-03-2021||Opinion||Out of options: Change in NOTA rules||Sir — A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking amendments to the rules regarding the ‘None of the above’ or Nota option in polls (“Just a button”, March 22). It proposed not only fresh elections if the Nota option receives more votes than a candidate but also that the candidates rejected by voters should not be fielded again in the fresh elections. But it must be remembered that Nota votes are usually cast by the electorate to express dissatisfaction with the political parties to which the candidates belong rather than against the candidates themselves. One seldom comes across instances where candidates of established political parties receive lesser number of votes than Nota. However, there are exceptions. In the 2017 bypolls in the R.K. Nagar constituency in Chennai, 2,373 Nota votes were cast. This far exceeded the 1,417 votes received by the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate, K. Nagarajan. But even in this case, it is likely that this was a vote against the BJP, which had and continues to draw the ire of the people of Tamil Nadu, and not against Nagarajan in particular, who was incidentally the party’s candidate. Under the circumstances, it would be better if the Election Commission maintained status quo as far as the Nota rules are concerned. It is surprising that the Supreme Court did not dismiss the petition at the admission stage itself. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — The Supreme Court has issued a notice to the Election Commission and the Centre to respond to a PIL demanding re-election if the number of Nota votes exceeds the number of votes cast in favour of the leading candidate in a constituency. If this is accepted, Nota would become a decisive factor in the polls. As such, it would be ironic for it to appear at the end of the list of candidates on electronic voting machines. Nota should be treated just like other candidates in the fray, and be placed in alphabetical order alongside them. In such a case, Nota would have to be renamed; instead of ‘None of the above’, the option should be changed to ‘None of the above or below’. Tapan Kumar Mukherjee,Burdwan Sir — If people cast more Nota votes than those for a candidate, it means that voters are seriously dissatisfied with the running candidates of all parties. So the Election Commission and the Centre would do well to introspect as to why a candidate who comes second should be awarded the responsibility of the constituency. Nota was brought into the electoral system with a purpose and that same purpose is defeated if its verdict is not honoured. Bal Govind,Noida New fight Sir — India is witnessing a second wave of coronavirus infections, which threatens to overturn the progress the country has made in containing the pandemic. Although the Centre has taken a number of initiatives in the fight against the virus for a year now, the fact remains that governments cutting across the political spectrum in India hardly considered it a priority to buttress defences against contagious diseases. While measures were taken to contain specific diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis, there was little investment in public health infrastructure. The costs of such quiescence were already high even before the novel coronavirus landed on our shores. If a wrong public health strategy is one reason for India’s vulnerability in healthcare management, the lack of resources is another. Even the Health Management Information System, which was supposed to plug some of the data gaps, has been found wanting. Once this pandemic retreats and people’s lives get back to normal, will India seriously consider devising measures to promote a strategy of ‘health for all’? Our response to future pandemics will depend on the answer to this question. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — It is not the responsibility of the government alone to fight against the coronavirus. Even though a second wave hits parts of the country, people in other states seem nonchalant about it. This is a shame. Ranjana Pal,Howrah  Go green Sir — This year, on the international forest day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation tweeted that 2,21,405 trees have been planted in Mumbai so far. This is a great response to a study published at the end of last year, which identified a 42 per cent decline in the forest cover of the city. Later, the Maharashtra government also announced a target of planting four crore saplings in the state before the arrival of monsoon. Taking such steady steps to protect the environment is indeed laudable. Citizens of poll-bound states should demand similar action from political parties seeking their votes. Mohit Verma,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
24-03-2021||Opinion||Link to life: Hunger and access to food||Food may be inaccessible for a large number of Indians, but fig leaves are abundant on government premises. Responding to a question in Parliament about India being ranked 94th among 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index in 2020, the minister of state for agriculture laughed it off by saying that India feeds stray dogs sweets when they give birth. The second fig leaf produced the answer that there is no question of food shortage as the government has double the required amount of food in buffer stocks. But the GHI is about hunger, not shortage — about access, not storage. The written reply of the agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, to the question argued that India had improved its position in the GHI from the previous year to 2020. The member of parliament who had posed the question showed the steady descent of India’s position in the GHI from 2014, making a year’s comparison irrelevant. The increase in the wasting of children between 2015 and 2019 compared to 2010 to 2014 made no sense either, since India was among the 10 top food producing countries in the world. The present government’s dismissal of all criticism, whether about failing democracy or suppression of data, was manifest in the case of the GHI too, although Mr Tomar’s reply said that the government had asked the producers of the GHI about the appropriateness and accuracy of their data. For data, the government merely has to acknowledge certain realities. The alleged starvation death of a child, described as malarial by the administration — a typical fig leaf — recently prompted the Supreme Court to question the government about the sudden cancellation of four crore ration cards because they were not linked to Aadhaar. The government’s eagerness to weed out false ration cards and love of technology have left numberless people without access to rations. The owners of the cancelled cards were not informed, and the fact that Aadhaar linking may not be possible in remote regions or by underprivileged families was ignored. The government is free to deride the report, The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World, 2020, that says that globally, India has the largest population of food insecure people. But can it also argue that an Aadhaar link is more important than a citizen’s right to food?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
24-03-2021||Opinion||Manipur and gender rights||Just like every other year, Manipur observed International Women’s Day in great earnest on March 8. Discussions and debates on gender issues began several weeks ahead and, in expected, worn-out, cliched statements, identified patriarchy as the culprit behind women’s misery. All this is very well, except that few seem to consider the other reality: that patriarchy, like insurgency, has now become a ‘state of mind’ first and then only a physical manifestation, and that not acknowledging this has amounted to addressing the symptoms rather than the disease. This dichotomy is taken cognizance of in the case of insurgency and the sane recommendation, although not always adhered to, is for a political rather than military approach for a lasting resolution. Unfortunately, such an outlook remains elusive in the case of the push for gender rights in Manipur, a state which boasts of a tradition of gender emancipation amongst its communities. Missed out therefore is the reality that patriarchy as a ‘state of mind’ has crossed boundaries, and its oppressive values have percolated to either side of the gender divide. Hence, a man can be a feminist at heart, believing truly in female emancipation, and, yet, be a defender of oppressive patriarchal values without realizing it. Literature, cinema and theatre have all spoken loudly on this. In some form or the other, they have indicated an archetypal tension between the mother-in-law and the daughter-in-law in which the former is always portrayed as the gatekeeper of the patriarchal order. This tension is resolved only if the daughter-in-law conforms volitionally to the patriarchal order or is forced to accept its norms. In most cases, the daughter-in-law, too, sees the patriarchal order as natural, having been raised by parents who have internalized patriarchal values to ultimately believe in its entrenched hegemonic structure as ‘common sense’. Today, patriarchy has also been distanced from any direct cause-effect dynamic. It remains as an abstract, an omnipresent force looming over society, unmistakably partisan in favour of the male gender, its values so deeply normalized that except for a conscientious few, nobody even sees the most atrocious social mores determined by it to be wrong. A recent viral video of a newly-married Meitei girl (Manipur’s majority community) on the evening of her wedding demonstrated this. This girl was required to eat leftover food from the soiled plate her husband had eaten from, with a horde of women watching the traumatized struggle of the girl to not throw up, as if this was an entertaining spectacle. None tried to intervene and stop the girl’s self-esteem from being crushed. It is obvious that the patriarchal order has created its own Gramscian “organic intellectuals” who see such rituals symbolizing the overlordship of the male to be perfectly natural. It is said that the oppressed are much more oppressive to their fellow oppressed. This probably explains the phenomenon of women themselves becoming watchdogs of the patriarchal order, which is their common oppressor. In his preface to Frantz Fanon’s The Wretched of the Earth, Jean Paul Sartre calls this a self-hate syndrome. The brutally colonized, he explains, detests his/her degraded self-image so much that he/she would inflict cruelty on anybody else who shares this hated self-image. Patriarchy has colonized and dehumanized the female gender to such an extent that instead of empathizing, the archetypal mother-in-law has often been the cruellest to the daughter-in-law, more so if the latter refuses to conform to the standards set by patriarchy. Many have hailed Manipur’s grassroots women’s movement as proof of gender emancipation. It may very well be so, but even this relative freedom is far from being free of the insidious influence of patriarchal hegemony. If women in Manipur are known for leading street agitations for social reforms, whenever it came to negotiating settlements with the establishment, men have always been given the responsibility. This is also partly because the elite amongst women generally stay aloof from these grassroots movements. In politics, not even women voters prefer women candidates. In the 60-member Manipur assembly, there are only two women MLAs; the representation has never been any better. There are other instances of female self-degradation in Manipur. In a trait that we are also now witnessing in Myanmar, women agitators are known for stringing up phaneks — traditional sarongs worn by women — on the roads during bandhs as they are supposed to be unclean and bring bad luck to men who pass under them. In Manipur’s gender struggle, the need now is for a reinvention of attitude and approach. The author is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
24-03-2021||Opinion||College, truncated||The great college dropout act is all set to lose its radical appeal. For generations now, dropping out of college has been the frontier to striking dares, be it incubating start-ups in Silicon Valley, running away to join movies, slouching towards Varanasi to seek hash and a guru. The list, infinitely expandable, is about to die the saddest death an iconoclast can get. It is about to become an icon itself, tamed and domesticated at the shrine. Is the traditional college about to die? The murmurs grow stronger each day. Lawrence Wong, the education minister of Singapore, has recently declared that the conventional model of “a fixed period of education and then a fixed period of work” is “no longer relevant today”. He sharpens a tune already in the air. The ‘open loop university’, developed in 2014 by Stanford’s design school as a way of reimagining the college experience, gave students admitted to college six years to use however and whenever they wished to. They could start college whenever they felt they were ready — be it eighteen or twenty-four, pull out after two years, work for a few years, and then loop back into college. No matter where they lived when they were looped out, the students could use the remainder of their six-year college period to re-matriculate in their thirties, forties, or fifties. College, fragmented, has now found its way to India. The National Education Policy 2020 has introduced its “multiple entry and exit” policy with which a student can enter and exit college at multiple points, with appropriate credits stored in the very instrumentally titled ABC, or Academic Bank of Credit. Even if they begin at the beginning, they can graduate college at the end of one year with a “certificate”, at the end of two years with a “diploma”, at the end of three years with a “Bachelor’s” — although the option best ‘recommended’ by the NEP remains the four-year multidisciplinary programme with a research component. One who might have just been a college dropout in a former life now looks well-positioned to hold a “certificate” or a “diploma”. In this world, Steve Jobs and Bill Gates would forego their iconoclasm, trade it for a certifying taxonomy based on the number of classes they might have waltzed in and out of. In this world, not finishing college will be a challenge — whatever you do, you get a brand. But if only Silicon Valley success were the default result of college attrition! School dropouts in India are among the most painful consequences of poverty, and, thanks to the vicious cycle, of lack of education. Early marriage for girls and premature entry into the labour force for both sexes keep our schools far emptier than they should be. But dropouts have been far more contained in higher education, perhaps not surprisingly so as getting access to college education itself requires the crossing of a significant privilege divide in this country. The dropout rate in Indian Institutes of Technology was just 1 per cent, according to figures released in Parliament by the minister of education. And it has been decreasing too — it fell from 2.25 per cent in 2015-16, while for the Indian Institutes of Management, the rate fell from 1.04 per cent in 2015-16 to 1 per cent in 2020. Likewise, the dropout rate in universities went from 7.49 per cent in 2015-16 to 2.82 per cent in 2020. ‘Dropouts’ in these statistics are defined by those who do not complete the full period of study — in the current formulation, three years for general stream courses and four years in some professional streams. This data will change once the ‘multiple exit options’ is adopted by institutions. Early exits won’t be called ‘dropouts’ anymore; they would leave with their various appellations. But in essence, the percentage of students leaving college after one or two years will inevitably shoot up. What we now call dropouts would, in effect, be legitimized, and a far larger section of students would have very good reasons, even incentives, to take early-exit options. So can we expect more Bangalore/Gurgaon start-ups, greater glory for incubators and angel investors, bolder actors who’ve escaped the confines of college, liberated sports stars, artists and writers who were choking on the walls of syllabi and lecture halls? No doubt we’ll see some of these. At first glance, it also makes economic sense for poorer students, who might find quicker, more strategized, paths to employment. There might also be students who will, through the ominously titled ABC, bank their credits and return to institutions later in life to add to their qualifications. But seriously? Don’t we know what will happen to the majority of students? The poorer ones will simply take the early exit options, perhaps the poorer the earlier, while students from more privileged backgrounds stay back and reap the longue durée college experience. Scholarships will be a paltry band-aid as, for students from disadvantaged families, they merely offset the cost of studying but offer no real substitutes to professional income, which students forego as long as they stay in school, funded or not. Multiple striations of lateral apartheid already lash the higher education landscape in India — from elite institutes of engineering and posh private colleges in metro cities to far-flung places in the country where teachers barely show up and academic sine die is the norm. The new system will institutionalize this apartheid along a new axis: those who’ve had some college, those who’ve had more, and those who’ve had the most. In a deeply stratified country like India, it’s anyone’s guess how the difference will play out, between richer students with a longer trajectory of college, and (often, invariably) poorer ones with shorter trajectories. Returning to college later in life as a non-traditional student — doesn’t that too, more often than not, depend on social and educational privileges already in the community? Barring a few dedicated professional tracks such as law and medicine, it is almost impossible to predict the relationship between learning acquired in college and the real expanse of one’s working life. What matters in the long run is the experience of college itself, irrespective of course content. A significant part of this experience is the web of social relations one develops while in college, which, in turn, become foundational for future relationships and, indeed, one’s eligibility for them. It’s an open secret that the real value of an Ivy-League education is the membership to an elite club — of a network of alumni that opens doors from the White House to Wall Street and beyond. IITs, IIMs and elite colleges have been serving the same function here in India ever since Independence. College, truncated — never mind how we credential the act — will segregate this essential social experience even further, entrenching the position of the ‘longer-educated’ over those who take early leave. The day is not too far away when a group of well-heeled alumni of the full college experience will forge networks and mergers over drinks, casting a moment to remember the name of their sharp but poor classmate from first year who left early to take a job. But the name will slip past all memory. Another round of drinks will be ordered. They will move on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Annual congregation at the firing range site in Netarhat plateau||Noted rights activists and economist Jean Drèze and many other social and tribal workers activists attended the programme organsied under Jan Sangharsh Samiti (JSS), which piloted the peaceful mass movement against this project in 1994.  “Since then said thousands of residents have been tirelessly fighting to press for cancellation of Netarhat Firing range project. Through satyagraha movement, we have also ensured no firing activities by Army as part of its annual practice in this range,” said Jerome Kujur of JSS, adding that in 1994 erstwhile Bihar government during undivided Jharkhand notified this firing range for Army till 2022. “With one more year left for the notification to end, we are now gearing up to intensify our satyagraha to ensure that the government permanently cancels this project,” he added.  As per the communiqué issued by JSS, Netarhat field firing range was notified for Army by government under the section 9 of Maneuvers Field Firing and Artillery Practice Act 1938, allowing it to conduct its annual artillery shelling and firing practice here. Netarhat firing range was among the four such pilot ranges which was established in the country. Other places where it was set up include Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, Sameepet in Andhra Pradesh and Koilat in Rajasthan. Netarhat firing range covers around 1471 square km, including 188 square km of impact zone. According to JSS, it impacts over 2 lakh villagers, mostly tribals in 245 villages. “In 2017, former chief minister Raghubar Das had announced to annul the notification of the firing range but nothing came out since then,” read the statement from JSS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Mandatory Covid test for travellers from Maharashtra, Kerala||Passengers coming from "high-positivity" states like Maharashtra and Kerala will  have to either undergo a mandatory Covid-19 test or be asked to produce a report of a Covid test conducted through RT PCR within 72 hours of entering Jharkhand, state health secretary K..K Soan has said. While all passengers travelling to Jharkhand from these states by air will have to be either tested on the spot or produce a Covid test report, those travelling by bus or train may be “appropriately stamped and subjected to Covid-19 testing by the concerned district surveillance unit,” Soan further specified in aletter addressed to  the state disaster management department on Wednesday. The health secretary's letter comes in the wake of a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases across the country with Jharkhand being no exception. On Wednesday, the state reported 196  Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day-spike since February taking the count of active cases to 969, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Jharkhand also reported two Covid casualties on the day, one each from Ranchi and Deoghar, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1100. Ranchi alone reported 93 cases against 45 recoveries on the day, taking the count of active cases here to 452. As many as 77 Covid patients recovered across Jharkhand on the day. As per government data, more than 1.21 lakh people have been infected by the coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and over 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate in the state was 0.09 per cent against the national average of 0.27 per cent, while the doubling rate in Jharkhand was 790 days against the national average of over 256 days. As many as 1,06,958 Jharkhand residents, including 79,822 senior citizens and 24,562 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday, taking the total count of people vaccinated against the virus to 12,28,408, a report from the NHM stated. The state on Wednesday administered the second dose of the vaccine to as many as 4,477 people, hardly 7 per cent of the nearly 70,000 registered beneficiaries. So far, as many as 2,33,843 beneficiaries have been administered both the vaccine doses in Jharkhand, highlights government data. Jharkhand has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and 79 per cent for the second dose. Ranchi is the only district where more than 1 lakh residents have been inoculated, reveals government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Government schools in Bokaro close after students and teacher tests Covid positive||Bokaro district education department has closed two government schools situated in Bermo division after two students and a teacher tested Covid-19 positive in the district. A student in a prominent private school of the town has also been detected Covid-19 positive, following which contact tracing and sampling of other students were done. The school is closed due to CBSE board examination. Dr A.K Pathak, civil surgeon in Bokaro said, "district has again started seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases from March first week as there is 33 active cases at present. Every day 5-10 positive cases are surfacing. District health department has intensified Covid-19 testing to control spread of virus these days. However the major focus is on Covid-19 vaccination, but on Wednesday DC, Rajesh Kumar Singh has ordered to intensify testing and mask checking drive seeing rise in positive cases. The cases in schools surfaced after health department conducted a Covid-19 testing drive by sending teams to government and private schools across the district. District education officer (DEO), Neelam Ileen Toppo said,“a government middle school in Kurpuniya has been closed for eight days after two students of Class-8 tested Covid positive. Similarly, another government school at Koliyadabur has been closed for three days after a teacher-tested positive there.” Both the schools are situated under Bermo Sub-division. All the necessary contact tracing and sampling of students and teachers were done in both institutions. Besides she has directed the management of all the 1626 government schools to follow the Covid-19 protocol strictly to prevent the spread of Covid-19 virus There were nine positive cases of coronavirus on Wednesday in the district. Since March, 2020 6814 persons tested positive in the district. Of them, 6704 persons were cured while 67 patients had died. Health department has done Covid-19 testing of 3.37 lakhs residents here. Covid-19 vaccination have been administered to 72,000 persons in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP looting the country like East India Company, Hemant tells Bengal voters ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren joined the high octane Bengal election campaign on Wednesday, holding three back-to-back rallies in tribal dominated assembly segments along the Jharkhand-Bengal border and throwing his weight behind Mamata Banerjee and her party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), to woo adivasi voters. Calling the main challenger, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as a clone of the erstwhile East India Company, Hemant warned voters in Bandwan constituency not to fall prey to its "double-engine googly, a reference to governments headed by same parties at the state and Centre. “Be very cautious when they (BJP) try to convince you seeking your votes in the name of installing double-engine government  Double-engine, for them,  means looting with both hands. The state (Jharkhand) which is just next to yours suffered a lot because of this as a result of which people threw them (BJP) out of power in the 2019 assembly elections. “BJP’s double engine government in our state robbed farmers, Dalits, and the poor. During their double-engine regime, our state witnessed a slew of mob lynchings because of BJP’s divisive politics. Don’t allow that to happen in Bengal,” he said, referring to the saffron party as a clone of the erstwhile East India Company. “Have you ever wondered how. while the country and its people are increasingly becoming poor, the BJP is getting rich? How did it suddenly amass  so much money to be able to build multi-crore party offices everywhere? It is because of the systematic loot and selling of all the country’s assets, just like the East India Company had done once. BJP is a clone of East India Company, whose only agenda is to pit people of the country, state, tola against each other to divide, rule and loot," he said. Hemant siad the drive to "flush out the BJP" began from Jharkhand in 2019, and that now, it was the turn of Bengal. "This election is going to be historic in many ways and it's time for each one of you to be a part of that history and keep communal forces out of your state. They think Didi is alone and they can harass her using money and muscle power to win the election. Show them that they are wrong,” he roared, adding that tribals — be it in Jharkhand or Bengal _ were fighters who knew how to fight for their rights. Bandwan constituency was Hemant's  second stop of the day. He began his Bengal campaign from Manbazar constituency. His last rally of the day was at Taldangra constituency after which he flew back to Jharkhand. TMC has fielded Sandhya Rani Tudu in Manbazar, Rajiv Soren in Bandwan and Arup Chakraborty in Taldangra. Voting in Bengal will be spread over eight phases starting on Saturday, March 27. Hemant's party, the JMM, which had earlier said that it would contest in about two dozen seats in Bengal,  backed out later on Mamata's request. While the  JMM is in alliance with Congress and RJD in Jharkhand, it agreed to extend support to the TMC in Bengal. But it will back the Congress in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP questions state ban on processions during Sarhul and Ramnavami||The BJP has criticised the Hemant Soren government's decision to ban processions of Sarhul and Ramnavami, which are scheduled between the first and second week of April, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The Ranchi district administration on Tuesday announced the enforcement of section 144 under CrPC during Holi. Sarhul, a tribal festival, and Ramnavami, a carnival for the Hindus, draw lakhs of crowd on the streets in Ranchi and elsewhere in the state. Other districts too are either in the process of notifying or have already notified the restrictions. “We strongly object to Hemant Soren’s tuglaqi farman (autocratic diktat). It is a direct attack on the religious sentiments of crores of Hindus and our adivasi brothers and sisters. Both the festivals are of great significance and reverence,” said BJP's state chief Deepak Prakash. “Those processions can easily be held through proper planning on a low scale and in total compliance of the covid safety guidelines,” he advocated and stressed that their opposition to the total ban orders shouldn’t be looked through political prism. “If the Hemant Soren government is so serious and concerned about curbing the Covid-19 situation, he (CM) should publicly announce and ensure that he and his party will not hold public campaigns and mass gatherings for Madhupur bypoll. Such electoral gatherings equally pose threat of the virus spread,” he demanded. The Madhupur bypoll is scheduled on April 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||70 held after another round of evictions at Khasmahal ||The East Singhbhum district administration carried out a massive eviction drive on Wednesday, clearing almost 10 acres of government land in Khaasmahal, and removing encroachments from two other areas, but had to arrest 70 people for obstructing their efforts. Jamshedpur block circle officer Amit Srivastav said the district administration demolished as many as 200 makeshift houses from  Khaasmahal, in addition to clearing areas in two more places, namely, Golpahadi and adjoining Sundernagar where the slum-dwellers had encroached upon government land in the lpast fortnight. "Now,  the government land in Khaasmahal is clear of all encroachments following Wednesday's evicton drive. To ensure the slum-dwellers do not return, we have instructed various government organisatios that had land allotted to them in Khaasmahal to put up boundary walls around designated plots, " Srivastav said. During the drive, a section of the encroachers resisted the administration's action. These men and women had to be taken into custody and  put up in a camp jail set up on the premises of Jamshedpur bock office in Parsudih. The district administration is thinking of setting up a temporary police picket at the spot, sources in the block office said. In all 400 police personnel were pressed into service, besides earth-movers. The drive was led by SDO, Dhalbhum, Nitesh Kumar Singh. SP (city) Subhash Chandra Jat, who was leading the police personnel, said that in all 70 people had been taken into custody. "Those who were arrested had tried to obstruct the administration. We are expect more people to be taken into custody," said Jat. The local administration had carried out a similar drive against encroachers at Khaasmahal on March 9. But those who had been evicted returned within 24 hours of the drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Draupadi Murmu visits Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh||Governor Draupadi Murmu on Wednesday visited the famous temple of Chinnamastika in Ramgarh’s Rajarappa for the first time, for mundan (a religious ceremony) of her grandson. Reaching the temple with her daughter, son-in-law and grandson, Murmu was welcomed by Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh, superintendent of police Prabhat Kumar, deputy development commissioner Nagendra Kumar Sinha, DSP Virendra Kumar Choudhary and other officials. The governor, who expressed her happiness over visiting the temple, was given the Guard of Honour by the officials when she reached there. Murmu and her family visited the sanctum in the temple and prayed there, before the ceremony was performed. The temple premises as well as the roads leading to it witnessed a tight security in view of her visit on the day. The main attraction of Chinnamastika temple is the headless deity of Goddess Chinnamasta, which stands on the body of Kamdev and Rati on a lotus bed. The temple is popular for its tantrik style of architectural design. Apart from the main temple, there are 10 temples of various gods and goddesses. It is situated 28kms away from Ramgarh district headquarter in Gola block on the confluence of Damodar and Bhairavi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS trauma centre is Covid-only facility again||The Trauma Cenre at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi has been transformed into a dedicated Covid-care facility again owing to the sudden spike in cases in the state capital, doctors spearheading the Covid control programme at the state-run hospital said on Wednesday. Some parts of centre were opened up for non-Covid patients after the district witnessed a drop in active caseload back in February. But now, things have changed dramatically. “The entire Trauma Centre has been transformed into a Covid-care facility. The top floor has an ICU and the remaining three floors are for Covid patients only. We have more than 100 available beds for Covid patients now,” said the nodal officer of the Covid control programme at RIMS, Dr Prabhat Kumar. At the peak of Covid-19 cases in Ranchi, RIMS had at least 280 dedicated Covid beds, said doctors. The number of Covid beds at RIMS was reduced in January and February after the state registered a significant fall in the count of active cases, doctors said. The Covid care centre at the medicine ward was also made a non-Covid ward owing to the fall in cases. Now, with the rise in cases, at least 45 beds in the Paying Ward have also been made available for Covid patients, doctors said. The count of Covid patients witnessed a sudden spike in Ranchi in the past couple of weeks. As per government data, in the first week of February, there were only 198 Covid patients in the district and by March 24, the count jumped to 404. By Tuesday night, there were more than 850 Covid patients in Jharkhand. As per latest figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 252 people have died of the coronavirus infection in Ranch so far – the second highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The count of Covid beds at RIMS, however, was lower than the total number of patients in the district as many patients were being treated at home. Usually, patients with severe symptoms got admitted at RIMS, said doctors. Doctors also fear that Holi may trigger a spike in Covid cases as it would be difficult to maintain social distancing during the festivities. Many health professionals have requested Jharkhand residents to refrain from smearing colour on each other this Holi. “We have to be prepared for a further spike in cases. The number of patients may increase after Holi,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rule spanner in resumption of angling in Jamshedpur||Patience of anglers seems to be running out as three lakes in the steel city still remains out of bounds for them. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit angling hard in the steel city. It forced cancellation of two annual events -- one on the birth anniversary of doyen of Indian industry JRD Tata on July 29 and the day-and night competition in November. Both these competition attract good number of participants, especially from Calcutta and Kharagpur. There is an impressive stock of fish at Jayanti Sarovar, Beldih and Bara lakes. Members are anxious and want angling to resume at the earliest. A wide section of over 250-odd members blame the rules of Jamshedpur Angling Club (JAC) which mentions that the activity cannot be conducted in rest of the lakes if Jayanti Sarovar in Jubilee Park remains shut. This effectively means, angling cannot take place at Beldih Lake (in Dhatkidih) and Bara Lake (near Sidhgora) till Jayanti Sarovar re-opens. Angling is still not conducted at Jayanti sarovar since the Covid-19 pandemic. "The rules of the club should be amended so that we can go for angling at Beldih and Bara lakes. My patience is running out. What is the harm if we catch fish at these two lakes," said Ehtesham Ansari, a JAC member in an angry tone. Biplab Das, another member, echoed him and said: “The rules of the club have become outdated. The club should go for popularising angling in the city. We also want women to join us as members. Continue angling by wearing mask and maintaining social distancing We canBut things cannot go forward till rules were amended." Most of the JAC members came up with similar views. JAC general secretary Sukumar Ghoshal said their hands were tied. "We are helpless. Jayanti sarovar is the mother tank. Angling can only take place at Beldih and Bara lakes when the Sarovar is re-opened. We are keen to resume angling but rules don't allow us," he said. According to Ghoshal, rules of the club are being followed since 1947 and it is for the first time angling has to be stopped owing to the pandemic. "The situation is unique for us but we need to adhere to the existing rules," Ghoshal said. Ghoshal said there was adequate fish stock at all the three lakes."Angling has been forced to discontinue for over a year now. Obviously, fish stock is not an issue. But we shall have to wait till angling is allowed at the sarovar," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||More than 10 lakh receive Covid-19 jabs in state so far||The count of Jharkhand residents vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus crossed the 10 lakh mark on Tuesday as the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 1.22 lakh people on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per NHM data, as many as 10,70,204 beneficiaries, including almost 5.5 lakh senior citizens and over 1.20 lakh middle-agers with comorbid conditions, have been administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme on January 16. On Tuesday, Jharkhand achieved 69 per cent of its vaccination target by administering the first dose of the vaccine to as many as 1,22,622 beneficiaries, including over 95,000 senior citizens and more than 23,000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, the state reported 130 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection and one casualty, taking the number of active cases in the state to 854 and the Covid toll to 1,098, a bulletin from NHM stated. The casualty was reported in Dumka. Ranchi reported 47 cases against 49 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 27 cases against 11 recoveries on the day. The number of active cases in Ranchi dropped to 404 on Tuesday. The count of Ranchi residents vaccinated since the launch of the programme also crossed the 1 lakh mark on the day. As per NHM figures, as many as 1,04,560 Ranchi residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine so far, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi is the only district where more than 1 lakh people have been vaccinated so far. The state also launched the second phase of the weeklong Panchayat level vaccination drive on Tuesday. A majority of the beneficiaries administered the first jab of the vaccine on the day were rural residents, officials said. So far, the state has vaccinated close to 4 lakh people during the special Panchayat level drive. The special drive will also be conducted on Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. However, the state achieved only 7 per cent of its target for administering the second dose of the vaccine on the day by inoculating 4684 of over 70,000 healthcare and frontline workers registered for the second jab. So far, as many as 2,24,934 beneficiaries, around 77 per cent of those registered, have received the second dose of the vaccine. Jharkhand has achieved 84 per cent of its target for the first dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Single screen cinema halls in Dhanbad stare at closure||Single screen cinema halls are facing one of the worst crises due to almost negligible occupancy since their reopening on March 1. Majority of the owners are now mulling closing their units as they are finding it difficult to manage the staff expense and other overhead expenses like electricity bills, diesel cost of generators, sanitization cost of halls etc. Prashant Singh,owner of Puja Talkies cinema hall of Dhanbad, told The Telegraph Online:“The night shows have never run since March 5 when we reopened our movie hall and matinee and evening shows are also being frequently suspended due to lack a single visitors.” “Even in other shows we are sometimes witnessing 1 to 2% occupancy and thus we repenting our decision to reopen the hall as with such income  we are not able to pay the salaries, pay GST, DMC holding tax etc,” said Singh. “We have written to the government several times earlier but there is no response at all and it seems that we have been left to die without any care,” charged Singh. Echoing similar sentiments, Nitesh Shahababi, owner of one of oldest single screen cinema hall of Dhanbad Ray Talkies said a combination of factors including decreased income of common people, onslaught of OTT platforms, stiff competition posed by multiplexes are the main reasons for worst ever scenario. “Out of the capacity of 845 seats we are compelled to run shows with seven to eight viewers for majority of times since the last three weeks hoping that the cinema lovers will eventually return but all our expectations are belied every day,” said Shahbadi. “Though, very blockbuster movies are coming but even in big movies like John Abraham starrer, Mumbai Saga which is presently being screened at our hall there is timid response,” said Shahbadi adding that due to latest trend of OTT Platforms the youth are preferring to watch most of the movies on their smart phones and thus there is no rush in the cinema halls. “With no aid of tax holidays from the government in wake of Covid pandemic affecting our business in worst manner we will not be able to sustain for long and the single screen cinema industry will be completely ruined” said Shahbadi and added several states like Andhra Pradesh have provided loan of Rs 10 lakh to cinema halls to recover from the covid crisis after the reopening of hall their and also provided a moratorium on loan interest payment for six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Trade dips below normal in Dhanbad during Holi  ||Trade during Holi in Dhanbad this year is likely to be less than 25 per cent than the usual of around Rs 500 crore in previous years. A combination of factors have contributed to this, the first being the rise in Covid cases besides job loss, salary cut, decreased income of entrepreneurs and school admission pressure. President of Hirapur Chamber of Commerce, Sanjeev Chaurasia told The Telegraph Online: “Ever since the end of brighter period of lagan season of November 25 to December 15 we were harping on Holi sale to compensate for extremely dull season of last three months but the latest wave of Covid has destroyed our expectation.” “Those who have lost their jobs during the last year are not in a position to  invest but those who are in job are fearful of losing jobs during the next phase of retrenchment due to covid scenario aggravating day by day,” said Chourasia. Ashish Jindal a gift shop owner of Dhanbad said, “though there is no dearth of items as we have brought new products of Herbal colour and gulal but he fearing of getting infected due to touching the articles during Holi has percolated among the people they only making limited purchasing to complete the formalities of Puja etc." “The admission season in schools coinciding with the Holi also affected the market this year apart from other factors besides investing on admission people are compelled to purchase books and stationeries and uniforms,” said Jindal. Former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, Md Sohrab said, “in our place a Purana Bazar which used to be flooded with customers every year there are limited footfalls and even those who are coming are making some limited purchasing of essential items thus the market sentiments are completely down.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Tribute to priest who worked for tribal land||The Ranchi archdiocese remembered Father Constant Lievens, one of first Belgium Jesuit priests who came to Chotanagpur for preaching, at a programme organised at a nearby village on Sunday. Father Lievens who came to Ranchi 136 years ago is known not only for spreading Christianity in the region but also for working for establishing the traditional rights of the tribals over their land. The programme was organised at Jamgain village, about 15km away from Ranchi, where Father Lievens reached on March 19 in 1885, the same year the Roman Catholic Church started its activities in Chotanagpur. “He had first reached Jamgain and stayed there for a few months trying to learn the local language and customs but later shifted to Torpa (60km from Ranchi, now in Khunti district) as the condition was not favourable for working at Jamgain,” informed auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, explaining why they organised the programme there. “Besides his missionary work, Father Lievens also worked for our ancestors and freed them from the bondage of landlords,” said Archbishop Felix Toppo who, along with Bishop Mascarenhas, led the rosary procession and presided over the Eucharist that day. “We are still here (with our land in possession) because of him,” added the local MLA of Khijri Rajesh Kachchap while paying tribute to Father Lievens. Finding that forced labour, indebtedness and usurping of tribal land was rampant in the region, Father Lievens had realised that protection of the land of the Mundas was the need of the hour.  He started defending the cases of the Mundas whose land was taken away by deceit before the British judges, emphasising the importance of their unwritten customary law. “It was due to such efforts initiated by him that protective laws such as the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act was eventually implemented,” the Archbishop further said. When the Mundas found that Father Lievens worked for their cause, they became interested in the Church and started embracing Christianity. He was made the director of the mission and shifted to Ranchi in 1888 so that he could work more conveniently. But the priest who had by then had tuberculosis was shifted to Darjeeling by the end of 1891. But he returned to Ranchi only to find soon that tuberculosis relapsed. He was finally sent back to Belgium, expecting he would recuperate after proper treatment there but Father Lievens died in 1893 when he was just 37 years old. But his work among the tribals had a great impact in the region, so much that over 73,000 of them had become Christians by the time the priest left Ranchi. “He is fondly remembered as the Apostle of Chotanagpur and the process for his beatification has already begun,” Bishop Mascarenhas informed, adding declaring him as a saint was under consideration in Rome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Member of People's Liberation Front escapes from police custody in Latehar ||A member of the banned People's Liberation Front of India, Krishna Yadav alias Tufan, having 29 criminal cases against him, escaped from police custody in Latehar district of Jharkhand on Tuesday. Yadav, 29, the extremist outfit’s sub-zonal commander and a native of Karamtoli village under Chanho police station in Ranchi, was arrested by Lohardaga police in December last year from Senha police station area. He had a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head. On Tuesday, Yadav came out of the police cell on the pretext of defecating in the open and escaped by climbing the boundary wall of the police station though nine policemen were entrusted to keep a look on him. “It is surprising that three ASI rank officials and six constables (all armed) kept looking as the rebel leader known for his speed in running and nicknamed Tufan was brought out of the cell to defecate in the open in Balumath police station and escaped. It is a model police station and has toilet facilities for those kept in custody. “It is more surprising that the rebel leader climbed the nearly 5-feet wall and escaped around 5.30am when the sun was up,” said a senior police official in Latehar. The official hinted at a nexus between the cops on guard and the rebel leader. “We do not rule out the greasing of palms of the police by the rebel leader,” said the official on the condition of anonymity. Balumath police station, nearly 50km from the Latehar district headquarters, is one of the few model police stations in the district boasting of good facilities. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said that an investigation would be carried out on the role of the cops entrusted to keep a watch over the rebel. “We will be conducting a probe and taking stern disciplinary action against the cops entrusted to keep a watch on the rebel. We will be tracing out the rebel leader soon. We have already got some leads about his whereabouts,” said Anand. Yadav, who was involved in rebel activities in Ranchi, Latehar, Chatra and Hazaribagh districts, was taken on remand by Balumath police. On Tuesday, the remand period was to end and he was supposed to be sent to jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
