25-03-2021||Calcutta||Young Metro: Fun-filled learning for Calcutta kids||Mount Litera Zee School, Contai, recently organised an online workshop, Tips on Examination: Implementing Vertical Progression. Zee Learn Limited’s regional school director for eastern zone Dibyendu Sen Sharma addressed it. Around 200 students from grades I to VIII attended the workshop in two consecutive slots. Sharma gave tips on how to reduce the smartphone addiction in students by gradually minimising the screen time. He motivated the students by telling them through stories that education was much more than merely bookish knowledge. He explained — livelihood skills, life skills and living skills. “Examinations need not be a dreaded phenomenon. They are an important part of each student’s life as they help them achieve their goals and aspirations. Self-organisation and self-discipline are a must. I always tell my pupils to be prepared and take responsibility for this preparation, just as you can do it. So, we organised the webinar to elaborate the techniques of tackling the strenuous period of pre-examination,” said principal Yogesh Maheswari. Sunny Prep & High School recently encouraged its students to contribute to Amar Kolkata exhibition in Gallery on Wheels, the art-gallery tram launched by the West Bengal Transport Corporation. The students collected several items related to the exhibition from their families and neighbourhood. The items that included traditional Bengali outfits, Bengali sweets, Bengali films and books for children were showcased in Gallery on Wheels during a journey from Tollygunge to Ballygunge on March 13. The students also made people understand the damage caused by plastic and actively took part in spreading the No Plastic awareness through slogans and pictorial depiction. “To me, the future generation is the treasure box and being an educator, we need to unlock the door and let them unfold their wings. Keeping this in mind, we planned a wonderful journey on wheels. Introducing to them the global climatic threats and also keeping them grounded to their roots would help them take up initiatives and responsibilities even while being closely in touch with the soil. The activity was engaging and it definitely developed the ownership, pride and the responsibility in their minds,” said principal  Pubali Bhattacharya. Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, recently celebrated the 158th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda on the school premises. Only teachers and staff members gathered at the school for the event. A puja conducted in the temple on the school’s new premises was streamed live on Facebook. The school compound was decked up with flowers. The teachers and staff members joined hands for the puja rituals, following the required safety measures and Covid protocols. Few teachers prepared the bhog. “Swamiji’s birth anniversary brings the entire VMS family together every year. However, this time, it was a closed-door celebration, following strict protocols of the pandemic. But the puja, yajna and other rituals were performed as usual. Students, parents and alumni were a part of the programme, though not physically but virtually,” said principal Sarmistha Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Pillion rider run over in Calcutta||A 57-year-old man riding pillion on a motorbike died after he fell and a bus ran over him at the crossing of the Tollygunge tram depot and Deshapran Sashmal Road on Wednesday morning. Joydip Chakraborty, a resident of Parui Kachcha Road in Sarsuna, was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. A police officer said CCTV footage from the spot showed how the bike jumped a little before the pillion rider lost balance and fell to his left. “According to witnesses, the bus driver pressed the brakes. But before it could come to a halt, the man came under the wheels,” the officer said. Debojyoti Dutta  was arrested after he allegedly failed to explain why he was carrying Rs 45.57 lakh when he was intercepted in Bowbazar on Wednesday. The police have alerted the income tax department. The accused is from Agarpara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Taps to stop water waste in Calcutta||A group of young volunteers went around the city recently and fitted taps at over 200 water collection points from where water flowed and was wasted, something common in Calcutta where water wastage is very high. The volunteers visited areas where a lot of people go to the community water collection points to collect it in containers. The heads of many of these points did not have taps, while some others had broken or loose taps. A volunteer said local people told them that the taps either got stolen or they broke in the course of natural wear and tear over the years. In some places, the volunteers found that local people had pushed a piece of cloth into the mouth of the collection point to prevent wastage, but there was still some leakage. A large volume of water produced in the water treatment plants of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation is wasted. “Water is a natural resource that we should not waste. Many of us are privileged to have access to clean water by just turning on the tap. But it is a limited resource and there are many who do not have access to clean water,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the chairman of the IHA Foundation, a philanthropic organisation whose volunteers fitted the taps. “We visited places like Entally, Park Circus and Beniapukur between March 18 and 22 and fitted over 200 taps. We also gave the local people our numbers so that they contact us if they see any water collection point with a broken or missing tap,” said Ahluwalia. Officials of the CMC have said that the civic body sends 488 million gallons of water into the city’s distribution system every day, but nearly half of it goes to waste or is unaccounted for. Water resources experts said about 250 million gallons of water should be adequate to meet Calcutta’s daily needs. Unaccounted for water is the volume that is lost because of leaks in pipes. It is also the water that overflows from reservoirs in homes or from taps at community water collection points. A project undertaken by the CMC has revealed that Calcuttans consume abnormally high volumes of water, far surpassing the limit set by the Central Public Health and Environmental Engineering Organisation. The limit is 150 litres per person per day in metropolitan cities. As part of the project, the CMC installed water meters in wards 1 to 5 in north Calcutta to read the volume of water entering into houses. It was found that households were consuming up to 900 litres per day. Water resources engineers have said that Calcutta still doesn’t feel the scarcity of water because the Hooghly flows along the city. But if the increasing use of water from the Hooghly for treatment to meet the city’s daily water needs is not controlled, a day will come when the scarcity would be felt. “The water that is collected from the river is more turbid and saline than before. It is pushing up costs of treatment. A time will come when the treatment costs will become so high that the government will find it difficult to increase production. That will lead to water scarcity. So, it is time we stopped wasting water and used it judiciously,” said a water resources expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta names new director||The board of governors of IIM Calcutta on Wednesday named Subir Bhattacharya, the senior most teacher on the campus, the director in-charge. Anju Seth, the first woman director of the B-school, resigned on Sunday. Sources on the campus said Seth submitted her resignation to the board late Sunday night, referring to a breakdown of confidence between her and board chairman Shrikrishna Kulkarni. According to a source, she alleged that Kulkarni ran a smear campaign against her with the support of the board. Calls to Seth on Wednesday went unanswered. Kulkarni could not be reached either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Indian Association for Cultivation of Science's ‘climbdown’ on Hindi after protest||The Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science on Wednesday said its purported attempt to impose Hindi on the campus “does not pertain to any scientific research or instructions” but only “a part of administrative office work”. What appeared to be a climbdown for the time being came after hundreds of students and research scholars from the Jadavpur campus followed health protocols and formed a human chain that snaked through its leafy pathways. The students wrote in large font on the football field: “No Hindi Imposition”. The 144-year-old institute, many of those associated with it for decades said, had not seen such a protest in many years. In the circular issued on Wednesday, acting registrar Purbasha Banerjee said: “All concerned are hereby requested to note that the circular…. dated 19.03.2021 does not pertain to any scientific research or instructions or even answering. Only a part of administrative work needs to be done in Hindi as per the Official Languages Act 1963 and Official Language Rule 1976.” It went on to add that the “Rajbhasha programme" has been there in the institute for many years. “Please note that no new ‘imposition’ order has come from DST (department of science and technology) and it is a part of continuing practice in the administrative matter only.” On Wednesday, research scholars and undergraduate and postgraduate students assembled on the campus around 3.30pm. They had black badges pinned on them. “The human chain went past the footfall ground that had written on it: ‘NO HINDI IMPOSITION’,” said a teacher who did not want to be named fearing retribution from the administration. The human chain lasted for half an hour. Metro asked several protesters what made them take the unusual step? A scholar said: “What has unfolded in view of the circular on March 19 did mar the image of the esteemed institution. The protest was organised to convey the message to the authorities that they should think twice before issuing such a circular.” The human chain dissolved at 4pm and the fresh circular, issued by the acting registrar on Wednesday, landed in the mailbox of the students at 4.45pm. The circular said towards the end: “While IACS admits making a broadcast inadvertently, but it is not in place that an internal circular had been made public.” India’s oldest science research institute - where C.V. Raman had in 1928 discovered the Raman Effect, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize in physics two years later - was told in the March 19 circular that it was not doing enough to meet the Hindi language targets set by the Centre. “It is to be noted that after reviewing the official language activities in the institute, it has been observed that the institute is not yielding the desired results in achieving the official language targets as given by the Government of India, ministry of home affairs, department of official language. We have received an adverse letter issued by DST (department of science and technology). This is a very worrying situation,” read the March 19 circular from the acting registrar. After protests, that accusatory note was superseded by one on March 23, which said : “DST… conveyed inadequacy in implementing official language at IACS. Individuals are requested to make a note of the same and approach the part-time Hindi officer of the institute for any help and assistance if needed.” Many like Harvard history professor Sugata Bose saw a “climbdown” in the latest circular, which tried to clarify that Hindi was not being imposed on the scientific fraternity. But Bose added that the word “Rajbhasha” could mislead people. “Hindi is termed Rajbhasha, although we don’t have any national language (Jatiya Bhasha). The word ‘official’ (language) has been translated into ‘Raj’ but I think it gives more weight to the word official than it merits. ‘Rajbhasha’ denotes lording over. The word ‘official’ could have been translated in some other way,” Bose said on Wednesday. Bose went on to add that his mother Krishna Bose, a former MP, was a member of Parliament’s Rajbhasha Committee. “As a member of the committee, her role was to protect various institutions from heavy-handed interventions of those who were over-enthusiastic about Hindi,” said Bose. Bose added: “An institution like the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science should be able to stand up to this threat in a dignified way. We should not tolerate this imposition of this concept of Hindu, Hindi, Hindustan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid grounds Calcutta airport expansion plan||The city airport has put on hold a Rs 1,000-crore expansion project because the Covid-19 pandemic has led to a sharp drop in the passenger count and revenue and the authorities are not sure when the volume would reach the pre-pandemic level. In the past year, the airport has lost 10 million passengers and a Rs 600-crore profit plunged to aRs 200-c rore loss. The shelving of the project once again shows how the Covid-19 pandemic had a deep impact on the country's economy. “The airport recorded a huge drop in the passenger count in 2020-21. We are not sure when the passenger count would go up again because there is a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases. Also, there is a shortage of funds because of revenue loss. So, at this point the expansion project has been shelved,” said an official of the Airports Authority of India. According to the official, a project consultant, a construction agency and around 10 other subsidiary firms would have received contracts for the job had the project taken off in 2021-22. In the financial year 2019-20, the airport had handled 22 million passengers, said an official. Because of the pandemic, the airport would have handled only around 12 million passengers in the 2020-21 fiscal, which will end on March 31, an official at the airport said. In 2019-20, the airport had earned a profit of Rs 600 crore. With a sharp drop in the number of passengers and most commercial activities stalled, it has suffered a loss of Rs 200 crore this fiscal, the official said. The integrated terminal was built to handle 26 million passengers in a year. According to estimates of the authorities, the airport would have achieved the capacity to handle 26 million passengers by 2022-23 if things had gone the usual way. The extended terminal in the first phase of expansion was supposed to become operational by 2024. But now, officials said, it was not clear when the project would finally take off. In February 2020, Metro had reported that the AAI had sanctioned the Phase I of the expansion plan. The master plan of the expansion, designed by Landrum & Brown, a US-based firm that specialises in aviation planning and development, was sanctioned in 2020. The plan included demolition of the existing old domestic building adjacent to the new integrated terminal. An extension of the integrated terminal, spread across 80,000sq m, was to come up there. There would have been a new boarding area with at least 10 aerobridges, more security check-in and airline check-in counters. Passenger flight services were completely stalled from end-March till end-May. Later, domestic flights resumed in phased manner. Now domestic flights are operating but regular international flights are yet to resume. A few international flights from places like Dubai are operating to Calcutta as part of an air transport bubble arrangement. Transport bubbles are arrangements between two countries to resume commercial passenger flights when regular services are suspended because of the Covid pandemic. Many retail and food stores had also remained closed for several months and they had appealed for concessions in licence fees. “Because of lack of earnings and the concessions given to several agencies, the airport suffered a loss of Rs 200 crore,” said an official. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 70 on Wednesday, taking the count to 3,782. The state on Wednesday recorded 462 new infections and 334 recoveries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Weather forecast: Weekend break in dry spell on radar||The mercury has been pushing 38 degrees but the heat is unusually dry this time. The moisture content in the atmosphere has been on the lower side for several days now. The minimum relative humidity — a marker of the moisture content in the air during the driest part of the day — had been hovering under 30 degrees till Tuesday (see chart). As a result, people are sweating comparatively lesser than they do when the Celsius goes past 37 degrees. “The usual minimum relative humidity in March-end is over 40 per cent. But this year, it has been unusually low,” said a Met official. He attributed the low humidity to “lack of winds from the Bay of Bengal”. Another impact of the low moisture content has been the absence of local thunderstorms. The high heat and humidity content towards the end of March usually combine to trigger a few spells of thunderstorms in the evenings. The pent-up heat leads to the formation of rain-bearing clouds. But this time, the city has not seen any thunderstorm so far. That could change from the weekend, the Met office has said. “The dry heat is expected to persist till Friday. There could be some winds from the Bay from Saturday. There is a possibility of thunderstorm activities towards the evening from Sunday,” the Met official said. “Calcutta is also expected to be under the grip of a pressure gradient during the weekend, which could see winds blowing at 30kmph and above in the city,” said the official. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the Met office at Alipore has dismissed reports on social media about “a tropical cyclone likely to form over the Bay of Bengal in the end of March”. “As of now, there is no such possibility,” said an IMD official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Reschedule practical for Calcutta students with Covid: CBSE||CBSE schools in the city can reschedule a board exam practical for a Class XII student if he or she tests positive for Covid-19, principals have been told. The regional office of the CBSE has said that if any candidate tests positive for Covid-19 and “is not in a position to appear in the practical exam”, the practical for that student can be held at a later date. Heads of at least two schools said that this decision will reassure parents and students. Several schools in the city have either started the Class XII board practicals or will start soon amid rising Covid cases. Three city schools closed down for about a week because two students and a teacher tested positive. But there is still no information regarding theory papers, which are to begin on May 4 (for Classes X and XII). For any board exam-related decision, the schools will have to follow instructions from the board. “You may conduct practical exam of Covid-19 positive (student).... again in later stage and submit their marks manually so that we can upload the marks manually from (the) regional office,” said the message for all schools under the regional office, Bhubaneswar. The candidates appear for the practicals in their respective schools and external examiners conduct the exams. “If a student cannot appear for the practicals (after testing positive), the school can reschedule his or her exam. The external examiner will have to come at a later date to conduct the practical. We will have to send a letter to the board office informing them about the candidate,” said Loveleen Saigal, the principal of Birla High School, which is scheduled to start the practicals on March 31. “We wanted to finish the pre-board exams before starting the practicals,” she said. The schools can send the marks of the candidate who appears separately for the practical exam by post so it can be manually uploaded by the regional office. The schools can upload the practical marks of all other students. Principals said the communication from the board will encourage parents not to hide a child’s health information from the school. “It is reassuring for parents because they will know that the child will not miss the exam,” said Rita Chatterjee, director, North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Six more fliers with UK, South African strains ||Six fliers who had arrived from Dubai between March 9 and 13 and tested positive for Covid-19 have been admitted to ID Hospital in Beleghata after they were found to be carrying the UK and South African strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Two fliers with the UK strain were earlier admitted to the Beleghata hospital. The six were admitted between Tuesday night and Wednesday afternoon after their results reached the health department. All of them had been sent home and asked to stay in isolation after testing positive. “Among the six patients who have been admitted over the past 24 hours, one is a carrier of the South African strain. The rest have tested positive for the UK strain,” said a doctor at the Beleghata hospital. “While most of them are asymptomatic, a few have complained of pain in the throat and are running a mild fever.” “Those admitted are mostly from Nadia and South 24-Parganas and are between 25 and 46. A majority of them are labourers,” said a senior official of the hospital. Another seven fliers who had arrived from Dubai after March 13 tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for confirming whether they are infected with any mutant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Girls’ High School shifts exams online for X, XII||Calcutta Girls’ High School that was conducting Class X and XII pre-board exams on the campus on Wednesday decided to hold the remaining papers online as a precaution amid the rise in Covid cases. The online exams will start on Thursday following the same timetable, the school said. “We have told parents that because of the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, we are discontinuing the on-campus exams,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of the school. The pre-board exams in the school had started last week. In each class — X and XII — barring eight to ten students, everyone had been present, an official said. Three city schools had to shut their campuses for about a week after students and a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. Schools had been shut since March 2020 as a precaution against Covid and reopened for Classes IX to XII on February 12. “Though we are following all safety measures in the school, the number of cases is steadily rising in the city and the school did not want to take the risk,” an official of Calcutta Girls’ said. Teachers of several schools had advocated for on-campus exams so students of Classes X and XII could practise writing pen-and-paper tests before they write the boards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Email ID for higher secondary queries||The state higher secondary council has come up with a helpline in the form of an email address where students can send any query related to the examinations due in June. The examinees can send their queries to hs2021@gmail.com. Usually, the council comes up with helplines every year in the form of phone numbers a day before the start of the theory papers so examinees can alert the council about any emergency. ’The launch of a helpline three months before the start of the exams is something new,’’ said a council member. What prompted the council to launch such a helpline? Another official of the council said a major change had taken place this year with the state government pruning the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII, who will write their board exams in June, as in-person classes could not be held because of the Covid pandemic. A student might have several queries as to how he or she should prepare based on the revised syllabus, he said. “It has to be kept in mind that even as the reduction was announced last November, in-person classes (for Classes IX to XII) only began on February 12. Most of the time students have been in touch with teachers on digital platforms and this may not be adequate. So we are trying to be available to them as much as possible to address their queries,” the council member said. The headmaster of a school in south Calcutta said the attendance of students of Class XII on the campus had drastically gone down since Covid cases started increasing over the past few days. “So our plan to clear their queries on how they could prepare factoring in the reduction in syllabus by holding classes extensively from February 12 has failed. It is good that the council has decided to address their queries in the run-up to the exams,’’ he said. Another head of the institution said the examinees could have queries on what could be the health protocols during the exams. ’’Examinees can ask such questions amid the pandemic,” he said. On February 12, the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education had come out with topic-wise division of marks in each subject. “We are expecting queries about topic-wise distribution of marks as well,’’ said a council official. We have formed a panel of experts to answer the queries.” The council’s notice says examinees while asking questions must mention their registration numbers, roll numbers and other relevant details. Calls and a text message to council president Mahua Das did not elicit any response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Device replaces 54-year-old man’s heart chamber||A portion of the heart of a 54-year-old man from Raipur was replaced by an artificial device at a private hospital in Calcutta on Wednesday. Without the device, doctors said, the patient would have required a heart transplant. Heart transplants are unpredictable and a large number of people listed for a transplant die before they get a cadaver donor. “Unlike heart transplant, implantation of an artificial device that replaces the function of a portion of the heart is not common,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, who performed the surgery to implant the artificial left ventricular assist device at Medica Superspecialty Hospital. The two ventricles of the heart act like pumps. The right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs, while the left ventricle pumps blood to the rest of the body. The left ventricle of the 54-year-old man was not functioning properly. If the left ventricle doesn’t work, other organs will stop working. The artificial left ventricular assist device implanted on Monday will perform the function of the pump. “Basically we are adding another pump. Most of the blood of the left ventricle will be diverted to this new pump (the artificial device), which will maintain the essential circulation for the body,” said Sarkar. “The man suffered a devastating heart attack about three months back. We did a bypass surgery and he went back home, but his heart function was not picking up at all. The heart muscles were badly damaged. He had symptoms like breathlessness and needed repeated hospitalisation,” said Sarkar. “We did not want the situation to turn worse. We had listed him for a heart transplant but a heart transplant is unpredictable…. If there are 100 people listed for heart transplant, on an average 20 people get it,” Sarkar said. As the patient was getting clinically sicker, the doctors decided to go for an artificial implant of the left ventricle. Sarkar said about 300 people across the world have undergone artificial left ventricular implantation and survived more than seven years after the procedure. A person fitted with a device can work normally but is advised to not swim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
25-03-2021||Business||CBI raids over 100 locations in separate bank fraud cases of over Rs 3,700 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday carried out nationwide searches at 100 locations in separate alleged bank fraud cases of over Rs 3,700 crore, officials said. The coordinated search operation was spread across 11 states and pertained to 30 FIRs related to bank fraud, they said. "These searches are part of a special drive to book fraudsters on the complaints received from different nationalised banks in India. The complainant banks include Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of India, IDBI, Canara Bank, Indian Bank and Central Bank of India," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. The searches were spread across Kanpur, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Mathura, Noida, Gurgaon, Chennai, Thiruvarur, Vellore, Tiruppur, Bengaluru, Guntur, Hyderabad, Ballari, Vadodara, Kolkata, West Godavari, Surat, Mumbai, Bhopal, Nimadi, Tirupati Visakhapatnam, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Karnal, Jaipur and Sri Ganganagar. "It may be stated that the CBI has been receiving a number of complaints from various banks alleging cheating, diversion of funds, submission of fake/forged documents by different defaulting firms while obtaining loans/credit facilities etc," Joshi said. The CBI added it was receiving allegations that such firms have been turning defaulters, resulting in the loans becoming Non-Performing Assets (NPAs), thus causing heavy losses to the public sector banks. "After scrutiny, the cases are registered by CBI. Thorough investigation is carried out in order to book the culprits, take them to face the law and endeavour to salvage public money," Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 740 pts amid F&O expiry||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 740 points on Thursday, dragged by losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank as monthly derivatives expired amid weak cues from global markets.  The 30-share BSE index ended 740.19 points or 1.51 per cent lower at 48,440.12, and the broader NSE Nifty declined 224.50 points or 1.54 per cent to 14,324.90.  Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, HUL, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, UltraTech Cement, ONGC and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, ICICI Bank, L&T and HDFC were the gainers.  "Domestic equities fell for the third consecutive day despite favourable cues from Asian markets as prevailing concerns with regards to sharp rise in COVID-19 cases have clearly dented investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Barring financials and metals, all key sectoral indices ended in red.  Further, futures and options (F&O) expiry factor also contributed to volatility, he noted, adding that market capitalisation of domestic market slipped below Rs 200 trillion first time after February 3, 2021, resulting in wealth erosion of over Rs 5 trillion in last two days.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note.  Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.35 per cent lower at USD 63.54 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Bombay HC grants bail to Deepak Kochhar in ICICI Bank money laundering case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, in a money laundering case registered by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Kocchar had approached the high court after a special court in the city rejected his bail in December last year. Justice P D Naik of the high court granted bail to him on merits on Thursday. Kocchar was arrested by the ED in September last year under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Act in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. The ED registered the money laundering case following an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the Kochhar couple, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot, and others for allegedly causing loss to the ICICI Bank by sanctioning loans to the Videocon Group of companies in contravention to the policies of the ICICI Bank. Kochhar had argued that the ED had taken note of all the alleged proceeds of crime in the case, so there was no chance of him creating any third party rights, or interfering with the probe if out on bail. Last month, a special court had granted bail to Chhanda Kochhar in the same case on a bond of Rs 5 lakh. The ED had earlier alleged that Rs 64 crore out of a loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee of ICICI Bank headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Ltd was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon on September 8, 2009, a day after the disbursement of loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Sensex sinks over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 400 points in early trade on Thursday, dragged by losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid foreign fund outflow and a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 404.94 points or 0.82 per cent lower at 48,775.37, and the broader NSE Nifty declined 113.50 points or 0.78 per cent to 14,435.90. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Maruti, SBI, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, ONGC, Titan, L&T and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 871.13 points or 1.74 per cent lower at 49,180.31, and the Nifty declined 265.35 points or 1.79 per cent to 14,549.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Wednesday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,951.90 crore, as per exchange data. "The uncertainty in the market continues with increasing risk arising from the second wave of Covid-19 attack in India in the context of a third wave in parts of Europe," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Volatility is here to stay for some time before stability emerges, he said, adding that a major trend in the market now is the comeback of pharma stocks in recent days and the weakness in banking stocks. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note. Top bourses on Wall Street ended with significant losses in overnight trade. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.41 per cent lower at USD 63.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Anupam Rasayan India stumbles on stock market debut||Anupam Rasayan India on Wednesday stumbled on its stock market debut. Shares of the speciality chemicals firm finished 5.24 per cent lower than its issue price on the BSE, with some experts citing high pricing as one of the reasons for the poor start. “The listing was disappointing considering the over subscription and the fact that the share failed to cross the issue price. While the domestic markets were weak, it still does not address the fact that a 44-times subscribed issue failed to cross the issue price,” said Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS. Meanwhile, the IPO of Barbeque Nation Hospitality Limited was subscribed 1.33 times on Wednesday, the first day of subscription.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||DHFL owners booked in PMAY scam||The CBI has unearthed a scam linked to the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and registered a case against Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL), for allegedly defrauding Rs 1,887 crore in interest subsidy from the government of India. The two brothers are already in jail facing fraud and money laundering charges in connection with the Yes Bank scam. Sources in the agency said the Dhawan brothers had allegedly created fake and fictitious home loan accounts and availed themselves of Rs 1,887 crore in interest subsidy from the Indian government. PMAY — Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious housing project for the poor — was announced in October 2015. The programme addresses urban housing shortage among the economically weaker sections, low and middle-income group categories, including slum dwellers, by ensuring a pucca house to all eligible urban households by 2022. The scheme is being implemented by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Under the scheme, housing loans granted to people from the economically weaker sections and low and middle income groups are eligible for credit-linked interest subsidy. The subsidy is to be claimed by the financing institutions such as DHFL that have granted these loans. According to the CBI’s FIR, DHFL claimed that till December 2018 it had processed 88,651 loans under PMAY and received Rs 539.40 crore in subsidies with a further Rs 1,347.80 crore due. The agency has alleged that forensic audits revealed that Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan had opened 2.60 lakh fake housing loan accounts – several of which were under the PMAY scheme and claimed interest subsidies — in a fictitious Bandra branch of the organisation. “The forensic report of auditor firm M/S Grant Thompton, which was appointed by the present board of DHFL, revealed that Kapil and his brother Dheeraj Wadhawan had opened a fictitious Bandra branch of DHFL, where fake housing loan accounts were created in the data base,” the CBI has said in its FIR. The maximum loan amount eligible under the PMAY scheme is Rs 24 lakh. The subsidy amount is to be claimed by the financial institutions from National Housing Bank (NHB). The Centre disburses the subsidy amount to the NHB out of the budgetary provisions in the Union budget. “The interest subsidy varies from 3 per cent per annum to 6.5 per cent per annum and the subsidy is payable upfront  with a cap of Rs 2,30,156 to Rs 2,67,280 depending upon the category in which the borrower falls,” the CBI said in the FIR. “Source information revealed that several of bogus account in non-existent Bandra branch of DHFL was opened under PMAY and interest subsidy as per norms of PMAY were claimed from National Housing Bank with connivance of officials of NHB and thus committed fraud on the government exchequer.” The CBI has booked DHFL and its directors under Indian Penal Code Sections relating to criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust by public servant, cheating, forgery for cheating and use of forged document as genuine besides criminal misconduct by unknown public servants under the Prevention of Corruption Act. In June last year the CBI had filed a chargesheet against the Wadhawan brothers and Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in connection with suspicious loans sanctioned by Yes Bank and alleged quid pro kickbacks received by Kapoor and his family from Wadhawans for investing in DHFL. DHFL is also named as an accused in the Yes Bank scam. The Wadhawan brothers were arrested in April last year while Kapoor was arrested in March last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||JSW closes in on Bhushan Power||West Wave Maritime & Allied Services Pvt Ltd, a promoter group entity belonging to Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Group, raised Rs 2,500 crore via non convertible debentures, tying up the last mile funding for the acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd (BPSL). JSW Steel has promised to close the Rs 19,700-crore deal by March 31, even as it is aiming to complete the transaction as early as Thursday, March 25. The process will involve transferring the amount articulated in the resolution plan to the creditors, which largely consist of state-run banks and financial institutions. Corporate sources said the entire acquisition would be funded by borrowing, at least for now. JSW would look to bring in equity only at a later date. Moreover, the entire bulwark will be done by JSW alone, unlike in the case of Monnet Ispat, where it was only a minority equity partner. BPSL is one of the 12 large companies which were sent to the bankruptcy court by a diktat of the Reserve Bank of India in 2017. After many twists and turns, JSW emerged as the highest bidder for the company which operates a 2.8-million-tonne steel plant in Odisha, leaving Tata Steel and Liberty House of the UK behind. Monnet Ispat, which was also on the list of the 12 companies, was acquired by JSW in association with AION Capital, which picked up a 74 per cent stake. However, the Jindals appear to be going alone for BPSL. “The company may consider bringing equity at a later date,” a source close to the development said, adding the option of inducting a partner would be taken then. The arrangement to finance the entire transaction by debt comes in the background of the conditional payment JSW will make to the financial creditors. At least two court cases, one by the Enforcement Directorate and another by erstwhile promoter Sanjay Singhal, are still pending in the Supreme Court which may throw a spanner to the resolution plan. The committee of creditors agreed on March 5 that they would return the money paid by JSW in the case of an adverse judgment by the apex court, which may restrain the execution of the resolution plan. Financial creditors with a share of 97 per cent of the total debt exposure voted in favour of this arrangement. The State Bank of India will be the biggest beneficiary having Rs 9,825.67 crore admitted claim, followed by Punjab National Bank’s Rs 4,399 crore. An asset reconstruction firm has a debt of Rs 5,275 crore, while Canara Bank and Allahabad Bank have Rs 2,244-crore and Rs 2,130-crore debt, respectively. Apart from the steel plant in Odisha, unlisted BPSL owns a power plant and several downstream units across north India. The transaction will pave way for JSW Steel to mark its manufacturing presence in eastern India, which has so far been the strongholds of Tata Steel and SAIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Dalmia Cement begins commercial production of its second line||Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited on Wednesday said that it has begun commercial production of its second line with a capacity of 2.25 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) at its Bengal Cement Works unit in Midnapore. The company has invested Rs 360 crore in the capacity expansion following which the overall capacity of the unit has increased to 4mtpa, making it the largest cement plant in the state. “The additional capacity will play a crucial role to ensure sufficient and timely supply adding to the efficiencies of the supply chain,” said Ujjwal Batria, chief operating officer, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited. He added that the unit will aim to produce 100 per cent blended cement which is in line with the company’s commitment to become carbon negative by 2040. The company said that following the lockdown-led demand disruption, the cement sector is now witnessing buoyancy across the country. The recovery is led by demand from infrastructure, urban housing and the government’s rural housing schemes in the eastern and central region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Govt moves amendments to Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act 2008||The government on Wednesday moved amendments to the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act 2008, which would help in the privatisation of smaller airports and boost air traffic growth in the country. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri introduced the amendment bill in the Lok Sabha which intends to “amend the definition of a ‘major airport’ so as to extend its scope to determine the tariff for a group of airports also”. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India has been determining the tariffs of aeronautical charges at major airports in the country. Under the present Act, a “major airport” has been defined to mean any airport which has, or is designated to have, annual passengers in excess of 35 lakh. However, it does not provide for determination of tariff for a group of airports. According to the statement of objects and reasons of the bill, the airports, where currently the traffic potential is low and loss making are not expected to attract reasonable competitive bids. Developing a greater number of airports through public-private partnership mode would expand air connectivity to relatively remote and far-flung areas. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns 137 airports in the country out of which AAI has formed joint venture in seven airports. Recently, AAI awarded six airports namely Ahmedabad, Jaipur in Rajasthan, Lucknow, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram and Mangalore for operations, management and development under a public private partnership (PPP) model for a period of 50 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||Business||Grasim Industries to raise funds by availing term loans or issuing debt securities||Grasim Industries, the AV Birla group company, on Wednesday said that it plans to raise funds by availing term loans or by issuing debt securities. In a regulatory filing, the company said that at its board meeting on Wednesday, the directors approved the raising of funds. It also authorised the finance committee of the board of directors “to finalise the mode, terms and conditions of raising of funds, including availment of term loans (in rupees or foreign currency) or issuance of securities” and decide on all matters and transactions relating to the same. Besides term loans, Grasim would look to raise funds by issuing debt securities, including foreign currency denominated bonds or debentures or securities, which may be issued in tranches, in India or overseas. The company here disclosed that this will be within the overall borrowing limit of Rs 10,000 crore. Grasim Industries did not disclose the reasons behind the latest fund raising programme. Shares of the company on Wednesday closed at Rs 1388.20, down 1.59 per cent over the last close. Earlier this year, the company announced its entry into the lucrative paints industry and said that it will invest Rs 5,000 crore in the business over the next three years. It said the new segment will add size, scale and diversity to its existing business portfolio.  Grasim also feels that the new business is likely to be value accretive to its stakeholders. According to the company, the high growth sector has registered a revenue CAGR of around 11 per cent during 2013-14 to 2018-19, and given the value migration from the unorganised to the organised market, the outlook remains robust, providing space for a quality new player. The firm had reported over a two-fold jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs 2,152.33 crore for the third quarter ended December 31. It had posted a net profit of Rs 1,039.82 crore during the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. Its revenue from operations during October-December 2020 rose 12.72 per cent to Rs 20,986.35 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||Business||Rising Covid-19 cases send stocks slipping into the red again||Apprehensions that the rising number of Covid-19 cases in India and globally could delay economic recovery sent stocks slipping into the red again on Wednesday with the benchmark Sensex witnessing the worst-single day fall in almost a month as it crashed 871 points. Market experts are now cautioning that stock prices could remain under pressure over the next few sessions on reports of a new double mutant variant of coronavirus and a second wave of infection. Overseas cues were not encouraging either with various countries experiencing a third wave and imposing restrictions that could adversely impact the global economy. There have been other factors as well that have led to a fall in equity values. Purchases by FPIs have also slowed down. Provisional data from the stock exchanges indicated that they were net sellers worth Rs 1,952 crore. So far in March, they have purchased stocks worth Rs 15,055 crore against Rs 25,787 crore in February. Moreover, the IPO segment is also seeing hectic activity. In Wednesday’s trade, the Sensex opened lower at 49786.47 and hit an intra-day low of 49120.34 — a drop of 931 points. It, thereafter, ended at 49180.31, a drop of 871.13 points, or 1.74 per cent — its biggest one-day fall since February 26. The broader NSE Nifty dived 265.35 points, or 1.79 per cent, to settle at 14549.40. “The main reason for the fall on Wednesday included rising cases of Covid-19 in India and across the globe, which could delay economic recovery. This is also evident from the fall in crude prices over the last few days,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. With stocks coming under pressure, impact was felt on the rupee as well and the currency fell by 12 paise to close the day at 72.55 against the dollar. “The coronavirus fears are resurfacing as cases have started to tick up all over the world. This is dampening the reopening and recovery optimism and will keep the safe-haven dollar demand intact. However, there is IPO euphoria in the market which is keeping the spot rupee below 73 levels,” said Rahul Gupta, head of research-currency, Emkay Global Financial Services. In the Sensex pack, all shares closed in the red, barring Asian Paints and PowerGrid. M&M was the top loser, falling around 4 per cent, followed by SBI, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, ITC and L&T. He added that the market seems doubtful that the vaccination race against the third pandemic wave can be won quickly. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul fell up to 2 per cent. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||Business||Finance Bill 2021: Slump sale tax tweak to hurt deals||Merger and acquisition (M&A) experts were sent into a tizzy after the government introduced an amendment in the Finance Bill 2021 that changed the tax treatment for slump sale transactions. The amendment in the Bill, which was passed by the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, says that the fair value of a slump sale transaction will be deemed to be the full value of the consideration received by the seller of the asset. Moreover, if the capital asset is goodwill, its value will be treated as nil if the taxpayer had not acquired it through a purchase from a previous owner. A slump sale of an asset involves a lump sum payment for an undertaking without assigning individual values to assets and liabilities that are being transferred. Businesses resort to a slump sale when an entire undertaking is being sold and it is either too difficult or extremely cumbersome to fix individual values to all the assets that are being sold. The Income Tax Act provides a special formula under Section 50B of the Income Tax Act to determine the capital gains on the sale which, at present, is the difference between the networth of the undertaking sold and the consideration received for it. The networth of the undertaking is calculated on the basis of the original cost of the asset and any added costs resulting from any improvements made. Long-term capital gains tax applies if the asset has been held by the seller for over 36 months. Otherwise, the seller has to pay a short-term capital gains tax which is higher. The tax amendment now  means that if the “fair value” of an undertaking is higher than the lump sum consideration it receives on a sale, then the higher figure will be taken into consideration while computing the capital gains irrespective of the actual consideration which it received for it. The new tax treatment formula for slump sale transactions is being seen as a major setback for corporate restructuring at a time companies have been looking to hive off assets to deal with a Covid-induced crisis. The amendment will take effect from April 1, 2020, and shall accordingly apply to assessment year 2021-22 and subsequent assessment years. Mehul Beda, partner at Dhruva Advisors LLP, said: “A major surprise is that in respect of sale of business as a going concern for a lump sum consideration, that is a ‘slump sale’, the lump sum consideration will be substituted with the fair market value of the business, for the purpose of computing capital gains. This amendment is likely to impact corporate restructuring and M&A, especially in situations, where a company transfers a particular business to a subsidiary, in anticipation of an investment by a strategic partner or a private equity investor.” “It will be interesting to see the fine print of the rules once it is prescribed especially if such rules will factor in liabilities, give weightage to actual sales consideration, provide for lump sum value based approach for the entire business and not itemised value being allocated to any outgoing asset,” said Vinita Krishnan, director at Khaitan & Co. She added: “Certainly parties may need to carefully evaluate the nature of intangibles that they are paying especially given the non-allowability of goodwill depreciation.” The tax law amendment has been made even as an appeal arising from a tax dispute is pending before the Supreme Court. The Madras high court had recently held that transfer of an undertaking for non-monetary consideration is not a ‘slump sale’, thus not chargeable to tax under the current tax law. The court had relied on an earlier judgment delivered by the Mumbai high court in another case. The rationale for the above judgments is that if there is no monetary consideration involved in the transaction, then the transaction may be regarded as an ‘exchange’ and not ‘sale’. Accordingly, it would be not possible for the tax department to bring such transactions within the ambit of the definition for a ‘slump sale’. The Centre believes that in several such transactions, a "sale" is actually disguised as a "transfer" by the parties to the transaction and ought, therefore, to be covered by the existing definition of a slump sale as it exists today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||Business||State-owned oil marketing companies cut petrol and diesel prices||State-owned oil marketing companies sprang a big surprise by cutting petrol and diesel prices for the first time in the past 12 months — ironically on a day when global benchmark crude prices soared by over 5 per cent after a bizarre incident in which a Panama-flagged container ship became wedged across the Suez canal disrupting all shipping traffic through the famed waterway. The Suez canal has never witnessed such an incident in its 150-year history, experts said. The Indian oil companies, which have held prices for the past 24 days after relentlessly raising prices 25 times since January 1, gave no reason for the sudden price cut, which comes just three days before five states, including Bengal, go to the polls. In two back-to-back cuts effective Wednesday and Thursday, the price of petrol will come down by 36 paise (18 paise on Wednesday and 18 paise on Thursday) in Calcutta to Rs 90.98 per litre. Price of diesel will be down 35 paise (17 paise on Wednesday and 18 paise on Thursday) to Rs 83.98. Fuel prices have risen dramatically since the start of the year and threatened to top Rs 100 a litre in certain parts of the country, stoking inflation and public anger against the Modi government which has raised federal taxes on the two fuels, by 64.6 per cent in the case of petrol and over 100 per cent in the case of diesel in the past 12 months. The excise duty on petrol was raised from Rs 19.98 a litre on March 1 last year to Rs 32.90 this year and that on diesel from Rs 15.83 a litre to Rs 31.80 a litre, sparking criticism against the Modi government for profiting at the expense of consumers during the pandemic. The government has tried to deflect public angst by seeking to blame the surge in pump prices on rising global crude rates. But when that didn’t quell criticism, it quietly nudged the oil companies to hold prices — until the election results which come out on May 2. On Wednesday, the Brent crude price for May delivery rose 5.25 per cent to $64.04 while the West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, climbed 5.47 per cent to $60.9 for the April contract. It was not immediately clear whether the Indian oil companies would slash fuel prices further after the two swift cuts. If they do, it will clearly signal that the compulsions of politics has been able to smother economic prudence. The big question on the mind of consumers if the prices of cooking gas will also be reduced to please the middle-class votebank. Four hikes in cooking gas prices have taken the price of LPG to Rs 845.50 in Calcutta. The LPG prices are generally revised on the first of each month. However, this may be put on hold as another hike in the middle of the election season would have political ramifications. Distant dream Bringing petrol and diesel under the GST regime is not possible for the next 8-10 years as no state is ready to face the annual revenue loss of over Rs 2 lakh crore on this account, BJP member Sushil Kumar Modi said in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. He had headed the empowered committee of state finance ministers on GST. Speaking in support of the Finance Bill, the former finance minister of Bihar dared the Opposition to raise the matter in the GST Council, saying no chief minister or finance minister from non-NDA ruled states has opposed any decision of the GST Council. The Centre and states collectively collect over Rs 5 lakh crore tax on petroleum products, Modi said. The statement assumes significance in view of the outcry over the rise in petrol price for the past over one year that touched Rs 100 per litre in some states and the demand by the Congress and some other parties that petrol and diesel be brought under the GST regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||India||Bharat Bandh on March 26; Congress extends support||Rail and road transportation services are likely to be affected and markets may remain closed in parts of the country on Friday as farmer unions protesting against the three agriculture laws have called a complete 'Bharat Bandh'. According to the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the nationwide shutdown will start at 6 am and it will be in force up to 6 pm across the country on March 26 which marks four months of the farmer agitation on Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. Farmers leaders also said that copies of the new farm laws will be burnt during ‘Holika Dahan’ on March 28. After the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRC) in Andhra Pradesh, the Congress on Thursday extended its support to a peaceful and "Gandhian" Bharat Bandh. "When the government is deaf, there is a need for a decisive struggle. The ongoing farmers' protest is part of that. We support a peaceful and Gandhian Bharat Bandh proposed on March 26," party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted.Confederation of All India Traders, which called the Bharat Bandh of February 26 said that markets will remain open on March 26 as it is not participating in the 'Bharat Bandh'. "We are not going to participate in 'Bharat Bandh' tomorrow. Markets will remain open in Delhi and other parts of the country. The ongoing deadlock can be resolved only through a dialogue process. There should be discussions on amendments in the farm laws that can make existing farming profitable," CAIT's national general secretary Praveen Khandelwal told PTI. This association represents eight crore traders in the country,Andhra Pradesh I&PR Minister Perni Venkatramaiah said that the state government is against the privatisation of steel plant and in regard to this, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had written letters to the Centre suggesting alternatives to retain the organisation. The minister appealed to the farmers'associations to cooperate and observe the bandh peacefully without any untoward incidents that cause inconvenience to the general public. According to information, all the government institutions in the state will be open after 1 pm and RTC buses will operate in the afternoon. All the emergency health services will run as usual during the bandh. While this will be the second Bharat Bandh called by the farmers, trade bodies called a strike protesting against fuel price hike, GST norms and e-way bill.The SKM, an umbrella body of protesting unions,appealed to protesting farmers to be peaceful and not get involved in any kind of illegitimate debate and conflict during the 'bandh'. "All shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under complete Bharat Bandh. All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked. All services will remain suspended except for ambulance and other essential services. The effect of Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well," SKM said in a statement. Senior farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said that road and rail transport will be blocked, claiming that markets will also remain closed. The SKM said the 'bandh' will also be observed in the national capital. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but deadlock continued as both sides stuck to their stand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||As many as 36,000 new Covid cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra recorded as many as 36,000 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest one-day rise since the pandemic began. Mumbai reported 5,505 new cases, its highest daily rise till now, while the nearby Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation reported 1,027 cases, its highest rise so far. It took the number of cases in the state to almost 26,00,900. The state has added over one lakh infections in the last four days. There are 2,62,685 active cases now. With 111 deaths reported on Thursday, the toll has reached 53,795. Pune and neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad reported 3,340 and 1,747 new cases, respectively. As many as 1,340 cases were reported in other areas of the district. In Marathwada region, Aurangabad reported 1,380 cases while 958 cases were detected in Nanded district. Nagpur city and Nagpur district (barring city) added 2,656 and 1,014 cases, respectively. Pune reported 16 deaths during the day, the highest, followed by Nagpur where 14 people died of Covid. With 20,444 patients discharged from hospitals, the recovery count in the state has risen to 22,83,037. As many as 1,53,447 coronavirus tests were carried out on Thursday, taking the total to 1,88,78,754.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Budget session concludes ahead of time amid upcoming polls||Lok Sabha was on Thursday adjourned sine die, bringing the nearly two-month long Budget session to an end. The session started on January 29 and was originally slated to end on April 8 but several members had urged Speaker Om Birla to end the session early as they focus on electioneering in five states going to polls. Speaker Birla had recently tested positive for Covid-19 and was not attending the House. In his observations before adjourning the proceedings sine die (indefinite period), Bhartruhari Mehtab, who was in the chair, wished Birla a speedy recovery and informed members that the Speaker was stable. In Birla's absence, a panel of chairpersons, including Mehtab, Rajendra Agrawal, Rama Devi, Meenakashi Lekhi and Midun Reddy, chaired the proceedings. Panel of chairpersons usually comprises 10 members of the House who assist the Speaker run proceedings. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several cabinet ministers and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were present in the House. The first part of the Budget session started on January 29 with the President's address to joint sitting of both houses of Parliament. The address was boycotted by over 20 opposition parties, including the Congress, in support of the demand of the protesting farmers for the repeal of the three farm laws. The Union Budget was tabled on February 1. Thereafter, House proceedings were washed out for four consecutive days over the opposition's demand for separate discussion on farm issues. To compensate the session's lost time, the House sat till midnight for several days. The second part of the Budget session which began on March 8 also saw repeated adjournments of House proceedings for the first few days as opposition protested over rise in fuel prices. The Budget session is usually divided into two parts. The recess period allows the various department-related standing committees to examine the demands for grants of various ministries. The main focus of the government in the second part of the session was to get the various demands for grants for the year 2021-22 passed along with the Finance Bill which carries various tax proposals. The House also gave its nod to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that gives primacy to the Lt Governor in Delhi. During the debate, while the opposition dubbed the bill as "unconstitutional", the BJP said its aim was to correct the mismanagement in Delhi. The Insurance (Amendment) Bill which increases foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent was passed in the House. The lower house also approved the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill 2021 to pave way for setting up of a government-owned Development Finance Institution (DFI) to fund infra projects. In his remarks before adjourning the session, Mahtab said despite disruptions, Lok Sabha's productivity during the Budget session stood at 114 per cent and the members also dealt with important issues by sitting till midnight on several occasions. A total of 146 members participated in the discussion on the Union Budget for 14 hours and 42 minutes, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Param Bir files PIL against Deshmukh in HC after SC directive||Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday filed a public interest litigation in the Bombay High Court seeking an "immediate and unbiased" probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who he claimed asked police officer Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. The IPS officer had earlier this week approached the Supreme Court, which on Wednesday termed as quite serious the matter in which he had filed a plea against Deshmukh, but asked him to approach the Bombay High Court with his grievances. Singh said in his plea before the High Court that Deshmukh held meetings at his residence with several Mumbai police officials, including Waze, in February this year. In these meetings, Deshmukh instructed the officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month from various establishments, the plea reads. It added that Deshmukh regularly interfered with police functioning and often misused his office. Deshmukh's conduct warranted a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the plea read. Singh urged the court to direct the CBI to conduct an immediate, unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial, and fair investigation" in the "various corrupt malpractices" of the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||SC quashes FIR against Patricia Mukhim for allegedly creating disharmony||The Supreme Court Thursday quashed an FIR lodged against journalist Patricia Mukhim for allegedly creating communal disharmony through her Facebook post. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao allowed the plea filed by Mukhim against the Meghalaya High Court order which had refused to quash the FIR against her. We have allowed the appeal, the bench said while pronouncing the judgement. The top court had reserved its verdict in the matter on February 16. Mukhim's counsel had earlier argued before the apex court that there was no intention to create disharmony or conflict through the post which referred to an incident of a murderous assault on July 3, 2020. The counsel for Meghalaya government had earlier claimed in the top court that communal colour was given to the scuffle between minor boys and her post shows it was a communal incident between tribal and non-tribal people. On November 10 last year, a single judge bench of the Meghalaya High Court had refused to quash the FIR filed by the Lawsohtun Dorbar Shnong (a traditional institution). Mukhim had hit out at the Lawsohtun village dorbar (council) on Facebook for failing to identify the murderous elements after five boys were attacked at a basketball court in July this year. Eleven people were picked up and two were arrested in the case. The police complaint was filed against Mukhim by the village council on July 6 last year for her post on the social media, alleging that her statement incited communal tension and might instigate communal conflict. She was subsequently booked under section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, residence, language etc) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti appears before ED in Srinagar||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here in connection with a money laundering case, officials said. Mufti reached the ED office in Rajbagh at 11 am to face questioning in the case, they said. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president did not appear before the agency in Delhi on Monday, citing she had prior commitments that could not be cancelled. Her request to ED officials that she be questioned in Srinagar instead of Delhi was accepted. The 61-year-old leader, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was served a notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. On March 19, the Delhi High Court had refused to stay summons issued to her after she moved the court seeking quashing of the summons in the case. The ED, which had earlier summoned Mufti March 15, had not insisted on her personal appearance at that time. "I write to you in reference to the summons issued to me to be present at your Delhi office on March 22. I have challenged in the Delhi High Court the constitutional vires of Section 50 of the PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act), under which these summons are issued," she said in a letter to the ED. Section 50 of the PMLA empowers the authority, that is, officers of the ED, to summon any person to give evidence or produce records. People who are summoned are bound to answer the questions put to them and to produce documents as required by the ED officers, failing which they can be penalised under the PMLA. The PDP leader had said that without prejudice to any of the contentions in the proceedings before the high court, "I state that I am not in a position to attend the summon on March 22 as I have prior commitments that cannot be cancelled at such short notice". "If however you insist we must do it sooner, I am ready and willing to be questioned in Srinagar, preferably at my residence or through video conference from Srinagar," Mehbooba said in her letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Evaluation process for granting permanent commission to women in Army flawed: SC||The Supreme Court Thursday allowed the pleas of several women SSC officers seeking grant of permanent commission in the Army and held that the ACR evaluation process was flawed and discriminatory in nature. The apex court said the Annual Confidential Report (ACR) evaluation criteria for grant of permanent commission to women officers ignored the achievement and laurels brought by them to the Indian Army. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said the process by which women officers were evaluated did not address the gender discrimination concern raised in the verdict delivered by the apex court last year. The top court delivered the verdict on a batch of pleas filed by several women officers who had sought compliance of its February last year directions to the Centre for grant of permanent commission, promotions and consequential benefits. In its landmark verdict delivered on February 17 last year, the top court had directed that women officers in the Army be granted permanent commission, rejecting the Centre's stand of their physiological limitations as being based on "sex stereotypes" and "gender discrimination against women". It had directed that within three months, all serving SSC women officers have to be considered for permanent commission irrespective of them having crossed 14 years or, as the case may be, 20 years of service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi refuses to refer to RSS as ‘Sangh Parivar’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said it is not right to call the RSS and its associated groups 'Sangh Parivar' as a family has women, respect for elders, compassion and affection, and the organisation has none of these. Gandhi's remarks come a day after he said the alleged harassment of nuns belonging to a Kerala-based congregation in Uttar Pradesh was a result of the Sangh Parivar's "vicious propaganda" to pitch one community against another and trample on minorities. In a tweet in Hindi on Thursday, he said he will no longer refer to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as 'Sangh Parivar', a united family. "I believe it is not right to call the RSS and associated organizations Sangh Parivar -- there are women in the family, there is respect for the elderly, a sense of compassion and affection -- which is not there in the RSS," he said on Twitter. "Now I will not call RSS 'Sangh Parivar'!" the Congress leader added. On March 19, four nuns were taken off an express train and detained for questioning by the railway police in Jhansi after local Bajrang Dal activists complained that two of the women were allegedly being forcibly taken for religious conversion, officials said. The police said there was no basis in the complaint and all four women later took the next train to their destination in Odisha. Taking a note of the incident, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was campaigning for the BJP in poll-bound Kerala, assured strong action against the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
25-03-2021||India||India reports 53,476 new Covid-19 cases, highest spike in over 5 months||India saw 53,476 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,17,87,534, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The active caseload registered an increase for the 15th day in row and was recorded at 3,95,192 comprising 3.35 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.28 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 153 days. The death toll increased to 1,60,692 with 251 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 54,366 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 23. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,31,650, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.36 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 23,75,03,882 samples have been tested up to March 24 with 10,65,021 samples being tested on Wednesday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Harass slur boot for poll observer from Uttar Pradesh||The Election Commission of India has suspended an IAS officer from Uttar Pradesh who was deputed as a general observer for the elections following multiple complaints of sexual harassment in Bengal. Narendra Prasad Pandey, who was a general observer for the election to the Kashipur Assembly constituency in Purulia district, has denied the charge. An EC source said the emergency action was taken after prima facie information suggested overreach by the officer. Tuesday’s suspension order from EC secretary Malay Mallick to Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari says that Pandey “shall be placed under immediate suspension for his misconduct with district officials, misuse of official position and indulging in behaviour unbecoming of an observer appointed by the commission”. The order added that “disciplinary action and a charge sheet before March 30 have also been ordered”. Pandey’s actions “compromised the dignity of the institution of observers”, the order said, adding that he was removed on March 22 “to prevent any flare-up of the situation”. A senior official said: “The officer had made lewd proposals to several women officers. Although observers have no business issuing orders to other officials, he had the temerity to attach the services of a woman officer to himself. After we spoke to her, we learnt that he had made advances towards several women officers within the fortnight that he was posted there. Such was the gravity of the situation that he had to be immediately flown back to Uttar Pradesh.” Pandey, a special secretary in the agricultural production commissioner’s branch, told this newspaper: “The order does not mention the charge (sexual harassment) that you are making. All I can say at this stage is that I have done nothing wrong.” The EC also replaced the police commissioner and collector in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, as part of the routine precaution of transferring officers whose neutrality is doubtful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states to curb festive mass gatherings||The Union health ministry on Wednesday asked the states to consider restricting the public observation of festivals and limiting or doing away with mass gatherings amid the rising daily new Covid-19 cases in 17 of India’s 20 most populated states. The ministry has advised the states to “consider imposing local restrictions in the public observation” of festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Bihu, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr, and “limit or do away” with gatherings. “Any laxity at this point in ensuring strict adherence to various protocols issued by the health ministry to contain the spread of Covid-19 may result in losing the benefits the country has gained so far in managing the virus,” additional secretary Arti Ahuja wrote to all the states. The health ministry had earlier this week written to Uttarakhand, cautioning that the observed counts of Covid-19 cases among pilgrims and residents at the ongoing Kumbh Mela could rapidly rise into a surge. The seven-day average daily case counts — a superior trend indicator than daily new cases — have increased by 1.3-fold to 5-fold in 19 of India’s top 20 most populated states over the past three weeks, increasing India’s daily count from 15,000 on March 1 to over 47,262 on March 24. The trends in Maharashtra and Punjab are of “grave concern,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Wednesday. In Maharashtra, the average daily count has soared from 7,900 to over 30,000, while that in Punjab has increased five-fold from 566 to 2,375 since March 1. Health officials have exhorted the public to adhere to safety protocols such as wearing masks and avoiding crowds. “A large proportion of the population in India is still susceptible — 60 per cent in some places, 75 per cent in other areas — they need to take precautions,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccines. India’s emerging second wave has surprised some public health experts who say they had thought that the first wave that peaked with about 97,000 daily new cases in mid-September had left behind such a large fraction of people infected that a second wave was unlikely. “I was mistaken,” said T. Jacob John, a senior clinical virologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “I hadn’t expected a sharp surge of the kind we’re seeing in many states now. But if, as we had assumed, most people are already infected and this wave is driven by infections in susceptible people, we should see a much sharper rise and a shorter lasting wave.” A new coronavirus variant possessing a “double mutation” detected in samples from Maharashtra has also turned up in samples from Delhi, Punjab and other states but there is no evidence that it is contributing to the current surge in infection, health officials said. The variant with two mutations, designated E484Q and L452R, has triggered concern because E484Q has been shown to allow the virus to escape immune responses and L452R has been found to be more infectious and has contributed to large outbreaks in California. A nationwide coronavirus genome sequencing effort coordinated by the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, with nine partner institutions has detected the E484Q-L452R double mutation in 206 samples from Maharashtra, 9 samples from Delhi and 3 samples from Gujarat. But NCDC director Sujeet Singh said there was no evidence that it was associated with the surge in Maharashtra or any other state. “Even in Nagpur, where the double mutation made up 20 per cent of the samples, infection patterns suggest they came from areas affected the least during the first wave last year,” Singh told The Telegraph. “So the variant was found in a pool of population that was the least exposed and thus highly susceptible to the infection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Nitish Kumar has adopted RSS-BJP culture: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has completely transformed himself into the RSS-BJP mould, arguing that the forces which disrobed democracy in this brutal manner cannot be called a government. The former Congress president, who has often been accused of nurturing a soft corner for Nitish, seems to have finally given up with the realisation that the Janata Dal United leader has adopted the RSS-BJP culture as manifested through the mindless violence against MLAs on the Assembly premises. Rahul was one among many Opposition leaders who felt Nitish’s political philosophy was not in tune with the RSS ideology and he would return sooner or later. Tuesday’s incident shocked many political parties as they issued a joint statement condemning the police brutality which they described as an “unprecedented attack on India’s democracy”. These parties also condemned the draconian law that triggered protests leading to police action. The joint statement was signed by parties like the Congress, NCP, DMK, RJD, Samajwadi Party, TRS, Shiv Sena, AAP, CPM and CPI. The statement said: “The BJP-JDU government in Bihar has pushed through the draconian Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, that confers unbridled powers upon Bihar Military Police to conduct raids and arrests without warrants. This is an unconstitutional bill that effectively transforms the police force into an armed militia to harass, suppress and crack down on academics, activists, journalists, the political opposition and all those who dare to speak truth to power. It is an insidious conspiracy to enforce a Police Raj in Bihar and portends what the BJP intends to do throughout India employing the sheer tyranny of power.” It added: “Given this bill blatantly violates the rule of law and undermines human rights, Opposition MLAs from the RJD, Congress and other progressive parties raised their voices unitedly on the floor of the House. Rather than addressing their legitimate pro-people concerns, these MLAs were ruthlessly beaten and forcefully ejected from the Assembly. In doing this, the BJP and JDU have not only sought to throttle the voices of peoples’ representatives, but also assaulted constitutional principles. We unequivocally condemn this unprecedented attack on India’s democracy, and urge every Indian to stand by democratic principles.” Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said he never saw such police action against elected representatives on the Assembly premises in his 49-year-long legislative career and said one can imagine how police will deal with the ordinary citizens if they can beat up MLAs like this. He said these forces wanted to destroy democracy in India. A Congress delegation on Wednesday called on President Ram Nath Kovind and demanded recall of Manipur governor Najma Heptulla for not acting according to the constitutional scheme to ensure that the illegal government of the BJP continues in power in the northeastern state. They submitted a memorandum to the President arguing that the governor was not acting upon their petition to disqualify 12 BJP legislators who were appointed parliamentary secretaries despite the high court declaring the appointment illegal. The Congress is demanding that these MLAs should be disqualified under the office of profit act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Param Bir Singh to file graft plea in HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday termed as “quite serious” the allegations against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh of compelling police personnel to collect a monthly extortion money of Rs 100 crore from business houses, but refused to order a CBI probe into the allegations. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R. Subhash Reddy, while expressing disappointment that none of the governments in the country had bothered to insulate the police force from political or extraneous influence in terms of its 2006 Prakash Singh vs Union of India case, however, asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to approach Bombay High Court with his plea. Singh had sought a CBI probe into the alleged conduct of Deshmukh. He was represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi. The court also noted that Singh’s present petition was a fallout of their internal differences which has now surfaced in the open. In a written order, the bench said: “….On further hearing, we put to learned senior counsel as to why the petition should not have been preferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of India before the Bombay High Court as the powers thereunder, if any, are wider. If investigation by an independent agency is being sought for, that is a relief which can also be granted by the High Court. There have also been subsequent developments in the matter as has been noticed in terms of the report of Ms Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner, State Intelligence Department. “The High Court has the requisite authority to address the same. We have no doubt that the matter is quite serious and affects the administration at large. It also appears that a lot of material which has come in public domain is a consequence of the personal falling out. “Learned senior counsel also seeks to rely upon the judgment in Prakash Singh & Ors (Others) vs Union of India & Ors (2006)... In our view, this is only a mantra recited periodically, wherever the occasion so suits, and there has been no seriousness by all concerned to ever implement the directions enshrined in the judgment. These directions were based on the principle of insulating police machinery from political/executive interference to make it more efficient and to strengthen the rule of law. “It appears that none want to give up, inter alia, the control of police transfers or implement measures that would insulate the police machinery from performing its role without any uncalled for interference. In view of the aforesaid position, learned senior counsel for the petitioner seeks to withdraw the writ petition with liberty to approach the High Court. Liberty granted. “Learned senior counsel submits that they will file the petition during the course of the day and would like the matter to be taken up tomorrow itself. That, in our view, would be an appropriate prayer made to the High Court and not by a direction from this Court. Pending applications stand disposed of.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Modi government passes Delhi bill in Parliament||The Narendra Modi government found little support outside its ranks when it passed a bill in Parliament on Wednesday that is being seen as a bid to clip the wings of the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation in Delhi. Some of the parties opposed to the changes sought to be brought in through the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, staged a walkout as the Rajya Sabha voted it in. Of all the Opposition parties, the Trinamul Congress made a particular point of being present for the consideration and passage of the bill despite the first phase of Assembly elections in Bengal being just a couple of days away. Trinamul leader Derek O’Brien made a last-minute effort to delay the voting by urging the Chair to invoke the residuary powers provided under Rule 266 of the Rajya Sabha. However, since Parliament is in session and other bills have been passed, this was not allowed. With a number of Opposition MPs from the election-bound states unable to turn up for the discussion and some of the parties opposed to the bill staging a walkout, its passage was a foregone conclusion and there was no resistance from the treasury benches when a division (voting) was sought at the initial stage of its passage. The Opposition was vastly outnumbered with 83 votes favouring its passage and only 45 opposed to it. Subsequently, the leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, said that since the government was unwilling to take on board their suggestions, including a request for referring the bill to a select committee of the House for further consideration, they were walking out. Earlier, two parties which normally side with the government — the Biju Janata Dal of Naveen Patnaik and the YSR Congress of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy — had announced that they would not participate in the vote while articulating their opposition to the bill. While junior home minister G. Kishan Reddy insisted that no power of the elected government was being taken away, Congress MP Abhishek Singhvi described the bill as an example of coercive federalism. AAP’s Sanjay Singh likened the bill to “Draupadi’s cheerharan (humiliation)” in the Mahabharat because chief minister Kejriwal had refused Delhi police’s request to convert stadia into jails to lodge protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Ashoka University students withdraw agitation||The agitation by students of Ashoka University, sparked by the resignations of two senior professors, was withdrawn on Wednesday. The move by the Ashoka University Student Government came a day after four senior founders of the varsity offered them a seat in the board of management. The Seventh House of Representatives of the Ashoka University Student Government said in a letter to the students: “With the Vice-Chancellor’s email today morning, we are officially closing the strike. However, this is not to say that the movement must end. We must continue coming together, asking questions, making art, and discussing academic freedom and the precarious political situation we find ourselves in… To the Vice-Chancellor, we thank you for being so receptive to our proposed changes and for your commitment to work with us to the best of your ability in building a more representative Ashoka.” Students had boycotted classes — mostly online — on Monday and Tuesday to press for the return of political scientist Pratap Bhanu Mehta who quit on March 15, saying that the founders of the varsity had made it clear to him that he was a “political liability”. Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had also quit last week in solidarity with Mehta who is being seen as a victim of intolerance against his newspaper columns criticising the ruling BJP. The students demanded a public acknowledgement of Mehta’s resignation by the founders, an offer to Mehta to rejoin and the divestment of powers from the founders to “elected representatives of faculty, students and administration”. Neither professor withdrew their resignations but issued a joint statement with the management of the elite private varsity acknowledging “lapses in institutional processes” and saying that the duo were “lifelong friends and well-wishers” of the varsity. The House added: “We were able to meet unprecedented demands after protesting for six days and boycotting classes for two. Public universities across the country strike for weeks and months on end, often to fulfil basic needs, and even then they are not always successful. We must forge deeper solidarities with student unions and collectives fighting against injustice throughout India.” The move by students came on a day when vice-chancellor Malabika Sarkar — who earlier headed Calcutta’s Presidency University — asked the Ashoka University Student Government to nominate a student to become an “invitee member” of the board of management. A senior professor said this would not entail voting rights although voting rarely takes place on the board, which largely operates on consensus. Sarkar also announced that a workers’ welfare committee would be set up to meet students’ demands for better work conditions for non-teaching staff. After meeting the students on Tuesday, four prominent founders issued a statement saying: “The founders, even though they have devoted resources and energy to establish Ashoka University have never interfered with, nor do they intend to interfere, with the academic functioning of the university. ‘Academic functioning’ in this context includes not only how and what faculty teach, how they assess, how they are recruited and how they secure tenure but also their freedom to write and speak in their chosen fora and on their chosen themes.” The statement signed by Ashish Dhawan who chairs the board of trustees, education entrepreneur Pramath Raj Sinha, Naukri.com owner Sanjeev Bikhchandani and CEO of data analytics firm Benori Knowledge Solutions, Vineet Gupta, made no mention of the resignations. Gupta was in the news last week for a clearance from the Centre to receive funds from abroad to start another varsity in Mohali. The statement added that an ombudsperson would also be appointed. The university had faced flak from prominent intellectuals across the world for the circumstances under which Mehta and Subramanian had quit. On Tuesday, 900 students had gathered at different locations to hear Mehta’s online talk on Karl Marx’s Das Kapital. Several associations of students and teachers on Wednesday expressed solidarity with the students’ agitation at Ashoka University. In a statement, they said: “Ashoka students and faculty have been peacefully protesting for the past week and will continue to do so until the agreed upon demands are fulfilled. However, this has emphasised the larger question around freedom of speech, academic freedom, and the right to peacefully protest across this country. This is an issue of political repression against intellectuals and critics in this country, targeted towards students, faculty and all critical thinkers in educational institutes who dare question the government and centres of power.” Signatories include student bodies of Aligarh Muslim University, Jadavpur University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jindal Global Law School, Presidency University, SRM School of Architecture and Interior Design, Krea University, Tezpur University, SFI, CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association, Youth for Swaraj, All Bengal University Teachers’ Association and Jadavpur University Teachers Association. They added: “This is an issue of basic human and ecological rights upheld by educational institutions versus an oppressive ideology bent on eradicating all voices of reason, democracy, criticism, and rational thought. We want to reiterate that peaceful criticism of state actions and policies are not and should not be equated to hate speech or be deemed anti-national.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Justice N.V. Ramana set to be CJI ||An in-house committee of the Supreme Court has dismissed Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy’s allegations of corruption and impropriety against Justice N.V. Ramana, the second senior-most judge, the apex court spokesperson confirmed on Wednesday. The decision clears the decks for Justice Ramana to take over as Chief Justice of India — the first former journalist to rise to the post — from April 24 after the incumbent, Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, retires on April 23. The in-house panel, headed by Justice Bobde, found Jagan’s allegations “extremely malicious, motivated and frivolous with an intention to browbeat the entire judicial system”, sources privy to the inquiry said. The sources declined to reveal details citing confidentiality. In keeping with protocol, the in-house panel did not include Justice Ramana. Jagan had written to Chief Justice Bobde on October 6 alleging Justice Ramana’s two daughters had illegally acquired land at Amaravati in Andhra. He further alleged that Justice Ramana was interfering with the functioning of Andhra Pradesh High Court to favour Jagan’s political rival and former chief minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. Legal sources had at the time suggested that Justice Ramana was being targeted because he headed a bench that had directed the establishment of special courts to speed up the trials in criminal cases against all lawmakers across the country. Jagan faces 31 criminal cases, mainly for alleged corruption and money-laundering, and his allegations were seen as an attempt to browbeat the judiciary into going slow against him.To avert speculation about the in-house inquiry, the apex court spokesperson issued a written statement on Wednesday, saying: “A complaint dated 6th October sent by the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh to the Supreme Court was dealt with under the in-house procedure and the same on due consideration, stands dismissed. “It be noted that all the matters dealt with under the in-house procedure being strictly confidential in nature are not liable to be made public.” The Bar Council of India and Bar associations across the country had condemned the allegations after Jagan released his letter to the media. Jagan’s charges against Justice Ramana have led to two contempt petitions against the chief minister in the Supreme Court, and to an order by Andhra Pradesh High Court for a CBI probe against the YSR Congress leader. Undeterred by the allegations, Justice Ramana had on October 18 last year, while delivering the Justice A.R. Laxmanan Memorial Lecture, urged judges to be “steadfast” and “fearless”. He had exhorted them to “withstand all pressures and odds and to stand up bravely against all obstacles”, saying the judiciary’s greatest strength was the people’s faith in the institution. The remark was seen as a rejoinder to Jagan. Sources said Justice Ramana, who will be India’s 48th Chief Justice and continue in the post till August 26, 2022, held strong progressive views and was a champion of free speech and democratic rights. Last May, a bench headed by him had directed the Centre to set up a committee to review the restoration of full-fledged Internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, and followed it up with a series of orders that led to Net connectivity being eventually restored. Justice Ramana will be the first judge from Andhra Pradesh to become Chief Justice of India. Justice Koka Subba Rao, also a Telugu, held the post between June 30, 1966, and April 11, 1967, but he came from the undivided Madras state and was a Madras High Court judge. As a young man, Justice Ramana had participated in demonstrations seeking a separate Andhra Pradesh state. Among the movement’s leaders was the present Vice-President, M. Venkaiah Naidu. Born in a farming family on August 27, 1957, in Ponnavaram village, Krishna district, Justice Ramana had worked as a journalist between 1979 and 1980, reporting on political and legal matters for the Eenadu newspaper. He was enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983. He specialised in constitutional, criminal, service and inter-state river laws and practised in Andhra Pradesh High Court. He was appointed a permanent judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court in 2000, became Delhi High Court chief justice in 2013 and joined the Supreme Court in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||SC ‘terrorism’ query on electoral bonds||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought an assurance from the Centre that the electoral bonds it plans to release in poll season would not be used for terrorism or other violent acts, while reserving its order on a plea to halt the bond release. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde also asked attorney-general K.K. Venugopal why the government had allowed “anonymity” to those who buy these bonds and donate to political parties. “Can someone buy (electoral) bonds in these 10 days and fund terrorist operations?” Justice Bobde asked, referring to the April 1-10 window during which the government plans to release the bonds. “We are sure there are political parties who have violence on their agenda.” Venugopal said only registered political parties that had secured at least one per cent of the vote in the most recent Lok Sabha or Assembly elections could cash the bonds. “We don’t want to get into politics and comment on any party, but can’t a party receive bonds and then fund a protest which turns violent? What is the control of the government on what use the money is put to?” Justice Bobde asked. Electoral bonds, started in 2018, are promissory notes that any Indian citizen or company can buy and donate to an eligible political party of their choice. The bonds do not bear the donor’s name, a situation that has led to charges of opaque political funding, of an influx of black money, and of big companies “bribing” political parties. According to the petitioner, Association for Democratic Rights (ADR), the ruling BJP has received more than 60 per cent, by value, of the electoral bonds issued till now. After elaborate arguments, the bench of Justices Bobde, A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian reserved its verdict by observing: “We will pass orders.... But this angle of misuse of funds for illegal purposes, for purposes of terrorism, we would like you as a government to look into. It is not to suggest that political parties have violence on their agenda.” ADR has sought a halt on the sale of electoral bonds ahead of and during the upcoming Assembly polls. The Bengal polls are already said to be flush with money. “Tell us why is there selective anonymity?” the court asked, alluding to other kinds of bonds not allowing buyers such anonymity. Venugopal said the money collected was all white money that went through banks and were paid by cheque. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the ADR, countered that a subsequent buyer could purchase the bond from the original buyer against cash. “You are not telling us about the anonymity,” Justice Bobde said, to which Venugopal confirmed that an electoral bond “does not disclose who received it or purchased it”. But he added: “Mr Arun Jaitley (the late finance minister) decided that black money is a tremendous menace (and) Mr Jaitley devised this (scheme).”Venugopal said every party had to file its income-tax returns. “It was after your Lordships’ judgment (in 2019) that all started filing. So now the question of such misuse cannot arise,” he said. “Terrorism is not funded by white money. It is only funded by black money.” Earlier, Bhushan had pleaded that even the Reserve Bank governor had written to the Centre expressing discomfiture about the electoral bonds, saying they would affect India’s financial system. “RBI said this will put them at reputational risk. Here bribing has been made through government channels. Apart from bank no one will know who is the donor, not even ECI. The RBI and ECI had both raised strong reservations. This is unprecedented and has not happened anywhere in the world,” Bhushan said.“What they have done is open the way for large corporations, through shell companies, (to pay) bribes.” “Bribes to political parties?” Justice Bobde asked. When Bhushan said these were essentially bribes to ruling parties, the Chief Justice remarked: “Why only a ruling party?” “The ruling party is the one which can fulfil the needs,” Bhushan said, for Justice Bobde to reply: “It can also be given to a party which may come to power in the upcoming election.” The ADR says that almost 99 per cent of the more than Rs 6,500 crore worth of electoral bonds sold were worth Rs 1 crore or Rs 10 lakh, suggesting large corporations rather than individuals are buying them to try and wangle favours from the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Curbs on devotee entry in Puri Jagannath Temple||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) has decided to restrict the entry of devotees into the 12th century shrine once a week in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in Odisha. Sources said the restriction on entry will be imposed every Sunday to disinfect the temple premises. The temple witnesses heavy rush of devotees on Sundays. SJTA chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar said: “The temple will be disinfected once a week. The administration will announce the closure day once a week for devotees soon and it will be notified.” Officials said the decision to close the temple for devotees once a week will be implemented from April 1. Taking in account the sudden spurt in Covid cases, the state government has restricted the number of guests in social events. According to the new guidelines, the number of guests in a marriage function has been reduced from 500 to 200 and no more than 50 people are allowed to attend funeral ceremonies and last rites. The restrictions were announced by the special relief commissioner in a notification. The state government has already banned the celebration of Holi in public places. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has asked the administration and the police to enforce Covid guidelines, including the compulsory use of masks, strictly to prevent a second wave of coronavirus in the state. The number of new Covid cases in the state has touched 100. Following the state government’s tough stand on the issue, the Malkangiri district administration has imposed night curfew to prevent congregation of people during the ongoing tribal festival between 9pm and 6am till March 31. Similarly, the administration of Ganjam, which had reported the highest number of Covid cases last year, has made it mandatory for people entering the district from outside to inform the local authorities. The returnees will have to undergo a medical check-up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
25-03-2021||India||Sundari returns to Madhya Pradesh from Satkosia Tiger Reserve||Sundari, a tigress which had come from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh in June 2018, as part of the first inter-state tiger translocation project, was sent back on Tuesday evening after a trouble-torn stay for two years and nine months in Satkosia Tiger Reserve in Angul district of Odisha. The tigress, who is now aged four-and-a-half years, was kept in a special enclosure at Raiguda in Satkosia forest for the last 30 months after it reportedly killed two persons in the area. The Odisha government had brought Sundari along with another tiger Mahavir in 2018 from Madhya Pradesh to Satkosia to repopulate the big cat numbers as part of India’s first tiger translocation project. Both of them were released in the Satkosia tiger reserve. While Sundari was released in the wild at Satkosia in June 2018, followed by Mahavir a few days later. Mahavir died after getting caught in a snare laid by the poachers in the forests on the fringes of Satkosia reserve a few months after his release in 2018. Sundari, on the other hand, was in the news owing to her violent behaviour as she reportedly killed two persons. As the people living in and around Satkosia protested and even torched a beat house of the forest department in the area, Odisha forest officials confined the tigress in an enclosure in September 2018 after tranquillising her. In 2019, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) asked the Odisha government to send Sundari back to Madhya Pradesh. As the issue snowballed into a major controversy and wildlife activists raised concern over the handling of the tigress, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in December 2020 urged his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik to ensure proper care of Sundari till her relocation. A six-member team, including a veterinary surgeon, reached Satkosia earlier this week. On Tuesday, they tranquillised Sundari and put her in a cage. “It took only 15 minutes to tranquillise the tigress. Following this, the tigress began her journey back to Madhya Pradesh in a special van. The van is scheduled to reach Madhya Pradesh at night,” said Pradeep Raj Karata, Angul regional chief conservator of forests. Till the work on the construction of tiger safaris at Kanha Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh is complete, Sundari will be temporarily sheltered at the Ghorela Rewilding Centre there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
25-03-2021||India||Day after, Opposition ‘runs’ parallel House in Bihar||The Opposition boycotted the Bihar Assembly proceedings on Wednesday and ran a parallel House on its premises over the alleged manhandling of its MLAs. The Opposition also asserted that it might boycott the Assembly proceedings for its entire tenure if chief minister Nitish Kumar does not apologise for the incident. The move came in the wake of Opposition legislators being allegedly assaulted on Tuesday by the marshals and police personnel for vehemently and aggressively opposing the tabling and passage of the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. Even women legislators were manhandled and dragged out of the House by the police. The bill changes the name of Bihar Military Police to Bihar Special Armed Police and provides it the power to arrest people, as well as, conduct searches or raids without a warrant or the permission of a magistrate. The Opposition claimed the bill would turn Bihar into a police state. Wednesday was the last day of the budget session of the Assembly. The session started on an ominous note with the legislators of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress, the Left parties, and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen staying away from the proceedings. They assembled in the open space outside the Assembly building and held their own proceedings in protest, elected legislator Bhudeo Chaudhary as their “Speaker”, condemned the abuse and assault on the MLAs, and sacked the chief minister over the incident. Congress MLAs led by state party chief Madan Mohan Jha participated in the protest with black bands tied over their eyes. Women Opposition legislators offered bangles to the chief minister over the unprecedented incident in which Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha was allegedly held hostage in his chamber and had to call the police to remove the protesting MLAs. The police also dragged them out of the House. The 243-member Assembly has 126 ruling NDA legislators. It has the support of an Independent and a Lok Janshakti Party MLA. The Opposition has 110 MLAs, while the AIMIM has five legislators. The government has a thin majority in the House. “Chief minister Nitish and his puppet officers must know that no government is permanent. MLAs were abused and beaten inside the Assembly. They have set an unparliamentary trend. If the chief minister does not apologise for the incident, we may boycott the Assembly for the remaining tenure,” leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said. Tejashwi, younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, at present leads the party. “I will not forget the barbaric thrashing, abuse and misbehaviour of the MLAs, including the women legislators by Nitish Kumar and his pet officials. The chief minister will remember later on the shameful tradition he has started,” he said. Tejashwi pointed out it was ironic that the bill was passed in the presence of the police after they thrashed and removed the Opposition legislators. He alleged that a day might come when the police might beat Nitish in his own residence under the powers provided in the bill. “The senses of Nitish must have tingled with pleasure when the goondas were removing the saris of women legislators and putting their hands in their blouses. Filthy abuses were hurled at the women and they were dragged by their hair. Nirlajja (shameless) Kumar was enjoying dance and music in the night after the shameful incident,” Tejashwi said. The RJD leader also asserted that the entire incident was orchestrated at the behest of Nitish and the entire country was condemning him. Lalu, currently undergoing treatment in Delhi under incarceration after being convicted in fodder scam cases by the CBI court in Ranchi, called Nitish a “goonda of the Sangh (RSS).” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condemned the incident. “The shameful incident in the Bihar Vidhan Sabha has revealed that the chief minister is completely influenced by the RSS and the BJP. Those who have outraged the modesty of democracy have no right to be called the government. Yet the Opposition will keep raising its voice in public interest. We are not afraid,” he tweeted. Samajwadi Party leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav hit out at the Janata Dal United–BJP government over the incident. “ The attack on MLAs by armed police in the Bihar Assembly is a crime. The assault on the unemployed youth on the streets shows what the BJP thinks of the public after coming to power. It is condemnable. There has been a murderous attack on the democracy in Bihar. No more BJP. It believes in dictatorship instead of political mandate,” Akhilesh said. Nitish said that all legislations, including the police bill, passed by the legislature are being sent to the governor for approval. He said what happened a day ago was unprecedented. “What has happened in the House is unprecedented. Everybody has seen the behaviour of the Opposition legislators. It has not been good. They obstructed the functioning of the Assembly. If they had any doubt, they should have discussed it. The bill has provided all details. It has nothing about which rumours have been spread. Any action on the incident depends on the Speaker,” Nitish said. The chief minister also said that calling the police to control the situation in the Assembly comes under the jurisdiction of the Speaker. He also pointed out that tables and chairs were broken in the House and a paperweight was thrown. The chief minister also congratulated the NDA for electing JDU leader Maheshwar Hazari as deputy Speaker through voting. Hazari got 124 votes while the Opposition was not present in the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
25-03-2021||India||Nuns forced off train on suspicion of forceful conversion by ABVP members in Jhansi||Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad members allegedly forced two nuns and two women postulants off a long-distance train in Jhansi on March 19, alleging they were involved in religious conversion. Despite the women’s plea that they were law-abiding citizens, they were taken to the Government Railway Police station at Jhansi Junction and forced to sit there for four hours from 7.30pm till 11.30pm. A postulant is a candidate, especially one seeking admission into a religious order. The four Delhi-based women hailed from Kerala and were travelling from Delhi to Rourkela in Odisha on the Kalinga-Utkal Express. Chandrakant Yadav, an ABVP leader from Jhansi, said five members of his organisation were on the train and had complained against the nuns to the railway police, who asked the women to get off the train. The incident comes at a time BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh has acquired a poor reputation for crimes against women, with several ruling party politicians among the accused and the police often playing a dubious role. The ABVP is the student arm of the RSS. Friday’s atrocity came to light after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday, and Archbishop Felix Machado, secretary-general of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India (CBCI), issued a media release on Wednesday. “The CBCI is deeply saddened and shocked by the attack on four religious sisters belonging to the Congregation of the Sacred Heart Society. Such incidents surely bring dishonour and shame to all of us, the law-abiding citizens of our beloved Mother India,” the archbishop said. “It is distressing that the four religious sisters were accused of unfounded allegations by some fellow travellers without any recourse to law even though the young women informed them that they were Catholics and bona fide citizens of the Indian Republic.” He said the railway police took the nuns into custody and released them only after a senior police officer “verified the matter”. The Jhansi Bishop’s House later helped them resume their journey. “The CBCI calls upon all respective government authorities, central, state and the Indian Railways to ensure safety of all women in future,” the archbishop said. Vijayan was quoted by the media as saying such incidents tarnished India’s image. The Puri-bound train had started its journey from Haridwar and the nuns and postulants had boarded it at Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin station. “There were two nuns and two trainees (postulants). The ABVP members, who were returning from a training camp at Rishikesh in Uttarakhand, thought the two nuns were taking the other two for religious conversion,” Naeem Khan Mansooru, deputy superintendent of railway police in Jhansi, said. “They called the Railway Protection Force, which passed on the information to the GRP. Later, the GRP found that all four were Christians by birth. They were then allowed to resume their journey.” A police source in Lucknow said a probe had been started against the ABVP members and that “the guilty will be brought to book eventually”. Yadav, the ABVP leader, said: “The GRP has the authority to probe a complaint. But this matter was over once they realised the women were not into any illegal activity. The matter was closed from our side. Even the media didn’t feel like raising this issue at the time. It is being raised unnecessarily after so many days.” A 12-year-old boy died of burns while reportedly trying to imitate a hair-straightening act shown on social media. Sivanarayanan on Tuesday applied kerosene to his hair and tried to straighten it with a lit matchstick, police said. The boy died in a hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
25-03-2021||India||Harassed, ‘raped’, killed: Day in life of women in Uttar Pradesh||A mother and daughter driven to suicide by alleged blackmail and sexual harassment. Two teenaged sisters strangled after purported rape. A mother bludgeoned to death and her daughter left to die on a field. The incidents, all of which happened between Monday night and Tuesday night, suggest that crimes against women are spiralling out of control in Uttar Pradesh, whose chief minister Yogi Adityanath goes about criticising other states’ law-and-order record during election campaigns. ⚫ A Dalit mother, 40, and her daughter, 17, hanged themselves from a tree on Tuesday night at village Belsar in Gonda district of eastern Uttar Pradesh. The elder woman’s brother-in-law said a Belsar resident named Satyam Singh had shot an “objectionable video” of his niece and was blackmailing her and her mother. “He wanted to exploit them sexually, which is why they ended their lives,” he said. “We had earlier approached the police three times but every time they asked us to resolve the matter in the village panchayat. The panchayat had asked Satyam last year to stop harassing my niece but he didn’t listen.” Gonda superintendent of police Shailesh Kumar Pandey denied knowledge of any past complaint from the family but said Satyam had been arrested. Rajan Baba, a village panchayat member, said: “We had warned Satyam many times.” ⚫  In village Singaha in Sant Kabir Nagar district, 140km east of Gonda, Shanti Devi, 42, had her skull smashed and her daughter Ranju Kumari, 17, was left seriously injured late on Tuesday night. “They had come to work on a farm in Singaha from their village of Musahara. They did not return home,” Vinay Pathak, a local police inspector, said. “There were several injury marks on their heads and faces. The girl has been admitted to the medical college in Gorakhpur. We are trying to ascertain the motive.” ⚫ In Pilibhit, western Uttar Pradesh, two sisters were found throttled to death on a highway near their home in the Bilaspur area on Tuesday morning. The girls, aged 19 and 16, were labourers at a brick kiln and had been missing since Monday night. Officers said the elder sister was hanging from a tree while the younger lay on the ground a few metres away. The post-mortem has confirmed both were strangled before one of them was hanged. Their mother said the brick-kiln owner, Ali Hasan, and his accountant Mahesh Kumar had raped and murdered the girls. Police sources said they were probing several angles, including honour killing, but did not reveal whether the post-mortem had confirmed rape. The accountant’s mobile phone was found near the younger girl’s body, police sources said. The girls’ mother, speaking to reporters on Wednesday before the police took her away for questioning, said: “We live in a hut provided by the brick kiln owner. He had threatened me on Tuesday night and asked me not to go to the police,” she said. Kamal Singh, a local police officer, dismissed her allegation, saying the brick kiln owner had himself informed the police of the double murder on Tuesday. Singh didn’t explain how the accountant’s mobile came to be at the spot. “We had no enmity with anybody but the brick-kiln owner had his eyes on my daughters,” the mother alleged. Pilibhit superintendent of police Jay Prakash said: “The role of the victims’ family members is dubious….” According to the National Crime Record Bureau, 59,853 crimes against women were reported in Uttar Pradesh in 2019, making up 14 per cent of the national figure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-251
25-03-2021||West Bengal||EC removes IAS, 4 IPS officers two days ahead of Bengal polls  ||An IAS and four IPS officers in Bengal were removed on Thursday by the Election Commission, two days ahead of the first phase of polling, on a day when Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the poll committee a ‘BJP Commission’. Additional Director-General (West Zone) Sanjay Singh was replaced by Rajesh Kumar, as per an official order. District Magistrate and District Election Officer of Jhargram Ayesha Rani was replaced by Joyeshi Dasgupta, it said. Jhargram will be voting in the first phase on March 27. The EC has decided to deploy 127 companies of central forces for booth management in this district, officials said. Arijit Sinha was named the new Superintendent of Police of Diamond Harbour, replacing Avijit Banerji, the order said. Debashish Dhar was named the new SP of Coochbehar, replacing K Kannan. Weeks ago, the poll commission ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. Meanwhile, at a poll rally in the South 24 Parganas, Mamata Banerjee hit out at the EC, claiming that the BJP was interfering with its functioning. The chief minister expressed strong reservations over the large-scale transfer of senior government officials by the EC in the last few days. "The way BJP is interfering in the functioning of EC, it appears to be a BJP commission," Mamata said at a public meeting at Danton. She said she learnt of the transfers while riding a helicopter from Sagar island to Danton. "I am telling you (EC) transfer all (officials). That will not prevent our victory because people are with us, " she said. The chief minister said, "While I have great respect for the EC, I would like to ask the poll panel why police forces are under the control of the Centre during Lok Sabha and Assembly polls. Why not under EC?" Alleging the EC is taking a step motherly attitude to her government, the firebrand TMC supremo dared the commission to showcause her. "You can send 10 letters to me. I am not bothered." Asking why every instruction of BJP has to be obeyed, Mamata wanted to know why the EC immediately complies when BJP seeks an officials' removal. She said, "EC is not doing the right thing. We are a regional party. There are many other regional parties. If you think the regional parties like us will be finished in this fashion, you are mistaken," she said. "BJP has lost the match and hence has resorted to the game of changing officers. Officers don't vote, people vote," she reasoned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Shadow of violence looms on eve of first phase of voting||Violent deaths since Wednesday night in far-flung corners of Bengal set the political mercury soaring as curtains came down on the campaign for the first phase of polling. On Thursday morning, two corpses with throats slit were found at Methidanga, on the outskirts of Shantipur town, in Nadia district, around 96km from Calcutta. The BJP was quick to latch on to the twin murders to score political points, claiming one of the victims, identified as Pratap Burman (24), was its supporter. The second victim has been identified as Dipankar Biswas (35). The BJP MP from Ranaghat (Shantipur is a part of the Ranaghat Lok Sabha seat), Jagannath Sarkar, who is the party’s nominee for the Shantipur Assembly seat, has called for a 12-hour bandh on Friday in the area. A little over two years ago, the Trinamul MLA from Krishnahunj, Satyajit Biswas, was gunned down in the same district, during a Saraswati Puja event. The family members had initially denied any political links of the victim but later retracted their statement. Both Trinamul and BJP blame each other for the escalation in violence. The Trinamul nominee and former MLA Ajoy De, claimed the BJP was trying to politicise Thursday’s murders. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 11 people were killed in Bengal and over 700 injured in politically-motivated clashes. Since the Lok Sabha polls, over 1,500 people have been killed in similar incidents. On Wednesday, a local BJP leader’s body was found hanging in Cooch Behar’s Dinhata. It had led to widespread violence by BJP cadres in the North Bengal town. Closer home to Calcutta in South 24-Parganas Baruipur, Trinamul supporters clashed with the workers of the Sanyukta Morcha, the new front formed by the Congress, the ISF and the Left Front. Local Trinamul leader Shyamsundar Chakraborty claimed a group of Morcha supporters had attacked their party workers when they were passing through Belegachhi area. “One of our workers later succumbed to injuries in hospital,” Chakraborty said. The local CPM has claimed that three of its workers are missing since the clashes. The recovery of the corpses were not directly linked to the spate of violence in other parts of the state but does raise questions whether the presence of the approximately 684 companies of central paramilitary forces was having any impact at all in the 30 seats that go to polls on Saturday in Purulia and parts of Bankura, Jhargram, West and East Midnapore. Each of these districts has a history of political violence that had witnessed much bloodshed towards the end of the Left rule more than a decade ago. While chief minister Mamata Banerjee can rightly claim to have brought peace to the area, with the subjugation of the Maoists guerrillas, intra-party clashes are still a phenomenon. The Election Commission of India’s decision to stagger polls to an unprecedented eight-phases this time bears testimony to the fact that neither the Left nor the Trinamul when in the seat of power had rightly assessed the damage their violent ways of dealing with political opponents was causing to the state. In 2011 and 2016, the Assembly polls were held in six-phases. "The present situation in Bengal is similar to what it was in the early 70s. Anti-socials have been let loose and the administration is not taking any steps," said BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya. Instances of poll-related violence are not restricted to the prized catch of an Assembly or a Parliamentary seat. Violence has been an intrinsic part of Bengal elections from the three-tier panchayat level. “Insurrection” and “annihilation” have been a part of Bengal’s political legacy, which can be traced to the revolutionary outfits and martyrs from the struggle for Independence. In post-Independent Bengal violence remained a part of the successive movements led by the Left parties against the Congress and the Naxalite movement. It was expected that the circle of violence would come to an end once the Left was voted out and Mamata Banerjee, a personal victim of many a violent attack, would bring it to an end. However, the atrocities have continued. Politicians of any hue believe more in muscle power than their own persona to draw the voters closer. “In West Bengal Violence has got a structural form, first by the Left and later Trinamul Congress. Both of them have turned Bengal’s politics ugly,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, political analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Days ahead of first phase of polls, EC removes IAS, IPS officers in Bengal||An IAS and four IPS officers in Bengal were removed on Thursday by the Election Commission, two days ahead of the first phase of polling, officials said. Additional Director-General (West Zone) Sanjay Singh was replaced by Rajesh Kumar, as per an official order. District Magistrate and District Election Officer of Jhargram Ayesha Rani was replaced by Joyeshi Dasgupta, it said. Jhargram will be voting in the first phase on March 27. The EC has decided to deploy 127 companies of central forces for booth management in this district, officials said. Arijit Sinha was named the new Superintendent of Police of Diamond Harbour, replacing Avijit Banerji, the order said. Debashish Dhar was named the new SP of Coochbehar, replacing K Kannan. Weeks ago, the poll commission ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. The move had come in the wake of several political parties complaining to the Election Commission, alleging that Virendra was inclined towards the ruling Trinamul Congress, sources said. The Election Commission had also removed Jawed Shamim from the post of ADG (Law and Order) of Bengal and replaced him with Jagmohan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal's development not on CM's mind, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday lashed out at his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, alleging that she is not interested in her state's development and only wants to promote goons and extortionists. He said the countdown to the end of the TMC rule in West Bengal has begun and the BJP will form the government in the state after 35 days to usher in a new era of development and progress. "West Bengal was once an advanced and progressive state. But the Congress, the Left Front and then the TMC stunted the industrial growth of the state and corruption blossomed," he said, while addressing a rally in Sagar assembly constituency in South 24 Parganas district. He alleged that central funds have been usurped by the TMC, which had happened also in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given Rs 1,000 crore to the state after cyclone Amphan but the money never reached the people and was usurped by the TMC leaders," he said. He said if the people of his state could get benefits of central schemes like the PM Awas Yojana, Ujjwala scheme, Ayushman Bharat and Kisan Samman Nidhi, why are people of West Bengal being deprived from these benefits. "This shows that the TMC is not bothered about the development of West Bengal," he said. Adityanath said after West Bengal gets the government of the same party that is ruling the Centre, people of the state will receive the benefits. Elections to the 294-member assembly will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Choose Modi if you want schemes, or TMC if you prefer scams: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for failing to generate employment besides chasing away automobile industry and asked people to vote for BJP if they want pro-people schemes and for "incompetent" TMC government if they prefer scams. Reaching out to the politically crucial Kurmi caste population of the Purulia district, Shah promised jobs for their every family and education in their language. He also promised to build an AIIMS in the Junglemahal area. "Initially, it was the Left which ensured flight of capital. Then it was Didi who chased away the automobile industry from Bengal. She has failed to generate employment. "If you want schemes, you vote for Modiji and if you prefer scams, then vote for incompetent TMC. It is for you to decide," he said while addressing an election rally here. Accusing the TMC of running a "corrupt dispensation", Shah said the BJP will end "cut money" culture in Bengal. Noting that the TMC government has neglected the adivasis (tribals) and Kurmi caste voters, Shah said if voted to power, then every Kurmi and adivasi families will get one job each. "We will provide jobs to each adivasi and Kurmi families of the state. The adivasis dont get MSP for their produce; we will include their produce in the list of crops so that they also qualify for MSP," he said. "We will also ensure that the children of Kurmi family can get education till Class X in their language and that too free of cost," he said. Stressing on the need for pure drinking water in the area, Shah said the TMC government had forced Purulia natives to consume "fluoride contaminated water". "We will come up with Rs 10,000 crore clean drinking water project in Purulia. Didi has forced you to drink fluoride contaminated water," he said. Highlighting the prevalence of dengue and malaria in the area, the senior BJP leader said, "if you want to get rid of dengue and malaria, you have to defeat Didi in the elections. "She has a special affinity with dengue and malaria, and that is why she has done nothing to address the problem here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata takes dig at  'BJP-backed political party'||In an apparent reference to the Indian Secular Front, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the BJP of backing a new political party to eat into minority votes during the upcoming assembly polls. Without naming any party or any person, Banerjee also claimed at an election rally in South 24 Parganas district the founder of that outfit receives money from the BJP. "A new political outfit has been launched in the state at the behest of the BJP to grab a share of the minority votes and help the saffron party. Please don't vote for its candidates," she said. Abbas Siddiqui, a Muslim cleric, had recently launched the ISF and it is supporting the Left-Congress alliance in the assembly elections, the first phase of which is slated for Saturday. Siddiqui had also created a flutter by meeting All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief and MP Asaduddin Owaisi, whose party is likely to contest in the polls. At the rally in Patharpratima, Banerjee said the CPI(M) and Congress have an understanding with the BJP. Only the Trinamool Congress can prevent implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Population Register in the state, and ensure amity among different communities, she said. Responding to repeated allegations by the BJP against her and the TMC, Banerjee said, "Am I being called a thief and murderer because I love people, and always rush to be on their side whenever required?" The Trinamool Congress boss also dubbed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah as "the lords of thieves", demanding an explanation on "provident fund dues of lakhs of employees", and sale of PSU stakes. On cyclone Amphan and relief measures in its aftermath, she said, "Out of the Rs 1 lakh crore of damages, he (Modi) had promised only a small fraction (Rs 1,000 crore) as help. But, whose money is this? This is state's money. The Centre did not do Bengal any favour. "From cyclone Bulbul to Amphan, we have always come to the rescue of people. We monitored the situation risking our lives, and not sit in the comfort of home. The state government had managed to evacuate 19 lakh people from disaster zones during Amphan." Around 30 lakh damaged houses are being rebuilt, the CM said. "There can be one or two exceptions...," she said in reference to opposition parties' allegations of graft in execution of rehabilitation work. "However, if anyone has not received the relief amount, the person can get the same by writing to the administration after the elections." Banerjee also slammed Shah for asking in public meetings what the TMC had done for West Bengal. "Let me ask him, have you undertaken schemes like 'Kanyashree', 'Sabujsathi' and 'Khadyasathi'? Have you heard about 'Duare Sarkar' and its success? Are you giving ration free? "If the TMC returns to power, it will unveil more such historic social welfare projects covering every section of society," she asserted. Banerjee alleged that Shah had "instructed" few media houses to project a higher number of seats for the BJP in surveys, but "first let it cross the 75-seat mark, which the saffron party will not be able to". At another rally in Sagar in South 24 Parganas district, she gave the call for "Unnatataro TMC sarkar" (a TMC government with increased focus on development-centric activities).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP workers deny entry to nominee, attack car||Kaliaganj in North Dinajpur witnessed an unusual scene on Wednesday as BJP supporters hit the streets to protest against BJP’s candidate Soumen Roy and prevented him from entering the town. They said they wouldn’t allow anyone to campaign for Roy. Local sources said Roy did not have a “good reputation”. Since morning, BJP supporters burnt tyres and asserted they would prevent Roy from entering Kaliaganj. Any district party leader who supported Roy would also be denied entry, they said. As protests were on at Vivekananda More of the town, Roy along with Prakash Pusti, a co-convener of the BJP in North Dinajpur district, reached the outskirts of Kaliaganj. A group of agitated BJP supporters reached Baghan-Battali area near the town and attacked the vehicles with Roy Pusti and some others. “We were taking the candidate to his constituency when we were attacked. The attackers carrying bricks and stones targeted my vehicle. They also assaulted me. The situation was such that the candidate (Roy) was forced to leave,” said Pusti. Pusti, party sources said, er made another attempt to enter the town through another route. He was again intercepted, thrashed and his e-rickshaw was attacked. “We suspect some local Trinamul leaders have orchestrated this violence by inciting some people,” said a district BJP leader. This is the first time BJP supporters have denied entry to a candidate in his seat. “None of us want Soumen Roy as the candidate. The district and state leaders should change the candidate or else, our protests will continue,” said a BJP leader in Kaliaganj. In neighbouring Malda, Sheikh Ziauddin, the BJP candidate of Sujapur seat, wrote to the district leadership on Tuesday night, saying he did not want to contest the polls. By Wednesday afternoon, BJP, in a damage-control bid, could make Ziauddin assert that he was forced by “some Trinamul leaders” to write the letter. Nantu rally Former Trinamul leader and veteran politician Nantu Paul filed his nomination as an Independent from Siliguri Assembly seat on Wednesday. He also took out a rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Ex-IPS is BJP’s richest nominee in phase 2||Former IPS officer and BJP’s candidate from Debra, Bharati Ghosh, is the richest among candidates in fray in the second phase of Bengal polls, says a report released by the West Bengal Election Watch, a civil society group. Ghosh has declared assets worth more than Rs 19.21 crore. She is closely followed by another BJP candidate Dipankar Jana of Kakdwip, who has declared assets worth over Rs 14.41 crore. Ghosh, once known for her proximity to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, switched to the BJP in February 2019. She was fielded by BJP from Ghatal Lok Sabha constituency the same year but lost to Trinamul candidate and film actor Deepak Adhikari a.k.a Dev. In her 2019 affidavit, Ghosh had declared assets worth a little above Rs 18.01 crore. In the last two years, her assets have increased by more than Rs 1 crore. The Bengal CID had registered cases against Ghosh and her aides by slapping charges of extortion and that of exchanging banned currency notes for gold, against her. The state investigating agency had also filed a charge sheet against Ghosh, her husband M.A.V. Raju and seven others. Raju was also arrested in the case and later released on bail. The average assets of the 30 BJP candidates, who will contest polls in the second phase, is Rs 2.31 crore. The corresponding figure for 30 Trinamul candidates is Rs 1.79 crore. However, of all the candidates the person with the lowest declared assets is also a BJP candidate. Nirmal Kumar Dhara, the BJP’s candidate for Indus has total assets worth merely Rs 1,700. West Bengal Election Watch has also analysed 171 candidates who have filed nominations for the second phase of polls. The BJP tops the list of parties with criminal cases in terms of percentage. At least 17 (57 per cent) out of 30 BJP candidates have declared criminal cases against them, while 16 of these candidates are named in serious criminal cases. For Trinamul, the corresponding number is eight (27 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
25-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Matua faces too few, rue TMC & BJP camps||The hope of the Matuas to get greater representation in the Assembly hit a hurdle with both the BJP and the Trinamul not fielding enough candidates from the community that has a significant number of voters in 25-30 seats. While the Trinamul nominated only one Matua candidate, the BJP nominated five. The count is too low given that the Matua faction of the Trinamul headed by Mamatabala Thakur and her counterpart in the BJP Santanu Thakur had been demanding a far greater representation from their respective parties. Former Trinamul MP Mamatabala heads the Sarba Bharatiya Matua Mahasangha. Her nephew Santanu Thakur is the chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha (AIMM) and a BJP MP. While Mamatabala has openly expressed her resentment about Trinamul not nominating many from the community, BJP MP Santanu was more diplomatic. “Expectation is not always fulfilled,” he said. Two days ago, Santanu’s father Manjulkrishna Thakur, one of the heads of Thakur family and a top leader of the AIMM, held a news meet to vent his anger on this issue. Trying to downplay Manjulkrishna’s outburst, Santanu said his father had been given wrong information by the media and claimed that the BJP had fielded not five but eight candidates, but could not name eight seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha poll, the Matuas, considered to be the support base of the Trinamul, were swayed by the BJP’s citizenship offer and helped the saffron party win both the Bongaon and Ranaghat constituencies. The setback forced the Trinamul to try and woo Matua support in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Sources said that Mamatabala had asked the Trinamul leadership for a bigger Matua representation in the Assembly but her plea was turned down. “She demanded at least 12 seats but the Trinamul gave only one ticket. The lone nominee, Narottam Biswas, is known to be Mamatabala’s rival,” said a leader of the Sarba Bharatiya Matua Mahasangha. “The way Matua community members have been denied nomination is painful,” said Mamatabala. The scene is no different in the BJP camp. Sources said Santanu wanted 10 seats for Matuas. “Only five persons from the community have got BJP tickets,” a member of the AIMM said. AIMM joint chief and BJP’s Gaihata candidate Subrata Thakur said they had greater expectations but what they got “wasn’t a bad deal either”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Hemant Soren recounts his story of defeating BJP||Jharkhand chief minister and JMM leader Hemant Soren, here on Wednesday in support of Trinamul, recounted his experience of defeating the BJP in his state’s Assembly elections in 2019. Soren said winning Lok Sabha seats can’t guarantee Narendra Modi’s party a victory in Bengal Assembly polls. He reminded the crowd that despite winning 12 of the 14 Jharkhand seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP lost the state elections. The JMM, in alliance with the Congress and the RJD, bagged 47 seats to topple the BJP government, and Soren became the chief minister. “These people (BJP) won a few seats in Bengal in the last Lok Sabha polls and they have started dreaming of winning the Bengal Assembly polls, too. It was the same situation we faced in Jharkhand. The BJP had won 12 seats out of 14 (seats). But in the Assembly polls we forced them to wipe their tears (to cry). The same thing will happen in Bengal,” Soren said. Soren’s speech comes in the backdrop of BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, playing on the party’s success in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and claiming Trinamul would be wiped out in the Bengal polls. “Unishe half, ekushe saaf (Half in 2019, wiped out in 2021)” is the slogan that BJP leaders have been harping on since the party bagged 18 of the 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Bengal. Soren, who spoke at three campaign rallies in Purulia and Bankura in support of Trinamul candidates on Wednesday, said together with Mamata Banerjee the JMM will uproot the BJP from the soil of Bengal. The JMM leader debunked the BJP’s “double engine” government theory. “I witnessed a double engine government in my state. The BJP promised to increase the income of farmers twice, but did nothing. The concept of a double engine is not to serve the country but to loot it.” He echoed Mamata’s concern that the BJP would use money power to buy polling agents of rivals. “They (BJP) will first try to purchase the voters. If they fail, they will then try to purchase the MLAs and later to purchase the MPs too,” Hemant said. Soren’s Jharkhand Mukti Morcha enjoys some support in pockets of Jungle Mahal and amongst tribal voters, many of whom have links to the neighbouring state. Soren travelling to Bengal to address rallies in support of the Trinamul is significant because he had addressed a JMM rally in Jhargram in January and spoken about fighting the Assembly elections. “Hemant Soren’s speech in Jhargram had made the party leadership reach out to him and today’s rally was the outcome of that effort,” said a senior Trinamul leader and added that the JMM has some influence among the Kurmi community in the Jungle Mahal districts of Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura. The performance of Trinamul in Jungle Mahal is critical because the party had lagged behind the BJP in 31 of the 40 Assembly seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee battle over outsiders||Narendra Modi on Wednesday resorted to the national anthem and Bengali icons in a bid to establish that leaders of his party, air-dropped by the dozen in the state, are not bohiragawto (outsiders), as Mamata Banerjee spoke about alleged hordes of outsiders sent to destroy Bengal’s ethos. The Prime Minister and chief minister, some 200km apart in East Midnapore and Bankura, respectively, devoted significant time in their speeches to the bohiragawto issue. “That Bengal, which brought together the whole of India with the thought of Vande Mataram, in that Bengal, Mamatadidi is talking of bohiragawto. This soil belongs to Bankimbabu (Chandra Chattopadhyay), Rabi Thakur (Rabindranath Tagore), (Netaji) Subhas Bose, Matangini Hazra, Syama Prasad Mookerjee. The soil of Bengal and the soil of India...No Indian is a bohiragawto on this soil,” said Modi, peppered with laboured Bengali, at East Midnapore’s Contai. Though critical of Mamata’s alleged attempts to polarise voters over regionalist sub-nationalism with her bohiragawto versus Bangla’r nijeyr meye (Bengal’s own daughter) pitch, the saffron ecosystem has appeared unsure of how the outsider label will impact the BJP in this election. Modi and other top BJP leaders, therefore, have been found making a fervent pitch that the BJP does not exclusively represent the Sangh parivar’s Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision now. “No Indian is bohiragawto here. Everyone is a child of Bharat Mata (Mother India). Friends, Bengal from where Gurudev (Tagore) stitched all Indians in one garland... from this soil itself Gurudev said, which we repeat every day, “Punjab Sindhu Gujarat Maratha Dravid Utkal Banga / Vindhya Himachala Yamuna Ganga ucchala-jaladhi-taranga,” Modi quoted from the national anthem by Tagore. “...Didi, the people of Gurudev Rabindranath Thakur’s soil don’t consider anyone bohiragawto,” he added. However, he added that the BJP’s chief minister in Bengal, should it come to power, would be a son of the soil. Trinamul sources said Modi’s speech on Wednesday, three days before the first phase of polls, made it clear how Mamata managed to get under the BJP’s skin with the bohiragawto plank. Mamata was relentless in her attack against the BJP. “They can’t even properly pronounce the scripted Bengali they use…even their slogan, Sonar Bangla. Will those who can’t even speak the language properly rule Bengal? They are bringing goons from outside. Who are they? They are the same people who tortured Dalits, tribals and minorities (elsewhere in India),” said Mamata at her rally in Bankura. Mamata, yet again, clarified who according to her campaign pitch was bohiragawto. “We don’t call those (bohiragawto) who have made Bengal their home, from all over the country. Goons that are now being exported to Bengal for winning the election, destroying its culture… they are the outsiders,” said Mamata. ‘Insult to Nandigram' Narendra Modi on Wednesday accused Mamata Banerjee of insulting the people of Nandigram in a hint to the March 10 incident in East Midnapore in which the chief minister was injured. He said attempts were made to defame Nandigram with false allegations. Modi’s speech seemed to be drawn from Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari’s allegations of Mamata insulting the people of Nandigram with her immediate reaction after her accident when she had blamed “four-five people” for deliberately slamming the door of the SUV. Mamata and Adhikari are contesting from the Nandigram seat that goes to polls on April 1. “Didi, Nandigram gave you honour...And now, you are defaming the people of Nandigram... in front of the whole nation,” Modi said. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt benches security adviser Surajit Kar Purakayastha till end of assembly poll||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Wednesday issued an order to seize the powers and responsibilities of state security adviser Surajit Kar Purakayastha, who was the former DGP of the state, during the upcoming Assembly polls. The move, sources said, was prompted by a nudge from the Election Commission of India. “The chief secretary and DGP held a meeting with the full bench of the EC in Siliguri on Wednesday morning and the order was issued in the evening. It is clear that the EC had instructed the chief secretary to issue the order,” said a source. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the powers of all retired IAS and IPS officers, who had been serving the state government, had been seized. Purakayastha, who was appointed to the position of state security adviser in May 2018 after he retired as DGP, had the authority to access intelligence reports and send instructions to the district police superintendents, said sources. “As this is not a cadre post and it had been a political appointment, the poll panel might have apprehended that he could interfere in the poll process. This is why his powers have been seized during the elections,” said an official. Trinamul leaders said that the state security advisor was not interfering in the poll process as that was not within the ambit of his duties. “In 2019, his powers were seized during the Lok Sabha polls. We had won a majority of seats in 2019 and this year too we will come back to power,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader found dead, violence erupts in Dinhata||Dinhata town in Cooch Behar turned into a battlefield after a BJP leader of the town was found hanging at the premises of a local veterinary hospital. Hundreds of BJP supporters hit the streets in protest, alleging that Amit Sarkar, 50, the president of the party’s Dinhata town mandal committee was killed and hanged by Trinamul. They blocked roads, tore down Trinamul flags, festoons and banners and set those on fire. They also ransacked at least seven offices of Trinamul in and around the town. Policemen went to the spot to recover the body but were stopped by the agitated supporters. Party supporters also attacked the police with bricks and stones when they tried to clear the roadblocks. Police retaliated with batons and fired teargas shells. Shop owners hurriedly downed their shutters, and by the afternoon, the town bore the look of a curfew. Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar who is contesting from Dinhata Assembly seat, has demanded a CBI probe. Udayan Guha, the sitting MLA and the Trinamul candidate, has denied charges of wrongdoing. Sources said some residents of Dakbungalowpara of the town spotted Darkar’s body on the veterinary hospital campus in the locality. The body was hanging from a ceiling at a veranda of the hospital. As the news spread, BJP supporters started assembling in the area and they stopped the police team from recovering the body. Pramanik, the MP and the BJP MLA candidate, reached the spot. He alleged that Trinamul killed their party leader and hanged him. “It is a planned murder and Udayan Guha (the local Trinamul MLA and also party's candidate in the seat) is behind it. Amit Sarkar was a popular leader of the town and was steadily developing our organisation. That is why he has been murdered. We want a CBI probe into the incident and do not have any faith on the state police and administration,” said Pramanik. More and more BJP supporters assembled in various locations of the town, many took down Trinamul's flags, festoons and banners, piled them and torched them at a prominent crossing of the town and blocked a road. As policemen asked them to clear the road, an altercation ensued. Some pelted stones and bricks at the police, prompting the latter to retaliate with batons and teargas. The BJP supporters also attacked Trinamul offices and seven offices of the party, including two in Dinhata. The house of a Trinamul leader in Bhetaguri on the outskirts of the town was attacked. More police forces reached the spot and brought the situation under control. MLA Guha slammed the BJP violence. “Any death is unfortunate but the manner in which BJP tried to politicise it is condemnable. We want the police to find out the truth,” he said. The Election Commission has directed the special police observer to visit the spot and submit a report. Police said they have found a chit with names and contact numbers of three persons from the clothes the deceased was wearing. “His wife has filed a complaint with us. We have come to know that he went missing from home on Wednesday early morning. We are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said a senior police officer. In Birbhum, two BJP workers got injured and several crude bombs were hurled at the house of a BJP worker, Gorachand Mondal, allegedly by Trinamul-backed goons in Birbhum’s Nanoor on late Tuesday night. Police seized 40 crude bombs from Bejra village in Nanoor. Trinamul however denied the charge and blamed drunkards at the rally. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Observers being closely monitored: Election Commission of India||The Election Commission of India (EC) is keeping a close watch over the functioning of observers engaged to monitor the upcoming Assembly elections to be held in Bengal and three other states, as well as Puducherry. In all, the EC has appointed a total 209 general observers, 55 police observers and 85 expenditure observers in Bengal. “I would like to submit that even the observers are being observed. They are quite closely monitored by the commission and the special observer. If required, we will not hesitate in taking steps against the observers,” Sunil Arora, the chief election commissioner of India told newsmen here on Wednesday. Arora, who headed a six-member EC team, reached here on Tuesday afternoon to oversee preparations of the district administrations of the eight districts of north Bengal. They held meetings with administrative officials of these districts in presence of senior police officers and bureaucrats of the state. Arora said  that on March 22, a complaint was received against one of the general observers for misbehaving with a government official. “Couple of days’ back, some incident pertaining to one general observer was brought to the notice of EC by the CEO and additional CEO (of a state) for inappropriate behaviour with a lady officer. On March 22, he was removed with immediate effect and on the same day afternoon, he was sent back. Not only that, the commission has gone through details of the incident and instructed that he should be placed immediately under suspension and a charge sheet be prepared against him,” said Arora. Asked on a regional issue, the functioning of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) run by a nominated body with Anit Thapa, a Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader as its chairperson, Arora maintained they are looking into it. “It was brought to our notice when we were reviewing (the poll preparations) of Darjeeling district. I have told the CEO to send us a detailed report to Sudeep Jain, the deputy election commissioner. We have also spoken with the chief secretary and have asked him to take similar steps,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Didi, o Didi, why don't you listen, asks PM in Contai||So far we were wondering if Narendra Modi was using Tagore more or the Bengali language itself. On Wednesday at Contai, he added another dimension to his campaign by using a “time-honoured Indian tradition” in a Bengali way. It is the way he repeated Didi’s name at the rally, several times. “Didi, o Didi,” he called, again and again. But he was not addressing Mamata Banerjee. He was making a big statement, such as “Banglaye dorkar, BJP sorkar (Bengal needs a BJP government)”, then dropping his voice, and sotto vocez, as if it were possible at a massive rally, asking for Didi, in a leering, joking tone. She has to be called so many times because she just does not listen to anyone, he said. He seemed to be having such fun saying things in an undertone to a woman. It reminded one of the way a man often makes a lewd comment casually at a woman. Levelling a charge against the “bhaipo (nephew)”, Modi lowered his voice and teased her again. “Didi, o Didi,” he called out her name, extenuating every syllable to make the fun last longer. Modi would probably be happy to know that in Bengali this practice used to be called “comment mara” or “taunt kata”. Classically it was done by parar chyangra (neighbourhood boys, “useless” variety), on parar meye (neighbourhood girls), as an attempt by the boys to mark their territory. We live in the para, therefore we have the sole right to abuse our women. A good example is the “twist” scene in the film Teen Bhubaner Paare (1969), in which revered actor Soumitra Chatterjee is actually doing “comment mara”, musically, to a very elegant and slightly bristling Tanuja. Later, when the language became more mixed in this city, the “comment mara” evolved. Using a line from popular Hindi film songs was a common practice in any case, from Laila o Laila to Jumma chumma de de. There could also be wolf whistles and catcalls (what is special about these animals?). It could get much worse, of course, when a woman’s body parts were named. But Hindi or Bengali, slightly or highly lewd, a man harassing a woman would always use a certain tone, whether he was muttering under his breath, or throwing his voice: it showed he could say anything he wanted to the woman and was amused by the exercise. So it was nice of Modi to use Bengali to address Didi. He was using the Bengali “comment mara” tradition to the hilt. “Didi, o Didi,” he said, and every time the crowd went crazy. It does not matter of course that women constitute 49.01 per cent of the electorate in Bengal and that like Banerjee — she has repeated that the women of the state “ma bonera (mothers and sisters)” are her limbs, now that she has injured one leg — Modi is also appealing to women voters in the state. But respect for women is a separate speech. “Didi o Didi” also reminded one of the Rajesh Khanna cry in Amar Prem: “Pushpa o Pushpa”, only inverted radically. It is not a coincidence that we are thinking of film after film, because a great Indian cinematic tradition backs Modi’s performance. Men bully women and women submit — and this is called wooing. When the woman is not wooed — but she generally is, or used to be, till Dilwale Dulhaniya… at least — the audience is. The teaser is amused and amuses. Not that Didi is a frightened teenager. She has her weapons — her voice, her ability to rhyme, her rock solid onomatopoeia, and her own performances on stage, with which she attacks Modi back straightaway. On Wednesday, she promptly branded him a “big liar”. Modi says she has also called him “a Ravana”, “a danava” and “a daitya”, a monster, that is. But she did not sound lecherous. Modi and Didi are good at trading insults with each other. But a woman cannot often do to a man what he can to her. So Big Boy Modi, Prime Minister Modi, came to Midnapore today and did a “comment mara” to a woman. To mark territory in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Leopard found dead on train tracks||An adult male leopard was fatally hit by a train in western Dooars on Tuesday night. Foresters said the animal was crossing the railway tracks near the rail bridge located between Malbazar and Chalsa near Noweranuddy tea estate in Jalpaiguri district when the incident took place. “We suspect the leopard was hit by a train in the night hours. Our men have recovered the body. We are waiting for its post-mortem report,” said Dipen Subba, the range officer of Malbazar wildlife squad. The leopard’s carcass, he said, was hanging from the rail bridge. Some local residents spotted it and informed them. In recent years, this is the first time that a leopard has died on railway tracks. “We have come across incidents when leopards have been hit by speeding vehicles on highways passing through the Dooars. But it is rare that a leopard has died after being hit by a train,” said Manabendra Sarkar, a wildlife conservationist based in Chalsa. In Hridapur area of Banarhat, also located in Jalpaiguri, a herd of 20-odd wild elephants got stuck on Wednesday morning. “It seems that the herd was heading to Diana forest from Totapara forest and lost the way. There are couple of calves in the herd. We are keeping a watch as there are a number of villagers nearby and will try to steer them into the forest in the evening,” said a forester of Binnaguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Neeraj Zimba’s name brews dissent||The BJP seems to have put the house of its largest hill ally, the Gorkha National Liberation Front’s (GNLF), in disorder, with many disgruntled at the nomination of sitting Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader. The BJP on Tuesday announced Subha Pradhan as their candidate from Kalimpong, B.P. Bajgain from Kurseong and Zimba from Darjeeling. Zimba, a GNLF leader who had contested on a BJP ticket the 2019 by-elections, will do the same this time around. Mann Ghisingh, the president of the GNLF, had voiced the party’s dissent regarding BJP’s candidates from Kalimpong and Kurseong after the list was announced on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Ghisingh faced dissent from his own party cadres as many GNLF supporters from Darjeeling started pitching for Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee. Hundreds of Edwards’s supporters visited their leader to express their solidarity. The supporters want Edwards to contest in the GNLF’s party symbol from Darjeeling. “Since the BJP has announced candidates, the GNLF can always announce its own candidate,” said an Edwards supporter. This message has been convened to Ghisingh, sources said, and a meeting with Edwards has been scheduled. The outcome of the meeting, likely to be held in Siliguri on Thursday, could give a clearer picture on how the GNLF deals with the situation. Recently Ghisingh had gone to Delhi and many believe he was aware of the BJP’s decision regarding candidates which some GNLF leaders said was not conveyed to the party’s central committee before the BJP announced their decision on Tuesday. Dissent within GNLF is also brewing in Kurseong. “Grassroots supporters and leaders of branch committees are not accepting candidates (named by BJP) and hence this talk of fielding candidates is coming in public domain,” said Mahendra Chhetri, the general secretary of the GNLF. Chhetri said that since the last day of withdrawal of nominations was till April 3, “the party will try and solve the issue (by then)”. On Wednesday, BJP candidate from Kurseong B.P. Bajgain filed his nominations from Kurseong. Candidates of the Binay Tamang faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha  — Ruden Sada Lepcha, Tshering Lama Dahal and Keshav Raj Pokhrel — also filed their nominations. BJP’s announcement has also triggered dissent from another of its ally in the hills, the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM). The party announced their own candidates for three hill seats. Trinamul youth wing  has also decided to field its own candidate from Darjeeling, though the party’s high command decided to leave the three hill seats to their “friends” in the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: 'I am switching'||Name: Tanmoy Goswami Occupation: Information technology professional Age: 41 Education: Graduate Annual income: Rs 8 lakh Size of family: Wife and a 12-year-old son Assembly seat: Siliguri  Q: Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? I will consider a number of issues before I vote this time. Q: Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? No, I will vote for development and communal harmony. My previous choice has tied up with an outfit that I believe functions on religious lines. Q: Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you? First, there has been a huge development in road network across north Bengal. We can travel seamlessly for personal and professional work and the commute time has also come down. Two, the health and allied infrastructure the state government set up to tackle Covid was enormous. Three, almost all state government departments are also functioning online and people are getting services sitting at home. Q: Three things Mamata has done that hurt you. One, losing her cool in the face of uncomfortable questions and slogans. Two, her government’s development initiatives have been undercut by a section of unscrupulous leaders and elected representatives. Three, the failure to conduct peaceful panchayat elections in 2018. Q: Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? She certainly works for the poor. She has introduced numerous social security schemes that have helped the downtrodden. Q: What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? It is simply political propaganda promoted by the saffron camp. There is dynasty politics in other parties as well, including the BJP. Q: Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you. Can’t remember three but yes, certain developments have taken place in the road and rail networks. However, prices of train tickets have gone up. Q: Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? One, appeasement of a few selected industrialists and the privatisation of government assets.. Two, demonetisation. It damaged small-scale industries, shops and the MSME sector. Three, the absence of steady initiatives to help migrant workers during the lockdown. Q: Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? The policies of the Centre are centred around a few select industrialists. There are central government schemes, of course, but most of them have been there since the UPA days. Ujjwala Yojona beneficiaries cannot get cylinders because of the hike in the prices of petro products. Q: Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? It is of course better. New options have opened up in the state in the IT sector. Q: What do you think about the Left's chances and about its alliance? In principle, the Left is against capitalists. The Congress is a team of crony capitalists. Now they have joined hands. Their bond was based on secularism. However, after they included the ISF in the team, they have lost credibility. Q: Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Absolutely. Actually, we do not identify people as Hindu or Muslim here in Siliguri. We take pride in the bond among people here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
25-03-2021||West Bengal||Parties prey on desperation of jobless youths involved in illegal coal trade||First, joblessness drove them to join an illegal trade, now they have become pawns in a game of political brinkmanship. The livelihood of over 4 lakh people directly or indirectly involved in coal pilfering has taken centre stage in the Asansol-Durgapur belt this election season with a CBI probe once again halting the illegal trade. Coal smuggling is a parallel economy in this West Burdwan region, with political parties often being accused of patronising the high-stakes game because of the spoils. “Coal is easily available here and pilferers hire local jobless youths to extract coal from illegal mines and later load them onto trucks and bullock carts for transportation to the brickfields and iron and steel factories. The youths are paid between Rs 700 and Rs 1,000 a day as wages, depending on their performance,” a police source said. Recently, central agencies like the CBI and the ED have swooped down on coal smuggling, arresting a Trinamul youth leader’s brother. In the run-up to the elections, local Trinamul Congress leaders have launched a whisper campaign in the villages of Asansol and Durgapur, telling residents that their earnings have been hit because the BJP-led government at the Centre has sent the CBI to probe coal smuggling. “No political party can afford to ignore the plight of 4.5 lakh-plus people, even if they are involved in an illegal trade. The CBI probe and the frequent raids at the illegal mines by the central agency have brought coal smuggling to a grinding halt, hitting these families hard,” said a Trinamul leader in Asansol’s Jamuria. “We have been telling the villagers the truth… that the CBI has come here on the instructions of the BJP leadership. We have also been telling them that if the BJP comes to power in the state, they will lose their livelihood permanently,” he added. In 2011, the CPM had also conducted a similar campaign against Trinamul after Mamata Banerjee, then an Opposition leader, had mounted a scathing offensive following the murder of a party worker allegedly at the hands of Left-backed coal mafia in Jamuria. Police were compelled to crack down on the illegal trade after Mamata made it a poll plank against the CPM. The BJP is now promising proper jobs to the youths involved in coal smuggling. Although there are several large industries in the Asansol-Durgapur belt, most of them are public sector units that employ a limited number of people. The region’s economy is heavily reliant on Eastern Coalfields Ltd and IISCO in Asansol and Durgapur Steel Plant and Alloy Steels Plant in the twin town. Several public sector units such as Bharat Ophthalmic Glass Ltd, Mining and Allied Machinery Corporation and Hindustan Cables Ltd are lying closed, worsening the unemployment situation. The lack of private sector units has only added to the ranks of unemployed youths, forcing them to join the thriving coal pilfering trade. Since November last year, organised coal smuggling has almost stopped after CBI sleuths raided the house of alleged pilferage kingpin Anup Maji alias Lala in Purulia’s Neturia. Maji, who allegedly used to run the illegal operations, is absconding. The CBI has issued a lookout notice and also appealed for the seizure of his properties. The Bengal government has ordered a simultaneous CID probe into the allegations of coal smuggling. The police have increased vigil against smuggling and seized over 100 tonnes of pilfered coal from various areas in West Burdwan last month. Several villagers involved in coal smuggling appeared to have been swayed by the Trinamul campaign. “I haven’t had any work since November. I have seven mouths to feed at home. For now, I have been managing by dipping into my savings. But I don’t know what will happen in the near future,” said a villager involved in coal pilfering in Jamuria. “Trinamul leaders have told us that the BJP is responsible for our troubles. From what we have been seeing, that isn’t far from the truth,” the 30-year-old said, adding that he used to earn between Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000 a month by extracting coal from illegal mines. Lakshman Ghorui, the West Burdwan unit chief of the BJP, said many residents of Asansol and Durgapur had turned to coal smuggling and illegal mining allegedly because of the state government’s failure to create jobs. “Both the CPM and Trinamul deprioritised the creation of job opportunities for youths in the coal belt. It is their failure. We will take care of the plight of these people by giving them jobs once we come to power,” Ghorui said. Trinamul’s West Burdwan unit chief Apurba Mukherjee accused the BJP of having inducted coal pilferers into the party. “Coal smugglers are now the backbone of the BJP, not ours. People know everything,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
25-03-2021||North East||Parties at door of tea workers crying for dues||Ananda Kondo and Biren Shal, working in tea gardens 10km apart, share the same problem and the same dream. And today they share the same state of mind: Confused and hurt over the festering minimum daily wage issue. “We are hearing about a hike in our daily wage for some time now but have not received it. It is a bit confusing for simple people like us. It is very difficult to run the household with the paltry Rs 167 (a day) we receive now. We also want a better tomorrow for our children,” says Kondo, 51, father of three daughters, at Deamoolie Tea Estate, about 530km east of Guwahati. About 10 km away at Khobang Tea Estate, Shal, 36, echoes Kondo. “Our wage is spent on buying essentials. There is nothing left for health care or the education of my two sons. It is becoming increasingly difficult to make ends meet with spiralling prices,” Shal says. The eight lakh permanent garden workers in Assam’s 803 tea estates are hoping for an end to the confusion and uncertainty surrounding their wages. Kondo and his colleague Sushen Tanti feel what they get — Rs 167 a day — or what has been announced by the BJP-led state government — Rs 217 — are “not enough”. After the government’s hike of Rs 50, planters moved Gauhati High Court challenging it, and then recently announced a unilateral increase of Rs 26. The Congress has guaranteed a daily wage of Rs 365 within six hours if voted to power, which too has been termed “not enough”. Tea workers are also quick to point out that those working in the unorganised sector get about Rs 350 a day along with food. “We are not asking for the moon. We are asking for a wage that can help sustain us. The government and the management should resolve the wage issue promptly. What has been promised (by the BJP) should be implemented. Anything above that is welcome,” Shal tells The Telegraph. The BJP had promised a minimum wage of Rs 351 before the 2016 elections. Minimum daily wage, a long-pending demand of the tea tribes, has emerged as a major issue in the upcoming three-phase Assembly elections in Assam beginning on March 27. Those familiar with the issue say it has never been debated and discussed as vigorously as now across the state’s tea belt. Ironically, the Kondos, Tantis and the Shals play a decisive role in the outcome of 42 of the 126 Assembly seats in Assam, a reason for both the BJP and the Congress to go all out to retain or regain their support. Of Assam’s about 3.3 crore population, the tea/adivasi community makes up over a crore. Organisations espousing the cause of the tea community in the state, such as the Assam Tea Tribes Students’ Association (ATTSA), All Adivasi Students’ Association of Assam (AASAA) and the Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha (ACMS), are “unhappy” with the government and the planters over wages. ATTSA’s Doomdooma unit president Babul Panika tells this newspaper after an awareness meeting at Deamoolie Tea Estate over the upcoming polls: “Why will the planters refuse to implement the recent hike of Rs 50 announced by the government? And did the government leave a scope for the planters to exploit and secure a stay (from court)?” Panika has urged the workers to vote for the party that they think will work for their welfare, and ensure a minimum daily wage, Scheduled Tribe status and land rights. The minimum daily wage got traction after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on February 14 announced in Sivasagar a daily wage of Rs 365 a day if his party comes to power. Subsequently, the Congress included the wage promise in its five guarantees to regain the trust of the tea community, which has mostly sided with the BJP since the 2014 elections. The government responded with a hike of Rs 50 on February 20, taking the daily wage to Rs 217. But Gauhati High Court asked the government not to act against the Indian Tea Association and 17 tea companies till their plea against the hike is settled. On March 22, the planters announced an interim hike of Rs 26 following a March 16 court order “that liberty should be given to the petitioners to pay to the workmen any interim enhancement of their wages as they deem proper, till the issue is finally decided by the court”. Both the AASAA and the ACMS have flayed the “unilateral” decision. “The planters were not keen to give Rs 50 and now they have unilaterally announced the Rs 26 hike four days ahead of elections. Was it to calm down the workers? The government and the planters have shown they are not pro-worker,” AASAA president Stephen Lakra told this correspondent from Dhekiajuli, over 410km from Doomdooma. Amid the BJP and the Congress’s intense battle to win the support of the tea community, Lakra’s parting shot was  telling: Everyone wants our vote and cheap labour but don’t want to give us our due.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
25-03-2021||Opinion||No to lockdown: Covid second wave||The first ‘anniversary’ of the lockdown should be an occasion of sombre reflection. It is now generally agreed that the hastily planned lockdown imposed in March last year had crippled the economy. Job losses, the loss of demand, disruptions in supply chains, unprecedented sufferings of migrant workers, the limited reach of India’s social welfare mechanism — the lockdown bared many a wart. It is to be hoped that if a lockdown — national or local — were to be imposed again, these mistakes would be rectified. The lockdown, in spite of its debilitating impact, was deemed necessary to break the chain of infection. It was not conceived as a cure; merely a precaution. India then went on to unlock itself in phases, and near-normalcy was restored. Worryingly, there is some apprehension that the country could be locked up again. This speculation can be attributed to the anxiety over the rising number of Covid-19 infections — apparently, the second wave is here. India added nearly 50,000 new cases on Tuesday. This spike is the sharpest since November. Worryingly, contagious strains have been found. A significant number of the samples tested in Punjab were of the UK strain; poll-bound Bengal, too, has discovered some cases with the UK and South African variants. As many as 24 states and Union territories have witnessed a surge in cases with Maharashtra, once again, shouldering a disproportionately high burden. A national lockdown, unless absolutely necessary, must be avoided. The economic cost and the consequent social unrest would cripple the nation. Some essential steps must be taken to keep India away from another lockdown. The vaccination drive must be expedited with vulnerable constituencies prioritized on a war footing. The decision to permit all citizens above 45 to receive vaccination from April 1 is a welcome step. But India should not lose sight of other, relevant challenges. There has been some concern with vaccine wastage, with even the prime minister cautioning the states. India’s healthcare network must be prepared to meet a rush of not only patients but also a far greater number of citizens seeking the jab. The paucity of trained health workers — the number of active health workers, a study now says, could be half of the government’s estimate — is another concern. But the most formidable of challenges remains growing public apathy towards safety measures. A concerted drive must be launched by administrators to penalize those refusing to wear masks or maintaining social distance. The government must show the way by discouraging mass gatherings for social, religious and even political functions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
25-03-2021||Opinion||Grand promises: BJP Bengal manifesto||Sir — While releasing the Bharatiya Janata Party’s election manifesto, ‘Sonar Bangla-Sankalpa Patra’, in West Bengal, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, made a grand statement: “We have decided that not only human beings, even a bird will not be able to fly in from beyond the border, such will be the security arrangements at the border” (“CAA + intruder net + Aarti = Sonar Bangla”, March 22). And yet, in recent times, China has intruded into Indian territory in Ladakh and encroached upon more than 50 kilometres of land in Arunachal Pradesh, as claimed by the BJP member of parliament, Tapir Gao, in the Lok Sabha. It is strange that the government talks about strengthening the West Bengal-Bangladesh border to prevent immigration and departures when the India-China border still remains porous. Interestingly, a BJP win in the West Bengal assembly elections is touted as the sine qua non of making the planned security arrangements. This is nothing but targeted demagogy to boost the party’s electoral prospects. Haridasan Rajan,Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — The recently released BJP manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal once again places monetary benefits at the centre of the party’s promises. The declaration to transfer Rs 1,000 for five years to refugee families, possibly in reference to the Matuas, through the Chief Minister Refugee Welfare scheme, reeks of populism. It is reminiscent of Narendra Modi’s promise of depositing Rs 15 lakh into every Indian citizen’s bank account — this was later ‘clarified’ as being an idiomatic expression — for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Rather than making such empty promises, the BJP should focus on concrete actions pertaining to the welfare and development of Bengal. Raghunath Pramanik,Calcutta Sir — Before the elections, all political parties make numerous promises to entice the public. But few declarations are fulfilled when candidates come to power. The saffron party, in its West Bengal election manifesto, released on Sunday, vowed to increase the minimum wage of tea garden workers to Rs 350. It must be noted that the BJP made a similar promise in Assam for the 2016 assembly elections, but it is yet to be fulfilled. It is evident that the party is simply hoping to entice voters with its wide variety of claims. The Trinamul Congress, too, is guilty of breaking its promises post-election. The people of Bengal must introspect thoroughly before casting their vote. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — The BJP’s manifesto for the upcoming Bengal polls, ironically, mirrors the promises made by the party in Tripura during the 2018 assembly polls. However, much of the vision, as drafted in the poll manifesto, never turned to reality in the state. For instance, the BJP declared that one youth from every household in Tripura would receive a job. The saffron party further promised that all temporary jobs in the government sector would be made permanent. The BJP has similarly promised employment for at least one member of each family in the Bengal manifesto. Three years down the line, the government in Tripura announced that not only are there no government jobs as promised, but it will be outsourcing departmental jobs from now on. Furthermore, the BJP had announced the setting up of the seventh pay commission for state government employees. This is yet to be implemented, and reportedly 17 per cent dearness allowance arrears have not been paid. These are only some of the inconsistencies observed between the BJP’s pre-election promises and post-election realities. Voters should keep the party’s track record in mind before being swayed by its declarations. Khokan Das,Calcutta Towards equality Sir — There is no doubt that navigating everyday life can be tremendously difficult for differently-abled people in India. It is, however, not their daily struggles but the hurdles they face in exercising the right to vote that were recently discussed by a panel at a club in Calcutta. Problems range from narrow entrances through which wheelchairs cannot fit to the absence of Braille guides and ramps at polling booths — all of which can be remedied easily. While the home-based postal ballot system can be used by voters with special needs, the polling booth itself must be democratized so that it is accessible to all. Rupa Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
25-03-2021||Opinion||Lesson for all: SC on reservation||The question of quotas has spun out into a history of unending debate. The constant uncovering of groups still marginalized may certainly prompt re-evaluations. But a passion for social justice is not the only reason for the reservations pot to keep boiling; political parties have a lot to do with that. Predictably, a number of points for discussion emerged from the Supreme Court hearings on the Maharashtra government’s decision to provide quotas for Marathas that would overtake the mandated 50 per cent limit. Percentages, categories of reservations and the respective rights of the states and the Centre to decide on these comprised the theme of the arguments in court. In this context, the court reportedly asked why affirmative action should be limited to quotas; ‘something more’ had to be done. There was a need to move forward from the ‘matrix’ of reservations: promoting education and establishing more institutes would take affirmative action further. By focusing on education, the court’s comment underlined a central feature of affirmative action. Ensuring an equal spread and quality of education would be a huge stride towards levelling the field. Although this would not immediately address the inadequacy of representation in jobs and administration, which quotas are expected to do, it would be a certain, if slower, route towards equality in the long run. Limiting affirmative action to reservations has reduced social justice to political competition, while the lack of timed review of reserved groups is causing deep divisions in society — between as well as within castes and classes. Besides, studies show that the most underprivileged still have little or no access to quota benefits. Education, independent of quotas, would cut through the tangle of competing interests. Each state has a different set of underprivileged and historically marginalized or oppressed people. Teaching programmes could be designed to meet the different needs of their children. Freed of constitutional and legal mandates for quotas, states could select educationally and socially backward groups too, without controversy. What such a vision assumes is, first and foremost, political will — not the will of political parties — for the programme to take off. Economic strength as well, of course, but ways would open up in the face of a hard push for equality and justice. India must wait for that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
25-03-2021||Opinion||Quad Summit: Four friends in need||“It is good to be among friends.” That’s how Prime Minister Narendra Modi started his address to the leaders of the United States of America, Japan and Australia at their first-ever summit (albeit virtual) earlier this month. At a time when Washington, Tokyo, Canberra and New Delhi all view Beijing as their biggest challenge, the meeting of the so-called Quad was indeed an important marker of priorities for four of the Indo-Pacific region’s largest democracies. But in an era where hyperbole is routine and social media amplification can make everything seem ‘unprecedented’, it’s important to remember that we’ve seen this script before. There’s a reason they say that talk is cheap. If America, India, Japan and Australia truly see the Quad as a pillar of their joint strategy to counter China’s ambitions, their real test will start now. Although China was never mentioned in any of the public statements made during the Quad summit, it was clear that the dragon in the room was the glue bringing the US, India, Japan and Australia together. The conclave was followed by visits by the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, and the secretary of defence, Lloyd Austin, to Tokyo and Seoul, both allies of Washington. Austin also visited New Delhi. In the midst of these frenetic diplomatic engagements, Blinken and the US national security advisor, Jake Sullivan, hosted their Chinese counterparts, Wang Yi and Yang Jiechi, in Anchorage, Alaska. There was never going to be any thaw in the sub-zero temperatures of Alaska, although both sets of diplomats blew off plenty of steam. And China has understandably read Washington’s frenetic diplomatic activity over the past two weeks as a thinly-veiled attempt at cornering Beijing. Since the Alaska talks, China has already sent three naval vessels near Japanese waters as a reminder of its maritime might. The US and Japan plan to hold military exercises off the disputed Senkaku Islands (which Japan holds but China also claims) in a counter show of strength. China is Australia’s biggest trade partner. Expect Beijing, which has been waging a tariff war against Canberra over the latter’s criticism of China’s human rights record, to tighten the screws further. And while India and China have pulled back from their stand-off at major spots along their disputed Ladakh border, other sores in their relationship still fester. It would be naïve to assume that the US under President Joe Biden will continue with an endless battle of diplomatic attrition with China if there’s nothing tangible to show for it. His predecessor, Donald Trump, tried it with his trade war, but American businesses suffered as much as their Chinese counterparts. History shows that America — justifiably from its perspective — will eventually seek a deal with China. Exactly a decade ago, in 2011, the then president, Barack Obama, (Biden was then vice-president) instituted a pivot to Asia. He committed to strengthening American naval presence in the Indo-Pacific region, publicly took on China over its aggressive behaviour, sought to strengthen ties with other Asian countries wary of China and joined the East Asia Summit — a collective of 18 nations spanning Southeast Asia, East Asia, India, Australia, New Zealand, Russia and the US. But the death of the then North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, in December 2011, a month after Obama visited Asia, made the US reassess its options. Washington needed to reach out to the new leader in Pyongyang and seek a détente between North and South Korea. For that, it needed to work with China, which wields influence over North Korea. Later, Obama worked with China again over the Iran nuclear deal and the Paris climate change agreement. While Biden is ready to play hardball at the moment, he too will ultimately know that the success of any major global project — whether it’s withdrawing from Afghanistan, resuscitating relations with Iran, negotiating with North Korea or truly combating climate change — will need America and China to cooperate. For the Quad to survive and thrive, it will need a much broader mandate than a focus on China to ride out the inevitable balance between cooperation and competition that each member will need to strike with Beijing. And there’s no better approach for the collective to adopt than to look back at its roots. First envisaged in the aftermath of the 2004 tsunami, the Quad would do well to systematically establish itself as the most reliable set of first responders to any crisis — natural or manmade — in the Indo-Pacific region. We’re seeing some signs of this approach, with Quad nations promising a joint Covid-19 vaccine donation campaign for Indo-Pacific nations. At the same time, Quad members must recognize that some of the countries taking the boldest positions against China — such as Vietnam — are outside the grouping. The Quad will benefit if it constantly looks to expand its horizons and find new partners. None of this will be easy. And the task will be particularly risky for India. Japan, South Korea and Australia are US treaty partners, and Washington is legally bound to defend them in the event of military tensions with China. India cannot count on the same level of support. How New Delhi and its friends walk this tightrope will determine whether the Quad has greater success than Obama’s pivot to Asia. Yes, being among friends is good — as long as it doesn’t lull you into a false sense of security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
25-03-2021||Opinion||The Other hand||A little over 20 years ago, two researchers affiliated to Oxford University produced a curious, but obscure, finding on PubMed. Using a rather small sample of university students, M. Martin and G.V. Jones argued that the month of March heralds the beginning of a period in the annual calendar that witnesses a greater number of births of left-handed children. If the paper were to fall in the hands of William S. Inman, the good doctor would have surely concurred with the Roman horror for the Ides of March. Nearly 100 years ago, Inman had written a book, The Mental Sorrows of Left-Handedness, in which he concluded that the birth of left-handed children could be attributed to ‘overbearing, authoritative parenting’ and that the preference for the left hand was, in fact, a symbol of defiance of authority. Inman’s denunciation of the left hand was not unique: 11 years later, J.W. Comway came up with probably the earliest known modern booklet on the subject — The Prevention And Correction of Left-Handedness In Children — which advocated that left-handedness, an ailment as deadly and debilitating as ‘rickets, pneumonia and colic’, had to be eradicated so that children could become productive citizens in an industrialized order. Even a cursory scrutiny of this embedded cultural antagonism towards left-handedness and, in effect, left-handers would reveal a fascinating complicity among philosophy, science, superstition and even linguistics in a targeted discrimination that binds the pre-industrial society with that of the industrialized world. In an engaging examination, “Historical Aspects of Left-Handedness”, which is available online as part of the Serbian Archives of Medicine, four academics have created a sort of a civilizational timeline, a chronology, of this prejudice. Ancient Mesopotamia construed sinistrality to be a divine curse; Egyptians believed all adversaries were left-handed; Pythagorus, a Greek, associated darkness and femininity with the left limb; the Romans would only accept a shake of the right hand; the Inquisition years saw a witch-hunt against left-handed women; even the Renaissance, supposedly the high hour of intellectual enlightenment and moral emancipation, could not quite stifle disapproving murmurs about Leonardo da Vinci’s artistic left hand. The left hand continued to be a chip on cultures’ shoulder in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries. The Italian criminologist, Cesare Lombroso — he brought criminality under the lens of science — believed that the left-handed had a natural disposition towards crime. As late as the 1940s, Abram Blau, an American psychoanalyst, was prescribing restraining, torture and even humiliation for left-handed children in his influential work, The Master Hand: A Study of the Origin and Meaning of Left and Right Sidedness. It would only be logical to expect that etymological history, political systems and economies, too, would be afflicted by this bias. The Anglo-Saxon lyft implies weak or broken; sinistra/sinistrum, in Latin, originally evoked left, as did gauche in French. German, Italian, Russian and Mandarin, apparently, are equally ill-disposed towards the left hand. In a delicate irony, the left hand has been especially persecuted by the political Left: among the Soviet blocs, Communist Albania took the extreme step of banning left-handedness, while in democratic Japan the hidarikiki no hito — the Japanese Southpaw — began to gain a degree of respectability as late as the 1980s. Seven years ago, Joshua Goodman of Harvard’s Kennedy School presented copious amounts of data sourced from the United States of America and Britain to show that the median earnings of left-handed citizens were approximately 10 per cent lower than those of their brethren who laboured with the right hand. The scientist, Carl Sagan — a ‘leftie’— has attributed this cultural condemnation to the left hand’s symbolic association with ‘unhygienic labour’ in non-industrialized societies. This signifies that the body, much like society, remains a site of segregation in deference to codes of purity and pollution. But a more compelling hypothesis of this stigma — the stain, arguably, faded a bit after Marian Annett presented the ‘Right Shift Theory’, proposing a genetic link with handedness — probably lies in the numerical preponderance of the right-hander. The Serbian researchers concluded that the number of left-handed humans has remained unchanged — roughly 10 per cent of the total population — since the Upper Palaeolithic Age 10,000 years ago. The fictional Arjuna or the flesh-and-blood Albert Einstein — members of the Ambidextrous Tribe — wouldn’t think much of all the fuss about the left limb being served a poor hand. Is the matter at hand then pedantic? Not so. Evolutionary Psychology is looking at ‘handedness’ — the human ease with and the consequent favourable inclination towards one particular hand — as a cipher of the majoritarian impulse that coats the building blocks and institutions of collectives and communities. Handedness, then, can be reimagined as a miniature  representation of the broader social and political endorsement of uniformity — and, eventually, unilateralism — that is unfolding across global politics today. The triumph of this homogeneity also necessitates the cloaking of the injustices perpetrated on the Other in the name of upholding similitude as the very embodiment of order. This leads to the clever excision from the public discourse of the horror and humiliation of the left-handed — adults and children — as they attempt to perform the most mundane of tasks: writing, signing a cheque, typing on a keyboard and so on. The impact of the taming of the left hand on young minds remains relatively under-researched. But the Southpaw has survived. That is perhaps because that which cannot be comprehended fully by either reason or faith survives not only as the illicit but also the exotic. The result is an interesting aestheticization of, a grudging admiration for — if not accommodation of — the oddity. In cricket, style and elegance are invariably associated with David Gower, Brian Lara, Gary Sobers — lefties all. Scholars like Michael C. Corballis have also attempted, albeit not with too much success, to link enhanced brain symmetry with ‘magical ideation’, something that, Corballis argues, makes the left-handed hypercreative and receptive to extrasensory perception. Can the atypical be a form of political capital? The Left, banished from Bengal — a state, some say, is now ripe for the Right — would be pinning its hopes on such a hypothesis. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Chess tournaments to resume in Kolhan from April  ||District-level chess tournaments will resume in Kolhan post-pandemic from early April. The West Singhbhum District Chess Association (WSDCA) is organising the 11th Padmabai Rungta Memorial District Chess Tournament 2021 from April 2 to 4. The event will be held at S.R. Rungta Recreation Town Hall. West Singhbhum will become the first district in Kolhan to conduct on-board chess event. It is yet to resume in East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. WSDCA secretary Basant Khandelwal said the tournament will be played over 7 rounds of Swiss league with a time control of 25 minutes and 10 seconds increment. "Chess event will finally resume in Kolhan after the pandemic. The chess enthusiasts really wanted to once again get a feel of chess board," he said from Chaibasa. The winner of the tournament will receive Rs 5,000 and a trophy and top 15 players will also be awarded cash prizes and trophies. "Entry fee for the tournament is Rs 100 for school students and Rs 200 for other players. Entry fee will be collected at the venue and Jalaram Store Bari Bazar, Chaibasa. S.R. Rungta Group is the sponsor of the tournament," he added. All participants will wear masks and maintain social distancing during the tournament. Saikat Dutta and Priyanka Kumari  from West Singhbhum placed third and fourth at the recently concluded 20th Aditya Birla Memorial Senior State Chess Championship in Ranchi. Both Saikat and Priyanka have been selected to represent Jharkhand in the senior national meet to be held in Kanpur next month. Both players will be part of the district event in Chaibasa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ban orders in Ranchi for farmers' bandh from 5am 5pm on Friday||Ranchi district administration has decided to enforce prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC to ban the assembly of more than five persons, processions, demonstrations and the like from 5am to 10 pm on Friday in the wake of a nationwide bandh call issued by an umbrella outfit of farmers against the Centre's enactment of contentious farm laws. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said on Thursday that the administration could not risk a congregation in the district in name of the bandh due to a spike in Covid-19 cases. He appealed to protestors to abide by the regulations or face action. In a statement, Ranjan said, “Several outfits from the city and state have extended their support to the nationwide bandh tomorrow (Friday). But in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration has decided to enforce prohibitory orders to prevent a spike in cases or a law and order situation.” The bandh has been called by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). As per the orders, except government workers on duty, assembling of five or more persons at any place isn't allowed. “If anyone wishes to stage peaceful and democratic demonstrations, we have identified a ground in Pundag where one can do so in compliance with Ccovid norms and disperse after submitting a memorandum to the appointed magistrate. This apart, prohibitory orders will remain in force in the entire district,” he said. Several trade unions and outfits backed by Left parties took out a torchlight procession from Ranchi University to Albert Ekka Chowk, a distance of 500m on Thursday night in support of Friday's bandh from morning till noon. The convener of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvaya Samiti, Sufal Mahto said, “We will take out processions in rural areas of Ranchi against the Centre’s farm laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Railways issues fresh appeal to adhere to Covid protocols ||The South Eastern Railway on Thursday issued fresh appeal to passengers for maintaining necessary safety and health protocols with the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country. Officials of the SER said for safety purposes they have adopted several measures like regular cleaning and sanitisation of coaches, platforms, wash rooms, encouraging commuters to make online booking to avoid queue at counters, deployment of staff to check whether the health protocols are being maintained, regular announcement at stations and distribution of  pamphlets among travelling passengers for spreading awareness. Passengers without masks are not allowed to enter the station premises and single entry and single exit point at stations has been introduced at various stations under SER zone including Ranchi, Tatanagar, Rourkela, Hatia, Jharsuguda and Chakradharpur. Booking counters are being sanitised regularly for the safety of the commuters and intending passengers are being encouraged to use Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) and Automatic Ticket Vending Machines (ATVM). Markings have also been drawn for queuing of the passengers at all relevant places including platforms and ticket counters. RPF personnel have also been deployed to ensure that health protocols are followed and passengers do not face any difficulty. To create awareness among the passengers as well as common people, adequate publicity campaigns through mass media has been undertaken to inform the passengers about the train services as well as Covid-19 precautions to be followed before and during journey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||JMM minister Hafizul Hassan files nomination for Madhupur bypoll||A minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet, Hafizul Hassan filed his nomination as the JMM candidate for the Madhupur assembly seat , a byelection for which is scheduled to be held next month, in the presence of the chief minister and his ministerial colleagues on Thursday. In the run up to his nomination, filed in the afternoon, Hemant addressed a mega rally at Pathalchapti ground in the Madhupur constituency asking voters to elect Hafizul and pay a fitting tribute to his father and former MLA Haji Hussain Ansari. At the rally, attended by close to 1,000 people, Hemant turned emotional. "A son of the soil is fighting this election to continue the tradition to serve this constituency. Late Haji Saab represented this seat many times and lived a simple life. He always dreamt about ways to bring development to this constituency. Electing Hafizul will be a fitting tribute to him. It will also strengthen your own government,” he said. Hafizul was inducted into the cabinet early this year before the announcement of the bypoll as the JMM’s strategy of staking claim to the seat and make him the joint candidate of the grand alliance comprising Congress and RJD. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, Mahagama MLA Deepika Pandey Singh, in addition to Hafizul and Hemant, were among the battery of  leaders of the grand alliance who were present at the rally. Critising the BJP, Hemant said, “They are wasting time by fighting this election as in 2019, people of this constituency chose JMM. I am sure that you will again elect your leader, who is young and a minister in your government.” The byelection is to be held on April 17. Results will be declared on May 2. After coming to power in 2019, this will be third bypoll for the incumbent JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance in Jharkhand. Last year, JMM retained Dumka while Congress won back Bermo during the two bypolls held around May. The Madhupur bypoll was necessitated after the demise of Haji Hussain in October last year owing to post Covid complications. Haji Hussain was minister of minority affairs in the Hemant cabinet. BJP on Thursday announced turncoat Ganga Narayan Singh as its candidate for Madhupur bypoll. Few days back, he joined the party after leaving AJSU-P. During 2019 elections, he finished on the third spot contesting on AJSU-P ticket but won BJP’s eyeballs for singlehanded bagging close to 45000 votes, which dented chances of the saffron camp. Gradually, it made him join BJP to contest Madhupur this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad launches app to resolve water issues ||The district unit of National Informatics Centre of Dhanbad has developed a mobile app to resolve water supply related problems. The Jal drishti app was launched on Thursday by deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh with municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar, executive engineer of drinking water and sanitation department, Manish Kumar and technical member of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, Indresh Shukla. The app is aimed at offering time bound solution of water woes of the residents. “The app developed by Dhanbad NIC besides being citizen centric establishes coordination between different agencies involved in water supply at the district including the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation entrusted with task of water supply in urban areas of Dhanbad; drinking water and sanitation department responsible for water supply in both and rural areas and Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, entrusted with the task of water supply in Jharia and Katras,” said Singh. “Soon after the registration of the complaint with regard to the any disruption in water supply the message reaches to the concerned officer of the respective agencies responsible for water supply in the concerned area who in turn passes on the information to the valve man or technical manager or supervisor, who will redressal of the complaint within a fixed time” said Singh. “As with the advent of summer season a host of water supply problems arise in the jurisdiction of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) as well as Dhanbad Municipal Corporation so we have developed the app and also instructed the concerned authorities as these two civic bodies to beef up their water supply system to avoid the inconvenience of the common people,” summed up Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad villagers protest against urban waste recycling plant||Villagers of Raghunathpur area of Baliapur block about 25 km from Dhanbad district headquarters on Thursday held an hour-long demonstration against the proposed development of waste recycling plant. More than 200 protesters were holding placards bearing slogans like gaon hamara kudedan nahin (our village is not a dumping ground) nagar nigam ka kachara dump gram panchayhat me nahi ho (urban waste should not be dumped in our village). Trilochan Mahto, one of the protester said the district administration  has identified around 20.19 acres of land in mouza number 179 of Raghunathpur village for establishing a waste recycling plant but the identified land is surrounded by a densely populated area. Rajesh Kumar Mahto, a resident of  Raghunathpur and a representative of Village Pramukh Sneha Kumari said, “the proposed site for recycling plant also bears a small pond and a graveyard for children and the recycling plant will affect these facilities.” Sindri MLA, Indrajit Mahto had raised the issue of the proposed development of waste recycling plant in Raghunathpur in the state assembly and expressed his reservation over the development of such a plant in the village. Since the launch of the door to door collection of household garbage of 55 wards of five circles of Dhanbad in 2019, the integrated solid waste management project worth Rs 254 crores had initially identified around 30 acres of FCI land in Sindri. As FCI demanded around Rs 700 crores for proving a 30 year lease for the identified land, the DMC later identified around 17 acres of land in Aamjhar area of Baliapur and another 21 acres at Deoli in Govindpur but the procedural hurdles forced DMC to select around 21 acres of land at Raghunathpur for which the environment clearance has already been obtained and land transfer is in progress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jeevan to enhance suicide prevent efforts ||Jamshedpur-based suicide prevention centre Jeevan will be extending its reach to the community with more, in-person awareness sessions against the futility of ending life prematurely. The centre’s activity (virtual seminars and awareness sessions) is restricted to a handful of schools. Distressed individuals contact its volunteers over phone or Whatsapp. However, it has not been able to physically connect to people post-pandemic. Jeevan is worried over the rise in suicide cases in the city but so far it has not been able to adequately spread awareness among the masses owing to resource crunch and other issues. "A wide section of people in Jamshedpur are not aware of our existence. So, they are unable to reach us for counselling. We have put posters and banners in some parts of the city but it is not enough. We felt the need to physically reach the community and spread awareness about the futility of committing suicide and also ways to overcome stress and depression," said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. According to him, they are joining hands with Urban Services of Tata Steel to reach people. "Jeevan will be spreading awareness at dozen-odd community centres run by the Urban Services. We are sure Urban Services can bring people to the community centres for attending our awareness session. We will be availing the services of experienced counsellers for conducting the sessions," Jain informed. Jain said they have already met officials of Urban Services and one more meeting is scheduled on March 27."The meeting on March 27 will be the final before we go to the community centres," he added. He expressed concern over the rise in suicide cases in Jamshedpur." We are really very concerned over the rise in suicide cases in the city."Eighteen people (12 men and 6 women) ended their lives in January this year while the number stood at 34 (26 men and 8 women) in February. The trend of suicide is very disturbing," the Jeevan director said. According to him, five school students were among those who committed suicide in the past two months. "The method of suicide was mostly by hanging. Family dispute, financial issues and loneliness have been the main reasons forcing people to take fatal step," he said, adding the pandemic has rendered several people unemployed, which is also one of the reasons for suicides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||'Ranchi ki Roshni' to light up NDRF missions across India||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the country’s premier agency for rescue missions in the time of disasters, will now be equipped with portable solar lamps designed by self-help women's groups of Ranchi. The district administration has signed an MoU with NDRF for supplying these lamps as part of which a consignment of 4,000 was handed over to NDRF on Thursday. Speaking to the media on Thursday, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said the slef-help groups would be givingout close to 40,000 lamps to NDRF gradually. “Lamps made in Ranchi will illuminate disaster hit sites of the country,” he said, adding that NDRF would distribute the lamps to its camps across the country based on requirements. Ranjan said the project was launched in 2018 as a part of a skilling and livelihood mission wherein women self-help groups were trained to make LED solar lamps under a scheme titled "Ranchi ki Roshni". A full-fledged workshop has been set up in Ormanjhi on capital outskirts to make these lamps. “Around two dozen women are engaged in manufacturing lamps right from assembling LEDs to fixing wires and packaging the final product,” said an official at the workshop. “Each lamp is priced at around Rs 160,” he said, adding that they have also begun selling them in the open market and were receiving a good response. The district administration, however, has supplied the lamps to NDRF fee of cost, the deputy commissioner said. “The project is being sustained through CSR funds of IOCL and HPCL. For making the lamps, members of women's self-help groups get a nominal remuneration at the workshop. However, we are now focusing on creating a dedicated market to sell these lamps by setting up kiosks in the city so that the women's groups can become economically independent,” he said. The project, Ranchi ki Roshni, was originally conceptualised in 2018 by My Shelter Foundation and a group of IITians in 2018 while they were pursuing internship with the district administration for providing a cheap source of lighting for the poor. They developed LED bulbs, micro-solar panels and a battery to provide low- cost solutions. Later, the district administration adopted the model and women's goups were trained in the capital. The concept was also applauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Ranchi at the time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Youngsters soak in Pyatkar art, earth colours and stories||The best way to make an art form popular is to pass it on to the younger generation. The four-day Pyatkar art workshop jointly organised by the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), Ranchi and Kalamandir was an initiative to make the students of Arka Jain University's fashion designing department and young artists aware of the art form. The workshop, held at the Amadubi-Panijia Rural Tourism Centre from March 20, was inaugurated by IGNCA, Ranchi regional director, Kumar Sanjay Jha. "The workshop was organised with the aim to provide knowledge about the craftsmanship of Payatkar art form along with its socio-religious significance and tradition of the storytelling songs, to preserve and document this rich tribal cultural heritage," said Jha. Around 20 students from Arka Jain University and Ranchi participated in the workshop where Amadubi based Pyatkar artists like Vijay Chitrakar, Anil Chitrakar and Kishor Gayen were the resource persons. "There are so many people including young artists who are unaware of such wonderful indigenous art forms. It is for this workshop that we came to know about this wonderful art form. We learn the techniques and generation of organic colours," said Priya Kumari, a student from Arka Jain University. In the course of the workshop, participants received extensive training on the unique painting technique of Pyatkar, their strokes and outline; history and projection of organic colours; Santhali plot of Pyatkar and depiction of the folktales. The use of earthly colours and the music and storytelling process of Pyatkar Art. "We try our best but most of the youngsters in our village do not want to learn and take this art form forward primarily due to the low earning artists have. If students from urban areas can come and learn, there is a hope that the heritage art form will live," said Pyatkar artist Vijay Chitrakar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Daytime flights rescheduled from March 28 to April 27||Daytime flights to and from Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi will remain suspended from March 28 to April 27 as the runway will remain closed for the final layer of carpeting for a month, officials of the only operational airport in Jharkhand said on Thursday. However, despite the suspension of flights from 11am to 5pm, none of the 20 flights taking off from the city at present will have to be cancelled, airport authorities said. “The flights will be rescheduled, not cancelled. The presently operational flights will take off or land from 6.45am to 11am and then from 5pm to 9.15pm,” said the airport director Vinod Sharma. Daytime flights at the airport here were suspended from November 16, 2020 to January 15, 2021 as well for carpeting. The airport director said that three layers of carpeting is done on the strip, and the third layer of carpeting will now be done in April. While none of the existing flights will be cancelled, the rescheduling of flights may also cause inconvenience to passengers as flights might take off and land at odd times, sources said. During the repair of the airstrip in January, many passengers complained that they had to wait  in New Delhi airport for long hours while traveling to other destinations from Ranchi. At present, as many as 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The airport authorities here also plan to increase connectivity with more tier-2 cities once the carpeting work is complete, sources said. Ranchi is likely to get direct flights to Patna, Chandigarh and Trivandrum in the near future, airport officials said. Also, a private airline has pitched the idea of starting direct flights to Jammu and Pune from May, a source at  the Birsa Munda Airport said. Direct flights to Jammu may help pilgrims from Ranchi in visiting Vaishno Devi Temple. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in customer satisfaction index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders protest Act to hike electricity charges||Traders and industrialists are opposing the state government’s decision to increase charges for commercial and industrial electric connections according to the recently passed Jharkhand Vidyut Shulk (sansodhan) Vidheyak 2021. The act will lead to realisation of higher charges according to the electricity consumption. Electricity connections like domestic low tension, domestic high tension, religious places, temporary, advertisement will have to pay 6% duty, all commercial connections upto 10 MVA will have to pay 8% duty while other connections of more than 10 MVA are required to pay 15% duty. General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association (JITA), Rajiv Sharma told The Telegraph Online: “The state chief minister is continuously talking about industrial development and consequent generation of employment opportunities etc.” “Such development can take place only by promotion of trade and industry which will lead to per capita electricity consumption but increasing the rate of electricity will not help in increasing the per capita electricity consumption,” said Sharma “The industrial climate developing in the state will adversely be affected with any such step” opined Sharma. Echoing Sharma’s sentiment, Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, said, “At a time when the industry is passing through it’s worst phase such a decision to carry out in electricity charges is completely uncalled for and instead government should have taken step for the waiving off fixed charges for three months of lockdown period of last year from April to June.” Prashant Singh, a cinema hall owner of Dhanbad said,“at a time when our sector is lying almost on death bed and we are clamouring for tax holidays etc such a step may prove to be detrimental for our future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly gets channel||The Jharkhand Legislative Assembly on Tuesday became the second legislature in the country after Kerala to launch a television channel to telecast House proceedings. Chief minister Hemant Soren along with Assembly Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato launched the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha TV and studio on Tuesday evening and termed it a historic step. “Now residents of Jharkhand and those having roots in the state but staying elsewhere can learn about the issues raised in the Assembly and the solution meted out by the respective ministers. Apart from direct telecast on Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha TV, its content can be seen on YouTube and other social media platforms. It will serve as a bridge connecting the people, the government and the Assembly,” the chief minister said. Mahato said the Assembly has acknowledged the changing times and decided to take the House proceedings directly to the people. Kerala had launched Sabha TV in August last year to telecast House proceedings. According to sources in the Jharkhand public relations department, the Vidhan Sabha TV with its own studio will initially rent slots on prominent television channels to telecast programmes. Apart from telecasting the House proceedings and programmes on the two decades of the Assembly, the OTT platform would transform into a full-fledged channel. Vidhan Sabha TV will be run on the lines of Lok Sabha TV. It would be operated by the Vidhan Sabha secretariat. “The channel’s objective is to create awareness among masses even in remote areas about the Assembly proceedings by way of direct communication. We have seen how successful Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha channels have become under the Sansad Television Network. It aims to ensure that democratic processes percolate down to the masses. People have the right to know what their elected representatives are doing in the legislature,” said Soren. Sources in the chief minister’s office revealed that the channel will also try to showcase through the social media platform the role played by the elected representatives from the Opposition and their stand on several important issues in the Assembly. “The Opposition MLAs cannot simply disturb House proceedings as now their action would be directly shown through the OTT platform to the masses,” said a close aide of the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ten districts of Jharkhand to observe dry days in view of the Bengal Assembly elections||Ten districts of Jharkhand that share borders with Bengal will have to observe dry days in view of the Bengal Assembly elections. Earlier, only the bordering block used to mark dry day because of polling in a neighbouring district of the adjoining state. Vinay Kumar Chaube, Jharkhand’ secretary-cum-excise commissioner, in a letter on Monday directed the deputy commissioners of the 10 districts to declare dry days according to the directions of the Election Commission of India to ensure free and fair polls in the neighbouring state. Reminding that such prohibition is required as per the provisions of Section 35(c) of the People’s Representation Act, 1951, Chaubey asked the DCs to ensure that their districts remained dry for 48 hours until the end of polling, and also on May 2, the day of counting of votes. Dry day will come into effect on Thursday evening and will continue till Saturday evening in Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, East Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts in view of the first phase of polling in Purulia and some other areas of Jungle Mahal in Bengal. Dhanbad, which also shares border with West Burdwan district, will observe dry day also during the seventh phase of polling slated for April 26. Three other districts — Jamtara, Sahebganj and Pakur — will have dry days for a 48-hour period during that time. Jamtara, Sahebganj and Pakur will also have to follow the restrictions along with Dumka for the eighth and last phase on April 29. All 10 districts will observe dry day again on May 2, the day of counting. “This is nothing new,” said Achintya Shah, president of the Jharkhand Wine Dealers Association, adding that earlier such restrictions used to be implemented only in bordering blocks but had been extended to entire districts since the Bihar elections last year. “The Jharkhand government should have requested the Election Commission to restrict the observance of dry days to the bordering areas only as it’s a revenue-earning enterprise and both the state government and the wine dealers suffer financial losses during dry days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
