26-03-2021||Calcutta||Krishna hands over charge to commissioner||The municipal commissioner of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) took over as its administrator earlier this week as the Trinamul Congress-led board of administrators that was running the day-to-day activities of the civic body got dissolved. The dissolution of the boards of administrators running urban local bodies took place across Bengal after the Election Commission of India (ECI) restrained political appointees from serving as administrators of municipal corporations, whose term has ended, till the model code of conduct for the election is in force. Debashis Ghosh, the BMC municipal commissioner, took over as administrator from Monday. Krishna Chakraborty, who was the chairperson of the board of administrators, stepped down as did all the ward coordinators. According to a senior official, problems will now be redressed directly by civic officials. The respective ward offices will act as the first point of contact for residents. In case the problem persists, they can visit their borough office and bring the matter to the notice of the officials there. If the problem is still not solved then the resident can visit the concerned department at Poura Bhavan. According to Ghosh, his focus areas would be management of Covid-19 and to ensure that the maximum number of people get the vaccine. “We are trying to make the vaccine centres run by the civic body more popular so that we can innoculate the maximum number of people,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||‘No Holi’ for the Roys of CD block||Other families may be on the warpath trying to stop their kids from playing Holi in the middle of a pandemic but not the Roys of CD Block. Here, it is nine-year-old Soumit Roy who has declared to all at home that they will skip celebrations this year. “Our puppy Alpha’s coat is pristine white and if he jumps on us after we play Holi, his coat will get ruined. The chemicals are harmful for him too,” explains Soumit. Alpha, the English Golden Retriever, came home barely two months ago but he has already made Soumit way more responsible than his parents had hoped for. The boy does everything from feeding the pup meals and medicines to bathing and disciplining him. Why, the other day when the vet asked what medicines Alpha was having, Soumit’s mother Sampita fumbled with the name but the boy spelt it out perfectly! Soumit and Alpha run and play so much that to compensate, Alpha has recently got an extra meal added to his diet chart. The boy’s face is full of scratch marks received from the puppy in affection and Soumit wears them like a badge of honour. “But Alpha needs to be disciplined and I scold him when necessary,” he says. Tales of Alpha’s misdeeds include tearing most of Soumit’s pants, chewing up his mom’s spectacle arms and grandpa’s slippers, uprooting Gladioli from the garden and devouring a double chicken roll meant for his elder brother Souporno. The family also has a paludarium, that they created out of their aquarium some months ago. A paludarium is an eco-system of both aquatic and terrestrial elements. It has lovely rocks, plants and fish, names of which Soumit rattles off in a single breath: “Guppy, Neon Tetra, Cardinal Tetra, Harlequin Rasbora…” The house has a room full of birds too. In fact, birds were the first pets for the kids as the parents wanted to see how much care they took of their winged friends before getting a dog, that would clearly be more demanding. The kids sailed through that test with flying colours. With Alpha coming in, the family has a new concern. “The other day I was playing with Pecky, a Lutino Fischer bird, in my hand when Alpha leapt and took him in his mouth,” says Soumit. “Luckily Souporno managed to wrest open Alpha’s mouth and rescue the bird, unharmed. Now we have to be very careful when opening the bird cages.” Alpha has come from the kennel of a renowned breeder in Guwahati and Soumit, along with his parents, had flown over to get him. “Alpha is much cuter and larger than I expected,” smiles the boy. “His ears are, in fact, so large that they dip into his food bowl when he eats and get soaked. So when he eats now I fasten his ears above his head with a clip!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Tips to train a puppy||Many families have got puppies during the pandemic to help overcome boredom, cope with depression or simply because the work-from-home setup finally allows them to spend time with pets. While a dog will happily be your constant companion, pet owners need to realise that pets have their own needs, emotions, likes and dislikes. Getting a pet during a pandemic also has some additional challenges that were addressed in a webinar by Paramita Das, canine trainer and behaviourist and a resident of FE Block. In the concluding part of her discourse she explained how to prepare your dog, your environment and yourself for what’s to come- Impose limits Your dog is learning from his first day and unless you teach him what’s acceptable, he will be teaching you his rules. This is especially the case with headstrong breeds like Beagles. The more restrictions you put on your dog early in life, the more freedom he’ll enjoy later and vice versa. Otherwise, if you let him tear things and jump over people in his early days, you’ll have to keep him tied up later on when guests come calling. It’s all right to keep your dog in a crate for a couple of hours but don’t let it be only to discipline him. Make the crate a den that dog loves — make it is big, well-ventilated and enriching. Keep chew toys or ones home-made toys made of old towels and jeans. Lockdown pups While many homes are taking in pets now, it is not without challenges. No touch and feel- Many breeders are not allowing people to go over and see the litters. But it is not enough to choose a puppy by simply seeing his video. How will you check if his living conditions are clean? The deadly parvovirus is doing the rounds the now but how will you check if the pup is healthy on camera? Lack of socialisation- Secondly, even if you get home a puppy, how to give him 100 new experiences and 100 new people to interact with every month? The best you can do is dress up in different get-ups yourself. Wear a hat, shawl, lungi, hoodies, crawl on the floor, stand on a chair… even if your smell is the same, at least you are looking different to your dog. While exposing him to these new experiences, do not force him to go near it. Allow him time and distance and he will explore and overcome the fear himself. Separation anxiety- Dogs are getting used to their pet parents being around all the time now but what will happen when the pandemic is finally over? You will go to work, movies, wedding ceremonies and your dog will be miserable home alone. The solution is to not to allow him to be around you all the time. Encourage him to relish some me-time. In fact, right from the day he comes, don’t spend the first 48 hours glued to him. He’ll cry for a bit but then quieten up. Otherwise he’s training you to be at his beck and call. You can keep your dog home alone for six to seven hours safely as that’s how long he can hold his bladder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Many flavours of festivity||Spicy Mexican Papdi Chaat Ingredients • 1 tspn garlic chopped • 1 onion (finely chopped) • 1 tbsp tomato puree • 1 tbsp red chilli paste • 1 cup red, yellow and green bell peppers (chopped) • 2 tbsp oil • 2 cups chopped tomatoes • 1 cup sweet corn kernels • 1 cup red kidney beans, boiled • 1 cup black eyed cowpea beans, boiled • 1 small bunch fresh coriander, chopped • Chilli flakes, salt, pepper to taste • 2 tbsp liquid cheese spread • Fresh parsley/ coriander to garnish • 2 tbsp sliced jalapenos to garnish • A dash of tobasco sauce to garnish • 200g ready-made papdi Instructions • Heat the oil in a large frying pan over medium heat. Fry the garlic and onion until soft. Mix in the tomato puree and red chilli paste. Add the chopped bell peppers and cover with a lid. Cook for 10 minutes (stir from time to time). • Add the chopped tomatoes and cook for another 10 minutes. Add the corn and beans and cook for another 5-10 minutes, until everything is heated through and bubbling. • Remove from heat and stir in the fresh coriander, chilli flakes, salt and pepper. Let it cool a bit. Now place the papdi in a serving platter and top with the Mexican mixture. Pour liquid cheese spread on top and serve garnished with sliced jalapenos and parsley, with a dash of tobasco sauce. Ingredients • Full fat milk 4 cups • Cardamom powder 1/2 tsp • Basmati rice ¼ cup • Sugar 6 tbsp • Gulkand 2 tsp • Rose water 1 tsp • Chopped pistachios 2 tbsp • Fresh rose petals/ buds, a few slices of kiwi/ strawberry to garnish Instructions • Wash the basmati rice in water a couple of times and soak in water for half an hour. This will make the grinding easier. Using a blender, grind rice to a fairly smooth paste, adding a few tablespoons of milk. Set aside. • In a large, thick-bottomed saucepan, start heating the milk on medium-high heat. When the milk boils, add the rice paste and reduce heat to medium. Cook the rice, stirring often to avoid any lumps. In about 10-15 minutes, the rice will be cooked. Cook the pudding further till it reduces and thickens, for around 10 more minutes. • Add sugar and gulkand. Stir well to dissolve. Taste and add more sugar or gulkand, if needed. • Remove from heat and add a few drops of rosewater. Rest for five minutes, but not more than that as the phirni will begin to set, as it cools. • Transfer phirni to a big serving bowl or individual dessert bowls and cool to room temperature. Refrigerate for a couple of hours so that the phirni sets properly. • Serve cold phirni garnished with chopped pistachios, fruit slices and fresh rose petals. Ingredients For Thandai Powder • Almonds 1/4 cup • Cashew nut 1/4 cup • Pistachios 1/4 cup • Poppy seeds 1 tbsp • Saunf 1.5 tbsp • Watermelon seeds/ Magaj seeds 1 tbsp • Pepper 1 tbsp • Cardamom seeds 1.5 tbsp For the Cheesecake • Crushed cream crackers biscuits- 200g • Unsalted butter 2 tbsp • Tighly hung and drained curd 1 cup • Cream cheese 1 cup • Powdered sugar 1/2 cup • Thandai masala 2-3 tbsp • A few fennel seeds and gulkand to garnish • Multicolour sprinklers and edible flowers/ rose petals to garnish • White chocolate squares to garnish Instructions • Mix together all the ingredients of Thandai Powder and blend to a smooth powder. Store in an airtight container and use as rquired. • Now take a nine inch springform pan and grease it. Take the cream crackers and add melted butter to it. Mix well. Once blended to a crumbly mixture, spread it evenly at the bottom of the pan. Press with a spoon and set it evenly. Keep the pan in the freezer for about 20 minutes, till you mix the cheesecake batter. • Using a hand blender, cream together the hung curd and cream cheese. Now add the powdered sugar in it and mix again. You can adjust the sugar as per your taste. Next, add 2-3 tablespoons of Thandai Powder. Again beat well. • Take out the pan from the refrigerator and spread the cheese cake batter on it. To get a sharp even edge at the top, use a spoon dipped in hot water and level the top. Transfer the pan back to the refrigerator and chill for about five to six hours. For best results chill overnight. • Once set, run a wet knife around the edges and then remove the cake from the pan. Cut into slices. Garnish with scattered fennel seeds, multicoloured sprinklers, gulkand, white chocolate squares and edible flowers/ rose petals to make the cheesecake look like a colourful blast. • Enjoy this Thandai Cheesecake with your family and friends! Ingredients For the samosas • Plain flour 2 cups • Heaped tablespoons butter 2 • Water as needed • Oil for frying For coconut filling • Dessicated coconut 1/2 cup • Grated khoya 1/2cup • Coarsely powdered sugar 1/2 cup • Cardamom powder 1/2 tsp • Chocolate sauce to serve • Mixed chopped nuts 4 tbsp (Cashews, raisins, almonds and pistachios) Instructions • Begin with making the pastry. In a bowl, add the butter and use your fingertips to mix the butter into the flour, until it resembles breadcrumbs • Add water, a few tablespoons at a time. Use your hands to knead the dough until it forms a firm dough. Be careful not to add too much water. If the dough becomes too wet it will be too difficult to work with. • Allow the dough to rest, while you make the filling. Now mix well all the ingredients for the filling in a bowl. • Take small lemon-sized balls out of the dough and begin rolling them out into circles, much like making a small chapatti. Cut the circles into four quarters. • Now press the edges of each quarter together to form a small conical shape of a samosa. Now fill each of the samosas with the coconut khoya mixture and seal the open edge, pressing, by taking a little water on your fingers. • Heat oil in a deep wok or pan on medium heat. Fry the samosas on medium heat, till golden and crisp. • Drizzle with some chocolate sauce. Serve immediately. Ingredients • Butter 1 tsp + 1 tbsp • Sweet corn 1 cup (I used frozen) • All purpose flour / maida 3 tbsp • Milk 1 cup • Cheese 1/2 cup grated • Red chilli flakes – 1 tsp • Coriander leaves – 2 tbsp finely chopped • Salt to taste • Oil for deep frying • Breadcrumbs 1/2 cup Method • Heat 1 tsp butter in a pan, add in corn and saute till cooked for around two minutes. Remove this to a mixer and puree coarsely. • Now in the same pan, add one tablespoon of butter and flour and saute for two minutes or so. Add in milk and keep mixing till it comes together. • Add in corn and fold well. Add in cheese and mix well. Add in salt, chilli flakes, coriander leaves and mix well. • Now remove this to a bowl and let it cool. Take lemon-sized small portions from the corn mix and shape into balls. Now roll in breadcrumbs and arrange in a plate. Chill this in the freezer for 30 minutes. • Now heat oil for deep frying. Slide the Corn Croquettes in the hot oil and fry till golden. Serve hot with green chutney.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Holi: to play or not to play||Most blocks, complexes and cultural groups are skipping Holi celebrations this year. A handful are tweaking plans to replace colours with cultural programmes or holding just the Holika Dahan and puja. Very few are throwing caution to the wind and celebrating the festival of colours no holds barred. “This will be the first time in 24 years that we won’t have probhat pheri on Dol,” says Sujit Gupta of the EE Block association. “We usually have about 250 residents taking part  in the march and they rehearse for songs and dances from a month in advance. We’ll sorely miss the event this year but then our cultural programmes got called off during the Pujas too. Safety first!” Soumen Goswami, secretary of CB Block, blames the second strain of coronavirus for the cancellation of their probhat pheri. “Every year we march together, play with colours and eat breakfast in the park. But all this is too risky this year, especially since the event is very popular among senior citizens,” he says. Holi was the last event Salt Lake Lok Sanskriti held before the lockdown last year and if not for recent rise in Covid cases, they would have held a low-key Holi this year too. “But how can we enforce social distancing in a festival where colours are to be applied to one another? We also considered holding just a cultural programme in a banquet hall but after making all arrangements, what if no one turned up in fear of Covid?” asks Kamlesh Kejriwal, secretary of the group. Compromised celebration Residents of Uniworld City, in association with Iskcon New Town, on Tuesday held a version of Holi where distancing could somewhat be maintained. It was called “phoolon ki Holi”. “We got 25kg of flowers and offered the petals to Radha-Krishna. These petals were then showered on dancers as they performed. There were bhajans, chhapan bhog cooked by devotees….” said Annu Bengani, a resident of the complex and one of the organisers. “To maintain Covid protocol we capped the guest list at 150. Many got offended at not being invited but what could we do?” Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad has called off its Holi gathering but is going ahead with its Holika Dahan on Sunday night at CB Park. “We shall also have a phulon ki holi at Mewar banquet above Big Bazaar with puja and bhajans. Due to Covid, we don’t expect a large crowd,” says Suresh Gupta of the cultural committee of the group. AE (Part II) is holding Neda Pora on Satuday, Holika Dahan on Sunday and instead of playing with colours, laying out thandai and snacks for an adda. “This will be strictly minus colours and plus masks,” says secretary Tapas Sengupta. “Residents are stressed because of the pandemic and a festival — held safely — can uplift their mood. ” BK Block has called off its probhat pheri in the morning and in the evening cut short the duration of its cultral programme and promised dinner only in food packets. “Many residents said they wanted to play, citing how lakhs of people are gathering for political rallies these days. While this is not something the block association endorses, individuals are free to play on their own,” says Chandra Sekhar Bag of the association. Going all the way The Mallika Malancha complex in New Town is going ahead with a two-day action-packed festival, like in other years. After Holika Dahan on Saturday night, there will be probhat pheri with songs and dances of the spring and some abir-playing. Next will be a cultural programme, breakfast of thandai, malpoa etc and full-on colour-playing. In the evening will be a Bollywood Dhamaka dance programme. Community lunch and dinner are part of the package, all though food packets will also be available. “We are going ahead with these plans as almost everyone in the complex agreed to them,” says Kakoli Saha of Mallika Malancha. “But some, like myself, have opted out of the play with colours and sit-and-eat segments due to Covid fears.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Turncoat ex-councillor back to TMC||Swati Banerjee, who won from Ward 5 in Rajarhat on a Trinamul Congress (TMC) ticket but had switched to BJP on March 14, is back again with TMC. The two-time councillor, who is known to be close to Sabyasachi Dutta, had joined BJP at a programme in Dum Dum Park with the former mayor announcing her induction as she was handed the saffron flag by Arjun Singh, another TMC turncoat. Dutta had joined BJP in October 2019. Her stint in the new party lasted all of seven days as she rejoined TMC on March 21 at Sujit Bose’s election office in AE Block in his presence. Bose is seeking re-election on a Trinamul ticket from Bidhannagar. Dutta is his main rival in the fray. The same day in the evening the AE Block resident was spotted sitting with other TMC councillors at Bose’s Holi programme in BF Park, wearing a “Vote for Sujit Bose” badge. “It (quitting Trinamul) was a hasty decision taken in a moment of rage,” Banerjee told The Telegraph Salt Lake on Tuesday, but refused to clarify who or what her rage was against. “I asked him (Dutta) if I could join BJP and joined the very next day. But then I realised I could not be with a communal party. I had simply stayed home and did not take part in any campaign for the BJP in that one week.” She said she had texted her resignation to Dutta, who did not respond to her message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Arch-rivals submit poll nomination on same day||Sujit Bose, the Trinamul Congress candidate, and his former party colleague and current rival Sabyasachi Dutta, who defected to the BJP, submitted their nomination paper to contest from the Bidhannagar seat of the state legislature on Wednesday. Both made their way to the administrative building in DJ Block at the head of rallies of supporters. Bose, a resident of Sreebhumi, arrived around 10.30am. His supporters were seen carrying balloons and posters of state government welfare schemes like Kanyasree, Khadyasree and Rupasree among others. Clad in white punjabi kurta teamed with a light blue Nehru jacket, Bose, like previous years, took a small detour and placed a garland on the statue of Bidhan Chandra Roy, the founder of Salt Lake. Many in the crowd tried to take selfies with him and cries of “Sujit Bose zindabad” rang out regularly. Near the administrative building, a song composed on Bose played from a small stage erected outside the Udayachal Tourist Lodge. Bose got into an open jeep and went up to the administrative building’s first floor and submitted his nomination papers to returning officer Biswajit Panda at around 11am. Most of his supporters waited near the small stage and many said that they had come from Duttabad, Sukantanagar, Chingrighata, Dum Dum Park, Sreebhumi, Nayapatty and Golaghata among others. At noon, Bose got out of the building and headed towards the small stage where his supporters cheered him on and slogans were raised. Bose also gave a small speech where he thanked everyone who had come and asked them to disperse in an orderly fashion. “I am quite confident that I will be able to retain this seat. I have been focussing on development and worked with people. They will not turn their backs on me. Many people are bad-mouthing me and my party but even then the BJP does not stand a chance here,” said Bose. Soon after Bose’s supporters cleared out, former mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Sabyasachi Dutta arrived at the head of a rally that had started from CF Block near the swimming pool. Apart from his wife Indrani, Dutta had with him former South Dum Dum Municipality councillor Mriganka Bhattacharya who has also joined the BJP recently. Participants in the rally chanted the BJP’s rallying cry Jai Shree Ram and Sabyasachi zindabad while walking to the administrative building. Many supporters garlanded Dutta and some threw petals on him. Many rallyists carried balloons. Dutta entered the administrative building at around 12.45pm and walked up to the first floor where he first headed to the conference hall opposite the returning officer’s office. “I want to take rest for a few minutes before submitting the nomination,” said Dutta. He was in campaign mode even inside the building, greeting officials with the promise that his party would revise their salary scale as per the Seventh Pay Commission if voted to power. Dutta submitted his nomination papers to the returning officer at 1.15pm. “I had cleaned Salt Lake, freed its pavements of hawkers while I was the mayor. Sujit and the Trinamul Congress have not only let the hawkers back but they have created permanent settlements of dwellers near Rabindra Okakura Bhavan. People will not forget this and we are confident of winning,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2020: A water tank at CC Block’s Post and Telegraph (P&T) quarters comes crashing on March 12. No one is hurt but residents are faced by water shortage. They claim to have been complaining about the dilapidated tank to the authorities (department of post and BSNL) for years but no repairs were carried out. 1887: Savitribai Phule, social reformer, educationalist and poet dies on March 10, while trying to save victims of bubonic plague. Although illiterate at the time of her marriage to Jyotirao Phule, Savitribai received an education thereafter and completed a teachers’ training programme. Along with her husband, she started one of India’s first schools for girls in Pune in 1848 and became one of the first female teachers in the country. At the time of her death, the couple ran 18 schools. 1946: Sailors at Bombay harbour go on strike on February 18, demanding better working conditions. The Royal Indian Navy mutiny spreads across British India, to ships at other locations, the air force, army, police and even the general masses who hold widespread riots from Karachi to Calcutta. Historians later study the episode as a struggle for freedom. 1977: The Emergency is withdrawn on March 21 after a period of 21 months. Declared by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi after she felt the state was threatened by internal disturbances, the Emergency was highly controversial, with elections suspended, civil liberties curbed and the Prime Minister bestowed the power to rule by decree. 1781: Astronomer William Herschel observes from his garden in England a celestial body on March 13. He reports it as a comet but further studies reveal it to be a planet, later named Uranus after the Greek god of the sky. It is the seventh planet from the sun, has 27 satellites and orbits the sun once in 84 years. 1914: Norman Borlaug is born on March 25. The American grows up to become an agronomist whose high-yield wheat varieties lead to massive increase in agricultural output in India, Pakistan and Mexico. Called the father of the Green Revolution, Borlaug’s methods are said to have saved over a billion people from starvation and he is later awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. 2017: Whanganui River of New Zealand is granted legal status as a person, on March 20. The river, sacred to the native Maori people, is recognised by the government as having all the rights, duties, liabilities and powers of a legal person. Environmentalists hail the move as henceforth, if anyone pollutes the water or conducts unauthorised activities in it, the river can sue them. 1678: Italian composer Antonio Vivaldi is born on March 4. Considered one of the greatest Baroque composers, Vivaldi creates many instrumental concertos, choral works and operas. While he dies in neglect and penury, his works are rediscovered in the 20th century and his compositions like Four Seasons, become popular around the world. 1943: Robert “Bobby” Fischer is born in Chicago on March 9. A chess prodigy, he wins a match dubbed “The Game of the Century” by experts, at the age of 13. At 14, he becomes the youngest ever American Chess Champion and at 15, the youngest Grandmaster. He wins the World Chess Championship in 1972 but soon after becomes reclusive, disappearing from the public eye for decades. He dies in 2008 but his contributions and books on the game remain priceless. 1998: Titanic becomes the first film to have two actors nominated for the Oscars for playing the same role. Kate Winslet, who plays the young Rose, is nominated for best actress and Gloria Stuart, who plays the older Rose, is nominated for Best Supporting Actress. At the March 23 ceremony, however, neither wins the award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||A year like no other||Abhijit Pandit Age: 48 Profession: Medical technologist, Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital A year ago: I was involved in doing routine pathological tests — blood sugar, urea, creatinine etc. I would handle 50-60 patients in course of my duty hours from 9am to 3pm. The lockdown and beyond: Our training to do the Covid sample collection and screening test took place over video conference from the district chief medical officer of health’s office. Later a colleague went to Chittanranjan National Cancer Institute in New Town to watch the test in person and taught us. We collect the swab ourselves and do the Rapid Antigen Test here (RAT). The RT-PCR samples have to be sent to Niced, SSKM, Calcutta Medical College or RG Kar Medical College, as instructed. The first Covid positive case in my hand came in mid-April. It was a doctor at our hospital. I was very tense, thinking whether I would get it too as I had collected the sample myself. Since the start, I was staying separately at home. But once my wife, who is a technician in a private hospital, caught Covid in August, my fear subsided. Despite taking so much precaution, the virus had entered our home. I collected her sample myself and took it for the test to the hospital in an icebox. My sons, aged 15 and 12, had a tough time then as despite testing negative, I continued to stay separately from them. As the number of tests piled up, from June till September I was collecting swabs of 150 to 200 people per day. While the steady supply of PPE right from the start gave us protection, the humidity made it impossible to work in them at a stretch. The swab may take a few seconds to collect but we have to complete the documentation beforehand which often takes time to register on the ICMR portal. So we would complete the filing of the entire queue together and then go down in PPE for the collection. On crowded days, collection would be done in three batches. We tried collecting from inside kiosks for some days for greater protection but gave up as our gloves would get torn if patients moved during collection. The maximum positive cases happened in August — about 40 per cent in RAT. More challenges came with the commencement of testing of international flight passengers. There was an order to track and test 220-odd passengers who had landed in December from London. The job was divided and 60 names came to us. Through December 31 till midnight and again early on January 1, I was running about in Salt Lake, New Town and the airport area collecting samples from homes. We also had to go for home collections in case of VIPs, Sukanya Home in Sector V and Child Care Home in Sukantanagar. Thankfully, till September we got picked up and could avoid public transport. Thoughts for tomorrow: We are testing 60-70 people per day now and positive findings are still low. But the new strains are a cause for worry. Masks are much less in use now. Half the people in the bus when I come don’t wear masks. When the maskless are coughing, I am reminded of the long hours and the fear and the inconvenience we went through when the infection had peaked. But what do they care! Age: 48 Profession: Police constable, Nabadiganta Traffic Guard Resident of: Baisakhi Abasan A year ago: We are used to doing eight-hour shifts on the road, manning the busy crossings of Sector V like College More, Loha Pool or Technopolis. When this virus was announced, we wondered how long it would be around. Lockdown and beyond: When the lockdown was declared, many young people staying alone in the city were stranded as their companies shut and they wanted to go home. We gave them lifts in our vehicles till the end of our jurisdiction, forming chains with other traffic guards so that their vehicles picked them up from where we dropped them off. Many locals, who were hard hit by the economic stalemate, asked for help. We raised money and helped many with rice, pulses and sugar. We came across such terrible situations! When we were posted at Haj House in New Town — it was being used as a Covid safe house — there was this man in his 40s who begged us from the third floor window of his isolation room to let him go home as his mother had died. But there was no way that a Covid positive person could be let out. Then there was this colleague of mine who broke down one day. His wife was refusing to let him into their bedroom as he was doing duty outdoors. Night after night, after toiling all day, he was having to sleep on the drawing room floor. Colleagues who have families in far-away places could not go home for months as they would not be allowed into the house. In the initial phase of the lockdown, we were mostly out on the streets, asking loiterers to go back home. We could make out that they were getting fed up staying indoors couped in their one or two-room accommodations. But still people mostly listened. During our Haj House duty, we had social workers or even local residents come to serve us tea and snacks. That made us feel special. We were put up in a nearby school but I was lucky as I stayed close by and my family or neighbours did not mind me coming home. Two in our traffic guard did get Covid around that time but that was among those on traffic duty in Sector V. So I was not exposed. During Puja, I was posted at Sreebhumi. The court order (declaring all pandals as containment zones) came as a relief. I asked my family if they wanted to go see the pandal one day since I was on duty there. But they refused to step out. Like them, people mostly abided by the order. Thoughts for tomorrow: I got my second dose of the vaccine three days ago at Seba and am now at the stadium, waiting to board a bus to West Midnapore. I will be on poll duty but am not sure where. Age: 38 years Profession: Phuchka seller at Kwality More, AE Block A year ago: I had left for my village in Uttar Pradesh days before the lockdown was announced. People had started talking about coronavirus and my customers had stopped coming in fear. I figured it would be best to lie low at home till the scare died down. Little did I know I’d have to spend four months there. Lockdown and beyond: I had started farming in the village. Meanwhile I would hear of other migrant labourers walking to their villages from the cities and thanked my lucky stars that I was home. No doubt I was apprehensive returning to Salt Lake after four months. I didn’t know if customers would come. But I got a huge moral boost when, on the very first day, Bablooda of the medicine shop that I sell phuchkas in front of, came and ordered a parcel of Rs 151 for his family. It was an auspicious reopening. Post Covid, the behaviour of customers has altered somewhat. While previously it was usual for crowds of six to hover around me eating, now no more than three want to gather. Some stay in their cars waiting for the crowd to thin out. Others ask for car-delivery or bring utensils to pack the phuchkas home. Some customers are careful about wearing masks now, but others laugh at me for wearing mine, saying the Covid scare is exaggerated. Nonetheless I still wear it and a use sanitiser too. Thoughts for tomorrow: I’m praying for an end to the pandemic even as I read about cases multiplying in Mahashtra. Another lockdown would be terrible. I won’t be voting as my permanent address is in UP and won’t be playing Holi either as my neighbours here in Golaghata play among themselves. I’ll come to work on Holi as usual, from 4pm. Age: 32 Profession: Scrap dealer of Sabitri Old Paper Purchase shop, BF Block A year ago: I was hearing about this virus but never bothered much. I thought it was China’s problem. Initially I was shocked at news of the lockdown but then I came to enjoy, even relish it. I lived the time of my life last year. Never before and never again will I get a two month long holiday. Yes, my savings got drained out but I got to spend time with my family and eat lots of fruits that were available at cheap rates as their export had been hampered due to movement restrictions. In fact I put on weight! My elderly colleague says all the sitting home idle has made him lose the stamina required in our line of work. Back to work: Old newspapers are the mainstay of our business but many people are still scared to let us into their houses to sell them. Some are bring out scraps to the street and ask us to weigh them. As for old books and copies, we can’t expect much as schools are in a limbo. Demand for old paper is high but since supply has fallen, the rate we pay to residents for paper has risen from about Rs 12 a kilo to almost Rs 19. Thoughts now: I’m looking forward to Holi and nothing can come between my favourite festival and me. I shall play in Ultadanga with at least 40 friends and family members. We even build human pyramids to break pots filled with things like curd, cowdung, colour. I shall go to vote too without any worries. Age: 52 Profession: Businessman Resident of: AD Block A year ago: On March 22 - the day of the junta curfew last year - I got a fever that later to be Covid, making me the first Covid patient of Salt Lake. Back then there was almost no medical infrastructure in place and I had a harrowing experience in the hospital. Doctors and nurses were scared to enter my room, I had no access to a toilet… The only saving grace is that I made a full recovery. Back to work: Even before the lockdown my routine was simply home to office and back and I still don’t know who I got Covid from. Nonetheless when we returned to office, we started providing pick-up and drop facility to our staff. Thoughts for tomorrow: I am busy with office work as the financial year-end is approaching but shall take the vaccine thereafter, in April. I’ll go to vote and partake in Holika dahan and a puja at home, without playing with colours. Age: 42 Profession: Cook Lockdown and beyond: I left for my district home in Duttaphulia, on Nadia-North 24 Parganas border, immediately on hearing of the lockdown announcement. My son is studying in college there. There was fear about the unknown disease that was being talked of and we wanted to stay together. The next seven-eight months were very tough as we had little to survive on except the rice and atta we got from the ration shop. Many of us got beaten up for venturing out of home by the police. Those of us who had stayed back in Salt Lake got sacked but some were given salaries though they were told not to come to work. Since I left, none of the houses I worked for offered me anything. Then Cyclone Amphan came and destroyed the tent we have here as home. We came back two months ago and found the tent torn and our bed soaking wet. We still have not managed to repair it. I got one cooking job back of the four I had and joined two new ones. My husband pulls rickshaw at Baisakhi. He has not been getting as many passengers to ferry as he used to as schools and offices have not reopened. We just make ends meet. In one house, I have to change from sari into nightie which I wash before leaving. The boudis have excused me from wearing a mask as it gets so hot in the kitchen. Thoughts for tomorrow: We are hearing rumours of another lockdown after the election. We won’t survive if it happens. Our savings are wiped out. Additional reporting by Debasmita Bhattacharjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||CMA Management Excellence Awards 2021 to felicitate best of the best in business||The best of the best in business will be felicitated in the city on Friday evening. The CMA Management Excellence Awards 2021 Powered by International Institute of Hotel Management in association with Kutchina and The Telegraph will recognise veteran business leaders as well as emerging leaders who have steered their organisations during the Covid-19 crisis. There will be awards in the following categories — business Leadership, corporate leadership, emerging leader, innovation excellence, institutional excellence, public service and lifetime achievement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Over 150 indigenous parakeets rescued from a house in Narkeldanga||More than 150 indigenous parakeets were rescued from a house near the Narkeldanga intersection by officials of the forest department and the wildlife unit of Calcutta police’s detective department on Thursday. Mohammed Faiyaz, alias Barka, who had allegedly been operating an illegal trade in birds for several years, was arrested from his house during the raid. An official of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) said they had received information that a consignment of birds had landed at Faiyaz’s house. These birds were meant to be sold in different markets of the city and its fringes, including Galiff Street in north Calcutta, where birds are sold every Sunday, a forest official said. Trading in indigenous parakeets is prohibited under the Wildlife Protection Act. Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director, WCCB, said they found the birds crammed inside small cages. The rescued birds have been sent to the Wild Animal Rescue and Transit Facility Centre in Salt Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court lifts curbs on schoolteacher’s salary||The high court on Thursday said teachers who had already enrolled in postgraduate courses when they got the job need not have prior permission from the state government to pursue the programmes. The court also rejected the school education department’s contention that such teachers were not eligible for a higher pay scale because they did not seek the permission of the district inspector (DI) of schools — a wing of the department — to pursue the courses. On Thursday, Justice Sekhar Bobby Saraf directed the education department to pay salary according to a higher scale to a teacher of a higher secondary school who had joined the service while studying master’s. The school education department had denied the teacher the scale on the ground that he had not obtained permission from the DI before enrolling for the postgraduate course. An official of the department said the order would benefit hundreds of teachers who have been denied a higher pay scale on the ground that they did not have the DI’s permission when they began postgraduate courses before joining the service. After the enactment of the School Control Expenditure Act in 2005, the state government had issued a notice announcing that the schoolteachers who did not obtain permission from the DIs before enrolling for postgraduate courses would not be paid at a higher scale. The act was introduced as part of austerity measures undertaken by the then Left Front government. But when Animesh Chowdhury, a mathematics teacher at a higher secondary school, and other teachers who had joined the service while they were studying postgraduate courses were declined higher pay scales, they decided to move court separately. Their contention was that the act could not be binding on them. While hearing the case filed by Chowdhury, the judge observed that since the teacher had joined the service while studying MSc, the question of obtaining permission from the DI did not arise. “Chowdhury had joined the school in 2011, when he was a student of Part II MSc in mathematics and obtained the degree the next year,” said advocate Ekramul Bari, who appeared on behalf of Chowdhury. The lawyer said other petitioners, too, would benefit from the order because the verdict would be used as a precedent. More than 100 such teachers were waiting for the outcome of the case, he said.. Advocate Supriyo Chattopadhyay appeared for the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Pollution test must for govt buses||Government buses can ply only after they have cleared pollution tests, the transport department has decided. Machines to test tail-pipe emissions are being set up across 11 bus depots. “Only a vehicle that clears the pollution test will be allowed to roll out of the depot,” an official of the transport department said. The buses are likely to be tested at the depots from mid-April, officials said. “Once the environment department certifies that the machines installed for testing tail-pipe emissions are in order, we will start testing,” said an official of the West Bengal Transport Corporation. “Each bus will have to undergo the test regularly and the depot managers will have to submit reports.” Tail-pipe emissions from buses and other diesel vehicles are among the greatest contributors to air pollution in Calcutta, several studies have revealed. A recent source apportionment study commissioned by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board and conducted by the National Environmental and Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) suggests that tail-pipe emissions could account for nearly a third of the PM2.5 in the air. PM2.5 are the most potent air pollutants that can enter deep into the lungs and trigger a host of critical ailments, including cancer. Transport department officials said each of the buses would undergo the same pollution test that all vehicles undergo and those found unfit will be immediately handed over to the maintenance team in the depot. “Around two years back I had moved the National Green Tribunal seeking to know why government buses in Bengal did not undergo the mandatory pollution check like other vehicles,” environment activist Subhas Datta said. “It will be a good move if the state government actually subjects its buses to pollution checks.” Transport department officials said that initially 1,200 buses, which ply within the city and its adjoining areas, would be made to undergo the test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Three killed after oil tanker collides with bike ||Three young men on a motorcycle died after the driver of an oil tanker lost control of the vehicle while taking a sharp turn and hit the two-wheeler early on Thursday. The accident took place at the crossing of Mayurbhanj Road and Diamond Harbour Road near Ekbalpore. The tanker, containing palm oil, was moving at a high speed and apparently could not negotiate the sharp turn it took at the Mayurbhanj Road crossing, police said. “It seems that the tanker tried to take a right turn at the same speed at which it was moving and could not negotiate the speed and the turn. It toppled and at that moment, a motorcycle plying along Mayurbhanj Road was coming from the opposite direction,” said an officer of Ekbalpore police station. The motorcycle, too, was moving at a high speed and was next to the tanker when it overturned, the officer said. The three men, aged between 20 and 23 years, were trapped under the tanker and had to be dragged out with the help of the disaster management group personnel. They had multiple injuries and were declared dead in hospital. The police identified them as Samir Ahmed, 23, of Mayurbhanj Road, Mohammad Rashidur Rahman, 20, a resident of Shah Aman Lane in Ekbalpore, and Mohammad Akil, 20, of Bhukailash Road. The driver of the tanker had fled but was later caught and booked under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “When the driver knew that he was transporting palm oil, which has high density, and that it would not be possible to suddenly brake a heavy vehicle, he should not have been driving at a high speed in the first place. Also, he didn’t follow the basic rule that all vehicles should slow down while taking a turn,” a senior police officer in Lalbazar said. The crossing of Diamond Harbour Road and Mayurbhanj Road and the interiors of Ekbalpore are usually busy with vehicular traffic. Palm oil from the tanker had spread across the road making it slippery and prone to accidents. “Our men used detergent powder and gallons of water to scrub the road and get it ready before the volume of traffic increased to the usual daytime levels,” another officer of the traffic department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Cycling groups demand permission for pedalling on interlinked roads||Several cycling groups on Thursday demanded that the authorities allow cycling in a network of interconnected roads so people can commute from one end of the city to another using the environment-friendly mode of transport. Allowing cycling on one road and not allowing it on the next will not help a cyclist, said the groups, which sent letters to several political parties on Tuesday and Wednesday stating their demands. They also demanded that all roads connecting the fringes to the city — such as BT Road, EM Bypass and VIP Road — have separate cycling lanes. A similar demand for roads within the city has also been put forward. “We want the authorities to create a network of roads across the city where cycling will be allowed. If someone wants to go to Shyambazar from Gariahat, he or she should be able to go. There is no point in allowing cycling on one road and restricting it on others,” said Satanjib Gupta, the bicycle mayor of Calcutta, an honorary title given by BYCS, a Netherlands-based organisation that promotes cycling across the globe. One cannot pedal from one end of the city to another because cycling, though allowed in lanes and bylanes, is banned on arterial roads. Gupta said Calcutta police had in 2008 banned cycling on several arterial roads. Those spotted cycling on the thoroughfares are liable to be fined. The police had temporarily stopped imposing fine on cyclists during the lockdown last year because many people had no option but to pedal to work and back home in the absence of public transport. The cops have since resumed slapping fines on cyclists spotted on arterial roads. “We want the police to lift the ban and allow cycling on (arterial) roads. To do this, they must create infrastructure safe for cyclists,” said Gupta. Bhargab Maitra, a transportation specialist, echoed the idea of a network of roads where cycling can be allowed. “There should be a city-wide network of bicycle tracks so that a person is able to reach any place within the city. This should be similar to the kind of road network that is available for motorised transport,” said Maitra, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur. The cycling groups have together sent a letter listing their demands to various political parties. The demands include setting up of cycle stands near all railway stations in the state and near all Metro railway stations in Calcutta. “We have to promote the use of public transport and cut down the use of cars. Calcutta has very little road space and it is also a city with very poor air quality. We have to promote sustainable transport,” said a cyclist. Since a lot of people from the fringes come to the city on cycles, the groups demanded that dedicated cycle lanes be set up on roads like EM Bypass, BT Road and VIP Road. “A lot of poor people come to work in the city from the fringes. They prefer cycling and there should be separate lanes for them on roads like EM Bypass and BT Road,” said Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Weather cock atop St Andrew’s Kirk will be back soon||The black weather cock atop the white steeple of St Andrew’s Kirk (Scottish Church) that stands right in the middle of Dalhousie Square will be back again crowing over the nearby St John’s Church. It was blown to bits during Cyclone Amphan. Thanks to the efforts of Intach, Calcutta, the black cock — a conspicuous item in the Dalhousie skyline missing from the spire since May last year — will once again tell us which way the wind is blowing over the nearby Writers Buildings. Restorers from Intach are working to put back the brass weather vane which was mounted on the spire when the church was built in 1818 by M/s Burn, Currie & Co. “We found the original drawing of the weather cock from London with measurements,” said G.M. Kapur of Intach, Calcutta, which is paying for the restoration of the bird, estimated at around Rs 10 lakh. “The expenses are being paid from Intach’s fund for repairing heritage structures damaged by natural disasters.” The weather cock had needed no repairs probably since it was mounted when the church was built. “So long I have been with St Andrews Church I don’t recall any instance when the vane was repaired,” said Michael Pook, session’s clerk of the church, who is currently in London. “It was a very old thing made of brass and copper sheets brazed together. It was mounted on a steel frame with a shaft at the bottom and a bronze bearing on which it turned when the wind blew. The whole thing was mounted on the spire,” said Pook. He couldn’t remember if the vane was operational before it fell. “Its a pretty aggressive environment there with pollution and other things. Perhaps it had stopped and caught the full force of the wind and was destroyed,” said Pook. “We could retrieve only bits and pieces of it,” said Reverend Swarup Bar, the priest-in-charge at St Andrew’s. The pieces of the weather cock are being cleaned and repaired by Subrata Sen, senior conservator, Intach Delhi, who is working from a makeshift workshop on the church premises. “The head has totally crashed, the body parts and the tail are there. Almost all the parts of the weather cock have been retrieved,” said Sen, who pieced them together. “I am using the retrieved pieces to reconstruct the bird.”  After reconstruction, installing it atop the spire will be another challenge. St Andrew’s Church was the first Scottish Church of Calcutta built in 1818. At the time Calcutta was the seat of power of the East India Company. In its early days, the company had no ecclesiastical establishment of its own. Apparently, every ship that anchored here had its own chaplain and some ministers from the Episcopal Church of England. As the number of Presbyterians grew, so did the demand for Presbyterian ministers. Though the company was under no obligation to appoint chaplains, they were a god fearing people. And so a chaplain was appointed in 1607, according to the earliest records and the number of churches gradually grew with the growth of the establishment. The Anglo-Indian Presbytery was created by the Charter of 1813 along with the Anglo India Episcopate. James Bryce was appointed as a chaplain of the Bengal Ecclesiastical Establishment. “The first Presbyter and the first Bishop (Middleton) came out together to India. On the ship, there were debates and discussions. They didn’t agree and weren’t the best of friends. The Bishop had said only Aglicans can have a spire on their church. Bryce not only disagreed but promised to build a steeple taller than that of St John’s Church and put a weather cock on top of it to crow over St John’s,” said Pook. When asked if this was indeed true, Pook said: “The story has been told a number of times and no one has disputed it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials to issue certificates in absence of ward coordinators||Various officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have been empowered to issue resident proof, income and other certificates in the absence of ward coordinators. The certificates — which were issued by councillors, and then by ward coordinators after the last civic board’s tenure lapsed in May 2020 — are required to get benefits under various social welfare schemes of the government. The executive engineer, assistant engineer and sub-assistant engineer of the civil department of the CMC can issue income certificates and income resident proof certificates. Any gazetted government officer can also issue a residency proof certificate. The chief manager, manager, deputy manager and assistant manager of the CMC’s social welfare department can also issue residency proof certificates and income certificates, besides certificates required to receive old-age pension, said an official of the civic body. The borough executive health officer and ward medical officer can issue a pauper certificate that allows a family from the below poverty line (BPL) category to complete cremation at a crematorium without any cost. Another CMC official said income certificates were required for scholarships, waiver or reduction in tuition fees and benefits under various government schemes. The residency proof certificate, too, is needed to get benefits under government schemes. “Issuing these certificates was one of the primary roles of a councillor,” said an official. The post of ward coordinators ceased after the Central Election Commission had on March 20 said political appointees holding the post of administrators would be temporarily restrained from exercising their powers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 568 points to close above 49,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 568 points and Nifty reclaimed the 14,500 mark on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, HUL and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 568.38 points or 1.17 per cent higher at 49,008.50. The broader NSE Nifty surged 182.40 points or 1.27 per cent to 14,507.30. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by Titan, Asian Paints, HUL, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto and Nestle India. On the other hand, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, ITC and Maruti were the laggards. According to traders, domestic indices witnessed a smart recovery and ended on a strong note following the positive trend in global equity markets. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.05 per cent higher at USD 63.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and L&T amid a positive trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 500.92 points or 1.03 per cent higher at 48,941.04, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 156.30 points or 1.09 per cent to 14,481.20.  L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, M&M, Tech Mahindra, NTPC, Asian Paints, ICICI Bank and HDFC duo.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, TCS, Dr Reddy's and Sun Pharma were among the laggards.  In the previous session, the Sensex ended 740.19 points or 1.51 per cent lower at 48,440.12, and the NSE Nifty declined 224.50 points or 1.54 per cent to 14,324.90.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Thursday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,383.60 crore, as per exchange data.  "Domestic equities look good at the moment. A sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in the country has clearly made investors risk averse in the domestic market. However, receding bond yields and oil prices this week have offered some comfort," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  In his view, ongoing concerns of the new wave of coronavirus in the country may keep markets volatile in the near term.  Meanwhile, US equities recovered from the day's low and finished with modest gains mainly supported by improved job data and revised GDP figures for the December quarter, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.86 per cent higher at USD 62.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Residential apartments sale in Calcutta regains momentum||The sale of residential apartments in Calcutta appears to have regained the momentum seen before the onset of the pandemic, two separate reports published by brokerages suggest. More apartments are expected to be sold during the January-March quarter — which will come to a close in less then a week — compared with the same period of 2020, a quarter marked by disruption caused by the  lockdown. Anarock, which specialises in the residential market, reckoned 2,680 units were sold in Calcutta during the period, higher than 2,440 recorded in the same period of last year. JLL, which limits its coverage area to the core city, also noted that sales in this quarter were 105 per cent of the same period of last fiscal. It also found out that there has been an improvement in home sales every quarter since the lockdown was lifted. The report pointed out that the off-take of residential units in the January-March period of 2021 was driven by south suburbs (Joka, Kasba, Behala, Jadavpur, Tollygunj)  and east suburbs (EM Bypass, Rajarhat, Topsia)  with a combined contribution of over 70 per cent. Saket Mohta, managing director of Merlin Group, said: “My experience is also quite the same. Now, the numbers are more or less better than pre-Covid and (from) post lockdown there is a surge in sales.” He said there is a high demand for projects where customers can move in readily, adding that the uptick is being witnessed from October 2020. National picture Even as the two reports agreed that there is a perceptible recovery in home sales post lockdown, they differed on the extent and the pace of it. Anarock claimed that 58,290 units were sold between January and March in the seven major cities of the country, which is 29 per cent higher than the same period of 2020 — which included a week of complete lockdown. JLL, however, claimed that housing sales are yet to breach the pre-Covid level, even though it was pretty close to doing so. They noted that the sales during January-March are at 93 per cent of last fiscal. “The sustained growth in sales presents clear signs of demand and buyer confidence coming back to the market. This has been on the back of a historically low home loan interest rate, stagnant residential prices, lucrative payment plans and  freebies from developers and government incentives such as the reduction of stamp duty in states like Maharashtra and Karnataka (for affordable housing),” Samantak Das, chief economist of JLL and head research and REIS of JLL, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Harsh C. Mariwala named EY Entrepreneur of the Year 2020||Harsh C. Mariwala, chairman of Marico, was on Thursday named the EY Entrepreneur of the Year 2020. He will now represent India at the EY World Entrepreneur of the Year Award on June 10. Prathap Chandra Reddy, founder and executive chairman, Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd, was felicitated with the Lifetime Achievement Award. Awards were also announced for eight other categories. These include Byju Raveendran, founder and CEO, Think & Learn Pvt Ltd (BYJU’S), for business transformation; Peyush Bansal, founder and CEO, Lenskart Solutions Pvt Ltd, in the start-up category; Deepak Mehta, chairman and managing director, Deepak Nitrite Ltd, in manufacturing; Dinesh Agarwal, chief executive officer and managing director, IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd, in services. The other winners are Sushil Kumar Agarwal, MD and CEO, Aavas Financiers Ltd, in financial services; Darshan Patel, chairman and managing director, Vini Cosmetics Pvt Ltd, in consumer products and retail; Ameera Shah, managing director, Metropolis Healthcare Ltd, in life sciences and healthcare; and Suresh Narayanan, chairman and managing director, Nestle India Ltd, in the entrepreneurial CEO category. Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries, delivered the keynote address at the virtual awards ceremony. The winners were selected by a nine-member independent jury panel led by Uday Kotak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Sebi relaxes start-up listing norms||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Thursday announced a clutch of relaxations to encourage the listing of start-ups even as it tightened rules for de-listing of other entities on the main board. At its board meeting on Thursday, the market regulator also made it mandatory for the top 1,000 listed firms on the basis of market capitalisation to have a dividend distribution policy (from the current top 500) and directed that they should also constitute a risk management committee. It also amended the Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) Regulations and made some changes to the framework for re-classification of promoter group entities. On start-ups In 2015, the market regulator had introduced a new segment called Institutional Trading Platform (ITP) to facilitate listing of new age start-ups. However, the ITP framework failed to evince interest. Subsequently in 2019, it attempted to revive the platform by introducing certain amendments to the ITP framework and renamed it as the Innovators Growth Platform (IGP). This IGP is aimed at technology-intensive issuers. At present, the key requirements for issuer companies to list under IGP are that 25 per cent of their pre-issue capital should have been held for at least a period of two years by qualified institutional buyers (QIBs), family trust, accredited investors (individuals with a net worth of over Rs 5 crore and income of over Rs 50 lakh or a body corporate with a net worth of over Rs 25 crore) and regulated entities like foreign portfolio investors. Further, not more than 10 per cent of the pre-issue capital held by accredited investors is to be considered for 25 per cent pre-issue capital eligibility requirement. The regulator decided to reduce the period of holding of 25 per cent of pre-issue capital of the issuer company by eligible investors to one year from the requirement of two years. More importantly, such investor’s pre-issue shareholding should be considered for the entire 25 per cent of the pre-issue capital of the issuer company against the current limit of only 10 per cent. On the listing of companies on the main board, the issuer company on IGP can allocate up to 60 per cent of the issue size on a discretionary basis, prior to the issue opening for subscription to eligible investors with a lock in of 30 days on such shares. Delisting disclosure The promoter or the acquirer will be required to disclose their intention to delist the company by making an initial public announcement. Further, the committee of independent directors will be required to provide their reasoned recommendations on the proposal for delisting. Moreover, timelines for completion of various activities as a part of the delisting process have been revised to make the process more efficient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Covid: Equity benchmarks crash for second straight session||Equity benchmarks crashed for the second straight session on Thursday as a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the country and fears of localised lockdowns triggered an across-the-board selloff. Bearish global cues and expiry of monthly derivative contracts added to the volatility, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex slumped 740.19 points or 1.51 per cent to close at 48440.12. The broader NSE Nifty tanked 224.50 points or 1.54 per cent to 14324.90. Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 3.98 per cent, followed by HUL, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto, NTPC, Bajaj Finance and UltraTech Cement. Only four index components managed to close in the green — Dr Reddy’s, ICICI Bank, HDFC and L&T, rising up to 0.74 per cent. “The increased rate of infection across the country and the world is creating more pessimism in the market. After the stellar rally, the market was on a consolidation stage during the last one month, which amplified after the sudden rise in infection impacting future economic growth. “The economic fallout in India from the reduction in world GDP growth is likely to be marginal. A fall in the rate of infection through tougher restrictions and pace in vaccination may quickly stabilise the market,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Binod Modi, head of strategy at Reliance Securities, said the market capitalisation of the domestic market slipped below Rs 200 lakh crore for the first time after February 3, 2021, resulting in a wealth erosion of over Rs 5 lakh crore in the last two days. All sectoral indices ended in the red, with BSE telecom, power, auto, energy, utilities and realty indices declining as much as 3.14 per cent. Global markets retreated as investors fretted over the rising Covid-19 cases and the slow pace of vaccination in many countries. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. The global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.35 per cent lower at $63.54 per barrel. The rupee fell by another 7 paise to settle at 72.62 against the dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||RBI flags major concerns on cryptocurrencies to the govt||The RBI has flagged major concerns on cryptocurrencies to the Union government which is expected to make some important announcements on this soon,  governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thursday. However, there were no differences with the Centre on cryptocurrencies and both the RBI and the government were “committed to financial stability”, Das said. Speaking at the India Economic Conclave, Das said he has “reasons to believe” the government was in agreement with the “major concerns” flagged by the RBI . “Central bank digital currency is one thing. The cryptocurrencies which are traded in the market are something else,” Das said. “Both the RBI and the government are committed to financial stability. We have flagged certain concerns around these cryptocurrencies which are being traded in the market.’’ The Modi government has been sending mixed signals on cryptocurrencies. After the Centre proposed a complete ban on such currencies in a Bill presented in January, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier this month said she was all for encouraging experiments on the field. The central bank had first banned banks and other regulated entities from supporting crypto transactions in 2018, which was struck down by the Supreme Court last year. Das said the RBI was assessing the implications of introducing  a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). Disclosures by firms The ministry of corporate affairs in a notification said the companies would now be required to disclose their dealings in crypto currencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
26-03-2021||Business||Covid resurgence will not hit growth: RBI Governor||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the fresh wave of Covid-19 infections across the country would not impact the recovery of the economy and the apex bank was unlikely to revise downwards its forecast of 10.5 per cent growth of the economy for this fiscal. The rising incidence of the coronavirus was a matter of concern but fresh lockdowns were unlikely and growth would not take a hit, Das said on Thursday at the Times Networks’ India Economic Conclave. The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will give its final growth estimate for this fiscal on April 7. The RBI governor does not anticipate a repeat of the nationwide lockdown seen last year. “Revival of economic activity should continue unabated and I don’t see a downward revision in 10.5 per cent growth estimate for 2021-22 which the RBI has given last month.” The country has an “insurance” to protect economic revival such as a fast-paced vaccination drive and a greater ability among people to follow protocols. Das reiterated the central bank will use all its policy tools to revive the economy, while ensuring price and financial stability. Das declined to comment on the new inflation targeting framework as he asked all to wait for the resolution of MPC on April 7. When asked about the state of the bond market, the RBI governor said the central bank and the market were not in a fight  even as he re-emphasised their relationship should be a non-combative one. He added the RBI would like for an orderly evolution of the yield curve with no sudden spike. Further, the central bank does not want excessive volatilities in the forex market and has been accumulating reserves to protect against the possible impact of the withdrawal of the stimulus measures in advanced economies. India’s forex reserves are sufficient to cover for 18 months of imports. The RBI is not tracking any particular level of reserves and will ensure to keep the rupee stable, Das said. When asked about the budget proposal to privatise two state-run lenders, Das said  had been discussion between the Mint Street and North Block before the budget and after it as well, and added that the process is moving ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
26-03-2021||India||Night curfew in Maharashtra from Sunday in view of rise in Covid-19 cases||Night curfew will be imposed in entire Maharashtra from March 28 in view of alarming rise in coronavirus cases, an official statement said on Friday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered night curfew from Sunday onwards, it said. Thackeray also warned of stricter restrictions if the people did not observe Covid-19 safety protocol, it said. The chief minister reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state in a meeting with divisional commissioners, district collectors, superintendents of police and deans of medical colleges. "I do not wish to impose lockdown. But there seems a possibility of healthcare facilities falling short given the rise in number of coronavirus patients," Thackeray was quoted as saying. He asked officials to ensure availability of adequate hospital beds and medicines, the statement said. Maharashtra recorded 35,952 coronavirus infections on Thursday, the highest one-day rise since the pandemic began. The state added over one lakh cases in four days. People should celebrate Holi in a simple manner considering the rise in Covid-19 cases and crowding should be avoided, the state government said on Friday.  Holi will be celebrated on March 28 and Rang Panchami falls a day later.  "The festival should be celebrated in a simple manner, observing social distancing norms and without coming together in any way given the increasing spread of Covid-19. Rang Panchami too should be celebrated in a simple manner," the government said in a statement. Noting that the state's Konkan region has a tradition of carrying a 'palkhi' or palanquin in a procession on Holi, the state government said this should be confined to temples and asked the local administration to do the needful. "No big religious or cultural programmes should be organised on the day of Holi and Rang Panchami," the government added. The state government also urged the Christian community to observe Good Friday (on April 2) and celebrate Easter Sunday (on April 4) in a simple manner in view of the spread of the disease.  The government said, if a church is spacious, maximum of 50 persons should attend the prayer meet there during the holy week from March 28 to April 4. If the church is smaller in size, then a special prayer meet should be held in the presence of 10-25 persons, and four to five special masses may be organised depending on the need, it said. It said adherence to Covid-19 protocols, including wearing masks, using hand sanitisers etc, must be ensured, adding that efforts must also be made to broadcast prayer meets online. "No religious programme that can attract crowd in any way should be organised. Besides, procession should not be taken out," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Modi hails ‘Bangabandhu’ Mujibur, says bond of blood unites us ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hailed “Bangabandhu” Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's leadership and the contributions of the Indian Army in Bangladesh's 1971 Liberation War as he joined his counterpart Sheikh Hasina and President Abdul Hamid in celebrating the golden jubilee of the country's independence and the birth centenary of its founder. Addressing Bangladesh's 50th Independence anniversary at the National Parade Square, Modi recalled the role played by the Indian Army in the freedom war and said the blood of those who fought for their liberation and the blood of Indian soldiers are flowing together and this blood will form such a relationship that will not break down under any type of pressure. "I salute the brave soldiers of the Indian Army who stood with the brothers and sisters of Bangladesh in Muktijuddho. Those who gave their blood in Muktijuddho, sacrificed themselves, and played a very big role in realising the dream of independent Bangladesh," said Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus. Modi, who was wearing a “Mujib Jacket” as a tribute to Bangladesh's Father of the Nation, said that Bangabandhu's leadership and bravery had ensured that no power could enslave Bangladesh. Under Bangabandhu's leadership, people of Bangladesh across the social spectrum came together and became “Muktibahini”, Modi said, adding Bangladesh's Liberation War had support from all corners of India, from all parties, every section of the society. "This is one of the most memorable days of my life. I am grateful that Bangladesh has included me in this event. I am grateful that Bangladesh has invited India to take part in this function. It is a matter of our pride that we got the opportunity to honour Sheikh Mujibur Rahman with the Gandhi Peace Prize," he said. The Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 was conferred on Bangabandhu early this week. It was for the first time that the award was given away posthumously. At the beginning of the programme, Modi handed over the Gandhi Peace Prize to Bangabandhu's daughters Prime Minister Hasina and her younger sister Sheikh Rehana. Recalling the 1971 war of independence, Modi said the pictures of atrocities that the Pakistan Army inflicted on the people in then East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) used to distract people in India. "I must have been 20-22 years old when I and my colleagues did Satyagraha for Bangladesh's freedom," he told the gathering. The war broke out after the sudden crackdown at midnight past on March 25, 1971 in the erstwhile East Pakistan by the Pakistani troops and ended on December 16. The same year Pakistan conceded defeat and unconditionally surrendered in Dhaka to the allied forces comprising the freedom fighters and the Indian soldiers. Officially three million people were killed during the nine-month long war. Modi said the next 25 years are crucial for both India and Bangladesh. “Our heritage is shared, our growth is shared, our targets and opportunities are also shared,” he said. He said both India and Bangladesh have the power of democracy and vision for the future, and it is necessary for the region the two countries progress together. "That is why Indian and Bangladeshi governments are making meaningful efforts in this direction," he said. "We must remember that we've similar opportunities in fields of trade and commerce, but at the same time, we've similar threats like terrorism. The ideas and powers behind such types of inhumane acts are still active. We must remain vigilant and united to counter them, he added. On the occasion of the 50th year of Indo-Bangla ties, Modi invited 50 Bangladeshi entrepreneurs to India. "They should get associated with our innovation ecosystem and meet venture capitalists. We will learn from them and they will learn from us as well," he said. Earlier, the programme began with religious leaders from Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism and Christianity reciting prayers from their holy books, projecting a secular image of Muslim-majority Bangladesh. Bangladesh was founded as a secular state, but Islam was made the state religion in the 1980s. In 2010, the High Court held up the secular principles of the 1972 constitution. Modi was the guest of honour while Bangladesh President Hamid was the chief guest at the function chaired by Prime Minister Hasina. Meanwhile, at least four persons were killed and dozens injured when some Islamist organisations protesting Prime Minister Modi's visit to Bangladesh clashed with police on Friday afternoon. In Chittagong's Hathazari upazila, at least four persons, including two students, were killed and dozens injured when police tried to disperse the protesters by first firing tear shells followed by rubber bullets and shotguns, the Dhaka Tribune reported. "The Hathazari police station suddenly came under attack. We are trying to bring the situation under control," the paper quoted Additional Superintendent of Police Shahadat Hossain as saying. In Dhaka, at least 50 people, including two journalists, were injured when clashes broke out between a group of protesters and police in the Baitul Mukarram area on Friday afternoon. The protesters, members of various Islamist groups, launched a fresh demonstration after Friday prayers, protesting the visit of Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Two accused sentenced to life imprisonment in Nikita Tomar murder case||A fast-track court in Haryana's Faridabad on Friday sentenced two men to life imprisonment for the murder of Nikita Tomar, five months after the 21-year old woman was shot outside her college. Soon after the court pronounced the quantum of punishment, Haryana's Home Minister Anil Vij told PTI that the state government will file an appeal before the high court, seeking the death sentence for the two men. Apart from awarding the life sentence to convicts Tausif and Rehan under section 302 (murder) and a fine of Rs 20,000, the court also sentenced them to five years' imprisonment and Rs 2,000 as fine under section 366/34 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code, defence counsel Adal Singh Rawat said. Tausif was also sentenced to four years in prison under the Arms Act. All sentences will run concurrently, he told PTI. Faridabad Additional District and Sessions Judge Sartaj Baswana convicted the two men in the case on Wednesday, less than four months after the trial began on December 1. A third accused, Azharuddin, was acquitted. Tausif was trying to force the student into marrying him, police had earlier said. Amid outrage over the murder, which was caught on camera, Vij had linked it to love jihad , a reference to right-wing allegations that marriages are being used to fraudulently convert Hindu women. In his reply to a calling attention motion on the murder, he told the state assembly in November 2020 that the government was planning to bring a Bill to tackle "love jihad". Reacting to the court verdict, the minister said, We will study the judgment. We will file an appeal before the high court so that the convicts get capital punishment. Defence counsel Rawat said Nikita Tomar's family will also file an appeal before the high court. On October 26, the final-year B.Com student had stepped out of her college in Faridabad's Ballabhgarh after an exam when Tausif confronted her, trying to force her into a car, police had said. The two accused were later arrested on the basis of CCTV footage. The Faridabad police filed a 700-page chargesheet before the court on November 6. Vij said the accused were arrested within 24 hours of the crime and the trial was quick. The police filed chargesheet before the court in 11 days, he said. The victim's family had also been demanding capital punishment for the accused. There should be a strong deterrence so that no one else will dare to commit such a crime in future, her father Moolchand Tomar had said earlier. We want the culprits hanged. Nikita sacrificed her life against love jihad, he had said. Azharuddin, who has been acquitted, was arrested on charges of supplying the illicit gun used in the crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Modi hands over Gandhi Peace Prize for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to his daughter||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday handed over the Gandhi Peace Prize 2020, being conferred by India upon Bangladesh's 'Father of the Nation' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, to his daughter Sheikh Rehana, the younger sister of premier Sheikh Hasina. Modi arrived in Bangladesh on a two-day visit to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Hasina. Speaking at the National Day programme of Bangladesh, Modi said it was an honour for India to confer Gandhi Peace Prize on Mujibur Rahman. He handed over the award, a citation, a plaque and a shawl to Sheikh Rehana in the presence of Prime Minister Hasina. The Gandhi Peace Prize is an annual award instituted by the government of India since 1995, the 125th birth anniversary commemoration year of Mahatma Gandhi. Modi earlier said Bangabandhu was a champion of human rights and freedom, and a hero to Indians as well. The award carries an amount of Rs 1 crore, a citation, plaque and an exquisite traditional handicraft/ handloom item. Mujibur Rahman was imprisoned in Pakistan when Bangladesh was born. Pakistan was forced to set him free on January 8, 1972. He returned to Dhaka on January 10, 1972. He later took over as Prime Minister of Bangladesh but was assassinated by some military officers during a coup d'etat on August 15, 1975. His wife, brother, sons and daughters-in-law were also assassinated along with him. Hasina and her sister Sheikh Rehana survived as they were in Europe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||BJP blames corruption in BMC for fire at Mumbai hospital||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday alleged that corruption in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was responsible for the fire at a hospital in a Mumbai mall, which killed 10 patients. The incident of fire occurred in Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall building in Bhandup area shortly after Thursday midnight. The hospital is located on the top floor of the four-storey mall building and there were 76 patients, most of them being treated for COVID-19, when the fire broke out, officials said. "It is the corrupt practices in the BMC that could have led to the fire incident in Bhandup mall. Why no fire audit was performed before sa COVID Care Centre was set up there?" Fadnavis asked. "I would say that the Bombay High Court should take suo moto cognisance of the incident and probe the matter. Those from the BMC, who are responsible for the incident, should face action," the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly said while talking to reporters here. The state government had given assurance of carrying out safety audit of all the hospitals in the state, he said. "Yet this incident occurred today. It means the government is not serious about public health and safety," he said. The Shiv Sena currently rules the Mumbai civic body and also heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state by sharing power with the NCP and the Congress. Another BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said he would file a complaint of criminal negligence against the BMC in connection with the fire, while the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also sought to know how a COVID Care centre was given permission to operate in a mall. Somaiya said the mall is an "epitome of corruption". "I am going to file a complaint of criminal negligence against the BMC. There have been several complaints against this mall, but no action was taken against its owners," he alleged. MNS general secretary Sandeep Deshpande claimed that the mall has not received the occupancy certificate (OC) so far and its fire audit is still incomplete. "The mall was operational without the OC by the BMC. The fire audit could not be completed as the fire system in place there was not satisfactory. That is why, the fire brigade did not issue a clearance certificate," he told reporters. "I still wonder why a COVID Care Centre was set up in this mall. The local ward officer should be questioned and probed for allowing treatment of coronavirus patients at the mall," he said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the spot in the afternoon, said there was approval for starting a temporary coronavirus treatment facility there. He also announced a financial aid of Rs 5 lakh to the next kin of each deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Centre mulls bringing more population groups under vaccination drive||The Centre is planning to widen the scope of the COVID-19 immunisation drive by bringing more population groups under its ambit, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday, days after everyone above 45 years was made eligible to get vaccinated from April 1. He said people have embraced the 'Made in India' vaccines, and it is due to this enthusiasm and trust that the country crossed the last one crore vaccination in just under four days. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated first and immunisation of frontline workers began from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination has commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions. "A few days ago, the government announced that from April 1 all citizens aged 45 years and above, whether having any comorbidity or not, will be eligible to get vaccinated. The government is already planning to widen the umbrella of COVID-19 vaccine beneficiaries soon to cover other sections of the population," Vardhan said. He made these remarks during his keynote address on 'Reshape Tomorrow Summit' organised by The Economic Times, according to a health ministry statement. "I have often called 2020 the year of science. A vaccine development process that used to take many years, often decades, has been condensed to about 11 months. "Just in January last year, research started with a previously unknown virus and we now have not just one, but several vaccines that will be administered to millions of people before the end of the year with several other types of COVID-19 vaccines also on the way," the minister said. Both Covaxin and Covishield are being manufactured in India. But, Covaxin by Bharat Biotech has been developed in the country under the ambit of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) showcasing the nation's remarkable scientific acumen and vaccine development capability to the world, he said. "People have embraced our 'Made in India vaccines, and it is due to this enthusiasm and trust, we crossed our last one crore vaccinations in just under four days," the minister was quoted as saying in a statement. Vardhan also described India's investment in the 'test, track and treat' strategy along with the behavioural change campaign as the bedrock of the country's highest recovery rate and minuscule fatality rate, it said. He praised Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's decision to allocate Rs 35,000 crore for the COVID-19 vaccination drive in the 2021-22 budget. "On January 16, India started its national vaccination programme against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. That day witnessed vaccination of the highest number of beneficiaries anywhere in the world on the first day. Back then, our priority was to use the COVID-19 vaccine as a shield to protect our healthcare and frontline workers. "Within the first 34 days, we touched 1 crore vaccination, and in the subsequent weeks, we opened the vaccination to other priority groups. Throughout this vaccination drive, our focus has been on keeping the services as citizen-friendly as possible," Vardhan said. To speed up the pace of the vaccination drive, the Centre has lifted time restrictions and people can now get immunised round the clock according to their convenience across India, he said. Applauding the collaborative approach followed by India for planning and execution of the vaccination drive, Vardhan propounded the exercise as an excellent example of how the federal system can work in synergy to maximize the reach of a programme. The vaccination drive is being coordinated as a 'Jan Bhagidari Aandolan' involving many stakeholders like ministries, departments, professional bodies, medical colleges, NGOs, CSOs, media houses, private sector, youth and women volunteer groups, he added. "In these trying times when the clamour for 'vaccine nationalism' is on the rise, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, being a champion of global cooperation and humanity, has led the way by example. "His decision to extend help to our global family not only resonates well with our age-old virtues of 'Vasudhaivakutumbakam', exalting the entire world as one family but has also further cemented India's stature as a true leader in the comity of nations," the health minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
26-03-2021||India||Yogi blames Rahul Gandhi for Congress's downfall||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi, saying the Congress leader does not speak on his own but depends on "borrowed wisdom" and he is becoming a reason for his party's downfall. "Rahul ji apni buddhi se toh kuch kahte nahin. Udhar ki buddhi vivek nahin deti hai. (Rahul ji does not say anything from his wisdom. Borrowed wisdom does not give sense of reasoning)," Adityanath said while responding to a question about Gandhi's criticism of the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh under his government. Adityanath made the remarks at the India Economic Conclave which he attended via a video bridge. The chief minister said that since Gandhi hardly visits the state, he would have little information about the ground situation there. When India faces a crisis, Rahul Gandhi does not remember the people of the country but his maternal grandmother in Italy, Adityanath said. "He criticises north when he is in south, and south when he is in north (India)," the senior BJP leader said targeting Gandhi who is the MP from Wayanad in Kerala. The Congress leader had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha Elections from Wayanad and Amethi, but lost to BJP's Smriti Irani in the Uttar Pradesh seat. Gandhi also criticises India when he is abroad, Adityanath said, adding that when a person has such a nature, his reliability is under question. Adityanath claimed that Gandhi is becoming a reason for the Congress' downfall. To a question about opinion polls predicting another term for the Left Democratic Front in Kerala against the convention of the party in power being ousted in the next election in the state, he said Gandhi's arrival in the state has triggered a slide in Congress' fortunes there. Responding to a question on West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee, he said it is an "ideological victory" for the BJP that people who used to describe going to temple as "communal" are themselves visiting temples. "This may be due to elections, but we consider it as our ideological victory. Ideological victory leads to real victory," Adityanath said. He recalled that restrictions were placed on Durga Puja in West Bengal in 2018. Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath said, faced a similar situation as Durga Puja and Moharram fell at the same time. He said his government allowed both by fixing time for the two by talking to stakeholders. Later, the West Bengal government approached the Uttar Pradesh government to understand how it managed to allow both the religious events, he claimed. Predicting a win for the BJP in the West Bengal polls, Adityanath said every section of society wants change in the state. He said Uttar Pradesh has progressed in every field since the BJP came to power in the state in 2017. The size of its economy is now second in the country from six in 2015-16, Adityanath said. He said that his government identified various fields to boost people's income and improve the state's economy. The per capita income has gone up to Rs 96,000 from Rs 47,000 earlier, Adityanath said. The state has seen over Rs 3 lakh crore private investment in the last four years, he said, adding that law and order has considerably improved and road and air connectivity boosted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||SC asks Punjab govt to hand over Mukhtar Ansari’s custody to UP||The Supreme Court Friday directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is lodged in Rupnagar jail there, to Uttar Pradesh Police. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy said that the custody of Ansari, an MLA from Mau constituency, be handed over to the state of Uttar Pradesh within two weeks. The top court also dismissed a plea by Ansari seeking transfer of cases lodged against him in Uttar Pradesh to some other place outside the state. The top court delivered the verdict on the plea of Uttar Pradesh government seeking a direction to the Punjab government and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari, to the district jail Banda. On March 4, the top court was informed by the Punjab government that Yogi Adityanath-led government has no fundamental right to seek Ansari's transfer from Rupnagar jail to a district jail in Banda in Uttar Pradesh. Ansari is lodged in district jail Rupnagar in Punjab in connection with an alleged extortion case since January 2019. He is also accused in several cases of heinous crimes lodged in Uttar Pradesh. The UP government has earlier contended that Ansari has been dodging the judicial system and is running his alleged illegal activities from Rupnagar district jail in Punjab. While Uttar Pradesh had alleged in the apex court that there is collusion between Ansari and Punjab Police, the Amarinder Singh government has refuted these claims and raised questions over the maintainability of plea filed by the Yogi Adityanath government. The UP government has referred to the prison rules and said that though the state itself does not have fundamental rights, it can espouse the cause and the fundamental rights of the victims and it may assume the position of the victim. It said Ansari had flouted the jail manual rules and rights of the victim and the State at large cannot be overlooked and the accused cannot be allowed to jettison the fair trial. It had said that the top court under Article 142 can order transfer of Ansari from Punjab jail to a jail in Uttar Pradesh as around 14 and 15 cases are at final stages. Ansari, who has also filed a petition seeking transfer of his cases in UP to outside the state, had submitted that because of his political affiliation to a party in opposition, he is being targeted. Punjab government has said that Ansari has been unwell and the central government owned PGI Chandigarh has been giving him the medical certificates from time to time. The UP government has made repeated efforts to seek Ansari's custody and it has been told by the Punjab jail authorities that Ansari has been unwell and their response has been based on medical records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Govt extends validity of driving licence, vehicle documents till June||The government on Friday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents like driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till June 30, 2021, in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. In an advisory to states, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said it is extending the validity of fitness, permit, driving licence, registration and other documents whose extension of validity could not be granted due to lockdown and which had expired since February 1, 2020, or would expire by March 31, 2021. It had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020, August 24, 2020, and December 27, 2020, in connection with extension of validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. It is advised that the validity of the documents that have expired since February 1,, the same may be treated to be valid till June 30, 2021, the ministry said in an advisory to states. Enforcement authorities are advised to treat such documents valid till June 30, 2021, the MoRTH said adding that "this will help out citizens in availing transport-related services". Stating that this may be last advisory in this regard, the ministry has asked the states to implement this advisory in letter and spirit, so that citizens are not harassed or face difficulties. Earlier through various notifications, it was advised that the validity of fitness, permit (all types), licence, registration or any other concerned documents may be treated to be valid till March 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Mehbooba accuses govt of trying to dismantle PDP||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday accused the Centre of trying to dismantle her party by luring and threatening its members. Her remarks come a day after she was grilled for five hours by the Enforcement Directorate at its Srinagar office in connection with a money laundering case. In a tweet, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister charged, "GOI (Government of India) is trying to dismantle PDP by luring & threatening its members. Investigative agencies like ED are being used to intimidate me." Accusing the government of trying to subject her to political vendetta, she said, "To make matters worse, I'm being denied my fundamental right to a passport. If this isn't political vendetta then what is?". After the questioning, Mufti had told reporters that dissent has been criminalised in the country and central agencies like NIA, CBI and ED were being misused to silence the opposition. "Dissent has been criminalised in this country. ED, CBI and NIA are being misused to silence the opposition tactically," she charged. She further charged that anyone opposing the current government was hounded by trumped up charges like sedition or money laundering. "This country is not being run by the Constitution but the agenda of a particular political party," she alleged. Asked about the questions put forth to her by the ED, the PDP chief said she was asked about the sale of her ancestral land in Bijbehara area of Anantnag district and the use of the Chief Minister's discretionary funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||NEP to ensure equality and quality in education sector: Ramesh Pokhriyal||Union Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Friday said the new National Education Policy will form the basis of ensuring equality and quality in the sector and rubbished allegations of "saffronisation" of education. The new policy, which was approved by the Union Cabinet last year, replaced the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986. "There is no such thing as saffronisation of education. Those who are alleging this, do not have a correct definition of saffronisation. Yes, we are respecting our mother tongue but are countries like Israel and Japan which offer education in their language, behind others?" Education Minister Pokhriyal said in response to a question at the India Economic Conclave. Teaching up to class 5 in mother tongue or regional language, lowering the stakes of board exams, a single regulator for higher education institutions except for law and medical colleges, and common entrance tests for universities are part of the new National Education Policy (NEP). "English is not knowledge, it is just a language. Today when Germany has over 14 universities teaching Sanskrit, no one asks them anything, when we do the same, there are allegations of saffronisation," the minister said. "No language is being imposed on anyone. We have brought an excellent new education policy which will ensure equality, quality and access in the education sector," Pokhriyal said. Among the salient features of the new NEP also are replacing the 10+2 structure of school curricula with a 5+3+3+4 structure corresponding to age groups 3-8, 8-11, 11-14 and 14-18 years respectively, scrapping of M.Phil programmes and implementing common norms for private and public higher education institutions. The policy is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Modi pays homage to martyrs of Bangladesh War of Independence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday visited the National Martyr's memorial at Savar here and paid homage to those who sacrificed their lives in the 1971 Bangladesh War of Independence against Pakistan. "I pay my heartfelt tribute to the patriotic martyrs of Bangladesh whose glorious sacrifices enabled the birth of this great Nation. May every visitor to this revered ground honour the sacred memory of the millions who were slain but not silenced. Their valour will continue to inspire future generations to fight injustice and defend the cause of righteousness," Modi wrote in the visitor's book at the memorial. "On behalf of the people of India, I pray that the eternal flame at Savar remains a lasting reminder of the noble victory of truth and courage over deceit and oppression," he wrote. Army bugles played the Last Post as the Bangladesh national flag was hoisted at half mast in a ceremonial manner as Prime Minister Modi stood in solemn silence in front of the memorial as a mark of respect to the martyrs after placing a wreath. Designed by Syed Mainul Hossain, the memorial at Savar, about 35 km north-west of Dhaka, comprises seven pairs of triangular-shaped walls -- each representing a significant chapter in Bangladesh's history, including the 1952 'Bhasha Andolan' (Language Movement) -- through which Bangladesh became an independent nation from Pakistan. On reaching the memorial, Modi planted a sapling of the Arjuna tree "to commemorate sacrifices of the patriotic martyrs of Bangladesh", the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) tweeted. "This sapling has been planted as a mark of respect for the valorous martyrs of Bangladesh," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. In another tweet, the PMO said, in the same complex, the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had also planted a sapling during his Bangladesh visit in 1999. Vajpayee had planted a sapling of Cape jasmine that time. Sharing a picture of Modi laying the wreath at the memorial, the Ministry of External Affairs tweeted, "Prime Minister @narendramodi paying solemn tribute at the National Martyr's Memorial to the brave-hearts of the Liberation War of Bangladesh, for their great sacrifices." Later, Modi met political leaders from the ruling Grand Alliance. "Engaging the Bangladeshi political leadership across the spectrum! PM @narendramodi meets political leaders from 14 Party Alliance along with convener. Discussions centred on diverse issues of our bilateral relations," the MEA tweeted, sharing a picture of the meeting. Modi arrived Dhaka on a two-day visit during which he will attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, was received by Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival. A salute of 19 guns and Guard of honour were accorded to Prime Minister Modi at the airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea to stay on sale of electoral bonds||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea seeking stay on further sale of electoral bonds ahead of Assembly elections. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde declined to stay sale of the electoral bonds as sought in the application moved by the NGO, Association for Democratic Reforms. "Since the bonds were allowed to be released in 2018 and 2019 without interruption, and sufficient safeguards are there, there is no justification to stay the electoral bonds at present," the bench said on Friday, as reported by NDTV. The NGO had also sought stay on sale of the electoral bonds during the pendency of the PIL filed by it pertaining to funding of political parties and alleged lack of transparency in their accounts The Centre had earlier told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, that the bonds would be issued from April 1 to April 10. The NGO had claimed that there is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming assembly elections, including in Bengal and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies . While reserving its order on the NGO's application, the apex court on March 24 had flagged the issue of possible misuse of funds received through electoral bonds by political parties for illegal purposes like terrorism and had asked the Centre whether there was any control over how these funds were put to use. The top court had said that the government should look into this issue of possible misuse of funds received through electoral bonds for illegal purposes like terrorism. What is the control of the government on how the money is put to use, the bench had asked the government. “The funds can be misused for illegal purposes like terrorism. We would like you, as the government, to look into this aspect, the bench said, adding that political parties may use these funds for activities beyond their political agenda.” “If a political party receives electoral bonds worth Rs 100 crore, what is the assurance that it won't be used for illegal purposes or fund violence,” the bench had observed. The Centre had told the bench that electoral bonds have a validity of 15 days and political parties have to file their income tax return also. It had said that buyers have to use white money and the purchase of electoral bonds is through a banking channel. Terrorism is not funded by white money. It is funded by black money, the government had said. The NGO had said there is anonymity about the donor and the Election Commission and the Reserve Bank of India had earlier raised objections on it. It had also claimed that most of the funds through electoral bonds have gone to the ruling party. Assembly polls will be held in Tamil Nadu, Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Union territory of Puducherry beginning from March 27 to April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||SC sets aside NCLAT order, backs removal of Cyrus Mistry ||In a major victory for the Tata Group, the Supreme Court on Friday set aside a National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) order restoring Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the conglomerate.  A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said it is allowing the appeals filed by the Tata Group.  "The order of NCLAT dated December 18, 2019 is set aside," the bench said while pronouncing the verdict and putting at rest the long-drawn legal battle of the salt-to-software Tata conglomerate.  It said, "...all the questions of law are liable to be answered in favour of the appellants Tata Group, the appeals filed by the Tata Group are liable to be allowed and (the appeal by) the SP (Shapoorji Pallonji) Group is liable to be dismissed."  The bench, which dealt with the SP Group's contention regarding separation, said the valuation of the group's shares depends upon the value of the Tata Sons' stake in listed equities, immovable assets and others.  "...at this stage and in this court, we cannot adjudicate on the fair compensation," it added.  "We will leave it to the parties to take the Article 75 route or any other legally available route in this regard," the bench said.  The SP Group had earlier valued its holding in the Tatas at Rs 1.75 lakh crore.  However, during the hearing in the matter before the apex court, the Tatas had, on December 8 last year, said the valuation of the 18.37 per cent shares of the SP Group in Tata Sons Private Limited (TSPL) is between Rs 70,000 crore and Rs 80,000 crore.  The SP Group had told the top court that Mistry's removal as the chairman of TSPL at a board meeting held in October 2016 was akin to a "blood sport" and "ambush", in complete violation of the principles of corporate governance and in pervasive violation of the Articles of Association in the process.  The Tata Group had vehemently opposed the allegations and denied any wrongdoing, saying the board was well within its right to remove Mistry as the chairman.  The top court had, on September 22 last year, restrained the SP Group and Mistry as also his investment firm from pledging or transferring their shares in TSPL.  The SP Group, which owns 18.37 per cent shares in TSPL, had said the latter moved the top court to block its plan to pledge shares for raising funds and that reeked of vindictiveness and oppression of minority shareholder rights.  The apex court had, on January 10 last year, granted relief to the Tata Group by staying the NCLAT order by which Mistry was restored as the executive chairman of the conglomerate.  Mistry had succeeded Ratan Tata as the chairman of TSPL in 2012, but was ousted four years later.  TSPL had earlier told the top court that it was not a "two-group company" and there was no "quasi-partnership" between it and Cyrus Investments Private Limited.  In his reply to the Tatas' petition challenging his reinstatement by the NCLAT order, Mistry had also demanded that group chairman emeritus Ratan Tata should reimburse all the expenses to TSPL since his departure in December 2012, in keeping with the best global governance standards.  Mistry is seeking representation in the company in proportion to the 18.37-per cent stake held by his family, according to the cross-appeal.  TSPL, formerly known as Tata Sons Limited, had sought setting aside of the NCLAT order in toto, alleging that it was "completely inconsistent with the annals of corporate law" and reflected "non-appreciation of facts", which was "untenable in law".  The NCLAT had held that the group's chairman emeritus Ratan Tata's actions against Mistry were oppressive and the appointment of a new chairman was illegal.  It, however, had stayed the operation of its order with respect to Mistry's reinstatement for four weeks to allow TSPL to file an appeal in the top court.  "In other words, far from putting an end to the alleged acts complained of, the judgment (of the NCLAT) has sown the seeds for a never-ending discord and conflict between shareholders of the appellant (TSPL), creating a recipe for an unmitigated disaster," the Tata Group had said.  The plea had raised questions of law and said the order restoring Mistry to his "original position" as the executive chairman of TSPL for the "rest of the tenure" was illegal as his tenure "stood extinguished in March 2017".  The plea termed "illegal" the NCLAT's declaration that Natarajan Chandrasekaran's appointment as the chairman of TSPL was wrong and claimed that he was appointed "in accordance with the articles and duly approved by the board and shareholders".  It alleged that the NCLAT granted a relief to Mistry that was not even sought.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Noted journalist and author Anil Dhaker passes away at 74||Noted journalist and author Anil Dharker died here on Friday, a former colleague said. Dharker (74) was the founder and director of the Mumbai International Literary Festival, held in November every year and was also the founder and director of Literature Live! which holds literary evenings throughout the year in the city. He underwent a bypass procedure at a Mumbai hospital on Thursday and died there on Friday morning, the colleague said. Over a five-decade-long illustrious career, Dharker had been a columnist and writer, an architect, a member of the advisory committee of the film censor board and more. Dharker had been the editor of a variety of publications, starting with Debonair (a monthly), Mid-Day and Sunday Mid-Day (evening papers); The Independent, a morning broad-sheet from the Times of India group and The Illustrated Weekly of India. He was a columnist for The Indian Express newspaper and author The Romance Of Salt, a book on Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi March. Dharker had also worked as a TV show producer and anchor, and head of a news television channel. He was a member of the Advisory Boards of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), Doordarshan, the Children’s Film Society of India and several film funds for the production of films in India. He was also a recipient of several awards for journalism. Expressing grief over Dharkers demise, columnist Bachi Karkaria tweeted: "Extremely saddened by the passing of the many talented Anil Dharker. I can safely say no other Indian Litfest curator had his deep, emotional commitment or drive. Knew him for well nigh 50 years. Flourish as much up there, dear Anil." In her tributes to Dharker, fellow author and columnist Shobhaa De tweeted: Goodbye dearest Anil. An elegant mind, a stylish writer, and a loyal friend. You will be missed by all those whose lives you touched. RIP." Lyricist and Chairman of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) Prasoon Joshi tweeted," Saddened to hear about Anil Dharker passing away. Will miss and cherish the discussions we had about life. A stimulating mind, nurturer of literature and art who thrived on ideas."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Modi flies to Dhaka in first foeign trip after Covid-19, to hold talks with Hasina||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Dhaka on Friday on a two-day visit to Bangladesh during which he will attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, was received by Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival. The prime minister travelled to Dhaka on the newly-inducted custom-made Boeing 777 aircraft. He wore his mask before alighting from the aircraft and exchanging pleasantries with Hasina. He received a guard of honour at the airport. The prime minister had on Thursday said he will hold substantive discussions with his Bangladeshi counterpart during the visit, as he expressed happiness that his first foreign tour after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic will be to a friendly neighbouring country with which India shares deep ties. "Our partnership with Bangladesh is an important pillar of our Neighbourhood First policy, and we are committed to further deepen and diversify it. We will continue to support Bangladesh's remarkable development journey, under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's dynamic leadership," Modi tweeted ahead of his visit. Modi wrote that he was looking forward to remembering the life and ideals of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and celebrate 50 years of Bangladesh's War of Liberation, as well as our diplomatic ties. Modi is scheduled to go straight to the National Martyrs' Memorial in Savar from the airport to pay tributes to the 1971 Liberation War martyrs. Shortly afterwards, he will visit the Bangabandhu Memorial Museum at Dhanmondi 32, originally the Bangladesh founder's private residence, to pay homage to his memories. Later, Modi will join the celebration programme as the guest of honour at the National Parade Square. Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid will be the chief guest at the function, which would be chaired by Prime Minister Hasina. In the evening, Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the "Bangabandhu-Bapu Museum" jointly with his counterpart at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre. He will also attend a state banquet hosted in his honour by Hasina. On Saturday, Modi will visit the mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at Tungipara in Gopalganj district, the first Indian dignitary to ever visit the place. He is also scheduled to visit the Jeshoreshwari and Orkandi temples in southwestern Shatkhira and Gopalganj on Saturday. On Saturday afternoon, Modi will hold talks with Hasina at the Prime Minister's Office, where at least five MoUs are expected to be signed and a number of projects inaugurated virtually. Later, he will meet President Hamid at Bangabhaban presidential palace before leaving for New Delhi in the evening. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
26-03-2021||India||Traffic movement suspended in Ghazipur border for farmers’ Bharat Bandh||The Delhi Police on Friday closed both carriageways of National Highway-24 passing through the Ghazipur border in view of the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions protesting against the three agri laws. Farmers gathered at several national highways, key roads and some railway tracks in Punjab and Haryana on Friday morning as part of their nationwide protest against the Centre's new agri laws. According to the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting unions who called for the bandh, the Bharat Bandh is being observed from 6 am to 6 pm to mark four months of the farmers' agitation at Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. In a tweet, the Delhi Traffic Police said, "Traffic movement is closed on Ghazipur Border NH-24 (Both carriageways)." The one side of the carriageway was earlier opened on March 15 for traffic. However, the other side from Ghaziabad towards Delhi has been closed since the farmers' protest started. The Delhi Police has said adequate security arrangements have been put in place in view of the bandh. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal had said there will be intense patrolling to maintain peace in the national capital.  Heavy police force has been deployed in Haryana and Punjab as part of security measures, an official said. The farmers have gathered at several highways and roads in the two states including in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Bhiwani districts. A group of farmers who were holding a protest in Zirakpur and Kharar towns in Punjab, both on the outskirts of Chandigarh, said they were allowing ambulances and other emergency vehicles to pass. Some of the protesters blocked the Ambala-Delhi highway near Ambala Cantt, police said. While another group squatted on a railway track near Shahpur village, around five kilometers from Ambala Cantt, due to which all the trains running between Delhi and Saharanpur were stranded, railway officials said. The farmers also blocked the Ambala-Rajpura Highway on the Haryana-Punjab border near Shambhu barrier, and the Ambala-Hisar Highway near Ambala City. Blockades on various state highways were also reported in Naraingarh and Mullana in Haryana, police said. The SKM, an umbrella body of protesting unions, appealed to protesting farmers to be peaceful and not get involved in any kind of illegitimate debate and conflict during the 'bandh'. "All shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under complete Bharat Bandh. All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked. All services will remain suspended except for ambulance and other essential services. The effect of Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well," SKM had said in a statement. Farmer leaders have said road and rail transport will be blocked and claimed that markets will also remain closed. They also claimed that trade unions from organised and unorganised sectors, and transport and other associations too have extended support to the call for Bharat Bandh. Meanwhile, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), apex religious body of the Sikhs, has also supported the nationwide protest. SGPC president Jagir Kaur had said on Thursday that its offices would be kept closed on Friday in support of the Bharat Bandh. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops. The statement issued by the SKM claimed that various farmers' organisations, trade unions, student organisations, bar associations, political parties and representatives of state governments have supported its call for a nationwide protest. Apart from repealing of three farm laws, the demands of protesting unions include cancellation of all police cases against farmers, withdrawal of electricity and pollution bills, and reduction in prices of diesel, petrol and gas. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but the deadlock has continued as both sides have stuck to their stand. In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||India logs nearly 60,000 cases, highest one-day spike since mid-October||India saw 59,118 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,18,46,652, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The active caseload breached the four lakh-mark again after around three-and-half months. Registering an increase for the 16th day in row, the active cases have increased to 4,21,066 comprising 3.55 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.09 per cent, the data stated. The 59,118 new infections reported in a span of 24 hours were the highest since October 18, 2020. The death toll increased to 1,60,949 with 257 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 61,871 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 18. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,64,637, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,86,04,638 samples have been tested up to March 25 with 11,00,756 samples being tested on Thursday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||10 die, 70 evacuated in Mumbai hospital blaze||Ten patients died after a fire broke out at a Mumbai mall hospital where coronavirus patients were being treated, a fire brigade official said on Friday. The fire broke out at the Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall building in Bhandup area shortly after midnight, the official said. Around 70 patients were rescued, he added. The hospital said there were two deaths due to COVID- 19 at the facility and there was no death due to the fire. The hospital is situated on the top floor of the four-storeyed mall building and 76 patients, most of them being treated for COVID-19, were there when the fire broke out, the official said. The cause of the 'level four' fire (serious emergency call in fire brigade parlance) has not been ascertained yet, the BMC control room sources said. Twenty fire engines, 15 water tankers and ambulances were rushed to the spot. Fire fighting operation is underway, the official said. The 70 patients were evacuated by the fire brigade and shifted to another hospital, the official said, adding fire personnel are checking if any patient is still stuck there. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said strict action will be taken against those found responsible for the fire. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar who visited the site expressed surprise that a hospital was operating inside the mall. "I have seen a hospital at a mall for the first time," the mayor said, adding action will be taken if irregularities were found in allowing the facility to operate there. The hospital in a statement said, "There was a fire on the first floor of Dreams Mall, Bhandup and the smoke reached up to the Sunrise Hospital located on the top floor. When fire alarms beeped, all patients were safely evacuated to the fire refuge area as the smoke was reaching the hospital." "The two bodies have been shifted as well. The other patients have been shifted to nearby jumbo COVID-19 centre and private hospitals," the hospital said. The statement said the hospital was started last year in "exceptional circumstances" of the pandemic and has helped save many lives. "The hospital is functioning with all due compliances like fire licence, nursing home licence among others," it said. The chief minister further said the state government had last year allowed some hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients given the spread of the disease and said that the facility in the Bhandup mall was one of them. "The permission was to end on March 31. Unfortunately, the fire broke on the first floor of the mall and spread upwards," he said. The chief minister said that efforts were made to rescue all the patients admitted at the hospital. However, it took some time to evacuate those who were on ventilators. "Unfortunately, they died," he said."We wake up after such incidents take place and then a probe is carried out. This incident, too, will be investigated. Action will be taken as per law probe against whoever is at fault," Thackeray added. "I had asked (the authorities) to ensure such incidents do not occur. Still, unfortunately, this has taken place. "...I express regret to those who have lost their kin in the incident," he said in Marathi. Speaking in Hindi, Thackeray later said, "I apologise to the kin of those who died in the incident." The chief minister said that compensation of Rs 5 lakh will be given to the next kin of each deceased. President Ram Nath Kovind expresses grief over the incident. "Deeply mourn the loss of lives in a fire accident at a hospital in Bhandup, Mumbai. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims of this tragedy. I pray for speedy recovery of the injured," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||SC quashes FIR against Patricia Mukhim over her FB criticism of Meghalaya CM||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed the FIR registered against Shillong Times editor Patricia Mukhim over her Facebook criticism of Meghalaya’s chief minister and officials for failing to prevent attacks on non-tribals, ruling “free speech” cannot be stifled by implicating people in criminal cases. “Disapprobation of governmental inaction cannot be branded as an attempt to promote hatred between different communities,” the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat observed. “India is a plural and multicultural society. The promise of liberty, enunciated in the Preamble, manifests itself in various provisions which outline each citizen’s rights…,” it said. The Supreme Court added: “They (the citizen’s rights) include the right to free speech, to travel freely and settle (subject to such reasonable restrictions that may be validly enacted) throughout the length and breadth of India.” It set aside a Meghalaya High Court judgment of November 10 last year that had refused to quash the FIR saying Mukhim’s post had “sought to create a divide to the cordial relationship between the tribal and non-tribal living in the state of Meghalaya”. Mukhim had in a Facebook post on July 4 last year questioned chief minister Conrad Sangma’s and his officials’ failure to act against tribal youths who had the previous day brutally assaulted a group of non-tribal youths on a basketball court. “Why should our non-tribal brethren continue to live in perpetual fear in their own state? Those born and brought up here have as much right to call Meghalaya their state as the indigenous tribal does,” she had said. Following a local complaint filed by the Dorbar Shnong (traditional village council) of Lawsohtun, Shillong police registered a case against her under penal code sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups) and 505 (making statements conducive to public mischief), which can bring jail terms of up to three years. Quashing the FIR, Justice Rao, who authored the Supreme Court judgment, said the allegation that her post would “incite communal tension and might instigate a communal conflict in the entire state is only a figment of imagination”. Later in the day, Mukhim told The Telegraph in a text message that the judgment had vindicated her position and that of many others who stood up for the truth and human rights. “It also reminds us all that the right to freedom of expression as guaranteed by the Indian Constitution has been safeguarded by the apex court,” she said. The Supreme Court said the journalist’s plea for the protection of non-tribals living in the state could not by any stretch of imagination be classified as hate speech. “It was a call for justice — for action according to law, which every citizen has a right to expect and articulate. Free speech of the citizens of this country cannot be stifled by implicating them in criminal cases, unless such speech has the tendency to affect public order,” the court said. “The intention has to be judged primarily by the language of the piece of writing and the circumstances in which it was written and published.... (and) must be read as a whole. One cannot rely on strongly worded and isolated passages.... The Facebook post read in its entirety pleads for equality of non-tribals in the state of Meghalaya.” Quoting former US President and liberal thinker Thomas Jefferson, the court observed: “It is of utmost importance to keep all speech free in order for the truth to emerge and have a civil society.” The court noted that sometimes local people’s resentment of settlers can lead to hostility or violence. “In such instances, if the victims voice their discontent, and speak out, especially if the state authorities turn a blind eye, or drag their feet, such voicing of discontent is really a cry for anguish, for justice denied — or delayed. This is exactly what appears to have happened in this case,” the court said. “The attack upon six non-locals, carried out by masked individuals, is not denied by the state; its reporting too is not denied.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||Hardwar: Kumbh Mela duration cut||The duration of Kumbh Mela in Hardwar has been curtailed to one month for the first time in its history and it has been made mandatory for pilgrims to have a “negative” RT-PCR test report to attend in view of a recent surge in Covid cases. The congregation will take place from April 1 to 30, with three shahi snan dates on April 12, 14 and 27. Usually, the event lasts around three-and-a-half months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||Stringent tests required to be passed to get driving licence||Those seeking driving licences are now required to pass a set of stringent skill tests that include reversing a vehicle with reasonable accuracy to qualify for it, the Centre informed the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The passing percentage in order to be eligible to get a driving licence in all regional transport offices has been fixed at 69 per cent, minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari told the House in a written reply. “In the case of vehicle having a reverse gear, driving the vehicle backwards, reversing it into a limited opening either to the right or left under control and with reasonable accuracy”, is one of the parameters of qualifying in the driving skill test, Gadkari said. This is according to the provisions of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. A demonstration is shown on the LED screen installed in all automated driving test tracks, apart from physical demonstration at the test track itself, before the commencement of actualtest, he said. Besides, a video link for driving skill test demo is provided to applicants at the time of booking appointment. In another written reply, Gadkari said the government has notified that certain services related to driving licences and registration certificate have been made completely online with the help of Aadhaar authentication on a voluntary basis. This has been done to help citizens to avail these services in a hassle-free manner and to reduce the footfall in regional transport offices, which will increase the efficiency of RTO officials, the minister said. He said the road transport and highways ministry has also written to all the states and Union Territories to sensitise them in this regard so that they roll out these services at the earliest. He said the ministry has already undertaken steps for facilitation of citizens, including that all forms, fees and documents under the Motor Vehicles Act can be submitted online to avoid human intervention. The steps include dealer point registration, he said, adding that “for registration of new motor vehicles, the onus to apply for registration stands shifted to dealers and the requirement to produce vehicles before the authority stands removed, vide the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019”. Besides, the minister said the driving licence could be renewed anytime between one year before its expiry till one year after its expiry to facilitate citizens away from hometown, visiting abroad, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says 'Sangh Parivar' devoid of family values||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday argued that calling the RSS and its allied outfits “Sangh parivar” was not correct as they were devoid of family values, a critique that could be an attempt to bring the ideological infirmities of the BJP’s mentor into the mainstream discourse. The Congress leader, who is intensely campaigning in election-bound states, tweeted: “I believe it is not correct to call RSS and allied outfits as Sangh Parivar. There are women in a family, there is respect for elders, a feeling of compassion and love — values absent in RSS. Now I won’t describe RSS as Sangh Parivar.” Although Rahul has been one of the strongest critics of the RSS in contemporary politics and has pointed to the absence of women in the outfit’s hierarchy several times in the past, he has now offered a more comprehensive analysis by referring to the perceived lack of compassion and love, apart from respect for elders. Although most RSS office-bearers are elderly people, Rahul might have been pointing to the humiliation of senior leaders such as L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Sumitra Mahajan, Kalraj Mishra and Yashwant Sinha in the garb of an age limit of 75 for participating in active politics. The 75-plus rule may sound farcical now that the BJP has lapped up 88-year-old veteran technocrat E. Sreedharan to reap electoral benefits in Kerala while the 80-year-old Najma Heptulla continues to be governor of Manipur. While women are not allowed in the RSS, there is a separate nondescript outfit called Rashtriya Sevika Samithi that enrols women activists. But the RSS is not for advocacy of women’s empowerment and even the current chief, Mohan Bhagwat, has attracted criticism by arguing that women’s primary duty is to look after the home and keep the husband happy. Rahul’s reference to compassion and love appears linked to the divisive agenda against minorities and intolerance of pluralism that he ceaselessly dwells on. His new articulation, which strikes at the nomenclature of the ideological fraternity called the Sangh parivar, is bound to trigger a larger debate through which the Congress leader seeks to expose the biases of the so-called cultural organisation. Even in states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, Rahul has talked about the infirmities in the RSS ideology in the context of women’s empowerment and rejection of a pluralist culture. On Wednesday, Rahul had commented on the harassment of Kerala nuns by members of RSS student wing ABVP in Uttar Pradesh. He had tweeted: “The attack in UP on nuns from Kerala is a result of the vicious propaganda run by the Sangh Parivar to pitch one community against another and trample the minorities. Time for us as a nation to introspect and take corrective steps to defeat such divisive forces.” While the ideological battle is old and eternal, even the political conflicts have intensified in the aftermath of the ongoing farmers’ movement and the allegations of attempts to undermine democratic institutions. The Congress on Thursday strongly objected to the curtailment of the budget session of Parliament, which was adjourned sine die two weeks before the scheduled closure. The Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, said: “The government said there were demands from regional parties because of Assembly elections. There were no such demands; the demand came from the South Block and the North Block (offices of the Prime Minister and the home minister).” Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, in addition to many central ministers, are busy with election campaign. The leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said: “The Prime Minister has no interest in Parliament. There is no need to call a session if the burning issues are not to be discussed.” Ramesh said: “The government is undermining every democratic institution. In this session, the Opposition’s demands were steamrolled. Not even one calling attention motion or short duration discussion was allowed. We wanted debates on the farmers’ movement, the privatisation of national assets, etc, but nothing was allowed. Democracy is not strengthened by new buildings; democracy is strengthened by allowing institutions to function properly.” Giving examples of the government’s undemocratic instincts, Ramesh said: “The National Bank for Financing Infrastructure & Development Bill was passed today. This is a new experiment as this government institution will not be probed by the CAG, CBI, the CVC and even Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee. Why no oversight is allowed?” He threatened to move the Supreme Court against unlawful legislation, including the new laws on mining and the Delhi government’s powers, indicating an escalation of the political fight in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||Enforcement Directorate grills Mehbooba Mufti||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday vowed defiance after being grilled for hours by the Enforcement Directorate in an alleged money-laundering case, reports our special correspondent in Srinagar. It was Mehbooba’s first interrogation by any investigating agency in the country after her release from detention in October. “No rocket science is needed (to understand why I was questioned). Dissent has been criminalised in the country. This country is being ruled by the ED, CBI or NIA. Either you are booked for sedition or for money-laundering. Anybody who speaks, they are using ED or NIA,” Mehbooba, president of the Peoples Democratic Party, told reporters after she walked out of the ED office here. “The country is not running according to the Constitution of India. It is running according to a particular political party’s agenda. You cannot speak. Anybody who does is being hounded. These things will continue,” she added.” The former chief minister vowed to continue to fight for the resolution of Kashmir issue and restoration of Article 370. On Thursday, Mehbooba reached the ED’s Rajbagh office at 11am and came out late in the afternoon. Mehbooba said she was questioned over two issues — one pertaining to the sale of her ancestral home in her hometown Bijebehara and the other related to how she spent the secret funds while she was the chief minister. Mehbooba said the land was owned by her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. She said the ED asked her how she sold it and how much money she got. “Second, (they asked) where I spent the secret funds as the chief minister, about the money given to the widows and the procurement of the list of beneficiaries,” she said. “I have nothing to hide. My hands are clean. That is why it took them two years to find (a case to book her). Now they are raising questions on my father’s land and how much money was spent on his graveyard.” Initially, the ED had asked the PDP president to appear before the agency in Delhi on Monday but she had refused citing prior commitments that could not be cancelled. Her request to ED officials that she be questioned in Srinagar was accepted after that. On March 19, Delhi High Court had refused to stay the summons issued to her by the ED. In a letter to the ED, Mehbooba had referred to the summons issued to her to present herself on March 22 at Delhi. “I have challenged in the Delhi High Court the constitutional vires of Section 50 of the PMLA (Prevention of Money-Laundering Act), under which these summons are issued,” she had written. Section 50 of the PMLA empowers the ED to summon any person to give evidence or produce records. People who are summoned are bound to answer questions put to them, failing which they can be penalised. The PDP president, who has emerged as the most vocal critic of the scrapping of J&K’s special status, was released in October after 14 months of detention. Mehbooba, Farooq and Omar Abdullah were among thousands who were arrested for opposing the move. Before Mehbooba, the ED had questioned Farooq in connection with a case related to the alleged embezzlement of the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||Ex-police commissioner Param Bir Singh moves Bombay High Court against Anil Deshmukh||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday filed a PIL in Bombay High Court seeking a CBI probe against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who he claimed had asked police officer Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. The PIL also raised the issue of alleged corruption in police transfers and postings in the state. The IPS officer had earlier this week approached the Supreme Court, which on Wednesday termed the matter “quite serious” but asked him to approach the high court. The criminal public interest litigation reiterated the allegations Singh had made earlier and sought an “immediate, unbiased, impartial” probe by the CBI against Deshmukh, an NCP leader. Singh sought a high court direction to the CBI to secure CCTV footage from Deshmukh’s residence from earlier this year before it is “destroyed,” and to the state government to produce all records of communication received from IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in March 2020. In February last year Shukla had levelled allegations of malpractices in police postings and transfers against Deshmukh and also informed her superiors about it, but was transferred soon afterwards, alleged the PIL. The court should pass directions to ensure that in future police officers are not transferred on account of “pecuniary benefits to any politician”, Singh’s petition said. The PIL is likely to be taken up for hearing by a bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta next week. The Opposition BJP earlier this week alleged that Shukla, when she was state intelligence commissioner, had intercepted phone calls and gathered evidence of corruption in police transfers. The PIL claimed that last month Deshmukh had asked some police officers, including Waze, to collect Rs 100 crore every month, including Rs 40-50 crore from around 1,750 bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Waze has been arrested in connection with the retrieval of explosives from a car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Singh had first made the allegations against Deshmukh in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Deshmukh has denied the allegations. The PIL also alleged that Deshmukh had interfered in investigations and pressurised him to implicate BJP leaders in connection with the alleged suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. The former Mumbai police commissioner accused Deshmukh of indulging in “corrupt malpractices” in transfers and postings of police officers. Singh apprised Thackeray of these allegations, but “immediately thereafter, on March 17”, was shunted out to the home guards department without allowing him to complete the “minimum fixed tenure of two years”, he said. Later, Deshmukh had said in an interview that Singh’s colleagues had made serious lapses in the investigation of the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle near Ambani’s residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||SC raps army for denying women officers permanent service commissions||The Supreme Court on Thursday rapped the defence establishment for denying women army officers permanent service commissions on a par with their male peers, observing this was “a reflection of the insidious patriarchal system”. The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, M.R. Shah and Sanjiv Khanna said the discrimination was continuing despite Delhi High Court in 2010 and the apex court in February 17 last year ordering gender parity in the matter. Thursday’s ruling said all women officers who had fulfilled the cut-off grade of 60 per cent in the Special No. 5 Selection Board last September were entitled to permanent commissions, subject to their meeting the medical criteria and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance. “It is not enough to proudly state that women officers are allowed to serve the nation in the armed forces, when the true picture of their service conditions tells a different story. A superficial sense of equality is not in the true spirit of the Constitution and attempts to make equality only symbolic,” Justice Chandrachud, who authored the judgment, wrote. To bypass the 2010 and 2017 judgments, the defence ministry had adopted different selection criteria for men and women officers in the matter of granting permanent commissions, and formed different selection boards for them. The court noted the selection boards had considered the annual confidential reports of the women officers for their 5th and 10th years instead of their latest ACRs, which was the norm adopted for male officers. It directed that the method of evaluation of ACRs and the cut-off be reviewed for future batches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
26-03-2021||India||SC plan for ad hoc high court judges||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it was open to the direct appointment of ad hoc judges in various high courts to tide over the backlog of over 3.51 crore cases. Of these, over 80 lakh cases are pending at the various high courts and trial courts for the past five to 20 years. Article 224A of the Constitution empowers the President, acting in consultation with the Chief Justice of India, to appoint retired judges of high courts as ad hoc or acting judges of high courts. “This is constitutional provision and this provision is not being used. We will lay down guidelines stating that if pendency goes beyond a certain limit for say more than eight or 10 years, then the chief justice will automatically recommend the appointment of ad hoc judges,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
26-03-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Andhra Pradesh govt extends support to farmers||Farmers received a shot in the arm on the eve of their Bharat Bandh with the Andhra Pradesh government extending support to the protest action to mark the completion of four months of the movement at Delhi’s borders. The ruling YSR Congress Party as well as the Opposition Telugu Desam Party have supported the call for the bandh on Friday. Both parties had remained aloof during the first Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — which is spearheading the movement of farmers — on December 8. The Andhra government’s decision to support the bandh is primarily driven by its opposition to the Narendra Modi government’s decision to privatise Visakhapatanam Steel Plant, and a result of the effort by farmers to build solidarities across sectors over the past couple of months when their protest stopped getting any traction in the mainstream media. While trade unions and several political parties had supported the December 8 bandh too, this time round the farmers have been able to rope in students’ organisations and Bar associations as well. In a video statement, Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union,  a constituent of the SKM, has made it clear that participation in the bandh — scheduled from 6am to 6pm — is voluntary and no one should be forced to down their shutters. The SKM’s expectation is that all shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed. Only essential services and ambulances will be exempt, the SKM said in a statement. The farmers plan to block roads and railway tracks. In Andhra Pradesh, the state government has announced that buses run by the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation will not ply till 1pm. The farmers have decided to block the alternative routes that had been created near their protest sites for the entire duration of the Bharat Bandh. Delhi, which has been kept out of the protest plans for two months since the violence during the tractor rally on January 26, has not been exempt this time. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) — an umbrella body of 40,000 trade associations — said all business establishments in Delhi and across the country shall remain open on Friday and normal trading activities will be held. “Neither the CAIT is supporting the bandh nor any farmer organisation has approached to support bandh,” the confederation said in a statement. With the farmers’ movement having spread to other parts of the country since Republic Day, the SKM is hoping that the bandh will have a greater impact than the one on December 8. For over two months now, the government has not formally invited farmers for any negotiations and there has been a complete breakdown of communication, resulting in a hardening of stance on both sides. The farmers remain steadfast on their demands that the three farm laws have to go and a law guaranteeing MSP should be enacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Wishes pour in for Mamata on Facebook on eve of first phase of voting||A day before voting for the unprecedented 8-phase Bengal elections, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Facebook account was flooded with messages of support from across the country, undoubtedly a huge morale booster for Didi as she faces the toughest election of her political career. It all began on Friday with Mamata posting a homage to Ananda Shankar, accompanied by a picture of hers with the late musician. “Fondly remembering notable musician Ananda Shankar on his death anniversary.” The flood of responses must have surprised her too. “Didi that you are the best will be proved again,” wrote Dipak Kumar Das, a private sector employee from Haldia. Not all those who responded were from Bengal. Like Dipak Singh Virpura Solanki, a native from Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state, who urged those in Bengal to make “Mamata didi victorious.” There were over 500 messages and comments till Thursday evening, and these were from across the country _ Delhi, Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Assam and more. There was a congratulatory message came from Dhaka as well, where the country’s 50th Independence Day is being observed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and a host of overseas dignitaries, in attendance. The message from Gujarat would have sounded especially sweet to Mamata for earlier in the day Modi had tweeted in Bengali about his arrival at Dhaka, his first trip abroad since the Coronavirus outbreak of last year. On Friday, Mamata campaigned in Debra, Chandrakona and Daspur, all in West Midnapore district, which will go to polls in the second phase on April 1. According to Trinamul sources, Mamata is likely to stay on in Nandigram, from where she is contesting the polls this time, till the second phase is over. The 2021 state Assembly election is arguably the toughest that Mamata is facing ever since she wrested power from the CPM in 2011. Despite the Saradha scam and the Narada sting operation happening in her first term as chief minister, Didi remained the electoral favourite. Mamata received the first jolt two years back when the BJP bagged 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats and was no longer a distant pretender but a formidable force to reckon with. One of the foremost reasons behind a large section of the Bengal electorate taking refuge under the saffron flag was recurring instances of assaults and atrocities against Trinamul Congress’s opponents, especially in rural Bengal, which peaked during the 2018 panchayat polls where Trinamul won 34 per cent of the total seats uncontested. Voters hit back with a resounding win for the BJP, a year later, where the party won only four Lok Sabha seats less than the Trinamul. Since then, the BJP has been trying to expand its support and has successfully lured 24 MLAs, three MPs and several other leaders into its fold. Many of the leaders who switched camps from the Trinamul were handpicked by Mamata from various walks of life, including sports. These days, Mamata has been forced to devote time to explain to the voters about the “Mirzafars” in her public meetings. The 30 Assembly seats, which go to polls on Saturday, had turned into Mamata’s bastion five years ago, when she swept the polls winning all but three. However, in the Lok Sabha polls, BJP led in 20 of these seats giving the party a firm foothold, thereby emerging as the strongest challenger to Mamata, and reducing the Left-Congress combine to a bit player. Areas like Binpur, Nayagram, Gopiballabhpur, Jhargram, Baghmundi, Balarampur, Bandwan, Jaipur, Purulia, Manbazar, Kashipur, Para, Raghunathpur, Raipur, Ranibandh, Chhatna and Saltora is where till a decade ago, Maoists called the shots. Erosion of the CPM’s support in these largely tribal belts had cost the party dearly and came in handy for Trinamul. This is the first time since the 2011 election of “Poriborton” in Bengal that Mamata is facing a real challenge. She launched populist schemes like Swasthya Sathi, Khelasree, Samabyathi and Baitarani, all in her second term. Will these be enough for Mamata to counter the BJP’s political and financial might?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Fans surround Mithun at Bankura, BJP star campaigner stays inside chopper||Actor Mithun Chakraborty, who joined the BJP recently, on Thursday had to stay inside his chopper for around 20 minutes in Bankura’s Saltora because over 2,000 BJP workers and fans had surrounded the helicopters. Mithun, who came for a road show to back BJP nominee Chandana Bauri, landed at Saltora College grounds around 10 am. A huge crowd waiting for the MLA Fatakeshto star broke through barricades. Jostling people pressed against the door of Mithun’s chopper. A scuffle broke out between the police and BJP workers as the former tried to clear the way. The star-politician finally boarded a car for the road show with Bauri and Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar. Instead of a 2.5 km ride Mithun got off after a kilometre. BJP leaders blamed the police for the chaos that prevented Mithun from completing the road show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah says  illegal infiltrators 'eating' up rights and rations of the people of Bengal||BJP leader Amit Shah on Thursday said that illegal infiltrators were “eating” up the rights and rations of the people of Bengal. The allegation came a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi starts his tour of Bangladesh — the neighbour that the saffron ecosystem usually targets over illegal immigration. Shah’s thrust had a ring of irony: he was citing alleged infiltration from Bangladesh — without naming the neighbour — to polarise voters in Bengal while Modi plans to use his Bangladesh trip to visit temples there and woo Bengal’s voters. “The infiltrators are taking away your income; you don’t get to earn because of the infiltrators. You aren’t getting (your full quota of) rice because the infiltrators are eating it,” Shah told a rally in Purulia. The Union home minister added: “I’m telling you, remove Didi’s government; the infiltrators will be identified and thrown out of Bengal by the BJP government.” With Modi scheduled to arrive in Dhaka on Friday on a goodwill visit at a time Bangladesh is celebrating 50 years of its independence and the centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Shah’s comment raises questions about the BJP’s priority -- poll victory in Bengal at any cost or a friendly relationship with Bangladesh, the most trusted neighbour in the region. Shah had earlier called infiltrators “termites”. On Thursday -- the last day of campaigning before Bengal votes in the first phase on March 27 -- Shah raised the question of infiltration at three other rallies in Jhargram, Mecheda and Bishnupur. Since the days of L.K. Advani as deputy Prime Minister and home minister, infiltration from Bangladesh has been part of the BJP’s narrative in Bengal. Many political scientists believe that the repeated flagging of the issue has yielded political dividends for the BJP in most border districts of the state, which shares a 2,200km-plus border with Bangladesh. Cross-border immigration in a region that has had to bear the pain of Partition twice --  in 1947 and 1971 -- is a historical fact. It is well documented that people from Bangladesh and the erstwhile East Pakistan crossed over to this side in turbulent times. Tens of thousands, irrespective of religion, entered India in search of a better life in the early years of Bangladesh as the country was then known as a “basket case” because of abject poverty. The situation, however, has changed with the size of the Bangladesh economy surpassing that of Southeast Asian tigers like Singapore and Malaysia. The International Monetary Fund has predicted that Bangladesh’s per capita income in dollars is likely to overtake that of India’s this year, which means Bangladeshis have no incentive to cross over any more. If Dhaka’s stellar show on the economy is juxtaposed with the absence of any data on infiltration -- questions on the number of illegal immigrants in India have not elicited any response from the ruling party in Parliament – holes can be drilled into the narrative of infiltration spun by the BJP leadership. In poll-bound Bengal, scores of BJP leaders -- from Shah to Rajnath Singh, Union defence minister -- are referring to infiltration, which makes it clear the party is keen on using the issue to polarise voters ahead of the Assembly polls. “One cannot stop a party from spinning a poll narrative.… But if the senior-most leader of the party in power makes such comments without producing any proof, that too at a time the country’s Prime Minister is visiting the neighbouring country, it is clear that the Bengal polls are more important to the BJP than the country’s relationship with Bangladesh,” a strategic affairs expert said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Tollywood artistes appeal to vote wisely||You bash education to satisfy the spite of the ignorant/ Your devotion is bloodstained, you love none…. You shout your hollow words louder and louder, the thicket of your lies hide the truth/ I spotted your reflection in Goebbels’s mirror/ I have seen the shark teeth, how venomous they are These are lines from a music video created by some of Bengal’s young and accomplished artistes, and featuring a few celebrated veterans, with the aim of warning people against the politics of hate ahead of the Assembly elections. A refrain keeps reappearing: “I am not going anywhere/ I’ll live in my country.” The music video is the brainchild of three young actor friends who coaxed their elders into joining up, marking a rare display of defiance from a fraternity that is often accused of being too careful about image and career. Several of those in the video are successful actors such as Parambrata Chattopadhyay, Anirban Bhattacharya and Riddhi Sen and composer-singer Anupam Roy and singer Rupankar Bagchi. “We are not aligned with any political party but are opposed to a certain ideology — one that looks at things through a prism of polarisation. That ideology is being imposed on the country and in our state in the run-up to the elections. We urge people to resist that ideology,” Parambrata told The Telegraph on Thursday. The cast members said they were aware of the risks but felt that they needed to act before it was too late. Anirban, who wrote the lyrics, said: “If a time comes when I’m denied work because I don’t subscribe to a certain ideology, I’m ready to face it.” Anupam said he was “okay with not being considered for awards” as a possible retribution. “But I want to be clear to my conscience. I want to sleep in peace.” Actor Rwitobroto Mukherjee and Riddhi directed the video. The two of them collaborated with Surangana Bandyopadhyay to write the screenplay. Also featured are the octogenarian stage stalwarts Rudraparasad Sengupta and Arun Mukhopadhyay. The song was released on Wednesday night on the Facebook, Instagram and Twitter profiles of Citizens United. Apart from a song that excoriates Right-wing politics, the six-minute film has visuals carrying messages from luminaries of the Bengal renaissance, such as lines from Sukumar Ray’s Abol Tabol that make fun of authoritarianism and Rabindranath Tagore’s vow to “never allow patriotism to triumph over humanity”. The bit about Goebbels’s mirror is accompanied by images from Charlie Chaplin’s The Great Dictator. There are pictures of the February 2020 Delhi riots, showing a mob attacking a man who lies on the ground, hands covering his head. Forming the backdrop are landmarks and spots emblematic of Calcutta, such as College Street, the Chinese Kali Temple in Tangra, St Paul’s Cathedral, Nakhoda Masjid and Gyan Manch. Right at the start, two paragraphs appear on the screen, setting the tone. “Our country, India, is a land of diversity and love, a country of togetherness. We have to speak out if there is an attempt to foster falsehood and hatred,” it says. “Bengal is the land of friendship, peace and pluralism. If someone tries to drive a wedge between people here, it’s imperative as an Indian, as a Bengali, to resist the attempt. We shall look hatred in the eye and say, ‘This is not your country, this is the country of love, this is India’.” Visuals of posters follow, before a young girl is seen selling a balloon to a young musician on a roadside. Then comes the opening song, which goes: “Ancient texts are history to you; and history to you is dated. You bash education to satisfy the spite of the ignorant. Your devotion is bloodstained, you love none. You are here to rule the nation, yet you know nothing of patriotism.” The video names no political party but flashes pictures of purported newspaper reports and headlines on events and policies attributable to Right-wing politics and BJP governments. Examples: the birth anniversary celebrations of Nathuram Godse, the RSS refusal to hoist the Tricolour, India’s slide down global freedom indices, Internet curbs in Kashmir, the torture of Dalits, Yogi Adityanath’s anti-women comments and atrocities on his watch, and the Rafale controversy. The video highlights issues like the farmers’ protests, fuel price hike and the horrors of demonetisation. The Narendra Modi government’s favourite target finds a mention: “All your explanations begin and end with Pakistan....” Some of the actors display a copy of the Constitution with a picture of B.R. Ambedkar on its cover. Some are seen tearing up sheets of paper inscribed with Right-wing slogans and terms such as “anti-national”, “Go to Pakistan”, “urban Naxal”, “achchhe din” and “Cow urine cures cancer”. The unequivocal assertion that “I am not going anywhere/ I’ll live in my country” is a reminder of the protests against the new citizenship matrix, the backdrop against which the song was written. “Anirban Bhattacharya wrote the lyrics a year ago. We wanted to make the music video at the time but the lockdown stalled everything,” Riddhi said. “We renewed our effort now because of the atmosphere being created before the Bengal elections. Voting is a personal choice and we cannot interfere there, but we can highlight the dangers of majoritarianism.” Anirban said a “political conspiracy” had prompted him to write the song last year. “Artists speak, react and protest through their own medium — films, theatre, music, poetry and so on. But there has been an attempt to destroy that medium of protest,” he said. Some actors and directors who have been openly critical of the Modi government have faced a barrage of online abuse and, sometimes, income-tax and Enforcement Directorate raids. The coming together of so many leading artistes to make the music video is a throwback to civil society’s involvement in the 2007 Nandigram movement against the Left government of the day. Theatre and film veteran Koushik Sen, who was part of the Nandigram movement and is featured in the latest video, was forthright. “Autocratic governments come and go, but the current regime at the Centre is unlike any previous tyrant,” he said. “People, a section of our fraternity included, are still looking at the BJP as just another party. But they (the BJP) are far more dangerous. The upcoming election will be a battle for the soul of Bengal.” Rudraprasad Sengupta, 86, said he participated in the video after being approached by a “bunch of kids”. “The video is self-explanatory. My participation is a reflection of my approval of the video’s message,” he said. The video ends with the little balloon seller entering an auditorium where the artistes are singing in chorus, which she interrupts with the lines: “I am not going anywhere/ I’ll live in my country India.” She rushes on stage. Someone takes the balloon off her hand and gives her a national flag. Another hands her a copy of Tagore’s play Raktakarabi or Red Oleanders, which is about freedom from tyranny. A few lines from the Preamble to the Constitution float into view before the light gradually fades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal election damper for Holi tourism in Digha||The East Midnapore district administration and police on Thursday banned the flow of visitors to the district — famed for seaside towns, including Digha — for two days starting Friday, the poll-related decision a blow to tourism during Holi. The decision, taken amid a fresh Covid-19 surge, is reportedly being taken for security considerations given that Egra and Contai sub-divisions of the district go to polls on Saturday, the first phase. Holi falls on Sunday, and continues on Monday. “The SDOs of Egra and Contai have issued the order stating that no outsiders can enter the area on March 26 (Friday) and 27 (Saturday),” said district magistrate Smita Pandey. Sources said Holi, spanning Sunday and Monday this year, is traditionally a time when the district’s tourist hubs Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur see a massive surge of tourists, in addition to heightened advance bookings. As no vehicles ply on Holi, tourists come in advance. This year, owing to Thursday afternoon’s notification, there will be a marked change. Following the notification, hoteliers in the area were forced to turn back new guests, send existing ones home, and cancel weekend reservations en masse. The average footfall in Digha during Holi is over a lakh, said an official. District officials and civic volunteers made loudspeaker announcements throughout Digha on Thursday and visited hotels to make authorities on the notification. Hoteliers’ association joint secretary Dipra Das Chakraborty said pre-Holi is usually an important time for them in the tourism business, because people usually stay in the area on Holi owing to low traffic. “This time, Digha will be empty during Holi,” he said. “Covid was a bad deal the past year. So, we were looking forward to the Holi season, which is always a good time commercially for us. However, poll timings have affected our hope of good business during Holi,” added a hotelier. Tourists were also disappointed. Howrah resident Mousumi Mukherjee, who arrived in Digha on Wednesday evening in a group of 10 friends and family members, was asked to check out on Thursday evening. “Given the long lockdown, we had all been looking forward to an enjoyable Holi weekend this time. But unfortunately that was not to be,” Mukherjee rued. Hoteliers in Mandarmani also confirmed that they had been cancelling bookings through most of the second half of Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP seeks CBI probe into Dinhata death||Senior BJP leaders on Thursday reached Dinhata town to stand by the family of Amit Sarkar, 50, the BJP president of town committee of the party, who was found dead and hanging on the premises of a local veterinary hospital on Wednesday. Party leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dinesh Trivedi and others who reached Dinhata continued to blame Trinamul for killing Sarkar and hanging him to make it look like suicide, and sought a CBI probe. They also drew parallels with the death of Debendranath Roy, the BJP’s party MLA of Hemtabad in North Dinajpur whose body was found hanging last year. Trinamul leaders, on the other hand, drew attention to a handwritten note found from Sarkar’s clothes on Wednesday that they said had names and numbers of three local BJP leaders and demanded a thorough probe into the case. “Trinamul killed him and hanged his body to make it look like suicide. They planted a note in his pocket to cast blame on (BJP) party workers. A similar incident happened with our MLA in Hemtabad. We want a CBI probe,” Vijayvargiya, BJP national general-secretary, said on Thursday. Later in the day, Sarkar’s mortal remains were released from Cooch Behar Government Medical College & Hospital. Hundreds of BJP supporters, along with leaders, joined Sarkar’s funeral procession to Dinhata for his last rites. MLA Guha said the police should speak with those named in the note. “The BJP is trying to reap political dividend from this death,” he said. Police officers said Munmun’s complaint named 22 persons — mostly Trinamul leaders — accusing them of murdering her husband. It includes Udayan Guha, sitting Trinamul MLA from Dinhata and this election’s candidate. The Election Commission that has ordered a police observer be sent to Cooch Behar for a report, also transferred Cooch Behar SP K. Kannan on Thursday along with some other senior IPS officers. Debashish Dhar will be the new police chief of the district, said the EC order. On Wednesday, some residents spotted Sarkar’s body hanging in Dakbungalowpara of the town. He had gone out early on Wednesday, his wife Munmun told the police. As the news spread, hundreds of BJP supporters on Wednesday blocked roads, tore down Trinamul flags, festoons and banners and set them on fire, and ransacked Trinamul party offices. As police intervened, BJP supporters clashed with them and police retaliated with batons and teargas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: BJP leader quits party over nominee||Alok Sen, a senior BJP leader of the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat, which is the constituency of state tourism minister Gautam Deb, will contest as an Independent from the seat after severing ties with the saffron camp in protest of the selection of the BJP candidate. Veteran BJP leader Sen, who was also a district secretary of the BJP in Jalpaiguri, articulated his grievances here on Thursday. He said the decision made by the BJP to field Sikha Chatterjee from the seat had not gone down well with him and some other party old-timers. “A few names, including my name, of probable candidates were sent to the state leadership for the Dabgram-Fulbari seat. But unfortunately, the leaders selected a former Trinamul leader. That is why I walked out of the party and will contest as an Independent,” said Sen, who had been with the BJP for over a decade. According to party insiders, Sen’s departure would affect the BJP base in Dabgram-Fulbari area and can indirectly help incumbent Trinamul MLA Deb. “He (Sen) has good number of followers in the area. It was because of him that the BJP could develop its base in Dabgram-Fulbari and managed to secure a lead of 86,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from this Assembly segment,” said a source in BJP. Sen, political observers pointed out, is the second veteran politician from Siliguri to leave his party in a matter of days over dissatisfaction with the party’s nominee. In a similar move, Nantu Paul of Trinamul recently filed his nomination as an Independent from Siliguri. He had quit Trinamul following the party’s decision to field Omprakash Mishra as the candidate in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Fan frenzy over Mithun Chakraborty in Bankura||Actor Mithun Chakraborty, who joined the BJP recently, on Thursday had to stay inside his chopper for around 20 minutes in Bankura’s Saltora because over 2,000 BJP workers and fans had surrounded the helicopter. Mithun, who came for a road show to back BJP nominee Chandana Bauri, landed at Saltora College grounds around 10am. A huge crowd waiting for the MLA Fatakesto star broke through barricades. Jostling people pressed against the door of Mithun’s chopper. A scuffle broke out between the police and BJP workers as the former tried to clear the way. The star-politician finally boarded a car for the road show with Bauri and Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar. Instead of a 2.5km ride, Mithun got off after a kilometre. BJP leaders blamed the police for the chaos that prevented Mithun from completing the road show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Cop injured, finger at BJP road show||The inspector in charge of Raghunathpur police station here had to be hospitalised after some BJP workers allegedly manhandled him when the police stopped the party’s road show on Thursday. Police sources said the team of Sanjay Chakrabarty tried to stop the BJP road show — with actress Shrabanti and singer-turned-BJP leader Manoj Tiwari — as it was taken out without permission. BJP leaders on the other hand said there was no road show and the police harassed them. Purulia police chief Biswajit Mahato, who rushed to the site after the incident, said when Raghunathpur inspector-in-charge Chakrabarty and his men stopped the road show, people from the rally “pounced on him” and he received chest injuries. “Chakrabarty complained of breathing troubles and was admitted to the Raghunathpur superspeciality hospital,” said SP Mahato. “A criminal case will be lodged against the road show organisers.” BJP’s Purulia chief Bidyasagar Chakraborty, on his part, said: “Our leaders were on way to Kashipur from Raghunathpur. There was no road show. The police intentionally harassed our people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Murders trigger BJP-TMC slugfest ||Two men were found killed in a banana orchard at Santipur in Nadia district on Thursday morning and the BJP claimed the duo were its supporters and they had been murdered by Trinamul Congress activists. A Trinamul Congress worker has been killed in a clash at Baruipur in South 24-Parganas. Six Indian Secular Front activists were arrested in connection with the murder. In a separate incident, a Trinamul worker was killed and two injured when a crude bomb exploded inside a house at Andal in West Burdwan on Thursday morning. The bodies of Pratap Burman, 25, and Dipankar Biswas, 36, were found in the banana orchard at Methirdanga village. Police said their face had been smashed with a blunt object. Both were painters by profession. The BJP said both had belonged to the party. “They were killed by Trinamul supporters to unleash panic among people before the Assembly polls,” said a BJP leader. BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar, who is also the party’s candidate from Santipur, visited the victims’ home. BJP workers blocked a road connecting the Methirdanga village and held a demonstration in front of the Santipur police station demanding the immediate arrest of the murderers. Police and family members said Burman and Biswas had been addicted to liquor and had left home on Wednesday afternoon. As they did not return at night, the villagers launched a search and found the bodies. “It appears the two were killed by people known to them. None of the victims seemed to have any strong political association. Nevertheless, we are looking into all possible aspects,” an investigating officer said. BJP candidate Jagannath Sarkar said: “Police are trying to suppress the truth. They know well that both the victims were BJP supporters, but are trying to mislead the people at the direction of their political bosses.” Trinamul’s Santipur candidate Ajoy De rejected Sarkar’s allegation and accused the BJP of politicising the murders. “None of the two victims was associated with any political party. The family members had also initially told us so. But later, they were compelled by the BJP to change their version,” De said. At Belegachi in Baruipur, Ruhul Amin Midda, 59, a Trinamul worker died at a hospital after he had suffered critical injuries during a clash between activists of the ruling party and the ISF late on Wednesday night. Six ISF activists were arrested. Police and local sources said a group of Trinamul supporters had gone to a house and challenged ISF activists who were holding an internal meeting. A clash ensued and Midda suffered multiple injuries. He was taken to Baruipur subdivisional hospital where doctors declared him dead early on Thursday. Alleged Trinamul workers ransacked around a dozen homes of ISF supporters in the area on Thursday. Trinamul candidate in the Baruipur East constituency Bibhash Sardar said: “None of us went to disturb the ISF meeting. Rather, ISF supporters attacked our men.” The Trinamul activist killed in the blast at Andal was Sarwan Chowdhury, 39. Police said preliminary investigations revealed that Chowdhury and two others had been making crude bombs, one of which had gone off accidentally. The other two suffered injuries in the blast. The area comes under Pandaveswar Assembly constituency where Trinamul turncoat Jitendra Kumar Tiwari is the BJP candidate. His former aide Narendra Nath Chakraborty is the Trinamul candidate. The police seized explosives and other materials used in crude bombs from the spot at Jambad village. The body was sent to Asansol district hospital for post-mortem. The BJP alleged that Trinamul workers had been making bombs at the behest of Chakraborty to create terror in the area. Trinamul leaders, however, said the blast had been caused by a cooking gas cylinder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata recalls Amphan evacuation and rehabilitation ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday recounted how she had spent a sleepless night at Nabanna on May 20 last year when Cyclone Amphan had scythed through south Bengal and how she had used the entire pool of resources at her disposal to support people, from shifting them to safe houses to providing relief and rehabilitation. The chief minister’s reminiscence, albeit it wasn’t the first time she brought it up, was apparently a bid to counter the allegation by the BJP that Trinamul Congress leaders had looted funds and other material granted for Amphan relief. “The person who is a self-proclaimed chowkidar (watchman) fled before Amphan hit our state. I spent three days at Nabanna before the cyclone hit. I recall that the entire building was trembling and we were almost apprehensive of the building collapsing…. But we were at Nabanna till the cyclone’s tail left Bengal,” Mamata said at her election rally in Sagar. The Trinamul supremo who attended two meetings at Pathapratima and Sagar in South 24-Parganas — a district substantially affected by the cyclone — did not pull her punches in her attack on Union home minister Amit Shah, who had been accusing “the nephew and company” of swindling the Amphan relief funds. “(Narendra) Modiji has been sending a lot of money. Amphan had come, right... Modiji had sent Rs 10,000 crore, did you get anything? Where did the money go? The nephew and company have usurped it,” Shah had told a rally at Gosaba in South 24-Parganas earlier this week. Gosaba is in the Sunderbans, which bore the direct brunt of Amphan. Mamata said at her two rallies in the coastal areas of the district, claiming that none other than her government had given money to extend help to Amphan-affected areas. “Those asking Mamata Banerjee about Amphan money, ask them whether they gave even a rupee for Amphan…. Narendra Modi came once and surveyed the situation from a chopper, like a film, and left the state. Later, he sent only Rs 1,000 crore, as an advance from what we already get from the Centre. We have spent Rs 8,000 crore to rebuild houses, roads, restore electricity in the affected areas,” said Mamata. “If anyone gave money as relief for Amphan, it is Mamata Banerjee. Narendra Modi, you have to answer where the (Centre’s) money for Amphan went. You have to answer why you did not give money after Amphan,” she said in her rally at Pathar Pratima. “It is large scale work and there were one or two mistakes, naturally. But for that, how dare they tag Trinamul a thief? Am I a thief? Am I a robber? Am I a murderer? You are all murderers, and you looted money by selling all assets in the (Union) government sector,” she said from her meeting in Pathar Pratima. Mamata said how her government had shifted around 19 lakh people to safe homes before the cyclone had hit the state. “My mothers and sisters, you witnessed the tragedy of Amphan. If we did not shift 19 lakh people before the cyclone hit in six districts, at least 17 lakh people could have died. Twenty lakh houses were damaged,” said Mamata. She also accused the Modi government of not helping the Gangasagar Mela, despite its support to the Kumbh event in Allahabad. “You always give money for Kumbh, but you never helped the Gangasagar Mela. Here, we, the state government, arrange for everything. We ensured insurance of Rs 5 lakh for each pilgrim. One day, we will make Gangasagar bigger than the Kumbh event,” said Mamata. Trinamul leaders said Mamata bringing up Gangasagar Mela was an attack on the BJP, an attempt to turn the Hinduism tables on it. “It is a fact that the Centre did not help in the Gangasagar Mela. Didi has made several infrastructure arrangements to organise the fair peacefully and in an exponentially better way. It will resonate with the people of Sagar,” said a Trinamul leader. Mamata, who later attended two more rallies in Dantan and Midnapore of West Midnapore, persisted with her attacks on the Modi government over the Amphan issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: EC shunts five officials, timing raises brows||The Election Commission on Thursday transferred five senior IAS and IPS officers, including the district magistrate of Jhargram and the ADG of the Western Zone. Thirty Assembly segments, including Jhargram, and many from the Western Zone will vote on Saturday. The EC shunted the SPs of Diamond Harbour and Cooch Behar, and divisional commissioner (South) of city police. The EC ordered Joyoshi Dasgupta, a 2010-batch IAS officer, would replace Ayesha Rani as the Jhargram DM, and Rajesh Kumar, a 1990-batch IPS officer, would replace Sanjay Singh as the ADG of Western Zone. Diamond Harbour SP Avijit Banerji would be replaced by Arijit Sinha, a 2011-batch IPS officer. Cooch Behar SP K. Kannan would be replaced by Debashish Dhar, a 2010-batch IPS officer. The divisional commissioner of South Calcutta, Sudhir Neelkantha, would be replaced by Akash Magharia, a 2009-batch IPS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Bimal Gurung’s campaign in south ||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Thursday reached Kharagpur in West Midnapore, accompanied by his second-in-command in the party Roshan Giri, to address Gorkha voters in the region and rally them behind the Trinamul Congress. “We have come to meet our supporters who have organised a meeting here,” said Giri over the phone. Salua in the Kharagpur Assembly segment has around 22,000 Gorkha voters, most of whom come from families that have served in the Eastern Frontier Rifles. The EFR is headquartered at Salua. Gurung is campaigning for Trinamul in the Bengal Assembly elections and in what is being predicted as a close contest, even a swing of 10,000-15,000 votes could be a game changer. Sources said Gurung had also addressed the public meeting at Salua . Many believe the visit could have political ramifications not only in this south Bengal constituency but also in the Darjeeling hills. “So far, there has been no clear message that Trinamul has publicly endorsed Gurung’s faction as an ally,” said an observer. “This visit would clear many doubts.” Also many organisations in the hills which are inclined towards Trinamul have recently extended support to the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha and not the Gurung camp. The Tamang camp has been claiming that Gurung has not been fully accepted by Trinamul “Can they show a single picture with senior TMC leaders? They are just in touch with the I-PAC team (which is headed by poll consultant Prashant Kishor),” Tamang said. The visit is, however, being seen by many that Trinamul is taking Gurung seriously. “In the last Lok Sabha elections, Tshering Dahal of the Tamang camp had campaigned in Kharagpur, accompanied by Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Shanti Chhetri,” said an observer. Tshering Dahal is the candidate of the Tamang camp in Kurseong. “The fact that Bimal Gurung and Roshan Giri have been asked to campaign also suggests Trinamul still believes that Gurung has some hold over the community,” the observer said. Even though both the Tamang and Gurung factions are allies of Trinamul, they are adopting different methods in the election campaign. Tamang had announced his faction wouldn’t hold joint election campaign programmes with Trinamul in the hills. Gurung has not yet held any joint election campaign with Trinamul in the hills. But in the plains, he has been sharing platforms with Trinamul candidates. With Trinamul deciding to leave the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong for their “friends”, a section of the workers in the ruling party seems disenchanted. Sources said the Trinamul leadership had called a meeting in Siliguri on Friday to smoothen ruffled feathers. Gorkhaland activist Anjani Sharma Bhujel has decided to contest as an Independent in Darjeeling. Anjani had earlier planned to contest in Kalimpong. There are allegations that Anjani changed the decision as the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha fielded her father-in-law R.B. Bhujel in Kalimpong. “It is true he is my relative. He is an able candidate. However, the issue (of self-determination) is more important than the family,” said Anjani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
26-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: It’s BJP’s full force  versus Mamata Banerjee||If the Bengal elections have drawn comparisons with epic battles such as the one in the Mahabharat, it is not merely because of the BJP’s affinity towards mythology. The vyuh or battle formation of the main opponents throws up an unusual sight: one woman against many men and women — much like the skewed numerical array in the colossal chronicle. The BJP has fielded its entire galaxy of national leaders in the state election, including them in the star campaigners’ list. Trinamul also has lined up its permissible 30 stars but there is little doubt that it is Mamata Banerjee versus the entire BJP on the campaign trail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
26-03-2021||North East||Gadkari promises road projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore in Assam||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said road projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore will be completed in Assam if the BJP is voted to power for the second time in the northeastern state. Addressing an election rally here, the senior BJP leader exuded confidence that Assam will be one of the top states of the country, if the saffron party is re-elected for the second term. "During our tenure, roads worth Rs 30,000 crore have been completed in Assam. Sanctions for roads worth another 50,000 crore have been given. At present, work is on for road projects worth Rs 35,000 crore. "Assam will have road projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore if BJP is voted to power," Gadkari, who handles the road transport and highways portfolio, said. Assam can be termed developed only when poverty is eliminated from the state for which the government has approved a Rs 1,300-crore bamboo mission, the BJP leader said. "What Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and (Chandra Mohan) Patowary did for Assam in the last five years, it was just a trailer. The actual film is yet to start. You give your blessings and they will work again for your welfare," he added. Gadkari was in Dharmapur, which is going to polls in the third phase of assembly polls on April 6, to campaign for heavyweight BJP candidate and minister Chandra Mohan Patowary, who is pitted against Congress nominee Ratul Patowary. The BJP is contesting the three-phase state polls with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||North East||BJP will enact laws to check 'love and land jihad', says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said the BJP will enact laws to tackle the "menace of love and land jihad" in Assam if it is voted to power. Addressing an election rally, Shah said appropriate laws and policies will be put in place to strengthen Assamese culture and civilisation. The manifesto also promised it will enforce a deradicalisation policy to identify and quash organisations and individuals fanning communal exclusion and separatism. "The Congress manifesto is merely a tool for election campaign but the BJP manifesto is meant for implementation," he asserted. He also accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of describing AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal as representative of Assam's identity. "He (Gandhi) does not understand Assam and its identity," he said. Assam's identity is linked to Vaishnav saints Srimanta Sankardeva and Madhavdeva, brave Ahom general Lachit Barphukan who saved the state from Mughal invasion and Bharat Ratnas Bhupen Hazarika and Gopinath Bordoloi, he said. "We will not allow Ajmal to become a symbol of Assam's identity notwithstanding Congress's efforts to do so. Can the Congress and AIUDF save the state from illegal infiltration?" he said. "Rahul baba should remember that it was their chief minister Tarun Gogoi who was once dismissive of the AIUDF chief and had asked 'Who is Ajmal?' And now it is the Congress which has joined hands with Ajmal to gather votes," he added. Calling Gandhi a "tourist", Shah said the Congress leader was seen in the state only for 2-3 days during the elections and then vanishes for the next five years. There are only three images before the people of Assam--that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's development and service to people, of Rahul Gandhi's tourism and Ajmal's agenda of infiltration. The people of Assam have to decide what they want, Modiji's double engine for development or Congress-AIUDF's double infiltration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: Jailed Akhil Gogoi banks on mother’s appeal and anti-CAA crusade||An ailing 84-year-old criss-crossing unfamiliar places and meeting unknown people to seek votes for her jailed son is a rare sight. But then Akhil Gogoi, 45, is no ordinary candidate. He has turned the contest for Upper Assam’s Sivasagar constituency into a three-way race from the confines of his prison cell. “My son is in jail because he was fighting for the interest of Assam and her people. It is unbearable for a mother. Please help save my son by voting for him so that he can come out of jail,” says Priyada Gogoi in her brief plea to voters in a traditional Congress bastion. She has been campaigning from 7am till midnight for over 15 days, “overwhelmed by the love and response of strangers”, Priyada tells The Telegraph at the Raijor Dal’s buzzing rented first-floor office in the heart of the historic town. Those familiar with the constituency’s electoral politics tell this newspaper that Akhil Gogoi’s electoral debut has added excitement to what would have been a routine contest. “This is a new experience for us. Akhil Gogoi is in jail but is running a spirited campaign in absentia through his team against the key contenders — the Congress and the BJP. It is going to be a tight contest, the margin of victory narrow like last time,” says Sivasagar resident Debajit Gogoi. Akhil Gogoi, a leading face of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act movement in Assam and Raijor Dal’s founder president, was arrested on December 12, 2019, from Jorhat after widespread protests turned violent. Akhil Gogoi, who believes in Marxism but is “not a Maoist”, has been in jail since then. He was jailed even under the erstwhile Congress government, but his present prison stint under the BJP-led state government is the longest. The Raijor Dal is a regional party — and like its ally Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) — formed late last year in the wake of anti-CAA protests to “secure” the state’s interests from the threat posed by the contentious “anti-Assam” law. Akhil Gogoi first hit the limelight with the peasant organisation Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, which he founded in 2005, and his work as an RTI activist. Ranjit Tamuli, retired college teacher and vice-president of the Raijor Dal who is handling Akhil Gogoi’s campaign, says around 150 party members are involved in canvassing, supported by over 300 part-timers. “We are focussing on door-to-door, small street and village-corner meetings. Our 10.6km roadshow involving activist Medha Patkar on Wednesday attracted over 15,000 people. We are focussing on three things — seeking votes to save regionalism, safeguarding Assam’s identity, culture and language and securing his (Akhil Gogoi’s) freedom,” Tamuli says. Fighting from jail is a rarity in Assam but Akhil Gogoi’s supporters are banking on his image as a fearless activist. “As far as I remember, eminent politician Gauri Sankar Bhattacharya, father of state minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya, had contested the Guwahati East seat from jail in the late seventies. Then there was Dilip Dhekial Phukan, a former rebel, who contested from Amguri in the nineties. Now we have Akhil Gogoi. He has been associated with public causes for over 20 years and has his own following for speaking his mind,” Tamuli says when asked what is working for Akhil Gogoi. However, his rivals are also quite formidable. BJP candidate Surabhi Rajkumari lost by a few hundred votes to former Assembly Speaker Pranab Gogoi of the Congress in 2016. Pranab Gogoi passed away last year. Surabhi, who has been renominated as a candidate of the ruling BJP-AGP alliance, fancies her chances because of her experience and people connect. “We are winning this time round because of our candidate and the pro-people work our government has done. Akhil Gogoi is not a factor,” says the BJP’s Amar Bora. Then there is the Congress candidate, Subhramitra Gogoi, 41, who is making his electoral debut. He had “topped” all the seven surveys conducted by the party before he was nominated. A Goalpara Sainik School and University of Delhi alumni, Subhramitra has come through the party ranks and has been working in the field since his NSUI and Youth Congress days. Kongkon K. Bora, a close aide of Subhramitra, says their main fight is with the ruling BJP. “We won Sivasagar despite the Modi wave in 2016. Our candidate is a grassroots man and the Congress’s pro-people guarantee is also working on the ground. We don’t think Akhil Gogoi is a factor because he is seen as an outsider. Moreover, you don’t win elections on hype,” Bora says, adding: “The Raijor Dal claims they are out to defeat the BJP but here they are seen to be wooing voters in Congress areas.” On Wednesday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel led an impressive road show for the Congress candidate just after the one taken out by the Raijor Dal. Factor or no factor, in jail or free, Akhil Gogoi continues to turn heads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||North East||Assembly polls 2021: Congress gave violence to Assam, says Madhya Pradesh CM||Madhya Pradesh chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday alleged that the successive Congress governments in Assam had given only unemployment, violence, insurgency and infiltration. On the Congress electoral tie-ups with parties like Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in Assam and the Indian Secular Force floated by a Muslim cleric in West Bengal, he claimed that Rahul Gandhi is “going the Jinnah way”. Addressing an election rally at Palasbari of Kamrup district, Chouhan said development in the state came in only after the BJP formed government five years ago. “The Congress ruled Assam for so many years, but what did they give? The Congress governments gave only unemployment, violence, insurgency and infiltration,” the senior BJP leader said. The people of the northeastern state could see the first glimpse of development when Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed power and a BJP government took charge of Assam in 2016, Chouhan claimed. “I also request you all that do not trust the five guarantees of the Congress. They never fulfil their promises. You go to other states where Rahul Gandhi had promised to waive farm loans within 10 days of forming governments,” he added. The Congress has “guaranteed” that if it is voted to power, a law will be enacted to nullify the CAA, five lakh government jobs will be given, 200 units of electricity will be free for all, housewives will get Rs 2,000 per month and minimum wages of tea garden workers will be raised to Rs 365. Addressing a press conference in Guwahati later, Chouhan claimed that after the Congress came to power in Madhya Pradesh in 2018, it did not waive agricultural loans. The Kamal Nath government in MP fell in 2020 following a rebellion in the Congress camp and Chouhan became chief minister. He presented some video clips of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi promising to waive farm loans, which were claimed to be made before the 2018 Assembly election in MP. The chief minister claimed that farmers in his state stopped paying instalments after the Congress formed the government. But as it did not waive farm loans, banks sent notices to farmers to recover the loans with more interests, Chouhan said. “Rahul Gandhi is telling lies everywhere. I think in the name Rahul, R stands for rejected, A for absent-minded, H for hopeless, U for useless and L for liar,” Chouhan said. Likewise, in the case of the INC (Indian National Congress), I stands for irresponsible, N for nepotism and C for corrupt, he added. “The Congress has joined hands with (AIUDF president) Badruddin Ajmal, who is harbouring infiltrators. The Assamese culture and heritage will be threatened by Ajmal. “The Congress tied up with the Muslim League in Kerala, Furfura Sharif in West Bengal and Ajmal in Assam. Rahul Gandhi is going the Jinnah way,” Chouhan said. Earlier this month, Chouhan had claimed that instead of following Mahatma Gandhi, the Congress is following in ‘Jinnah’s footsteps’ and it will ‘destroy’ the country. Chouhan said that if voted to power, the saffron party will come up with a law to prevent love jihad, as has been done in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||North East||BJP’s ‘double standard on Citizenship Amendment Act clear’||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday accused the BJP of adopting “double standard” on the Citizenship Amendment Act, claiming that the top brass of the saffron party, which had been talking of implementing the contentious law in Bengal, is scared of raising the issue in Assam. Addressing a news conference here, the senior Congress leader alleged the BJP had been avoiding answers on bigger issues of concern such as unemployment, inflation, devastating floods, the plight of tea plantation workers and the thriving syndicate of smugglers. “In Assam, BJP leaders are completely silent on the issue of CAA. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal is silent, minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is silent. The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and home minister (Amit Shah) also avoid the issue during (poll campaign) addresses. Their silence shows that they are disoriented when it comes to CAA implementation. The party’s double standard on the matter has been exposed,” Baghel said. He further demanded that the BJP leaders come clean on the issue. “In Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah claimed that a decision on CAA implementation will be taken during the first cabinet meeting, if the BJP forms the government there. However, in Tamil Nadu, BJP leaders have stated that CAA won’t be implemented, no matter what,” he pointed out. Baghel reaffirmed that his party, if voted to power in Assam, will ensure that the CAA is not implemented. “Our leader Rahul Gandhi has time and again said that we will not allow the amended citizenship law to be implemented in Assam under any circumstance,” he said. Stressing that the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee has condemned Shah’s statement, where he claimed that there has been no protest in the state over the last five years, the Congress leader contended: “He simply wants to obliterate the anti-CAA uprising that happened in Assam. He wants to deny the existence of young boys like Sam Strafford and Dipanjal (Das) who lost their lives in police firing... What can be more unfortunate for the people of Assam than this?” None of the BJP leaders found time to visit the homes of anti-CAA “martyrs”, but Rahul did visit the families in Hatigaon and Chaygaon to share the pain of their parents, Baghel, also a senior observer of Assam elections, said. “The people of Assam understand very well that voting the BJP to power for another five years would mean the state’s culture and identity would get destroyed. They are aware of the party’s nefarious intentions,” he said. Exuding confidence that the Grand Alliance, of which the Congress is a major constituent, will register a resounding victory, he said: “People will exercise their franchise to win over challenges such as unemployment, price rise and CAA...” Emphasising that a democracy has provided each citizen with a “Brahmastra (celestial weapon)” to dethrone a party that is “hell-bent on destroying the social fabric of Assam”, Baghel said: “The Congress has given assurances that it won’t let the state become a detention centre.” Detention centres have been set up in Assam to house people who did not make it to the National Register of Citizens, which was updated in the state in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||Opinion||Move forward: Vaccines for all above 45||Sir — Having vaccinated a number of citizens above the age of 60, the government is all set to start the next vaccination drill. It has recently announced that the vaccination program for all citizens above 45 will commence from April 1 (“Vaccines for all above 45 from April 1”, March 24). Given the renewed surge in infection, this is definitely an appreciable move. The Union ministry has given the assurance that enough vaccine doses are available so that people do not worry. Studies, too, are being constantly conducted on the effects and efficacy of the vaccines. Thankfully, no major problem has been detected. For now, people would do well to trust the vaccine and avoid spreading rumours about its effects. One single mistake on our part can turn the clock back by a year. Kavya Shah,Ujjain Sir — India has thus far managed the vaccination programme rather well. In spite of a massive population, the authorities seem to be steadily administering the vaccine doses, without major hiccups. India is now stepping into the second phase of its vaccination programme. Regardless of comorbidities, anyone above the age of 45 will be eligible to take the vaccine next month onwards. Yet, it is a great concern that the number of new active cases is growing at an alarming rate. Perhaps the government should consider speeding up its previous vaccination strategy — the authorities must come up with a concrete plan so that the entire population is inoculated at the earliest. While it is noble of India to engage in vaccine diplomacy — millions of doses have reportedly been exported — it is time for the government to focus on putting the health of its own citizens first. The second wave of the pandemic could be fatal. The authorities as well as the citizens should take all possible precautions to contain it. Aradhana Deb,Calcutta  Take care Sir — It is shocking that over 13,000 infants died in the sick newborn care units in government hospitals in Gujarat in the last two years. These facilities reportedly give free treatment. But this means nothing if these precious lives cannot be saved. Gujarat should focus on employing more medical professionals to look into this disturbing data and take measures to tackle the problem. Reshmi Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||Erase the line: Rising crimes against Dalits||One step in favour of equality in India seems to be accompanied by two steps back. While there has been a heartening rise in the number of inter-caste marriages, India has also witnessed growing atrocities against Dalit communities. There was a rise in the number of weddings involving a Dalit spouse in 2020, but National Crime Records Bureau figures also show a corresponding spike in crimes against scheduled castes in recent years. The violence thus outweighs the progress made by these inter-caste alliances. Taking cognizance of this reality, a parliamentary panel has now suggested the adoption of schemes incentivizing inter-caste unions in a bid to curb caste-based violence. The suggestion has its merits. If society at large were to perceive inter-caste unions as having the support of Parliament, young people might feel emboldened to marry whom they choose, and their families — often the greatest source of opposition — might even bless the unions. In fact, the Central scheme, under which cash incentives are extended to couples in cases where one spouse belongs to a scheduled caste, witnessed claims going up to 23,355 in 2019-20 from 20,253 in 2017-18. Cash incentives could also be a boon for poor families unable to organize weddings. The parliamentary panel’s progressive outlook is also reassuring at a time when caste atrocities have witnessed a surge in Uttar Pradesh and the Bharatiya Janata Party, India’s ruling party, has unleashed a campaign against interfaith unions. Of course, the idea of incentives is not new: in 2020, Karnataka reported a three-fold increase in inter-caste unions in five years as a result of a similar policy. But it must be remembered that State paternalism can ultimately do little to address the underlying problems of entrenched caste prejudice. Caste remains a pervasive force in Indian politics, policymaking and justice delivery. Political patronage on the basis of caste constituencies, systemic discrimination against lower caste groups and a poor conviction rate — it fell from 19.3 per cent in 2018 to 18.1 per cent in 2019 — are some of the manifestations of this perversity. The real challenge lies in tackling the disease, not its symptoms. This is predicated upon widening the scope of affirmative action to ensure equality in rights and access to healthcare, education and public spaces, including places of worship, alongside prompt and impartial action on the part of law enforcement to check caste crimes. Inter-caste marriage as an acceptable norm is still a far cry in India, but imaginative policy and parliamentary endorsement could well ignite a momentum for change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||Paper trail: New UGC history course||It is getting predictable — the intellectual, ethical and professional surrender of various institutions to the agenda of the party in power at the Centre. The University Grants Commission has produced a draft syllabus for the undergraduate history course. Echoing the ruling regime’s drive for control in all spheres, the UGC has, for the first time, graduated from issuing general guidelines to producing a paper-by-paper course. The changes in the history syllabus of Delhi University cause little surprise. Mythological concepts and ancient Indian texts with a religious slant — non-religious texts do not make the cut — have been given primacy over the study of pre-historic times and the early historic period. Together with these has been included the ‘idea of Bharat’ with one topic suggesting that it is ‘eternal’. What does fantasizing have to do with history? That this should be matched with a sidelining of lessons on the Mughal period — apparently caused by Babar’s ‘invasion’, a term rejected hitherto by the university — is hardly unexpected. Hindu and Muslim societies are to be studied under separate heads, suggesting division, not interaction, in the medieval period. These changes are enough to indicate that history teaching is to be turned on its head; the rest, such as using V.D. Savarkar’s label for the 1857 uprising while ignoring other rebellions, pretending there was no Dalit politics till 1950 or no partition of Bengal in 1905 and no resistance to it, or replacing books such as Irfan Habib’s with books by allegedly ‘pro-sangh’ writers, are just dangerous details. The intention is to disseminate ignorance. This is not the ignorance of not knowing, but that of belief in something false or non-existent. An example is the draft syllabus’s highly original identification of an Indus-Saraswati civilization when no one knows if the ancient Saraswati river existed. But juggling priorities and topics, or introducing unhistorical ideas, is not meant just to distort understanding. Fantasy replacing facts and disguised propaganda replacing historical accounts are evidence of a far-sighted goal. The UGC seems desirous of compelling students to dismantle their intellectual equipment which they will strengthen with study, analysis, independent reflection and research. The programme is to create brainlessness. Without that, it will not be possible to establish one dominant ideology and undisputed political control. Students are filling up the jails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||Revival plan for multilateralism||One of the most discussed fallouts of the Covid-19 pandemic has been the apparent failure of multilateralism. Over the years, multilateral institutions, such as the United Nations, the World Health Organization or the World Trade Organization, have been falling short in fulfilling the needs and addressing the grievances of developing economies. Moreover, the post-World War II world, which was predominantly designed with a view to establish a rules-based global order for achieving integration, peace and prosperity, has been going downhill. This is combined with rising discontent over job insecurity, slow economic recovery, increasing inequalities, trade protectionism, climate change, mounting greenhouse gas emissions and so on. So why is multilateralism in a free-fall? Power structures have undergone massive changes in the post-war years, more so since the end of the Cold War. The rise of a belligerent Beijing accompanied with its economic advancements has tremendously changed the ebb and flow of global governance. India, too, is not keen on maintaining radio silence with such a neighbour in its backyard. New Delhi is gradually and actively increasing its visibility on the international scene. Take, for instance, Vaccine Maitri, India’s recent diplomatic-cum-development partnership endeavour to earn goodwill not only in the neighbouring region of South Asia but also in Latin America and even in Canada and Mexico. The feeble response of the WHO in the wake of the pandemic clearly reflected how it was busy kowtowing to its premier sponsors. In the case of the environment, the withdrawal of the United States of America from the Paris agreement or the Iran nuclear deal under Donald Trump have been cited as examples of a strong backlash against a multilateral order. With less than ten years left for Agenda 2030, the year 2020 was meant to be a landmark year in climate ambition. Instead, it turned out to be the year of Covid-19. International climate governance was stalled as several governments dived in announcing emergency stimulus packages to rescue their economies. Besides, the United Nations Climate Change Conference, which was supposed to give a practical shape to the Paris agreement, got deferred, putting climate policymaking in an indeterminate state. However, putting the entire blame on Trump’s ‘America First’ policy for the US’s exit from climate agreements or on China’s aggressive infrastructural expansion with ‘One Belt One Road’ does not explain the maladies encountered by multilateralism today. The problem lies in the absence of a changing narrative of multilateralism, one that equips it to face new world challenges. An updated version of multilateralism is what the international community must ponder. In fact, the pandemic has offered the latter an opportune moment to plan sustainable pathways in the run-up to Agenda 2030. At this juncture, the involvement of ‘sub-national agencies and sub-groups of multiple actors’ could reboot the current multilateral system. Minilaterals or small groupings of countries  — for instance, an India-France-Australia or an India-Japan-Australia axis in the Indo-Pacific — could help reform multilateralism. When it comes to environmental multilateralism, sustainability has to be given adequate spotlight. An ecological transition characterized by a shift from fossils to renewables holds the potential for a faster economic recovery. The recovery packages open up an avenue for mobilizing funds for sustainable pathways. However, this depends on how cohesively the countries prioritize their climate ambitions, especially in the light of Covid-19. In this context, the COP26, now scheduled to take place in November, is crucial. The sub-grouping of nation states and sub-national agencies can facilitate climate negotiations and revive multilateralism. Although the pandemic is still raging, making climate change mitigation and adaptation mainstream, both at the multilateral and minilateral level, is essential.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||A case for measuring governance||The prime minister’s uncharacteristic dismay at the higher bureaucratic system, not devoid of truth and made in a specific context, has met with mixed reaction. This is an occasion that calls for introspection of a broader malaise. How does one objectively assess the quality of public services or of governance in general, especially at the state level? The subjective view is often shaped by a priori assumptions, ideological preferences, and the opinions propagated by the media. Besides, there is often a hidden blame game between the bureaucrat and the minister and an open one between the ruling party and the Opposition. How can a citizen then gain a dispassionate, informed perspective? In 1970, the then home secretary, L.P. Singh, had observed that civil servants are too concerned with the political element in administration. “I know that thousands of civil servants spend a lot of time bemoaning political interference, complaining of unjust orders passed... I personally think that these preoccupations have done a great deal of harm to the civil service and to the administration of this country. For they have tended to deflect the civil service away from going more deeply into what I would describe broadly as its professional problems... let’s be honest, we have to blame ourselves, not ministers, not politicians, not legislators...” (David C. Potter in India’s Political Administrators). In the process, governance suffers, failing to satisfy basic needs and aspirations of the people. With greater resources and tools of modern management at our disposal, isn’t it time to examine the current state of public administration? A commendable effort in this direction has been made by the Public Affairs Centre in Bengaluru by a research team under the guidance of Gurucharan Gollerkeri, a former civil servant, in the recently published Public Affairs Index-Governance in the States of India-2020. Seeking to improve the quality of governance, and following a methodology that is innovative and technically sound, “PAI 2020 provides evidence-based insights on subnational governance, and in particular, drawing on government data, an assessment of the quality and adequacy of governance in the states.” In its fifth year of publication, the annual report is getting continuously refined but is yet to receive the attention it deserves. Any attempt at developing measurable and verifiable indices is bound to have limitations. Nevertheless, one should appreciate the ingenuity and hard work that have gone into ranking the states, categorized as large and small, based on population criterion, on a Composite Index, with “the three dimensions of sustainable development — growth, equity and sustainability” as the overarching goals of governance. Under each of these three, performance is circumscribed by five select themes of governance — the rule of law, government effectiveness, regulatory quality, control of corruption, voice and accountability. These themes, in turn, are mapped into 13 Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations for 2030. Below this SDG layer, there are 50 indicators used in generating the Composite Index. The process is rigorous. But the final outcomes offer a nuanced picture. For instance, across high and low performing states, high levels of inequality are noticed, corroborating the notion of a widening gap between the rich and the poor. The finding that female labour participation is insignificant in the poor performing states is also understandable. The authors conclude “there is a slow but steady convergence between states on growth and equity... that some states have deeply entrenched inequality that must be addressed with single-minded policy focus... ” Kerala tops the overall ranking, followed by Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh. Andhra Pradesh under the equity parameter and Kerala under growth and sustainability head the list of large states. At the bottom are Haryana, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh. How these findings correlate with the state rankings in terms of human development indices would be an interesting facet to analyse. While the methodology and the importance accorded to equity, growth and sustainability may be questioned, the report should have triggered a serious discussion on the subject. PAI 2020 has shown one valid way of ranking our states. By measuring inter-state disparities, the need for focused intervention has been highlighted so as to enable some states, marked by severe resource constraints and chronic backwardness, to meaningfully participate in ‘competitive federalism’. At the national level, a key to ranking various Central government departments may be found in the way civil service effectiveness is sought to be measured through the International Civil Service Effectiveness Index 2019 developed by the Blavatnik School of Government, Oxford University and the Institute for Government, supported by the UK civil service. We can study the methodology, modify it to meet our requirements and prepare our own ranking system. Select think-tanks and national academies may engage with these exercises, taking advantage of the best national and international expertise, under the supervision of the Niti Aayog. A combination of enlightened political will and administrative skill determines the quality of governance. This quality should also lend itself to measurement. It is time, therefore, to collect the ‘big data’ and use them systematically to assess and quantify the performances of offices and departments of the Central and state governments. A bureaucrat’s performance has to be judged against this overall context, not by his proximity to centres of power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Opinion||Hope is hard||West Bengal recorded its first officially-confirmed coronavirus death a year and three days ago, on March 23, 2020, that of a 57-year-old man who had recently returned from Italy. A day later, Lockdown 1.0 was announced at four hours’ notice, coming into effect from midnight of March 24/25, and, as we all know (even if we can’t recall the exact dates), being extended in phases up to the end of May. By end-March last year, many of the positions we now associate with the ongoing pandemic had begun to be adopted by significant numbers of people — from a plethora of conspiracy theories to varieties of studied nonchalance; from the tom-tomming of traditional and/or natural cures to eco-outrage at the nemesis human beings had unleashed on themselves through their hubris; from firmly-held belief in supernatural intercession to the invocation of science as the only hope of overcoming the virus. Many commentators combined one or more of these positions to push forward their own understandings and interpretations of what seemed to be — at least at that point — a temporary lull in the normal rhythm of life. As the days stretched into weeks, and the weeks into months, most of the early predictions — whether based on faith or on analyses of multiplying piles of data — crumbled like so much dust before swirling whirlwinds. One year on, and despite the astonishing achievements of researchers and scientists (and unprecedented global cooperation) ensuring that several vaccines have made their way into our lives, the picture remains indecipherably blurry. The total number of deaths from Covid-19 in West Bengal on March 23, 2021 — exactly a year after that first mortality — stands at 10,310, according to government statistics; many think the real figure is significantly higher. Worries abound. Are we about to see a “second wave” of Covid-19 infections? Or is it already upon us? How virulent are the new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that have begun to make inroads in India? Will a fresh wave of restrictions on travel and gatherings have to be imposed in a few weeks’ time? Are the assembly elections in West Bengal to be followed by another phase of lockdowns? The questions multiply, even as coronavirus cases seem to be on an upswing after months of reduced infections. Our inability to judge how or when the virus can be brought under some kind of control (it now appears that the best we can hope for is to learn to live with it, instead of looking to eradicate it entirely) has also muddled our ability to compute the toll it has already taken on the lives of millions upon millions of our fellow citizens — from the most privileged to the poorest in the land — leave alone think of possible alleviative measures. Perhaps the major difficulty lies in the near-impossibility of calculating just how badly individuals, families and communities have been, and are being, affected by the pandemic — a difficulty compounded by the fact that Covid-19 has already had a ‘multiplier effect’ on existing inequities and inequalities, whether these are based on class, caste, religion, occupation, gender, geographical location, political affiliation or a combination of these. One is not speaking here only of the underclass, the poor migrant labourer forced to trudge hundreds of weary kilometres home, the petty salaried employee suddenly deprived of a job — many millions of others, some with seemingly secure livelihoods, are almost as badly affected. For many, if not the majority, this has to do with the psychological toll that the pandemic has taken. Among them, some of the worst-affected are students and teachers. Despite all our access to technology, all the Zoom meetings, the Google classrooms, online teaching tools, access to free resources and so on, what this last year has brought home in no uncertain terms is that learning and teaching are interactive, collaborative and crucially dependent on what is perhaps best expressed as the ‘embodied’ nature of education — whether at school, college or university. At a recent (virtual) interaction with college and university teachers, a participant recounted how students would come in to her college just to say “hello” to their teachers and their peers, and then go back home. This immediately led to others narrating that they had experienced the same phenomenon, and how many of them would go to their university or college not because they were duty-bound to do so, but because they craved human contact — even if separated by six feet of distance — with their colleagues and, perhaps more importantly, their students. There was near-unanimity about just how important such physical presence was to the teaching-learning process — something that seems not to be taken much into account as we rush into virtual digital lecture halls and laboratories. The ‘digital divide’ has, to a considerable extent, made education a function of a student’s economic status, and educational institutions are struggling to find ways and means to ensure that no student is left behind for want of a device or data plan; but even if every student had access to a device and data, the business of conducting online classes has something bizarrely inhuman about it. The inability to pick up the non-verbal cues that alert a teacher to the attentiveness, or otherwise, of a student, or indicate to students the interest, or lack thereof, on the part of a teacher in what she/he is supposed to be teaching, are fundamental components of the pedagogic process. Going digital may have its uses, but the absence of the living, breathing, thinking human being engaged in the process of questioning, debating, arguing, understanding, in short, learning, diminishes the entire process of education. The consequences can be devastating. Many of the teachers in that interaction confessed how they felt “useless” or “helpless” or “inadequate” in such a situation, and all looked forward to the time when they would be able to interact physically, not virtually, with pupils. A great deal (some would say “most”) of what we learn at school, college or university happens outside the structured confines of the classroom, without the supervision of a teacher. This too has been largely lost due to the pandemic. More questions. When will students and teachers once again interact in ways that are not mediated by digital means? When will campuses regain their rightful place as fertile seedbeds of fresh ideas? When will we be able to communicate with each other as whole human beings instead of disembodied voices screaming into the void? As SARS-CoV-2 mutates merrily into ever-newer forms, and the questions keep multiplying by the day, perhaps the hardest thing to do is not to seek answers, but simply to hold on to hope. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: steel city hospitals told be stay vigilant ||The East Singhbhum district health department issued a directive to all Covid-designated hospitals in the steel city to be prepared to treat and admit patients after a steady increase in the number of fresh cases over the last week. As many as 30 people tested positive for the Coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total number of cases from March 8 to 190. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said he had written to all five Covid-designated hospitals in Jamshedpur. "We have asked them to stay prepared to deal with fresh cases like they did last year when the pandemic had struck," he said, adding that thhe directive were issued as a precautionary measure. "It is evident that Covid-19 cases are increasing alarmingly in states like Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. It is unlikely that the  steel city will be an exception. There are chances cases may increase here like in cities of the surge states," the civil surgeon said. Lal said last year, people followed Covid guidelines strictly. But after the introduction of the vaccine, he felt, the fear factor had all but  disappeared from people's minds. "But the danger of its spread is more now than beore," he claimed. The five Covid designated health hubs in the steel city are Tata Main Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital, MGM Medical College and Hospital, Uma Super Speciality Hospital and St John's Hospital. Presently, most Covid patients are admitted at Tata Main Hospital. About half-a-dozen people are undergoing treatment at MGM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Man gunned down by men on bike in Jamshedpur market||A 35-year-old man was shot dead by four bike-borne assailants at Sidhgora market on Friday afternoon. The victim, identified as Bablu Jha, was smoking marijuana along with a few others under the canopy of a banyan tree in the marketplace at about 2 pm when the criminals shot him. Two of the attackers fired one shot each, targeting the victim's chest and as soon as he fell down, the four fled the scene. The victim was rushed to MGM medical college and hospital but doctors declared him dead on arrival. Police officials reached the spot immediately and sealed the marketplace to carry out a search operation. The assailants could not be traced in the marketplace. A resident of No 10 Bustee in Shidhgora, Bablu Jha worked at a canteen in Tata Main Hospital and also drove an autoricshaw at night. Officer-in-charge of Sidhgora police station, Sandeep Ranjan, said the attack seemed to have been conspired because of an old enmity. "We have identified two of the assailants by means of CCTV footage gathered from near the murder scene. We are getting the names and address of the two verified and expect to detect the case soon," said Ranjan. The OC said some of the attackers had visited Bablu at his house in the morning and had enticed him to smoke marijuana on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur bypolls: LPG cylinders, autos for voter awareness||Deoghar district administration is using domestic LPG cylinders to propagate messages about the importance of voting and adhering to Covid safety norms ahead of the April 17 Madhupur byelection, the unique initiative drawing kudos from one and all. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri, who is also district election officer, said they are working to ensure a grand turnout for the byelection as a part of the Systematic Voters' Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) campaign. “Since cylinders are an invaluable part of every household, we decided to use them for creating awareness. As per the plan, before being delivered at one's home, every cylinder will carry the message_ 'Pehle mask ke saath matdan, fir jal-paan (First, wear a mask and vote. Then have a snack)'. We have directed all gas agencies in the Madhupur constituency to ensure these awareness stickers are pasted before dispatching cylinders," he said. Bhajantri said the administration was roping in a large fleet of auto rickshaws to amplify the message. On Friday, a rally of autos was held  as part of the voter awareness drive. “Since auto rickshaws are the backbone of public transport here, we have also decided to use them. They will also bear Covid and bypoll related messages while moving about,” he said. The Madhupur Assembly segment is a part of the Godda parliamentary constituency. It has about 3.10 lakh voters. In 2019, the voting percentage was around 60.76 compared to a record 71 during 2014. District administration sources said that ensuring a better voting turnout would be a key challenge amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Bhajantri, however, said they were constantly exploring out-of-the-box ideas to create awareness . The nomination process is on. Minister Hafizul Hassan was among the first to file his candidature as joint candidate of the JMM-Congress-RJD  alliance. BJP nominee Ganga Narayan Singh is expected to file his nomination soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dol celebrations in Dhanbad, courtesy ISKON||A three-hour Dolotsav event was held at Bekar bandh pond in Dhanbad on Friday. More than 80 people danced to the tune of Rabindra sangeet, played holi with palash flowers and herbal gulal and participated in kirtan. The celebration began with a prabhat pheri taken out at around 7am followed by an hour-long kirtan performance by a 20 member team of ISKCON Dhanbad led by Damodar Govind Das. A two hour cultural programme included Rabindra Sangeet performance by participants belonging to different local dance groups of Dhanbad and Jharia like Parul dance academy, Sompa Mukherjee dance group and Saswati dance academy enthralled people with their dance performance to tune of popular songs like bakul gandhe bonya elo; rangiye diye jao; laglo je dol; ore bhai phagun legechhe and danriye achho tumi amar. Dhanbad Mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal was the chief guest at the programme along with wife Veena Agarwal. He handed out prizes to winners of a lucky draw organised by Chandan Studio. “The entire scene of Dolotsav of Shantiniketan came to life in Dhanbad today and me and my wife really enjoyed the programme,” the mayor said. A flower jewelry making contest was held among couples in which Santosh Das, an officer of SBI general insurance was adjudged the winner for making the best jewelry for his wife Savanti Sarkar. Savanti Sarkar told The Telegraph Online:“Besides working in an insurance company I am also associated with Shaswati Mukherjee and managed time for dance rehersals which is my passion and enjoyed the programme held today on the line of Dolotsav held at Shantiniketan”. “Our joy was doubled with my husband winning the jewelry making competition,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand athletics meet in Gumla in April ||Jharkhand athletes have an opportunity to try and make it to the state squad for the 36th National Games in Goa with the Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) is hosting the State Senior Open Athletics Championship at Albert Ekka Stadium in Gumla between April 16 and 18. "Performance of athletes (men and women)  will be key during the state championship. We have planned to shortlist 60 athletes for preparing them for the Games. The shortlisted athletes will prepare themselves at a training camp to be organised by us in due course of time," said JAA president Madhukant Pathak. The dates of the much-delayed National Games is yet to be announced. But the state association wants ample time to prepare athletes. According to Pathak, although performance of athletes would be key during the state meet, the association would like to choose those with potential to win medals. "Athletes with potential would be given preference. It is not necessary that athletes finishing in the top three positions would get the nod (for the camp). Our athletes are improving their performances in the national circuit and they have the potential to excel in big-ticket competitions," Pathak, who is also secretary general of Jharkhand Olympic Association, explained. He said they would like to go for quality rather than quantity when it comes to selection of athletes for the Nationals. "We may go for 30-40 athletes for the camp. That is why the state championship is important for the athletes when it comes to finding slots for the Games," Pathak elaborated. According to him, all affiliated district units of JAA would participate at the state championship. "We have already received around 200 athletes," Pathak said over phone from Ranchi. On why the state championship was being held in Gumla and not in Ranchi or Jamshedpur, the JAA president said they want to take athletics to other districts as well. "We want to popularise athletics in other districts as well. The Albert Ekka Stadium lacks a synthetic track but we want to organise the state meet there to popularise athletics," Pathak added. The National Games in Goa was originally schedule to be held in 2019 but got postponed due to the general elections. It was re-scheduled to October 2020 but the Covid pandemic played spoilsport. With Covid making a comeback in the country, the showpiece event might see yet another postponement. Pathak, however, said they would like to prepare their athletes no matter when the Games are held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: highest one-day spike in state in March||Jharkhand on Thursday reported the highest single-day-spike in Covid cases in the month of March as at least 278 fresh cases took the active caseload above the 1000 mark on the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, Ranchi alone reported 170 cases against only 47 recoveries on Thursday, and the active caseload here reached 574. By Thursday evening, at least 1175 Jharkhand residents were battling a Covid-19 infection. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of over 11,000 people and more than 2 per cent of them were found infected. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand also reached 0.11 per cent on the day against the national average of 0.29 per cent. As per government data, it would take more than 640 days for the cases to double in the state. Jharkhand on Thursday administered the first dose of the vaccine to as many as 32,669 residents and the second dose to only 3812 beneficiaries, achieving 56 per cent of its target for the first dose and only 4 per cent for the second dose, figures compiled by the NHM highlighted. As many as 24,594 senior citizens and 6,254 middle-agers with comorbid conditions got the first jab of the vaccine in the state on Thursday. While the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 12 lakh Jharkhand residents, it has only managed to administer the second jab to 2.27 lakh beneficiaries, reveals government data. So far, the second dose of the vaccine has only been provided to healthcare and frontline workers. The health department will start administering the second dose of the vaccine to senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions next month onwards, officials said. Ranchi is the only district in Jharkhand to vaccinate more than 1 lakh residents. So far, over 1.20 lakh residents have received the first dose of the vaccine, while over 25,000 have received the second jab as well. As per government data, Jharkhand has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and 70 per cent of the target for administering the second dose. Jharkhand also launched a special Panchayat level vaccination drive on March 20 in which it has set a target of vaccinating 10 lakh rural residents. So far, the government has managed to vaccinate over 5 lakh people during the campaign. The special Panchayat level drive will also be conducted on Friday and Saturday, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand clinches sub-junior men’s hockey national title ||Jharkhand on Thursday beat Haryana 3-1 after a shootout to clinch the trophy of the 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Men National Championship 2021 in Jind (Haryana). All hockey fans and the state hockey unit elated in rejoice as the news broke dubbing it as a fitting reply to Jharkhand’s loss to Haryana in another national meet recently. Last week, female sub-junior team finished runner’s up to Haryana during the 11th hockey India sub junior women national championship 2021 hosted in Jharkhand’s Simedga district. In today’s final, both the teams remained goalless after 60 minutes of the game. Identical to the semifinal performance against Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand goalie Duga Munda emerged as the hero, saving three shots towards the goal. Asim Ekka, Deepak Soreng and Roshan Reetik Lakra scored in the shootout for Jharkhand. Jharkhand coach Adam Horo in a statement said, “It’s a phenomenal achievement for all of us as we had very little time to train. Duga was once again outstanding in the shootout,” adding that the final summit clash went as per their expectation. “We knew it would be a tough game. I was happy with the way the team played in the first three quarters. We lost a little bit of momentum in the final quarter but the boys kept their cool during the shootout. Hockey Jharkhand are champions for the first time. This win is a testament to the way we have worked with the tribal community over the years. I am sure they will bring many more laurels in the future,” he said. Earlier in the day, Uttar Pradesh Hockey clinched third spot with a stunning 23-0 win against Manipur. Back in Simdega, considered as the cradle of hockey players, everyone rejoiced and danced at Astroturf stadium over the emphatic win. Hockey Jharkhand president Bhola Nath Singh, who is currently in Simdega for the upcoming national meet from April 3 said, “The victory is a fitting reply to our slender loss to Haryana last week.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 5 arrested in Ranchi for theft of ancient idols||Hazaribagh: A special investigation team formed by superintendent of police Karthik S. arrested five persons from Ranchi in the ancient idols theft case. The white sandstone idols were stolen on March 20. The 1200 years-old idols were found by the Archaeological Survey of India at Bahoranpur, 10kms away from Hazaribagh town. Karthik said during investigation, police caught Kumar Sujit Singh from Ranchi who named Sanjay Agarwal for transporting the idols to Ranchi. Police rounded up Agarwal who confirmed that idols kept in the house of one his friend Yatindra Kumar at Booty More in Ranchi. Within no time, idols were recovered and Yatindra arrested. Karthik said they had also recovered three mobiles from the arrested five. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Ramgarh: A fire broke out at a Maruti car showroom in Ramgarh and damaged items worth lakhs. One of the employees, Sudeep Kumar who had a narrow escape said all of a sudden he spotted fire and smoke in the room in which he was sleeping. Firefighters later doused the flames. Ramgarh police officials said the fire started because of a short circuit in the morning. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: Around 60 students have cracked the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2021 in the district, majority of them from Delhi Public School. According to the information shared by schools, Varun Tandon of Delhi Public School, Bokaro topped the school with 99.79 percentile. Tandon has scored highest in the district. Around 50 students of DPS have secured more than 90 percentile in the JEE Main for March Session. Dev Jyoti (99.32), Amisha Singh (99.31), Anurag Ranjan (99.11), Aditya Ray Mishra(98.71), Rahul Dev (98.54), Aditya Kumar (98.45), Shreya Shree (98.32), Ayush Kumar (98.19), Aryan (98.18), Niranjan Verma (98.17) are few DPS students who scored 98 and above percentile in the JEE Main examination. A.S. Gangwar, principal of DPS Bokaro said,“the results are satisfactory, but we do hope for better results in the upcoming exams.” Gangawar extended his best wishes to the students for the forthcoming exams. Director of Sree Ayyappa Public School, S.S. Mahapatra said they yet have come through the names of 10 students who cracked JEE Main. But still, they are in process of compiling names. Of those who qualified, five students have bagged more than 90 percentile. Till Thursday evening, except DPS, the majority of other famed schools did not officially declare the numbers and names of their students who cracked the prestigious JEE Main examination in this session. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Sanjeev Kumar said they are in process of collecting details. Pentecostal School Assembly is also in process of compiling names of the successful students. Many schools are yet to declare the names. (Our Correspondent) Chatra: A 70-year-old man was beaten to death during a fight between two families on Thursday night in Khirgadda village under Charu panchayat of Rajpur police station in Chatra district. According to police sources the families sparred because of a land dispute, an issue for almost 30 years between them. A house with a sugarcane unit was also gutted by fire during the incident. Officer-in-charge of Rajpur police, Anil Kumar, reached the spot and brought the situation under control following which police officers are camping in the area to prevent any untoward incidents. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand minister Badal Patralekh bitten by horse||Jharkhand agriculture and animal husbandry minister Badal Patralekh fondness for riding on horse proved a painful affair on Wednesday evening when the minister’s left hand was bitten by a horse at Koderma, around 165km from state capital Ranchi. The 44-year-old Congress MLA from Jarmundi had gone to Koderma to attend a function organised by the district animal husbandry department at Balitand and after the function while on way back the minister saw a horse on the bypass road and expressed desire to ride it. Taking permission from the horse owner, the minister took a ride on the horse for nearly five minutes and after alighting from the horse tried to feed it with a few pieces of gur (jaggery). “The horse in a haste to munch on the gur had a portion of teeth cutting into the left hand of the minister. Immediately the health department team led by Koderma civil surgeon Dr Abhay Bhusan arranged for tetanus and anti-rabies injection for the minister,” said Vikram Patralekh, the brother of the minister. The minister was stable. “I am perfectly stable and I came for participating in the filing of nomination of our UPA alliance candidate on JMM ticket and cabinet minister Hafijul Hassan (son of the deceased sitting MLA Haji Hussain Ansari) for the Madhupur bypoll at Madhupur on Thursday,” said Badal Patralekh. However, the district health department is not taking any chances. “The minister will have to take anti-rabies vaccine shots after three, seven, 14 and 28 days. Our medical team will also be keeping a watch on the health of the horse for the next 10 days. The minister’s condition was stable,” said civil surgeon Dr Abhay Bhusan. Significantly, earlier this month, another Jharkhand MLA from Barkagaon Amba Prasad had come to state Assembly on a horse gifted by legendary polo player Colonel Ravi Rathore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government revises dry day order ||The Jharkhand government on Thursday modified its earlier order of Monday and allowed opening of bars and liquor shops in municipal areas of six districts that were to remain closed in view of the first phase of Assembly elections in Bengal on Saturday. According to the earlier order, the whole of six districts — Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Seraikela-Kharsawan and East Singhbhum — were to observe dry day for 48 hours from Thursday evening till Saturday evening in view of the first phase of polling in Purulia and some other areas of Jungle Mahal in Bengal. The Jharkhand Wine Dealers Association had expressed its grievance about the government order on Monday, saying that such restrictions were earlier applicable in only the bordering block because off polling in a neighbouring district of the adjoining state. Closing down liquor shops in the bordering districts would cause loss of revenue to the government and income to wine dealers, the association had told a section of the media, including The Telegraph. Jharkhand secretary-cum-excise commissioner Vinay Kumar Chaubey, in a letter on Thursday, directed the deputy commissioners of those districts to allow opening of liquor shops in urban areas, provided they are not too close to the Bengal border. Such shops in rural areas and also those in urban areas very close to the border have to observe dry days according to the provisions of the People’s Representation Act, 1951, the letter added. Accordingly, bars and liquor shops located within Ranchi Municipal Corporation and Bundu Nagar Parishad in Ranchi district, Ramgarh Nagar Parishad and cantonment area in Ramgarh, Bokaro Steel City, Chas Municipal Corporation and Bermo Nagar Parishad in Bokaro, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in Dhanbad, Adityapur Municipal Corporation, Kapali Nagar Parishad and Seraikela Nagar Panchayat in Seraikela-Kharsawan and Jamshedpur Notified Area Council, Mango Municipal Corporation and Jugsalai Nagar Parishad in East Singhbhum district will not require to close from Thursday evening. “Thanks to the media for highlighting our problem that prompted the state government to reconsider the matter and issue a revised order,” said Achintya Shah, president of the association. According to the earlier order, Dhanbad along with four other districts — Jamtara, Dumka, Pakur and Sahebganj — will also have to observe dry days during the seventh and eighth phase of the Bengal polls. All the 10 districts are also required to observe dry day on May 2, the day of counting. “We expect that similar revised orders exempting liquor shops in municipal areas of those districts will also be issued in due course,” Shah said, adding there was enough time left for that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal Polls 2021: Jharkhand tribal leaders help Mamata Banerjee||Tribal leaders who had played a crucial role in the struggle for a separate Jharkhand state and still hold considerable clout among the people have been roped in by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s political strategist Prashant Kishor’s team and cabinet minister Moloy Ghatak to campaign for Trinamul Congress candidates in tribal areas. The tribal leaders, including former state tribal advisory council member Ratan Tirkey, founder president of All Jharkhand Students Union (Ajsu), Prabhakar Tirkey, former Jagannathpur JMM legislator Mangal Singh Bobonga, founder vice-president of Ajsu and tribal scholar Naresh Murmu and statehood movement leader Nirmal Bhattacharya held a discussion with Kishor’s team in Calcutta and also held a meeting with Bengal labour minister Ghatak in early March. “We were surprised to know that Kishor’s team knew about our participation in the tribal students’ movement in Jhargram and Midnapore in the 1980s. In fact, Ajsu was born in 1986 in Jhargram. They sought our help in campaigning among tribals for this election. We readily agreed as we feel that the time has come for another struggle against fascist forces unleashed by the BJP government at the Centre,” said Ratan, a Ranchi-based tribal leader. The Jharkhand tribal leaders went straight from Calcutta to Jhargram on March 14. “According to the discussions held with Ghatak, we had to campaign in as many panchayats as possible in the two Assembly constituencies of Nayagram (ST-reserved) and Jhargram for TMC candidates Dulal Murmu and Birbaha Hansda (daughter of former Jhargram MLA late Noren Hansda). We covered almost all the panchayats in both the constituencies and informed our tribal people about the anti-tribal policies of the BJP government, especially during its tenure in Jharkhand, the new anti-farmer laws and its hidden agenda to wipe out tribal identity and culture,” said Prabhakar. The leaders held small meetings with tribal groups at various levels, campaigning based on issues, and counter the BJP in terms of national tribal policies with special reference to Jharkhand which was under the saffron party’s regime for most of the time since the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000. “Nayagram and Jhargram are mostly inhabited by Santhal and Munda community people. Using our old roots in this region during our agitation days, we have managed to convince the people to make a right decision while casting their vote,” added Ratan. The tribal leaders would be now moving for campaigning in north Bengal. _“As per the strategy, we will be going to north Bengal from April 9 onwards and campaigning in Assembly constituencies of Nagrakata (ST-reserved), Siliguri and Phansidewa (ST) till April 15,” said Ratan. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren also campaigned for Trinamul candidates in Purulia and Bankura Assembly constituencies on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
