27-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta event to build business bonds||Travel operators to interior designers and wedding planners to nutritionists, a gamut of entrepreneurs will meet at a city auditorium on Saturday to build an alliance to develop their businesses with the support of each other. Rang Meet, in association with The Telegraph, is being organised by the Calcutta chapter of the International Dynamic Entrepreneurs Alliance (IDEA). “IDEA trains budding entrepreneurs on the value of public relations for business success. It creates a network of entrepreneurs, encouraging them to develop their businesses with the mutual support of each other,” an organiser said. Leaders who have surpassed odds to steer their organisations were recognised on Friday at the CMA Management Excellence Awards 2021 Powered by International Institute of Hotel Management in association with Kutchina and The Telegraph||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
27-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government issues advisory on celebrating Holi||The state health department has issued an advisory requesting people to avoid crowding during Dol and Holi. The advisory, issued on Friday, asked people to celebrate the festivals, which fall on Sunday and Monday, respectively, preferably within one’s family. It said the Covid-19 pandemic was not yet over. Since the virus has undergone mutations, the number of infections could rapidly rise any time. Some states in India are already reporting a very high number of cases, the advisory stated. An official of the state health department said the advisory was issued to prevent a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases after the festivals. The advisory said: The bulletin published by the state health department showed that 646 new cases were reported from the city on Thursday, 239 of them from Calcutta. About a month back, the numbers were far less. The number of cases reported from across the state on February 28 was 198, The city’s tally that day was 62. Several doctors said the number would certainly rise as people were walking close to one another in election rallies and talking without wearing a mask. If people celebrate Dol and Holi like other years, the situation could go beyond control, they said. Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert, said it was best if people celebrated the festival of colours in their mind this year. “Remember that the cases did not rise after Durga Puja last year as we behaved responsibly,” he said. Even if one goes out wearing a mask, there is always a possibility of the mask getting wet. “During Dol and Holi, we splash colour on each other. There is always a threat that the mask will get wet. A mask loses its efficiency when it gets wet...,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
27-03-2021||Calcutta||Teen spin bowler balances paper and pitch||A 13-year-old student finished writing an exam, emailed the answer script to his teacher, stepped out of the car, went to a cricket field and took three wickets. S. Shree Ganesan’s Class VIII final exams were clashing with a three-day T20 tournament, organised by the Cricket Association of Bengal. But the left arm spinner, who has been playing second division cricket for the last two years, did not want to miss either. So, he wrote the exams from his father’s car from 8am. The match started an hour later. “The timing was convenient. So, I could complete the paper and rush to the ground,” said Ganesan. The student of Indus Valley World School wrote his Bengali and artificial intelligence papers from the car. During his Hindi exam, also written from the car, he excused himself for 20 minutes because he had to report to the Eden Gardens for a Covid-19 test. “The rule was that they would get the players tested and the matches would be held within the next three days. He has been training hard and he performs well so we wanted him to play. During the lockdown, he had been taking online fitness sessions,” his father, C. T. Selvakumar, said. Since September 2020, Ganesan has been going to the ground for training conducted by his club, the Howrah Union Club. “This was the first tournament since the pandemic and, as parents, we have to support his growth,” said Selvakumar. The online exams made it possible for him to appear for the papers before the match. He would set out from his New Garia home with his father at 7am with an exercise book and pen in one bag and cricket gear in another. They would reach the Maidan area, park the car and he would start writing his exam. “I was more tense about the exams. I am comfortable playing matches,” said Ganesan, who just got promoted to Class IX. His mother Pankajam Selvakumar initiated him into cricket when he was five. His father said it had been possible for Ganesan to pursue cricket along with academics because of support from the school. Before the pandemic, the school would excuse Ganesan for matches or practice sessions. “The boy has been balancing studies and cricket very well and he is a bright student. As a school, we say that we encourage co-curricular activities and sports and if we do not make these adjustments then it would remain empty words,” said Amita Prasad, the school’s director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
27-03-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals in Calcutta told to be ready with Covid beds  ||The state government on Friday asked private hospitals to plan an increase in Covid beds as the number of people suffering from the disease is rising again, officials said. The hospitals were told to monitor the situation and increase the number of beds whenever they feel occupancy was nearing the optimum level. Senior officials of the state health department told hospitals at an online meeting on Friday that a situation must not arise where Covid patients needing hospitalisation was not getting a bed. “Many private hospitals reduced the number of Covid beds after the number of cases started falling rapidly late last year. We asked them to once again review the situation and increase the number of beds. There are about 1,000 beds in private hospitals in Calcutta and half of them are vacant, but we need to be careful as the infections are increasing,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of the health department. Officials of several private hospitals in the city said they would not have any problem in increasing the bed count. “Currently we have 40 Covid beds, 24 in the ward and 16 in the critical care unit, at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. As of today we have 12 Covid patients and all are in the ward. We will constantly monitor the numbers. If the numbers increase sharply, we will add more Covid beds so as to ensure that all patients coming to the hospital are accommodated,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a part. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said 23 of the hospital’s 40 Covid beds were occupied on Friday. “We can increase the count by about 150 in a short time. The number of beds was reduced but we have not removed any infrastructure,” Mitra said. Belle Vue Clinic had 32 of its 34 Covid beds occupied on Friday. The hospital will add 13 beds each in two phases. “We will keep increasing the number of beds if the number of patients increases,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of the hospital. The AMRI Hospitals group has decided to add 10 critical beds at their Dhakuria unit next week. “We have 55 Covid beds at our Salt Lake and Dhakuria units together. We will set up 10 more critical beds at the Dhakuria unit next week,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. The Salt Lake unit had withdrawn all Covid beds but reintroduced 10 last week. Woodlands Hospital has 45 Covid beds and will add another 35 soon. The private hospitals were also told to regularly update their Covid bed count and the number of vacant beds on the health department’s website, wbhealth.gov.in. The department also held a meeting with senior officials of government hospitals from Calcutta, Howrah, and North and South 24-Parganas on Friday and asked them to stay prepared. “These are the four districts where the numbers are rising mostly,” said Nigam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
27-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid jab calls flood hospitals in Calcutta||Private hospitals who were looking for Covid-19 vaccine recipients till the other day to avoid wastage are now flooded with calls from people above 45 who are interested in taking the shots. The Centre’s announcement that all those who are above 45 will be eligible for Covid shots from April 1 has changed the vaccination scene, officials of several hospitals said. Now, people aged 60 and above and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities are eligible for Covid vaccination. One private hospital got around 250 calls on Friday, compared with barely 40 before. An official of another hospital said many people accompanying patients to the outpatient department are enquiring when they could book a slot for a Covid-19 jab. A third hospital has received requests from corporate houses and banks that are keen on getting their employees vaccinated. Public health experts have repeatedly called for vaccination of all adults to prevent a surge in Covid cases. An official of a private hospital said the keenness and desperation among people between 45 and 59 to get vaccinated were not seen among others. “Many people above 60 have medical conditions and are on medicines. We found many of them to be apprehensive about possible adverse reactions of vaccines. But once it was announced that anyone above 45 could get a Covid shot, the situation changed and we are flooded with requests for bookings,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “There is a lot of enthusiasm, along with desperation. Many people above 45 who are coming to OPDs are asking hospital staff about vaccination timings and price. Most of them don’t have any serious medical conditions. They go out for work regularly and are keen to take the shot,” Mitra said. Ripon Street resident Md Nadeem, 52, had called up the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences to inquire about vaccination. “I work for a private company and have to go out every day. I am exposed to Covid infection much more than those staying indoors. So, I called up the hospital to know about the formalities and will take the vaccine in the first week of April,” said Nadeem. “All senior citizens in our family have taken their first dose of a Covid vaccine. Now I want to take it,” said Garia resident Mukta Nandy, who was among those who have called up the RN Tagore hospital. Officials at the hospital said they received around 250 calls on Friday from people asking about vaccination. “When vaccination for the elderly had started, we were getting maximum 40 calls a day. But over the past two days, we have been getting around 250 calls and the number is increasing,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. AMRI Hospitals have been getting 450 calls every day on their helpline from people above 45. At the Dhakuria unit, a PSU oil company and several banks have sent lists of employees for vaccination. “We are fixing the schedule for these people,” said an official of the hospital. A health department official said around 3 crore people would have to be given doses post-April 1. This figure is nearly double the number of those who are now eligible for doses, including health-care personnel and frontline workers. The health department has decided to increase the number of vaccination centres across Bengal. At a recent meeting, officials decided to put in place the cold chain mechanism at all new centres and deploy additional personnel in the next few days. “We now have a little over 4,000 vaccination centres. This number will be increased significantly,” said a health department official. “Over the next few weeks we will closely observe how many recipients are turning up to receive their jabs. Accordingly, we will decide on further scaling up the vaccination centres. If required we can set up around 12,000 vaccination centres.” Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
27-03-2021||Business||Tata-Mistry case: Supreme Court rules in favour of Tatas||The Supreme Court on Friday has set aside the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) order issued in December 2019 that ordered Tata Sons to reinstate Cyrus Mistry as it chairman. In a massive 282-page judgment, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde rejected the plea of the Mistry group that the Tatas had indulged in oppression, mismanagement and had trampled with the rights of the minority shareholders, and hence the company should be wound up. “If someone, aggrieved after his removal from office can engage in shadow­boxing through the companies controlled by him, he cannot accuse the very same person who chose him as successor to be a shadow director. Someone who gained entry through the very same door, cannot condemn it when asked to exit,” the Supreme Court said. “Therefore, the challenge to the affirmative voting rights and the allegations revolving around pre-consultation and  pre clearance by the Trusts of all items in the agenda and RNT (Ratan Tata) indirect or direct influence or grip over the board are all liable to be rejected.” The court said Mistry’s removal as executive chairman of Tata Group was justified as “a person who tries to set his own house on fire for not getting what he perceives as legitimately due to him, does not deserve to continue as part of any decision making body”. The court passed the judgment while dealing with a batch of petitions filed by various Tata Group companies and cross petitions filed by SP (Shapoorji Pallonji) Group challenging the judgment passed by NCLAT on December 18, 2019. The bench expressed surprise that the NCLAT chose to order the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry even when no such prayer was made by SP Group and further the tribunal had ordered his continuation beyond the actual tenure which ended technically on March 31, 2017. The apex court said a deemed public company can revert back to its status as a private company, in view of sub­section (2A) of Section 43A, by incorporating necessary provisions in the articles. “In simple terms, a company which becomes a deemed public company by operation of law, cannot be taken to have undergone a process of fermentation or coagulation like milk to become curd or yoghurt, having an irreversible effect. “Therefore, NCLAT was completely wrong in holding as though Tata Sons, in connivance with the Registrar of Companies did something clandestinely, contrary to the procedure established by law. The request made by Tata Sons and the action taken by the Registrar of Companies to amend the Certificate of Incorporation were perfectly in order,” the bench said upholding Tata Sons’ decision to rechristen itself as a private limited company. The court also declined to deal with the application moved by SP Group praying for the alternative relief of directing Tata Sons and others to cause a separation of ownership interests of SP Group in Tata Sons through a scheme of reduction of capital by extinguishing the shares held by SP Group in lieu of fair compensation. Tata Sons on Friday hailed the order by the Supreme Court. The order of the court vindicates its position and upholds the governance standards adopted by the conglomerate over the years, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
27-03-2021||Business||Centre can ask 10 pc more share in profits from Barmer block to extend PSC with Vedanta: HC||The Delhi high court on Friday said the Centre can demand a 10 per cent higher share in the profit derived from oil produced by Vedanta from the Barmer oilfield in Rajasthan to extend the production-sharing contract (PSC) with the company for another 10 years. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said no embargo can be placed on the right of the government to extend the contract on terms which are at variance with the initial terms of PSC, “so long as they are in public interest and subserve the purpose of maximising revenue generation”. The court also said that Vedanta does not have the right to demand extension of PSC on unilateral terms that suit its interest, overlooking the interest of the State, which is a trustee of the natural resources under a Constitutional mandate. “For all the aforesaid reasons, we hold that there cannot be extension of the PSC unconditionally, on the same terms and conditions which were prevailing 25 years ago, that is on May 15, 1995, the effective date,” the bench said. The court set aside a single-judge order of May 31, 2018, directing the government to extend the tenure of the contract for 10 years, till 2030, on the same terms and conditions as existed on May 15, 1995, when the PSC was executed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
27-03-2021||Business||Tata-Mistry case: No certainty on Article 75 action||The big question that hovers in the air is whether the Tatas will trigger Article 75 of its Articles of Association and force the Mistry camp to sell its minority stake in the holding company. Under this proviso, the 28 equity shareholders of Tata Sons simply need to pass a special resolution directing the two Shapoorji Pallonji group entities — Cyrus Investments Pvt. Ltd. and Sterling Investment Corporate Pvt. Ltd — to transfer the shares they hold to any of its existing members. It is not certain that Tata Sons will convene such a meeting. During the proceedings before the apex court last year, counsel for Tata Sons had said the company would not invoke the power of compulsory purchase under Article 75. But later that year, senior counsel Harish Salve had said the Tata group could consider buying the Mistry stake at a fair value. Last October, the Mistry camp had valued its 18.37 per cent stake at a little over Rs 1.78 lakh crore as part of a severance plan. The SP Group was prepared to accept shares of an equivalent value in the operational firms of the Tata group, including TCS, its most profitable entity. The Tatas, however, have computed the value of the SP group’s stake between Rs 70,000-80,000 crore, sources say. If they trigger Article 75, the Tatas will have to order an independent valuation of the group’s holding company, which could erupt into another messy legal battle. The other option would be to let the debt-laden SP Group sweat a little. The Mistry camp has no representative on the board of Tata Sons any longer and there is little likelihood of getting one. The apex court verdict clearly establishes that a board position doesn’t automatically come up with its 18.37 per cent stake. The Mistry side had tried to pledge the stake with a Canadian financier last year in exchange for funds to deal with their debt problems and were stymied by the Tatas. A pledge is no longer a conceivable option. With no say in the running of the group holding company, the SP group can only look forward to an annual dividend payout. This could become a sore point if Tata Sons chooses to pare or even skip dividends for a few years. There is a flip side to this: a freeze on dividends will hurt the Tata Trusts which use the money to fund the charitable causes they support. The court has left it to the two parties to the suit to decide on the way forward: an Article 75 option is on the table but the two sides could also decide to work out a deal. But it may take a while because the rancour between the two sides has been far too great. Negotiations can only begin when some of that animus dies down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
27-03-2021||Business|| Financial bids for the privatisation of Air India to be invited in coming days||The financial bids for the privatisation of Air India would be invited in the coming days, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday. “We are looking at another timeline now, what is called a data room for prospective bidders to look at... that is opened up, 64 days for the financial bids to come in. After that it is the question of taking a decision and handing over the airline,” Puri said at the Times Networks’ India Economic Conclave. “There is no choice, we either privatise or we close the airline. We run a loss of Rs 20 crore every day despite Air India making money now. Because the mismanagement has resulted in a cumulative debt of Rs 60,000 crore,” Puri said. The government plans to wrap up the divestment process in the second half of the current calendar year. The shortlisted entities might be given time till June or early July this year to furnish their financial bids. After the bids are locked, the sale of Air India will take another 3-4 months to finalise after evaluation of the financial bids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
27-03-2021||Business||Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd boost JSW’s output goal of 45 mn tonnes||The acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd (BPSL) will empower JSW Steel to achieve the output milestone of 45 million tonnes (mt) ‘well ahead’ of the 2030 target, chairman Sajjan Jindal said on Friday. In a letter to BPSL employees shortly after concluding the Rs 19,700 crore buyout — the largest in the history of JSW — Sajjan Jindal said the transaction marked the entry of JSW into the eastern region. With the 2.5mt integrated plant at Odisha and two downstream units near Calcutta and Chandigarh, JSW will touch 26 million tonne output by the end of the next quarter. It will now operate three integrated mills in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Odisha, providing enough provisions to scale up each of the units. “As a valued member of the JSW family, your contribution will be key in bolstering our ambitious growth plans of achieving 45 mt annual  capacity well ahead of the 2030 timeline,” Jindal wrote in the letter. While BPSL allowed JSW to enter the East, where nearly all other major producers are present, it has also plans to build a greenfield plant in Odisha itself. However, it is often a gargantuan task, as noted by Jindal in the letter. “I am aware how difficult it is to build a greenfield steel plant of this size and this asset is indeed testament to your tireless effort,” Jindal wrote. M.V.S. Seshagiri Rao, joint managing director and group CFO, said the BPSL plant would be expanded to 4 million tonnes in the medium term. “We can expand each of the three plants to reach the target, apart from a new plant in Odisha, which we have committed,” Rao told The Telegraph. JSW will be the largest producer of India from the next quarter. Novel structure JSW Steel structured the transaction in a fashion to ensure that the debt raised to acquire BPSL will not be consolidated in the balance sheet of the listed company. Even as JSW Steel, the listed entity, holds 100 per cent in unlisted BPSL through a wholly owned subsidiary Piombino Steel Ltd (PSL) now, it will cede some stake to an unlisted group firm JSW Shipping & Logistics (JSLPL) going forward. JSW and JSLPL will ‘control’ BPSL, allowing the former not to consolidate the debt, taking a cue from Ind-AS accounting norm. They will only add a share of profit or loss of BPSL into their respective profit and loss accounts, sans the turnover. “It is a large transaction, biggest for JSW so far. We have been conscious not to take the debt on our books. The idea is to stabilise the acquired asset first,” Rao said. JSW Steel infused Rs 5,087 crore in the form of equity and convertible instruments from internal cash balance for the acquisition and took on Rs 10,800 crore of debt on the books of BPSL. Around Rs 3,531 crore was arranged by JSLPL and debt by Piombino.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
27-03-2021||India||Nearly 80% voter turnout in Bengal and 73% in Assam in first phase of Assembly elections||A voter turnout of 79.79 per cent was recorded in West Bengal and 72.14 percent in Assam till 5pm on Saturday in the first phase of assembly elections in these states, the Election Commission said. In Bengal the Trinamul faces a stern test from the BJP in its bid for a third straight term. In Assam the BJP is hoping to win a second straight term, with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal the biggest name on the ballot on Saturday. Voting was held in 30 assembly constituencies in West Bengal and 47 seats in Assam in the first phase with a total of 21,825 polling stations. Polling booths across both states opened at 7 am and closing times were extended by an hour due to the pandemic. During the polls, 10288 each of Ballot Units (BUs), Control Units (CUs) and VVPATs were used in West Bengal and 11,537 each of BUs, CUs and 37 VVPATs were used in Assam. One control unit, on VVPAT and at least one ballot unit make an EVM. "Non-functioning rate during the poll is lesser than experienced in last few polls," an EC statement said without elaborating. On Saturday, a total of 167 cases of Model Code of Conduct violations were reported through the cVIGIL app from West Bengal out of which 111 were disposed of by 4.30pm. 582 cases were reported from Assam with 423 disposed. (Inputs from NDTV)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
27-03-2021||India||Modi-Hasina meet: new train, vaccine doses, ambulances ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that he had a "productive meeting" with his Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina during which they reviewed the full range of bilateral ties and discussed ways to deepen the economic and cultural linkages in the future. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, held one-on-one talks with Hasina which was followed by delegation-level meeting which continued for over an hour. "Had a productive meeting with PM Sheikh Hasina. We reviewed the full range of India-Bangladesh relations and discussed ways to deepen economic and cultural linkages in the times to come,” Modi tweeted. The two sides signed five MoUs covering areas such as connectivity, commerce, information technology and sports. "India and Bangladesh signed MoUs in key sectors such as disaster management, sports and youth affairs, trade, technology and more. These will add strength to our development partnership and benefit the people of our nations, especially the youth," Modi said. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Hasina discussed the progress achieved in areas of health, trade, connectivity, energy, developmental cooperation and many more. In a humanitarian gesture, Prime Minister Modi handed over a representational key of 109 life-saving ambulances to Hasina. He also handed over a representational box as a symbol of India's gift of 1.2 million COVID vaccine doses to Bangladesh. Hasina presented a gold and silver coin released on the occasion of the birth centenary of her father and Father of Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to Modi. She also handed over a silver coin released on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Bangladesh's Independence. The two leaders also jointly inaugurated several projects virtually, including opening three new border haats on India-Bangladesh borders and inaugurating a new passenger train 'Mitali Express' connecting Dhaka and New Jalpaiguri on the Indian side. This is the third passenger train after Maitree Express (Dhaka-Kolkata) and Bandhan Express (Khulna-Kolkata) running between the two neighbouring countries. The other projects included: foundation stone laying of a monument at Bangladesh's Ashuganj in memory of 1971 martyred Indian soldiers; extended development work at Rabindra Bhawan Kuthibari in Shilaidaha of Bangladesh's Kushtia and ground breaking for Infrastructure Development for Power Evacuation Facilities of Rooppur Nuclear Power Plant. The MoUs signed were on Disaster Management, Resilience and Mitigation; cooperation between Bangladesh National Cadet Corps (BNCC) and National Cadet Corps (NCC) and establishment of a Framework of Cooperation in the Area of Trade Remedial Measures. The supply of ICT equipment, courseware and reference books and training for Bangladesh-Bharot Digital Service & Employment and Training (BDSET) Center, and Establishment of Sports facilities at Rajshahi College field and surrounding areas were other MoUs. Prime Minister Modi also reiterated India's "sincere and continued efforts" to conclude the Teesta water-sharing agreement in consultation with relevant stakeholders during his talks with Hasina. "The Indian side also requested for early finalisation of a draft for sharing of water of Feni River pending with the Bangladeshi side," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters. The two prime ministers also released India-Bangladesh Friendship stamps to commemorate the 50th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties. On Friday, Modi attended the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' in Dhaka||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
27-03-2021||India||Deadlock on farmers' stir will end if farm outfits are willing, says Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said the deadlock over the ongoing farmers' agitation will end the day the leaders of farm unions decide to sort out this issue. "The government will also find a way out. The Centre is ready for talks and wants to resolve the issue," Tomar told reporters. He reached here after campaigning for the BJP for the Assembly polls in Assam, where voting for the first phase was held on Saturday. "The incumbent BJP government in Assam worked well. After a long period, the people of Assam witnessed peace, development and a sense of security under this government. The BJP will come to power again in that state," Tomar said. To a query, the Morena MP said the BJP is in a very strong position in TMC-ruled Bengal, where polling was held for the first phase. Thousands of agriculturists, mainly from Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting since past four months at Delhi's border points, demanding a rollback of three new farm laws, terming them "anti-farmers". The Centre in September last year enacted the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and leaders of farmers have failed to break the impasse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
27-03-2021||India||Covovax trials begin in India, says Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Saturday said clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccine Covovax have begun in India and the company hopes to launch it by September this year. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. "Covovax trials finally begin in India; the vaccine is made through a partnership with @Novavax and @SerumInstIndia. It has been tested against African and UK variants of #COVID19 and has an overall efficacy of 89%. Hope to launch by September 2021!," Poonawalla said in a tweet. The development and commercialisation pact between Novavax and SII excludes major upper-middle and high-income countries, for which Novavax continues to retain rights. In January this year, Poonawalla had said SII expected to launch Covovax by June 2021. "Our partnership for a COVID-19 vaccine with @Novavax has also published excellent efficacy results. We have also applied to start trials in India. Hope to launch #COVOVAX by June 2021!", Poonawalla had said in a tweet. SII is already supplying AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, in India and to other countries across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||India, Bangladesh want stability, love and peace instead of terror and unrest, says Modi||India and Bangladesh want stability, love and peace instead of instability, terror and unrest in the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he underlined that the two friendly neighbours want to see the world progressing through their own development. Prime Minister Modi made the remarks while speaking to the Matua community members after offering prayers at their temple in Gopalganj's Orakandi - the birthplace of Hindu mystic figure and community's spiritual guru Harichand Thakur. "Both India and Bangladesh want to see the world progressing through their own development. Both the countries want to see stability, love, and peace instead of instability, terror, and unrest in the world," Modi said. Modi said he was waiting for this opportunity for many years and during his visit to Bangladesh in 2015, he had expressed desire to visit Orakandi, which has come true now. This place is a pilgrimage site for the spiritual relationship between India and Bangladesh, he said. "I was speaking to some people here. They were saying who could have thought that India's Prime Minister would visit Orakandi, Modi said, adding that he was feeling the same emotions as felt by the Matua community members in India after coming to Orakandi, from where Harichand Thakur disseminated his pious message. Orakandi is the abode of Hindu Matua community, a large number of whom are residents of neighbouring West Bengal. Prime Minister Modi announced that India will upgrade one girls' middle school and set up a primary school in Orakandi. Analysts said Modi's planned temple visits carry a political significance at the time of the ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal. The Prime Minister was accompanied by BJP MP from West Bengal Shantanu Thakur during his visit to Orakandi. The Matua community's vote may determine the winner in some seats in the elections to the West Bengal state assembly, the first phase of which began on Saturday. Modi said the Matua community celebrates 'Baroni Shanan Utshab' every year on the auspicious occasion of the birth anniversary of Harichand Thakur and a large number of devotees from India come to Orakandi to participate in this festival. "To make this pilgrimage easier for citizens of India, efforts will be made on behalf of the Government of India," he said. "We are also committed to grand events and various works reflecting the glorious history of the Matua community in Thakurnagar (West Bengal)," Modi said. "I have always been very close to the family members of the Thakurbari," he added. "The way India and Bangladesh governments are working towards strengthening their ties, Harichand Thakur and Thakurbari have been doing this for ages. This place symbolises the spiritual tryst of India and Bangladesh," he said. In his address, Modi said that it was important for both India and Bangladesh to come together and fight common challenges. He said that during the COVID-19 pandemic, India and Bangladesh proved their capabilities. "Both nations are facing this pandemic strongly and fighting it together. India is working by considering that it is its duty that the 'Made in India' vaccine reaches the citizens of Bangladesh," Modi added. He said India is moving forward with the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, and Sabka Vishwas', and Bangladesh is its co-passenger in it. "Bangladesh is presenting a strong example of development and change in front of the world and India is your co-passenger in these efforts," he added. Last time when Prime Minister Modi visited Bangladesh in 2015, he offered puja at Dhakeshwari temple in the national capital. Bangladesh has taken extra security measures for the Indian premier's visit in the wake of protests by few leftist and Islamist groups. In 2016, the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) said their latest vital sample statistics report found the country's total population to be 15.89 crore by the end of 2015 with the number of Hindus at 1.70 crore in the Muslim-majority nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Modi visits mausoleum of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visited the mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at Tungipara in Bangladesh's southwestern Gopalganj district and paid floral tributes to him. Prime Minister Modi was received at the mausoleum by his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina, who is the daughter of Rahman. Sheikh Rehana, the youngest daughter of Rahman was also present. Modi, who was covering his face with a mask, paid floral tributes to 'Bangabandhu' and stood in silence for a few minutes while Hasina and her Cabinet colleagues offered 'Fatiha'. He is the first Indian dignitary to ever visit Bangabandhu's grave. He signed the visitors' book at the mausoleum complex and planted a sapling at its premises. Earlier, the Indian Prime Minister offered prayers at the centuries-old Jeshoreshwari Kali temple in Ishwaripur village in southwestern Bangladesh,bordering West Bengal. There, he announced that India will build a multipurpose community hall for the worshippers. Modi was welcomed in a traditional way upon his arrival at the temple. Inside the temple, Modi offered prayers and sat on the floor while the priest was reciting the religious texts. "Feeling blessed after praying at the Jeshoreshwari Kali Temple, Modi tweeted after offering prayers at the temple in southwestern Shatkhira district, bordering India. "PM @narendramodi places hand made Mukut on Ma Kali. Mukut made of silver with gold plating. Hand made over three weeks by a traditional artisan," Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. Speaking outside the temple, Modi said that he prayed to Goddess Kali to free the human race from COVID-19. Noting that a large number of devotees from across the border and Bangladesh visit during Maa Kali mela' at the temple, Modi said a community hall is needed which should be multi-purpose so that when people come here during Kali puja, it is useful to them too. Modi said India will build a multipurpose community hall at the temple. "It should be useful for social, religious and educational events for local people. Most importantly, it should act as a shelter for all at the time of disasters like cyclones. India will do construction work. I express my gratitude to the Bangladesh government that they have wished us well for this, Modi said. According to Hindu mythology, the Jeshoreshwari Kali temple is one of the 51 Shakti Peeths, scattered across India and neighbouring countries. Records suggest a Hindu king set up the temple in the 16th century. The Hindu community and temple authorities with the government support redecorated the temple ahead of Modi's visit. Last time when Prime Minister Modi visited Bangladesh in 2015, he offered puja at Dhakeshwari temple in the national capital. Bangladesh has taken extra security measures for the Indian premier's visit in the wake of protests by few leftist and Islamist groups. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, on Friday attended the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in Dhaka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Rahul urges people to cast vote against divisive forces to strengthen democracy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged voters on Saturday to cast their ballots against "divisive forces" to strengthen democracy as polling began for the first phase of the Assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been campaigning for the Assam polls, urged people to vote for progress and the golden future of the state. In a Facebook post in Hindi, she urged the people of Assam, especially youngsters and women, to vote in large numbers. "Do cast your ballot against divisive forces to strengthen democracy," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress is contesting the Bengal polls in a coalition with the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front (ISF). Elections to the 294-member state Assembly are to be held in eight phases starting Saturday, with the final round of voting scheduled to take place on April 29. The Congress-led "Mahajot" alliance is seeking to wrest power from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Assam, which is voting in three phases starting Saturday. The counting of votes for both states as well as for the Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Assembly polls will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||India registers over 62,000 fresh Covid cases, 291 casualties in a day||India saw 62,258 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,19,08,910, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. Registering a steady increase for the 17th day in row, the active cases have increased to 4,52,647 comprising 3.80 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.85 per cent, the data stated. The 62,258 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest since October 16, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,61,240 with 291 daily new fatalities, the highest in around three months, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 63,371 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 16. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,95,023, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.35 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,97,69,553 samples have been tested up to March 26 with 11,64,915 samples being tested on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Sachin Tendulkar tests positive for Covid||Legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar on Saturday announced on twitter that he has tested positive for COVID-19 and is currently in home isolation. Tendulkar is one of the biggest names to have tested positive for the virus in recent times. "I have been testing myself and taking all the recommended precautions to ensure Covid is kept at bay. However, I've tested positive today following mild symptoms. All other at home have tested negative," Tendulkar tweeted. "I've quarantined myself at home and am following all necessary protocols as advised by my doctors," Sachin further said. The former India captain also thanked the healthcare professionals for their constant support. "I want to thank all the healthcare professionals who are supporting me and many others across the country," Sachin added. "Sachin has got himself tested and the report has come out positive. He has isolated himself and is following all the necessary protocols," a source close to family told news agency PTI on Saturday. The COVID-19 cases have been on a surge in Maharashtra and Mumbai with over 36,000 positive cases recorded on Friday. Notably, Sachin Tendulkar was the captain of the India Legends team which recently won the Road Safety World Series in Raipur after beating Sri Lanka Legends in the finals of the tournament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Dearth of samples and funds delay India’s plans to sequence 5% of coronavirus genomes||A wait for funds and dearth of samples have delayed India’s plans to sequence 5 per cent of its coronavirus genomes and determine whether unusual mutations are driving the Covid-19 epidemic’s current resurgence, health researchers have said. A 10-lab consortium of government labs tasked with sequencing five per cent of coronavirus genomes from across India is awaiting dedicated funds nearly three months after the Centre announced the initiative late-December citing concerns about a fast-spreading UK variant. The absence of assigned funds and the arrival of fewer sequences from various states than ideally required have limited sequencing efforts, senior researchers with the Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium have told The Telegraph. The labs using funds borrowed from other projects have sequenced around 11,000 genomes instead of over 50,000 required to meet the sequencing goal of five per cent of over a million new Covid-19 cases in India since January 15. The number of samples, however, that have come in for sequencing also do not match the five per cent target. The consortium had until mid-March received 19,092 samples from across the country instead of over 50,000 it should have received. The consortium should have ideally sequenced over 17,000 genomes from Maharashtra alone where Covid-19 counts increased by over 354,000 since mid-February. But it had until mid-March received only 2,826 samples from Maharashtra. The sequencing is intended to help in early detection of unusual variants with mutations that might impact the epidemic’s patterns. But the fewer the samples, the harder it is to draw statistically valid, meaningful inferences about the variants observed in the samples. “We’ve lost over two months,” a senior researcher told this newspaper. “Without funds, we can’t recruit the human resources or get the reagents for large-scale sequencing. If the money appears this week, it’ll take time to hire and purchase which will likely delay full capacity sequencing even further.” The Centre had on December 30 announced INSACOG, a joint initiative by the Union health and science ministries coordinated by the department of biotechnology (DBT), amid growing concerns worldwide about fast-spreading variants in the UK and South Africa. The consortium — 10 government labs across India, each assigned specific regions — is designed to both bolster sequencing and pair the sequencing data with epidemiological data to allow health researchers to look for patterns, if any, between mutations and local outbreaks. But INSACOG has received no funds yet, researchers and officials have told this newspaper. A senior official with the DBT, the agency expected to support the initiative, told The Telegraph on March 8 that “budget issues have been handled” and the institutions have been asked to proceed with funds available with them. “Additional funds are also being made available,” the official said. The consortium’s researchers had initially sought around Rs 120 crore, but revised it downward to Rs 90 crore, hoping it would aid speedier approval. “We’re waiting, hoping it will arrive this week,” the director of one of the labs told this newspaper on Thursday. The nearly 11,000 genomes sequenced since January represent “an extraordinary effort” by members of the consortium working without assigned funds, said a senior official. This is nearly double the 6,000-plus sequences done by different Indian labs in the nine months prior to INSACOG. Most of these INSACOG genomes were sequenced by the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, the nodal lab for the consortium, the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Gujarat cops drag leader from news meet ||A leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha was dragged away by Gujarat police from a news conference he was addressing in Ahmedabad on Friday afternoon, as the protest against the three farm laws at Delhi’s borders completed four months. “This is what we came to expose. There is no democracy in Gujarat. No one has the right to speak their mind. There is an undeclared emergency,” Yudhvir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) told television channels, after the police in the BJP-ruled state arrived at the venue to stop the news conference and detain Yudhvir and seven other farmer leaders. A police officer said on camera that the news conference was stopped because there was no permission for it. “Why do we need permission to talk to the media?” Yudhvir asked. Yudhvir added that in a democracy, everyone has the right to present their views. “This is our country as much as it is theirs,” he added. The police told some reporters permission was required because the news meet was related to the Bharat Bandh that the Morcha had called on Friday. Several hours later, after 9 in the night, PTI issued a report that quoted Ahmedabad’s deputy commissioner of police (Zone 2) Vijay Patel as saying the detentions were because Covid-19 guidelines had been violated at the afternoon meet. All eight were released. By then the “Gujarat model” of arresting farmer leaders while they were speaking to journalists had drawn considerable attention on social media, with some Twitter users saying this proved the government was afraid of the farmers’ agitation. The Bharat Bandh called to mark four months of the protest had an impact in Bihar, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and parts of Uttar Pradesh, besides Punjab and Haryana, the Morcha said. It acknowledged the support of trade unions, transporters’ organisations, women’s groups and others who have shown solidarity. In Karnataka, another BJP-ruled state, Kavita Kurunganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch was detained along with several other farmer activists. Reacting to the detentions, the Morcha said: “BJP-ruled governments are brazenly violating basic norms and rules in their anxiety to suppress the farmers’ movement.” Tens of thousands of farmers have been sitting at Delhi’s borders since November 26 to push for repeal of three farm laws that they believe will leave them at the mercy of large corporate houses and reduce them into labourers on their own land. More than 300 have died. “Sustaining such a long movement is not only a matter of patience and hard work of the farmers, it is also a shame for the government. Despite extreme weather conditions, farmers stayed resolute, and continue to be in high spirits,” the Morcha said. This is the second Bharat Bandh that the Morcha has called in four months and both have remained by and large peaceful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Dadri mob lynching trial begins, more than five years later ||The Assembly polls are a reminder that it takes five years to change governments in a democracy. It took longer than that just to begin the trial in a lynching case that ripped the “development” fig leaf of the Right-wing establishment in the country and presaged the real intentions of the Narendra Modi dispensation. The trial in the murder of Mohammed Akhlaque started in a fast-track court in Greater Noida on Thursday — over 2,000 days or more than five years after he was dragged out of his home at Dadri in Uttar Pradesh and killed on the suspicion of storing and eating beef. Yusuf Saifi, counsel for Akhlaque’s family, told The Telegraph: “The charges against the 14 accused persons were framed last month and the trial started yesterday (Thursday). The court has fixed the next date of hearing on April 12. Akhlaque’s family members are witnesses in the case and they will testify in court as and when it summons them.” Akhlaque, 52, was pulled out of his home in Dadri, less than 50km from Delhi, on September 28, 2015, by a mob and killed. His younger son, Danish, was also thrashed on the suspicion of eating and storing beef. The murder was the trigger for the intolerance debate that saw leading writers, scientists, artistes and filmmakers stand up in protest. According to the chargesheet filed by police, Vishal Rana, the son of local BJP member Sanjay Rana, is the prime accused and a key conspirator. Asked why it took over five years for the trial to begin, lawyer Saifi said one of the reasons was a move by defence lawyers to put up several discharge applications before the designated court as well as other applications demanding a CBI inquiry. “Judges hearing the case were changed twice. Two judges were transferred during the hearing of the case and the case files had to be placed before the third judge,” Saifi said. A preliminary analysis of the meat sample conducted by a veterinary laboratory in Dadri had revealed that the meat found from the house was of goat and not beef. Later in June 2016, the Uttar Pradesh University of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry, Mathura, had declared the meat sample as that of “cow or its progeny”. The meat sample, however, had not been found inside Akhlaque’s house but from the site where he was lynched. Saifi said there was still no clarity on the final report on the meat sample. After the test in Mathura, the sample was sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Lucknow for a final opinion. “The prosecution has so far not revealed anything on that,” he said. Akhlaque’s older son, Sartaj, is a corporal in the air force. Akhlaque’s wife Ikraman, Danish, daughter Shaista and mother Asgari Begum live at Sartaj’s defence quarters in south Delhi’s Subroto Park. Akhlaque’s younger brothers, Mohammed Saifi and Mohammed Jan, too have moved to the nearby Gautam Budh Nagar town fearing possible attacks. All the 17 accused are out on bail. One of the accused, Ravi Sisodia, died of suspected chikungunya in jail. Two of the accused were minors at the time of Akhlaque’s killing and they will be tried by the Juvenile Justice Board, Saifi said. Vishal, the suspected key conspirator, is accused of making an announcement on a loudspeaker from the village temple that Akhlaque had stored beef inside his house. The mob had stormed the house, found pieces of meat in the fridge and claimed it was beef. The attackers had dragged Akhlaque and Danish out of the one-storey house and beaten them with sticks, bricks and hockey sticks. Akhlaque died on the spot while Danish suffered multiple injuries. Danish, Ikraman and Shaista are the “key eye-witnesses” in the case. “The confession statement of Vishal is part of the chargesheet. In his statement, he has confessed that he and the other accused had been instigated by villagers through the claim that Akhlaque had slaughtered a cow, and they had become emotional,” Saifi said. In October 2016 in the village where Akhlaque was lynched, people had draped the Tricolour around the coffin of the accused Ravi, triggering a controversy. Ravi’s coffin was placed near the spot where Akhlaque was murdered and hundreds of villagers had gathered to place wreaths on it before draping it in the national flag. Akhlaque’s family is also dealing with the cow-slaughter case that was registered against them in 2016 by locals. Allahabad High Court had later stayed the arrest of the family members. The police have so far not filed a chargesheet. Mohammed Jan, Akhlaque’s younger brother, had said some of the accused persons and their parents had been putting pressure on them to withdraw the lynching case in exchange for the withdrawal of the cow-slaughter case. Cow slaughter was banned in Uttar Pradesh in 2002 when Rajnath Singh was chief minister. But there is no ban on possession and consumption of cow meat if the animal is not slaughtered within the state. Even if a cow is slaughtered, the maximum punishment is seven years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Manmohan Singh appeals to the voters of Assam||As 1.54 crore voters in Bengal and Assam prepared to vote on Saturday, a sane voice issued an appeal: “You must vote for a government that upholds the Constitution of India and the principles of democracy. You must vote for a government that will care for every citizen, for every community.” Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh addressed the appeal to the voters of Assam, which he had represented in the Rajya Sabha for 28 years. But the crux of his message applies also to Bengal, where the BJP is mounting an unparalleled effort at forming the government in a state that has so far remained out of its reach. “Society is being divided on the basis of religion, culture and language. The basic rights of the common man are being denied. There is an atmosphere of tension and of fear,” Singh said in a message intended for voters in the northeastern state but which should strike a chord in Bengal where attempts have been made to polarise the electorate. Polling will be held in 30 of the 294 seats in the first of eight phases in Bengal on Saturday, covering an electorate totalling 73 lakh. In Assam, 47 of the 126 seats are scheduled to go to polls on Saturday. Singh, who has stopped even his occasional visits to election-bound states for campaigning because of advanced age, issued the appeal over video to the voters of Assam. The former Prime Minister also spoke of the everyday crises plaguing the country. “Ill-conceived notebandi (demonetisation) and badly implemented GST have weakened the economy. Lakhs of men and women have lost their livelihoods. The youth are desperate for decent jobs. Rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas is making life difficult for the common man. The poor are becoming poorer. And Covid-19 is making matters much worse,” the economist said. Singh’s comments came at a time the Narendra Modi government has sought to lay the entire blame for the economic mess on the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Expressing gratitude to Assam for his parliamentary stint, Singh listed the yardsticks that should decide their vote and added: “You must vote for a government that will ensure inclusive growth.” You must vote for a government that will put Assam once again on the path of peace and development.” While Singh’s video message was being uploaded, his successor, Prime Minister Modi, sent many in the country on a fact-finding mission online. Addressing events to mark the golden jubilee of Bangladesh’s independence and the birth centenary of its founder Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Modi, who took care to wear a Mujib Jacket, said in Dhaka: “I must have been 20-22 years old when I and my colleagues did satyagraha for Bangladesh’s freedom.” Going by the memes the claim evoked, it appeared that not many Indians were familiar with this particular phase in Modi’s public life. Old-timers said Modi could have meant a Jan Sangh rally in front of Parliament in August 1971. Singh, who recalled his long association with veterans like Hiteswar Saikia and Tarun Gogoi, said: “The Congress is committed to protect the unique language, culture and history of Assam, and to ensure the well-being of all communities. It has prepared a ‘Jan Manifesto (people’s manifesto)’, with promises that are practical. As a measure of its determination, it has also announced five ‘guarantees’ to the people, including non-implementation of the CAA, jobs to 30 lakh unemployed youths, Rs 365 as daily wage to tea workers, free electricity up to 200 units to very household and Rs 2,000 per month to every housewife under the ‘Grihani Samman’ scheme.” While Singh used to at least visit states for holding a media conference till a few years ago, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has completely stopped participating in election campaigns. The entire burden of the Congress campaign has fallen on Rahul Gandhi even if he doesn’t hold any position in the party. In this round of Assembly elections, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too has campaigned in Assam and is likely to visit Tamil Nadu and Kerala as well. But few among the other leaders are in demand among the candidates for campaigning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
27-03-2021||India||Mother of two hands over jackpot to customer who had not paid for ticket||A lottery vendor who handed over a Rs 6-crore jackpot-winning ticket to a buyer who had not paid her or cleared his past dues is being extolled for her honesty across Kerala. Smija K. Mohan, 37, a mathematics graduate who sells lottery tickets on the roadside in Aluva, Ernakulam district, played down suggestions that she had shown extraordinary honesty in handing the promised ticket over to a client who had not paid for it. “People use their hard-earned money to buy lottery tickets with the hope of striking it big one day,” the mother of two children, aged 12 and 2, told The Telegraph on Thursday. Kerala police have given her a “big salute” in a Facebook post that said: “Smija has become an unparalleled role model for today’s society by establishing that one’s word has more value than crores of rupees.” She has been flooded with invites from local citizens’ groups who want to felicitate her. Smija had over the years nurtured a base of regular buyers through a WhatsApp group. Left with 12 unsold tickets, priced at Rs 200 each, for the state government-run lottery, she had contacted her regular customers, sharing pictures of the tickets. Among them was P.K. Chandran, an elderly gardener. Chandran asked her to reserve a ticket for him and promised to pay her later along with her dues from past tickets. The same evening Smija learned the ticket she had reserved for Chandran had won the jackpot. “I immediately called him. He thought I was kidding,” Smija said. When Smija went to Chandran’s home to hand the ticket over, he cleared her dues of Rs 1,450, including the price of the winning ticket. “Lots of people, including strangers, have asked me why I didn’t keep the ticket for myself since the customer had not paid for it. But that’s not how we should work. I didn’t even think of keeping the ticket,” she said. Smija, who was been struggling to come to terms with the sudden fame and adulation that have come her way, shyly added: “Edathala police station has invited me today for a felicitation.” Smija had started moonlighting as a lottery ticket vendor in 2011 when she and her husband Mohan worked at a government printing press in Kakkanad, Ernakulam. After losing their jobs over the past three years, they became full-time lottery ticket vendors. Asked why she had chosen to work in a printing press after graduating in mathematics, Smija attributed it to “circumstances”. “Everyone has financial problems. I needed to earn a livelihood to take care of my family and aged parents. But I now realise that selling lottery tickets is not a bad business at all,” she said. Lottery agents who sell winning tickets get about 10 per cent of the prize money. Smija, who buys her tickets from the Bhagyalakshmi Lottery Agency, said she had no idea how much might trickle down to her. Chandran has told local reporters he had never won anything so big. He said he planned to help his eldest daughter Chalitha build her own house and set aside some money for his second daughter Anjitha’s marriage and son Ajith’s engineering studies. He did not say anything about rewarding Smija. This newspaper could not contact Chandran or Bhagyalakshmi. A different lottery agent said that the agents usually paid the vendors who sold winning tickets “some money”. Asked what she would do if the agent rewarded her, Smija said: “I haven’t thought about it yet. The government has already built me a one-bedroom house on five cents of land through the Life Mission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
27-03-2021||India||Centre assures SC that Rohingya Muslims will not be deported||The Centre on Friday assured the Supreme Court that Rohingya Muslims would not be deported unless the Myanmar government identifies and agrees to take them back. The assurance was given to a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during the course of a hearing. The court was dealing with the plea of Mohd Samiullah, a Rohingya Muslim, seeking a stay on the deportation of Rohingya refugees from Jammu and Kashmir. The bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, took on record the government’s assurance but refused to hear the submission sought to be made by UN special rapporteur Tendayi Achiume after senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Jammu and Kashmir government, opposed it. Salve objected to Achiume being heard in the matter on the ground of jurisdiction. “We have very serious objections on this. Please don’t go into this. The UN is not subject to your Lordships’ jurisdiction. Our government has also issues with the UN special rapporteur,” Salve said. Achiume had last year filed an application opposing the deportation of Rohingya Muslims on the ground that they would be subjected to torture and genocide in Myanmar. The bench told senior advocate C.U. Singh, appearing for Achiume, that since the Jammu and Kashmir government had certain objections to the UN special rapporteur being heard, it would not like to hear him at this juncture. “We will not hear you (Achiume). There is serious objection. We will see when to hear you,” Justice Bobde told Singh. During Friday’s arguments advocate Prashant Bhushan strongly opposed the deportation of the refugees on the ground that they would be subjected to genocide as a military junta was now in power in Myanmar. Solicitor-general Mehta, however, said that all illegal migrants in the country could not be granted refugee status and India could not become the world capital for refugees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
27-03-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay electoral bonds||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the release of electoral bonds for the Assembly polls in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, holding that there was no illegality or anonymity in the periodical issuance of these documents during elections as they carried adequate safeguards suggested by the Reserve Bank of India and the Election Commission. “We do not know at this stage as to how far the allegation that under the scheme there would be complete anonymity in the financing of political parties by corporate houses, both in India and abroad, is sustainable,” the bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said. “If the purchase of the bonds as well as their encashment could happen only through banking channels and if purchase of bonds are allowed only to customers who fulfill KYC norms, the information about the purchaser will certainly be available with the SBI which alone is authorised to issue and encash the bonds as per the scheme,” the court added. The bench dismissed an application filed by the Association for Democratic Rights seeking a stay on the issuance of electoral bonds from April 1 as according to the NGO it would lead to massive money laundering by some political parties as the identities of the donors and purchasers are “anonymous”. Rejecting the argument, the court said any expenditure incurred by anyone in purchasing the bonds through banking channels would have to be mentioned as an expenditure in his book of accounts. The trial balance, cash flow statement, profit and loss account and balance sheet of companies that purchase electoral bonds will have to necessarily reflect the amount spent, the court said. The bench said the apprehension that foreign corporate houses might buy the bonds and attempt to influence the electoral process in India was also misconceived. “Under Clause 3 of the scheme, the bonds may be purchased only by a person who is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India,” the court pointed out. “Therefore, in the light of the fact that the scheme was introduced on 2.1.2018; that the bonds are released at periodical intervals in January, April, July and October of every year… in the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 without any impediment and that certain safeguards have already been provided by this court in its interim order dated 12.4.2019, we do not see any justification for the grant of stay at this stage. Hence both the applications for stay are dismissed…,” the bench said. The court noted that the NGO had been repeatedly filing petitions on poll bonds since 2017. The bench said that on April 12, 2019, too, it had passed interim directions to the political parties to file before the EC details of the donations received through such bonds. “Therefore, once this court has passed an order on 12.4.2019 directing some interim arrangement, thereafter applications for the same interim relief cannot be made every time the window for the purchase under the scheme is opened,” it said. The court also rejected the argument that the RBI and the EC had objections to the issuance of bonds and the government had further incorporated certain recommendations made by the RBI to prevent misuse. “Despite the fact that the scheme provides anonymity, the scheme is intended to ensure that everything happens only through banking channels. While the identity of the purchaser of the bond is withheld, it is ensured that unidentified/unidentifiable persons cannot purchase the bonds and give it to the political parties,” the court said. “Under Clause 7 of the scheme, buyers have to apply in the prescribed form, either physically or online, disclosing the particulars specified therein. A non­KYC-compliant application or an application not meeting the requirements of the scheme shall be rejected,” the bench said, pointing out that the scheme had sufficient safeguards to avoid possible misuse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
27-03-2021||India||Bihar bandh against police assault on MLAs ||The Bihar bandh called by the Opposition to protest against the alleged police assault on its MLAs while opposing a police bill in the Assembly on Tuesday disrupted life across the state on Friday as leaders and supporters took to the streets. The Opposition MLAs had opposed the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which has now become an act after being passed by the bicameral state legislature and the approval of the governor, claiming it gave powers to the force to arrest and conduct searches without warrant or the presence of a magistrate. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, CPI-ML, CPI, CPM, and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) participated in Friday’s bandh and demanded chief minister Nitish Kumar’s apology on what they called an attack on democracy. They also sought the withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws being opposed by the farmers. Several national highways were blocked in several of the 38 districts in the state. The protesters squatted on the roads, placed carts and vehicles as barricades, and burnt tyres to disrupt traffic for several hours. They also shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Nitish. In many districts the roads were blocked early in the morning. National Highway 2, also known as the Grand Trunk Road, NH 28, 31, 57, 77, 80, 83, 110 and the Mahatma Gandhi Setu across the Ganga between Patna and Hajipur, and many state highways were blocked in various districts. Trains were also stopped at various railway stations for some time as the bandh supporters squatted on the tracks and climbed onto the engines. They also took out marches waving party flags and shouting slogans. RJD workers took out the “last procession” of the chief minister. Many of them got their heads tonsured to mark the occasion. RJD’s Mahua MLA Mukesh Raushan trampled over Nitish’s effigy. A similar procession was taken out in Nalanda, the native district of Nitish. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha’s convoy got stuck in a jam caused by the bandh supporters at Bhagwanpur in Vaishali, while he was going to Muzaffarpur. The police extricated the vehicles with much difficulty. The state capital also witnessed massive traffic snarls as the protesters blocked the main thoroughfares at different places. Shops and business establishments were closed for several hours in Patna and many other towns. RJD leaders Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav took part in the bandh in Patna after participating in the funeral of their uncle Mahavir Rai, the elder brother of party chief Lalu Prasad. Rai passed away while undergoing treatment for various ailments at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna. Tejashwi asked whether the MLAs had staged a protest in the House for the first time. He asserted that the protests were peaceful and well within the limits of the behaviour expected from the legislators. “The socialist leaders sat on the Speaker’s chair and ran the House in 1974. Socialist leader Karpoori Thakur led a protest that disrupted the Assembly for three days in 1986. Nitish Kumar was an MLA at that time. But this kind of atrocity and mayhem by the police happened inside the House for the first time,” he said. “Bihar police have now become the police of Nitish’s Janata Dal United. We have 200 video footages showing the barbaric acts of the police and administrative officials. We will not tolerate the atrocities on us and the Bihar bandh is one of our acts of protest against it,” Tejashwi added. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha has expressed displeasure on the police atrocities on MLAs, of which several video footages have surfaced. He has directed additional chief secretary (home), Chaitanya Prasad, and director-general of police S.K. Singhal to “identify the police personnel who misbehaved with the legislators and submit a report”. “Action will be taken against the police personnel found guilty of misbehaving with the MLAs. It is everybody’s responsibility to uphold the prestige of the House. We cannot allow anybody to cross the line,” Sinha said. The Speaker has sent the CCTV footage to the ethics committee of the Assembly to review the behaviour of the MLAs, on the basis of which action could be taken against the erring legislators. On the other hand, the Patna district administration has registered an FIR against Tejashwi and 20 other RJD leaders including Tej Pratap, state party unit president Jagdanand Singh, former ministers Abdul Bari Siddiqui, Shyam Rajak and others for staging a violent protest while trying to march to the Assembly on Tuesday. The charges slapped against them include attempt to murder (Section 307 of the IPC), among others. Nitish spent the day at Rajgir in Nalanda district where he inaugurated a nature safari and a modern ropeway to approach the Vishwa Shanti Stupa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MPs meet EC, complains about outsiders as booth agents||An eight-member team of Trinamul MPs met the Bengal chief electoral officer on Saturday to point out that the BJP was gaining undue advantage from a rule tweak which allows outsiders as booth agents, hours before the surfacing of an unauthenticated audio clip that seemed to discuss this very issue. In the clip, two senior leaders are purportedly discussing the importance of allowing political workers from other parts of the district to function as booth agents and how that could help tide over organisational deficiencies. “I have been in electoral politics since 1971. I have never seen such a thing happening. For the polls to be free and fair, the process has to be clean. Booth agents are selected from the locality of the booths because they know the voters, they can identify false voters. The EC has changed this provision without consulting any other political party. This has to be removed,” said Subrata Mukherjee, veteran Trinamul minister. The audio clip could not be independently authenticated. In the conversation, the two callers address each other as “Shishir” and Mukul-da”. The discussion is about booth agents. Excerpts: Caller 1: Shishir? Caller 2: Mukul da. Caller 1: When is the EC coming? Day after tomorrow? Caller 2: 21st. They will call us. Caller 1: I will also come along. Caller 2: OK. Caller 1: Whatever points you are making, add two on my behalf. We want in Bengal that there should not be any specific rules about deployment of agents in the polling booth. A person from any place can be the agent in a booth in any part of the state, as long as he is a resident, a voter. Otherwise, there is a certain percentage of booths where nobody can go. You can understand what I am trying to say. Caller 2: Understood. Understood. Clear. Caller 1: This can be done by an administrative order. There is no law regarding this. We have to tell them and explain why we want this. Second thing is the voters slip which are not distributed _ these have to be returned to the observer. Caller 2: I have already written about this. Speculation is rife on the identities of the callers. Going by the names, sources said, “Mukul da” mentioned by Caller 2 could refer to BJP leader Mukul Roy, a one-time Mamata confidante who switched over in November 2017. Roy could not be reached for comment. It is also not when the purported conversation took place, or if the “21st” mentioned by Caller 2, refers to January 21, 2021 when a full bench of the Election Commission had come to Calcutta on a three-day visit. Veteran Trinamul minister Mukherjee alleged that since the BJP did not have workers in all booths in Bengal, they had to depend on outsiders from other states to conduct the polls. “This is not about a loss or a victory in an election. This is about the conventions of parliamentary democracy. Since BJP is the ruling party in the Centre, they can do anything,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections 2021: Audio clips, sporadic violence rule Day One of voting in Bengal||Principal rivals Trinamul Congress and the BJP both claimed significant gains on Day One of voting in the eight-phase Assembly elections of Bengal on Saturday amid sporadic violence in some of the 30 constituencies that went to polls and the dramatic surfacing of two unauthenticated audio clips allegedly featuring voices akin to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, BJP leader Mukul Roy and an industrialist-politician. About 79.79 per cent of voters had cast their votes till 5.46pm. There were allegations of malfunctioning electronic voting machines in some constituencies. “The higher the turnout the happier we will be. We expect the turnout to be around 85 per cent,” said veteran Trinamul minister Subrata Mukherjee. “Out of the 30 Assembly segments that went for polls today, AITCOfficial lead in 10, BJP in 20 in the 2019 LS elections. The CM was not on the ticket in 2019. Reports from ground suggest all looking very different today. Significant gains in Phase 1. Good opening day. #KhelaHobe,” tweeted Derek O’Brien, the Trinamul leader in Rajya Sabha and national spokesperson. The state BJP president Dilip Ghosh also exuded confidence after the poll. “They are trying everything to influence and intimidate voters, but we are coming to power with over 200 seats,” said Ghosh. At least in the three previous elections in Bengal, high turnouts, 82.91 per cent in 1996, 81.92 per cent in 2006 and 83.07 per cent in 2016 went in favour of the ruling party. The first of the two audio tapes to surface on Saturday was that of a purported conversation between a BJP leader and a woman with a voice resembling that of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, asking him to return to the Trinamul fold. The second audio clip was of a purported conversation between two BJP leaders- Mukul Roy and an industrialist-politician. In the tape, a voice resembling Roy's is heard explaining why officials of the Election Commission of India had to be convinced not to implement strict rules regarding polling agents of political parties. It goes on to explain why strict guidelines would prevent the party from assigning polling agents in several booths. The authenticity of the audio clips could not be independently verified. In the first audio clip, about which the BJP leadership has complained to the Election Commission, the BJP functionary is said to be Pralay Pal, a former Trinamul leader who had switched over to the BJP after Trinamul came to power in 2011. In the conversation, the woman is heard requesting Pal to “help us a little”. Pal, now a district vice-president, turns down the request voicing several complaints, ranging from assault and the denial of a Scheduled Caste certificate. The BJP alleged the voice in the audio clip was that of Mamata. Sharing it on its official Twitter handle, the BJP’s Bengal unit tweeted, “Mamata Didi called BJP district vice-president and pleaded for help in Nandigram. Pishi is definitely losing Nandigram, her fear is evident enough in the call.” Trinamul Congress did not deny the conversation but asked why such a telephone call was recorded. “I have to ask where did this readymade tape come from? If the President of India calls me, will I record and release it to the media,” asked Subrata Mukherjee. “If a BJP worker gets upset and the Prime Minister does not call him then what kind of a leader is he?” Earlier in the day, the Congress and ISF-supported CPM nominee Sushanta Ghosh's vehicle was attacked in West Midnapore's Salboni. In East Midnapore's Contai, the car of Soumyendy Adhikary, a local BJP leader and younger brother of Suvendu, was attacked. His driver Ramgobind Singh sustained injuries. A BJP worker Mangal Soren's body was recovered from his home early on Saturday morning in Keshiary also in West Midnapore where voting was held on Saturday. Later, the BJP announced a roadshow by Union Home minister Amit Shah. “The MamataOfficial campaign in Nandigram just got another boost. We hear that a member of the Tourist Gang (part time HM) will be doing a roadshow there on March 30. #KhelaHobe Bring it on,” tweeted Derek O’Brien, the Trinamul leader in Rajya Sabha. Nandigram will go to the polls on April 1 in the second phase. It is among 30 seats spread over four districts of south Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses PM of wooing Bengal voters during Bangladesh visit||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his visit to Bangladesh, accusing him of trying to influence voters in Bengal where polling began for the eight-phase assembly election in the morning, according to NDTV.com. The CM was referring to the PM offering prayers at a temple in Bangladesh's Orakandi, the birthplace of Hindu mystic figure and Matua community's spiritual guru Harichand Thakur, earlier in the day. Orakandi is the abode of hundreds from the Hindu Matua community, a large number of whom are now residents of Bengal and an important factor in elections. PM Modi, whose visit during the temple was seen by many as a political message, also addressed the members of Matua community, saying, "I was speaking to some people here. They were saying who could have thought that India's Prime Minister would visit Orakandi." He also promised to make it easier for people from India to Orakandi and announced that his government will upgrade a girls' school and set up a primary school in the area. "Elections are underway here and he (PM) goes to Bangladesh and lectures on Bengal. It is a total violation of code of conduct of the election," Banerjee said at a campaign event in Kharagpur according to news agency ANI. "In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when a Bangladeshi actor attended our rally, BJP spoke to Bangladesh government and cancelled his visa. When polls are underway here, you (PM) go to Bangladesh to seek votes from one section of people. Why shouldn't your visa be cancelled? We will complain to the Election Commission," NDTV.com quoted the Chief Minister as saying. Not taking too kindly to the canvassing across the border, NDTV.com quoted Banerjee saying, "Sometimes they say Mamata has brought people from Bangladesh and did infiltration. But he (PM) himself goes to Bangladesh for vote marketing." Bengal is holding elections in a record eight phases starting Saturday in a contest that has seen the BJP pull out all stops, including poaching a large number of Trinamool leaders, to unseat the two-time Chief Minister. Results are set to be declared on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Fight BJP goons with kitchen utensils, Mamata tells women ||Alleging that the BJP was bringing in goons from outside to stop people from exercising their franchise in Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged women to "confront the hoodlums with ladle, spatula" and other cooking utensils. Addressing two public rallies at Narayangarh and Pingla in West Midnapore district, the TMC boss dubbed bete noire Suvendu Adhikari and his family as "traitors", and claimed that one member of the household was seen distributing money among people on Friday night, hours before 30 assembly constituencies of the state went to polls. "Yesterday, one of the Adhikari brothers was seen distributing money... Women in the area caught him red-handed and asked the police to arrest him. They also handed over 30 goons, all hired from outside, to the police," she said. Banerjee asserted that the saffron party's fate will be sealed after the first phase of the polls. "The BJP is bringing in goons from outside Bengal to places where the party has some foothold. I will urge the women of the state to come out with 'hata and khunti' (ladle and spatula) and confront the hoodlums." She further requested the Election Commission to ensure that the assembly polls are conducted in a fair manner. "Delhi's Amit Shah wants to conduct the polls in Bengal. With due respect to the Election Commission, I urge the poll body to see to it that the elections are held in a free, fair and impartial manner," the CM underlined, taking a swipe at the home minister. The TMC chief also said that she will be putting up in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram constituency, where polls are scheduled on April 1, to keep an eye on the activities of 'Mir jafars' (traitors). Three members of the Adhikari family -- which wields considerable influence in Purba Medinipur -- have quit the TMC and joined the saffron camp over the past few months. Banerjee is locked in a fierce battle against her former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. "I was responsible for giving them plum positions in public offices. They, however, betrayed the TMC and crossed over to the BJP... they were lured with money," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP stirs up a row over purported audio clip of Mamata ||A controversy erupted on Saturday amid polling for 30 Assembly seats in West Bengal with the BJP releasing an audio clip in which a woman, purportedly chief minister Mamata Banerjee, is heard cajoling a BJP leader from Nandigram to rejoin the TMC. A BJP delegation, led by party general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, met the state's chief electoral officer and handed over the tape, claiming Banerjee was using her official position to influence the outcome of the bitterly contested assembly poll. PTI could not independently verify the authenticity of the audio tape. The ruling TMC asserted that since Pralay Pal was a former TMC leader who switched over to the BJP, there was nothing wrong with Banerjee trying to woo him back. Banerjee is pitted against her former protege and now BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, the spring board that propelled her to power in 2011, dislodging the Left Front from power after a 34-year unbroken rule. Pal, who pledged his allegiance to the Adhikari family, whose two members are still TMC Lok Sabha members, claimed Banerjee personally called him up and asked him to help her win the Nandigram seat. "You should help us win Nandigram. Look, I know you have some grievances, but that's due mostly to the Adhikaris who never allowed me to get into Nandigram or East Midnapore. I will take care of everything henceforth," the woman, who the BJP claims is Banerjee, is heard saying in the audio clip. Pal, a BJP official in East Midnapore where the Adhikari family holds sway, claims Banerjee was speaking to him, but that he was not game. "Didi, you called me and I am honoured. But I can't betray the Adhikaris as they have stood by me through thick and thin," the voice on the other side, which the BJP claims is Pal's, is heard saying in the audio clip. Pal later told TV news channels that Banerjee called him up and requested him to return to the TMC, a proposal he declined. "I am now working for the BJP and can't betray them," said Pal. Sharing the clip of the purported conversation, BJP's social media head Amit Malviya tweeted, "Massive! Mamata Banerjee calls Proloy Pal, BJP's district Vice President in Nandigram and pleads for help! Proloy tells her that he was humiliated in TMC, and he, along with this family, cannot betray the BJP. Pishi is definitely losing Nandigram and TMC Bengal." "Only a candidate who has accepted defeat can speak the way Mamata Banerjee has spoken," Vijayvargiya told journalists. When asked about whether the tape was authentic, the BJP leader retorted: "I was saying what I am saying with full responsibility (jawabdari)." "She's imploring (yachna) for help. It shows she has accepted defeat," he said. The TMC said the tape was not verified but found nothing wrong in Banerjee approaching a former partyman. "First of all, the clip is not verified. We don't know whether it is true or false. But we don't see anything wrong in a politician calling her former leaders or aides. This is quite natural in politics," TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. Nandigram will go to polls on April 1 in the second phase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal, Assam votes with enthusiasm||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Sporadic violence marks first phase of Bengal polls||Sporadic incidents of violence were reported from some areas that are voting in the first phase of the assembly elections in West Bengal on Saturday, even as the overall poll situation was peaceful with 36.09 per cent turnout recorded till 11 am, officials said. Elections are being held in 30 seats, most of which are in the once-Naxal-affected Jungle Mahal region, across five districts amid tight security, they said. "Till 11 am the voter turnout is 36.09 per cent. It has been by and large peaceful so far," a senior Election Commission (EC) official said. The elections are being held following COVID-19 guidelines in all nine seats in Purulia, four in Bankura, four in Jhargram and six in Paschim Medinipur, besides the seven seats in high-stakes Purba Medinipur. The seats in Purba Medinipur recorded the highest turnout at 38.89 per cent, followed by Jhargram (37.07 per cent) and Bankura (36.38 per cent). The seats in Paschim Medinipur recorded 35.50 per cent turnout, while those in Purulia saw 33.58 per cent voters exercising their franchise. In the Kanthi Dakshin seat in Purba Medinipur, voters staged a protest outside a polling booth over EVM malfunctioning. The protesters blocked a road outside the polling station at Majna, claiming that even if they voted for one party, the VVPAT slip showed another party. A contingent of central forces was deployed to control the situation, an EC official said, adding that the VVPAT machine was replaced. BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's younger brother Soumendu was attacked in Kanthi by TMC supporters, his party alleged. His car was vandalised and his was driver injured in the attack. In the Salboni seat of Paschim Medinipur, CPI(M) candidate Susanta Ghosh was heckled and stones were hurled at his car allegedly by TMC supporters, police said. As soon as he reached Salboni Bazar, some TMC supporters gheraoed and heckled him, following which they also attacked his car, eyewitnesses said. Police personnel posted in the area rescued and escorted him to safety. "This is an attack on democracy. This is jungle raj going on," said Ghosh, a former minister in the Left Front government. Some journalists who were reporting on the attack were also manhandled and their vehicles vandalised. An EC official said that three persons were arrested in connection with the incident and a report has been sought from the district administration. The TMC denied any involvement. A man, in his mid-30s, was found dead in Keshiary's Begumpur area in the Paschim Medinipur district in the morning, police said. He has been identified as Mangal Soren, they said, adding that his body was found outside his home. The BJP claimed that Soren was their supporter and was allegedly killed by TMC "goons", a charge rubbished by the ruling party. However, the district administration in its report to the EC said that there was no connection of the death to the polls. Long queues were seen outside most booths in the morning hours with people stepping out early to avoid the sweltering heat, besides the uncertainty of being able to cast their votes in case of violence later in the day. Voters in several areas, including Bhagabanpur in Egra and Midnapore, complained of intimidation to the central forces who assured them of security and took them to the polling booth. Besides, there were allegations against both BJP and TMC of trying to influence voters by providing them food packets, tea and snacks. So far, 107 EVMs have been found to be non-functional, an EC official said. "Forty-seven EVMs have been restored by our sector officers and the rest are being mended," he said. The Trinamool Congress also raised concerns over the fluctuating turnout figures on the EC's mobile app and malfunctioning of EVMs at several booths. Most of the voters and political party workers were seen without masks amid a resurgent coronavirus. In some booths, the voters were provided masks, while sanitizers and polythene gloves were made available at most locations. More than 73 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 191 candidates in these 30 seats. The elections, which will continue till 6 pm, are being held amid tight security with the EC deploying around 730 companies of central forces, guarding 10,288 polling booths housed in 7,061 premises, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Polling begins for 30 seats in first phase of Bengal elections||Polling began at 7 am on Saturday for the 30 seats in the first phase of the assembly elections in Bengal amid tight security, officials said. More than 73 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 191 candidates in these seats, most of which are located in the once-Naxal-affected Jungle Mahal region. The elections are being held following COVID-19 guidelines in all nine seats in Purulia, four in Bankura, four in Jhargram and six in Paschim Medinipur, besides the seven seats in high-stakes Purba Medinipur -- the home turf of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. The elections, which will continue till 6 pm, are being held amid tight security with the Election Commission deploying around 730 companies of central forces, guarding 10,288 polling booths housed in 7,061 premises, officials said. Each company of the central forces consists of 100 personnel, they said. Besides, 22,092 state police personnel have also been deployed at strategic locations, they added. Long queues were seen outside many booths even before polling began with people stepping out early to avoid the sweltering heat, besides the uncertainty of being able to cast their votes in case of violence later in the day. Most of the voters and political party workers were seen without masks amid a resurgent coronavirus. In some booths, the voters were provided masks, while santisers were made available at all the locations. The Trinamool Congress is contesting 29 of the 30 seats, while supporting an Independent in the Joypur assembly segment in Purulia as the nomination of its official candidate Ujjwal Kumar was rejected by the EC due to a discrepancy. The BJP is also contesting 29 seats and backing ally AJSU Party of Jharkhand in Baghmundi. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance has put up candidates in all 30 seats, even as there are "friendly fights" in some. Of these 30 seats, 27 were won by the TMC in the 2016 assembly elections, the Congress bagged two and RSP one. However, the equations changed in 2019 with BJP making massive inroads in the tribal-dominated Jungle Mahal region, winning all five Lok Sabha constituencies -- Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram, Medinipur and Bishnupur. West Bengal has been caught in the throes of violent political clashes between the TMC and BJP supporters which have claimed several lives on both sides over the last few days, prompting the Election Commission to deploy such a massive number of central forces. Tension was palpable at Tulsidi village in Purulia's Bandwan as an election vehicle was set on fire hours before the polling began. Forces are at present keeping a close vigil in the area, surrounded by forests that were once the hideouts of Maoists, officials said. Total 73,80,942 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise in the first phase. Of them, 37,52,938 are male and 36,27,949 female, while there are 55 third gender voters. Bengal is voting in eight phases for 294 seats. The votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Nandigram and Netai telling tale of contrast for Suvendu Adhikari||Nandigram and Netai, two names considered the first and the final nails in the coffin of the 34-year Left Front regime in Bengal, are a telling tale of contrast for BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, once Mamata Banerjee’s aide and torchbearer in the region. In Nandigram, Adhikari’s collaborators in the anti-land acquisition movement are forced to go into hiding to avoid arrests in murder cases from the movement era, reopened recently through judicial intervention brought on by a BJP candidate. In Netai, then CPM rivals of Adhikari are now his comrades in the saffron camp. Netai, a remote village by the bank the Kansabati, witnessed indiscriminate firing, allegedly by the CPM, on protesting villagers, which claimed nine lives and injured 28, on January 7, 2011. The CPM had allegedly sheltered a group of gunmen for their training to ward off a Maoist attack on the house of then CPM leader Rathin Dandapat. The villagers who came to know about the gunmen had gone to protest in a group, when they had allegedly opened fire. Mamata, then the Union railways minister in UPA II, had rushed to the village along with Adhikari, and went to town with the issue later, turning it into a major poll plank against the CPM and defeated it, that summer. After she came to the power, Adhikari was the leader responsible for looking after Netai, especially the kin of the slain. A member from each family was given a government job after Trinamul came to power. Although the villagers, including the bereaved families, acknowledge the contribution of Adhikari, they are not ready to join the BJP after his desertion, as the CPM workers and leaders, whose aides had allegedly opened fire on innocent villagers, are now Adhikari’s colleagues in the BJP. Trinamul leaders claimed Netai is now a thorn in Adhikari’s side. “We have no problem with Suvenduda. We were ready to join him if he floated a new party. But he betrayed us by joining the BJP, which now shelters the killer of my father. Now, it is ours solemn duty is to make Suvenduda lose,” said a member of the Netai Shahid Smriti Raksha Committee. In the last Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had secured a lead in Netai, by over 800 votes. Dwarakanath Panda, president of the Committee, said: “We are grateful to both our chief minister and Suvendu. But he has now chosen a different political platform, which we have no interest in.” Asked if it was largely because of the former CPM workers who are now in the BJP with Adhikari, Panda agreed. Debu Sen, son of Dhiren Sen, one of those slain in the Netai incident, asked how he could join the BJP, especially after Mamata ensured a state government job for him. At a March 17 rally in Lalgarh, Mamata also underscored this issue. “The CPM’s goons are now the BJP’s leaders… so, don’t trust them at all. If you make that mistake, they will bring back that era of fear, like before 2011,” she had said. The house of now imprisoned Rathin Dandapat, from where the alleged firing took place, has only one resident, his 80-year-old mother Madhuri Dandapat. “I did not go to any government camps. I don’t take any government aid. My son is still in jail. Nobody comes to my home to check on me,” she said, claiming her son was not even present when the alleged incident took place in 2011. The BJP acknowledged that the CPM workers in Netai had joined the saffron camp, but ruled out the local discontent over that as a factor, asserting that the fight was between Mamata’s Trinamul and Narendra Modi’s BJP. “There is no longer any CPM in Netai. All CPM leaders and workers are now with us. We will defeat Trinamul in Netai, like elsewhere in Bengal,” said Tufan Mahata, the BJP’s Jhargram unit chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Left Front’s bid to leave mark in campaign||The CPM’s young face and Sanjukta Morcha candidate at Nandigram, Minakshi Mukherjee, is something of a lone warrior. She was nominated by the Left Front as the candidate pegged to enter an epic poll battle in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former aide Suvendu Adhikari would be keenly watched. Sitting in front of the home of a 55-year-old woman in Nandigram’s Kalicharanpur earlier this week, Minakshi cut close to the image of a Left politician. The woman, who did not want to be named, lost her husband in the 2007 land agitation, which arguably was a pitfall for the Left at Nandigram, where CPM offices at Kalicharanpur, Gokulnagar, Sonachura, Kendemari and Ahmadabad have all been shuttered since 2011. Minakshi has taken it upon herself to reverse the trend and to bring local politics back to “the basics”. However, the task for Minakshi is immense as she carries the burden of the police firing that killed 14 villagers on March 14 in 2007. The CPM candidate is aware of the challenges and caught between the high-decibel campaign of the big two. Minakshi is trying to collate the votes that had left the Left fold over the years while trying to reach out to those who are upset with alleged corruption of Trinamul Congress leaders in the area. “Most residents in this area, especially those who wanted to vote for the Left, have been threatened in the past 10 years. All that we want back is our right to vote,” said the widow, casting a furtive glance at Minakshi, who wore a concerned look. Nandigram is home to 17 gram panchayats and the Left has reportedly had almost zero presence in 12 in the past 10 years. Minakshi has been visiting each of the panchayats for the past 10 days, leaving home as early as 6am and campaigning till 10pm on most days. Although she is not equipped with the kind of resources that Suvendu or Mamata has, she has been resilient and unforgiving on herself, having covered nearly 200 booths across Nandigram’s 1 and 2 blocks over the past week and a half. “I am telling the people to be fearless. Yes, they may have been threatened or beaten in the past, but that will come to an end now. Trinamul has thrived on false promises, something evidenced by former party member Suvendu. But even he, who was not of much use in one party, will be no better in the other,” she said. Minakshi brought up the issue of nearby Garupara, which is infamous in the Nandigram area for its history of political violence. “People have often been told to wait outside the booths while their vote is cast, or marked with black ink the night before and told to wait at home,” Minakshi explained, the 55-year-old woman nodding in agreement. “Nandigram has been dishonoured by robbing us of our franchise,” said the widow. At the CPM’s district headquarters, district secretary Niranjan Sihi was circumspect about the April 1 polls in Nandigram, where campaigning ends in five days. “If votes can be cast rightfully, we are hopeful of the CPM making a comeback,” he said. “The people have been confused a lot by Suvendu’s defection, but hopefully, it will benefit us,” Sihi added while news poured in that a campaign vehicle of the CPM had been damaged allegedly by rivals. There are approximately 2.53 lakh voters in Nandigram, of whom nearly 70,000 hail from the minority community. Aware that the minority votes would play a crucial role in deciding which way Nandigram would vote, CPM politburo member Mohd Salim and Indian Secular Front leader Abbas Siddique addressed a rally in support of Minakshi at the Sitananda College grounds in Nandigram on Friday. Siddique emphatically appealed to the people to vote for the Left as they had a long history of stalling the entry of the BJP into Bengal. “We have asked the people to remain united and ensure that their voting rights are not snatched away,” Minakshi said and added that the people of the state should look forward to a surprise on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Car on duty for first phase election set ablaze||Two unknown men set on fire a car on duty for elections after they asked its driver to get off in Purulia’s Bandwan on Friday night. Police have started a probe to find out if Maoists were involved in the incident. The police said such an incident of arson had not happened in the region after 2011. Bandwan will go the polls in the first phase of the voting on Saturday. Police sources said Bandwan was a known Maoists bastion in the Left Front era. They said the incident, which was carried out by unknown goons, who had their faces covered with clothes, could not be taken lightly as the style of attack matched that of Left-wing extremists. “We have already started a probe. We are interrogating the driver who claimed he was stopped and forced to get down before they set the car on fire,” said Purulia district police chief Biswajit Mahato. Asked whether the police suspected the Maoist role behind the incident, he said: “I can’t rule out the doubt right now.”The police sources said a car assigned to deliver food for polling personnel at various booths had been returning to a nearby village in Supurdih when the unknown men stopped the vehicle. “The driver told us that he was first asked to get off the car and later they took fuel from the tank and set the vehicle ablaze. He could not recognise the duo as they used black clothes to hide their faces,” said a police officer. Bandwan was once a Maoist-dominated area and several attacks on police had taken place since early 2000 when the activities of Left wing extremists were very high in the region. In 2003, the then officer in charge of Bandwan was killed in a landline explosion by Maoists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP importing 'outsider' goons to loot votes, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee and her party Trinamul Congress on Friday alleged BJP leader and her opponent at Nandigram Suvendu Adhikari had harboured bohiragawtos (outsiders) at different locations in East Midnapore with an intention to disrupt the first and second phase of voting. Trinamul workers had captured some alleged outsiders at Contai in East Midnapore on Thursday night and handed them over to police. Three of them were arrested by the police and produced in court. The trio secured bail from the court. At a rally in Daspur on Friday, the Trinamul chief said her repeated allegation of the BJP importing bohiragawto goons to Bengal had been proven by the Contai incident. “I have been saying for long that they have been assembling bohiragawto goons. See, it was proved yesterday. In the morning, reports arrived that in Contai 1 and 2 (blocks), where the traitors (of the Adhikari clan) live, 30-odd goons from Uttar Pradesh were caught red-handed with guns in their possession,” said the chief minister. Police sources, however, said the number of persons arrested was three, all unarmed, and they are residents of Delhi. “They have hired Bargi raiders from outside to loot votes here,” Mamata said. The Bargi was a sub-category of troops of the Maratha Empire that used to carry out large-scale pillage across the vast western swathes of Bengal almost annually through the 1740s. The chief minister said she would stay at Nandigram from Sunday till the end of polling on April 1 to closely monitor the situation and to minimise the possibility of the alleged outsider goons disrupting the polls. “You can understand how outsider goons have been coming here, I proved it to you…. Remember, I am on the frontlines. Do not allow a single bohiragawto goon to enter. If they stand in your way with guns… I know goons have been sent to Nandigram, I know the names…. I am saying this clearly, listen, if they try to harass you, the women chase them out. But no bullet for bullet, that is not the nature of my politics,” said Mamata. “Their desperation has been intensifying… with each passing day, the BJP is realising it is losing this election,” she added. Later in the day, a Trinamul delegation, led by leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien and Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, lodged a formal complaint with the Election Commission, seeking deployment of additional armed forces in the Contai North and South, Bhagabanpur, Khejuri, Egra, Ramnagar and Patashpur Assembly segments, and specifying nine locations where Adhikari had allegedly harboured armed criminals. “We have received inputs that… there is going to be considerable violence planned by the BJP on the day preceding the poll as well as the polling days… the Election Commission’s deployment of central forces is significantly less in these areas, which we suspect is out of failure of local intelligence collection, or ignoring local intelligence inputs, or deliberate avoidance to blatantly favour the BJP,” wrote Trinamul in its complaint. It added that Adhikari, the BJP’s candidate against Mamata at Nandigram, had been allegedly harbouring the armed criminals at specific locations in Gokul Nagar, Samsabad, Nandigram Hospital More, Haripur, Khodambari, Ahmedabad and Boyal. “Local police have been informed of this, however, no steps have been taken yet,” alleged Trinamul in its complaint. “We call upon you to immediately intervene and direct necessary steps to be taken by the police under your supervision to forthwith apprehend all such armed criminals hired and harboured by Shri Suvendu Adhikari,” it added. In her Daspur address, Mamata warned Trinamul supporters against complacence. “Don’t become overconfident, don’t suffer from complacence. The BJP is the biggest fraud and a party of garbage… it will stop at nothing to win the election,” she said. “They think this election can be rigged. We won’t allow that to happen,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Voting in 30 seats on Saturday||A total of 730 companies of paramilitary forces will be deployed in the first phase of the Bengal Assembly polls on Saturday. Thirty seats spread across five districts — East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram — would go to the polls and a total of 73,80,942 people are eligible to exercise their franchise. Each company of the central force comprises nearly 80 armed jawans. Sources in the Election Commission of India said each booth premises would be guarded by paramilitary personnel and state police would be responsible for maintaining law and order in the area outside the polling premises. Single-booth premises would be guarded by eight jawans (one section) of central forces, while two, three and four-booth premises would be secured by 16 jawans (two sections). “The central force would guard the polling premises and they would be responsible to deal with untoward incidents within a radius of 100 meters. The rest of the area would be under the jurisdiction of state police. The police would have quick response teams that include central forces so that security personnel can reach the spots in case of anything untoward happens,” said a source in the poll panel. According to the plan, 659 companies of central forces would be deployed to guard 10,288 booths during the first phase of the polls and the remaining 71 companies of central forces would be deployed to form quick response teams along with the state police and sector duty. The police have also deployed more than 40 inspectors and 100-odd sub-inspectors, along with nearly 4,000 constables, home guards and NVFs, for the first phase . “I last saw such a heavy deployment of central and state forces during the 2006 Assembly polls where 100 percent booth premises were guarded by the central force jawans,” said a senior IPS officer. “The state police were not given any responsibility within a radius of 100 meters of the booth premises then. Only an NVF person would be allowed on the booth premises to arrange the queues.” Sources in the administration said the heavy deployment reminded the promise of Union home minister Amit Shah in his recent public meetings that no goons of Trinamul would be on road due to the heightened security arrangements. Several leaders from the districts where polling would be held said that such a heavy deployment might actually frighten the common people and many of whom might not come out to vote out of fear. “A total of 21 Assembly segments in Jungle Mahal would vote tomorrow (Saturday). The area is sensitive about the presence of armed forces. Common people consider heavy force deployment as a sign of something wrong. This might leave an effect on the polling percentage,” said Pulin Bihari Baske, the CPM district committee secretary in Jhargram and a party nominee from West Midnapore’s Kesiyari. Moreover, the EC announced the entire polling process would be web cast from 5,399 booths. The unprecedented deployment was visible in several booths by Friday afternoon even before polling officials reached the booth. In Amdanga Rural school in Lalgarh, it was found that eight armed SSB jawans were deployed there from 2.30 pm on Friday even if the polling officials were yet to reach the polling station. “We have reached here early to check the situation here. The force would take their position as soon as the polling personnel reach here,” a sub-inspector of SSB said. Chhatradhar Mahato, Trinamul's state committee member and face of Lalgarh movement, also said that he never witnessed such a heavy deployment in recent elections in Jungle Mahal. “I don’t know why such a tight security arrangement was made. In this area, over 90 percent of people come to polling booths to cast their votes. If the polling percentage dips this time, the heavy deployment extra security will be the sole reason,” said Mahato. BJP leaders, however, said the commission did the right thing considering the situation happened in the last Panchayat election when oppositions could not file nomination papers too. “Trinamul will not get any chance to manipulate the polling system this time. They should recall what they did in the last panchayat polls,” said a BJP leader in Jhargram. A section of the officials, however, said Jungle Mahal usually don’t have a record of electoral malpractices and even in 2018 panchayat polls, elections were held in majority of the rural body seats where the Trinamul candidates were defeated in a large number of seats. Common voters of Jungle Mahal were surprised over such a huge deployment of forces. “This year’s election is completely different. So many forces and leaders are visiting our village this time. I hope everything is fine,” said Sushil Mahato, 72, a voter from Salbani’s Bhimpur village. Tension erupted in Salboni after the body of a BJP worker Lalmohan Soren was found hanging from a tree in Bagmari village on Friday morning. ADG (law and order), Jag Mohan, said: “The matter is being investigated and no report has reached the state administrative headquarters yet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Crash kills three civic volunteers in Malda district||Three civic volunteers died and six others were injured after the SUV in which they were returning to a police station overturned on NH12 at Jalalpur in Malda district on Friday. Sources said a team of Kaliachak police had gone to Sujapur on Thursday night to arrest some people against whom warrants had been pending. While they were returning to the police station on Friday, one of the three SUVs carrying nine civic volunteers lost control. It rammed into a road divider and overturned on the national highway. Local people and police personnel in the other two SUVs took all the injured to Malda Medical College and Hospital where doctors pronounced three of them dead. The deceased have been identified as Pankaj Mandal, Obaidur Sheikh and Ebanul Sheikh — all aged between 30 and 35 years. Alam Sheikh, another civic volunteer, who suffered injuries to the head and shoulders, was immediately referred to Calcutta by the doctors. “The SUV was heading fast towards the police station. A vehicle carrying two persons who were arrested was ahead of us while the third SUV was behind us. Suddenly, the vehicle hit something on the highway and overturned,” said Ruksena Khatun, an injured civic volunteer. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said families of each of the deceased civic personnel would receive a compensation of Rs 6.50 lakh and a job for their immediate next of kin. The entire cost of treatment of the injured would be borne by the state police, he added. Gaur enters hamlet Three persons, including a woman, got injured after a gaur (Indian bison) strayed into West Chepani village of Alipurduar district from the Chhipra forest that is under Buxa Tiger Reserve on Friday morning. Among the injured, the woman has suffered serious injuries and has been sent to NBMCH. Locals said after the animal got into the village, it started running around and attacked people who came near it. As it injured the residents, foresters were informed and a team reached the spot. It took time for them to dart the animal. It was then taken away from the village and will be released in the forest in due course, said a forest officer. The department will also bear the medical costs of the injured as per the policy, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Business conclave: Meeting yields start-up ideas in North Bengal||Around 50 proposals for start-ups mooted by budding entrepreneurs of north Bengal were placed at a business conclave hosted by the North Bengal chapter of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) here on Friday. “For quite some time, the ICC has been focussing on start-ups and encouraging young entrepreneurs who are coming up with new ideas. A number of prospective investors who want the start-ups to develop in north Bengal and Sikkim were present at the conclave. Of the proposals, eight to 10 have been selected and pitched for investments to the tune of Rs 30 crore,” said Nishant Mittal, chairman of the ICC north Bengal. Sources in the ICC said the proposals included new commercial ventures in sectors like horticulture, IT, organic food and grocery. Mittal said the ICC could bring in some stalwarts of the industry as well the young entrepreneurs together at the conclave. “We wish to promote budding entrepreneurs of north Bengal and link them to industry experts and business leaders from all parts of the country. This step would help them showcase their concepts at macro level,” he added. In the course of the event, the ICC north Bengal also launched its YLF (Young Leaders’ Forum) Start up ICC Next, an initiative that had been introduced by the trade body to encourage new business ideas and promote investments. A number of youths in north Bengal and Sikkim, many of whom used to work outside in different sectors, conceived a number of new business concepts in the past few years and particularly during the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year. “While some of these are IT-enabled concepts which can offer varied services to consumers at door steps, there are also new business ideas which involve utilisation of the natural resources and the efficient manpower we have in the region, particularly in the Darjeeling hills. Now that things are returning to normal, it is time to nurture these ideas to promote alternative employment options in north Bengal and Sikkim,” said a senior industrialist based in Siliguri. CII initiative The north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with National Marwari Foundation and a private group distributed artificial limbs among specially-abled people at the National Marwari Foundation Artificial Limb centre in Siliguri on Thursday. Sanjay Tibrewal, the chairman of the CII NB zonal council, said the initiative would help the beneficiaries in their locomotion. The trade body will take the initiative to ensure that each of them receives the monthly assistance of Rs 1,000 under a government scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: GNLF backs three BJP nominees at Shah ‘plea’||GNLF president Mann Ghisingh on Friday said Union home minister Amit Shah had “implored” him to support the BJP in the three hill Assembly segments, following which the GNLF “emptied our pockets” and decided to support the saffron party. When the BJP had announced the candidates for the Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong seats four days ago, Ghisingh had first opposed all the nominees but soon changed his stance. The BJP fielded Subha Pradhan and B.P. Bajgain in Kalimpong and Kurseong, respectively. Neeraj Zimba is the BJP candidate in Darjeeling. Zimba, a GNLF leader, had won the Darjeeling seat on a BJP ticket in a bypoll in 2019. A section of GNLF leaders, however, wants Zimba to be replaced with Ajoy Edwards. Aware of the dissent, Ghisingh addressed his supporters in Darjeeling on Friday in the presence of senior leaders, including Edwards, to justify his support to all the three BJP candidates in the hills. “Binti garyo (Amit Shah implored me). I had not seen a home minister imploring so much,” said Ghisingh who added that he had seen an opportunity in the plea. The opportunity, Ghisingh said, was to tell Shah that he must showcase a clear framework of the “permanent political solution” that the BJP had promised to the hill people in the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto. Neither the BJP nor its hill partners have explained what the “permanent political solution (PPS)” means. “We have emptied our pockets as one last chance (to the BJP),” said Ghisingh. The GNLF leader said the party had “winning candidates like Edwards and others in Kurseong and Kalimpong” but had decided to extend support to the BJP as they could not afford to “disconnect” themselves from Delhi. “This decision has been taken keeping in mind the interest of our community and our issue (PPS),” said Ghisingh. “Be united, do not look at the face of the candidate but the issue we are working at,” added Ghisingh. The GNLF leader’s mention of the candidates’ face seems to be another attempt to smoothen ruffled feathers among Edwards supporters. Edwards, despite being present at the meeting, has not made public his mind on whether he would contest from the Darjeeling seat or not. “Edwards is under tremendous pressure from his supporters. It would still be too early to say water has been cleared. His supporters are expected to hold another meeting on Saturday,” said a source. Many believe if Edwards ultimately decides to plunge into the fray after the GNLF’s Friday decision, it could change the political contours in the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 646 new cases in Bengal||Bengal on Friday witnessed the 15th consecutive day of rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases, which crossed the 4,000 mark yet again after falling below it on February 15. The number of active cases rose by 281 on Friday to touch 4,231. The state recorded 646 new infections (239 in the city) and 361 recoveries on Friday. Four Covid patients died, one of them in the city, during the day. The recent spell of rise is part of a wider national trend. A 136-day stint of fall in the number of active cases in Bengal, since Vijaya Dashami last year, snapped on March 11. Before the rise since March 12, the active case count had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 to 3,110. Despite the recent surge, Bengal has 0.94 per cent of the national total of active cases and is 13th on the list of states with most active cases in the country. This is largely because other states have been doing far worse. “This is part of a nationwide second wave.Bengal is also vulnerable because of all the disregard for safety protocols,” said a minister. The recovery rate in the state is 97.5 per cent, considerably ahead of the national rate of 94.83 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Violence rocks Cooch Behar again||Three houses were vandalised and two men injured in a clash between supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP near Dinhata on Thursday night. In a separate incident, alleged BJP supporters ransacked a club near Mathabhanga on Thursday night. Fresh bouts of violence had been reported in Cooch Behar district before Vivek Dube, the special police observer deputed by the Election Commission of India, reached here on Friday to review the law and order. Dube was instructed by the commission to visit the district after BJP leader Amit Sarkar had been found dead in Dinhata and the consequent violence. Trinamul and BJP supporters clashed at Futani Bazaar of Shakdal village in the Bhetaguri 2 panchayat of Dinhata subdivision on Thursday night. Four houses — three of Trinamul and one of the BJP — were ransacked. Two Trinamul supporters suffered serious injuries in the clash. Police brought the situation under control and seized crude bombs from Bhetaguri and the adjoining Burirhat. “There are reports that crude bombs are lobbed at night to intimidate people at some villages. We are keeping a watch over the situation and have intensified patrolling,” said a police officer. The club ransacked by the alleged BJP supporters is located at Bherbheri-Manabari near Mathabhanga. Bikram Dutta, the club’s secretary, has filed a complaint with police. “We suspect the attack was carried out as club members are into various social works in the area with the assistance provided by the state government,” he said. BJP leaders have denied the charges and said the vandalism was the fallout of differences among the club members. Lalit Pramanik, who had left Trinamul recently and joined the BJP, alleged that some Trinamul supporters had manhandled him on Friday evening. Sources said Pramanik had been returning from Lalbazar in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment under the Mathabhanga subdivision when some people had intercepted his car. “They ransacked my SUV and assaulted me and two BJP supporters who were in the vehicle. The attackers have asked me not to campaign for the BJP,” said Pramanik. Trinamul leaders have brushed aside the allegation. Dube, who arrived in Cooch Behar by a helicopter, held a meeting with the district magistrate and other administrative and police officers. The Election Commission had transferred district police chief K. Kannan on Thursday. District Trinamul leaders have demanded that the investigation into the death of Amit Sarkar be expedited and the findings be made public at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Jungle Mahal votes in 1st phase of Assembly elections today ||It is 3pm and the summer sun is beating down on Rabindranath Mahato, 30. Never mind the heat and the 13km journey on his paraplegic aid tricycle, Mahato is not short of enthusiasm on his way back from a campaign rally of Mamata Banerjee. The resident of Lalgarh in Jhargram who lost his legs to polio has been receiving a monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 under the Bengal government’s Manobik scheme for the disabled. He became a beneficiary after submitting documents at a camp near his home under Duare Sarkar, the Trinamul government’s reach-out drive for those missing out on social schemes. It is schemes like these that Trinamul is banking on when 23 seats of Jungle Mahal, a forest expanse straddling West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura and 40 Assembly constituencies, go to the polls on Saturday in the first phase. Once a stronghold, Trinamul has lost ground to the BJP in this belt dominated by tribals, Scheduled Castes and OBCs. Mahato had been eager to attend an election rally of the chief minister since he began receiving the stipend. “I can’t move my legs since childhood. My elder sister gave me this tricycle. I earn my living by selling fish at Khariamura in Jhargram. Now, I am also receiving Rs 1,000 as stipend. I got the benefit without paying anything to anybody. That’s the reason why I will support Trinamul this time,” Mahato said when The Telegraph met him on March 17. Not only Mahato, there are thousands in Jungle Mahal who have been receiving government benefits through Duare Sarkar camps, drawing more and more people to Mamata’s campaign rallies in the region. The impressive turnouts at the rallies have given Trinamul hope of recovering ground ceded to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP had bagged five of the six Lok Sabha seats of Jungle Mahal. “The first change of mood was noticed during the 2018 panchayat polls. The BJP bagged a significant number of seats wherever elections were allowed to be held in Purulia, Jhargram and Bankura. Corruption at the gram panchayat level had angered people, which showed in our poor performance in the Lok Sabha polls,” said a Trinamul leader in Purulia. He, however, added that the situation had changed significantly since then and the party was confident of staging a better performance. Even the biggest optimist in Trinamul can’t claim that the party will repeat its 2016 performance, when it had won 33 of the 40 seats, but leaders are confident of a clawback. The political history of Bengal suggests that the party that wins the majority of the seats in Jungle Mahal always has an edge over others in capturing the seat of power in the state. The Congress used to pocket most seats in Jungle Mahal till 1972, when it ruled the state. The scenario changed in 1977 when the Left turned the region into its stronghold by wooing the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Jungle Mahal became a Trinamul bastion in 2011 and continued to be so till the shocker in 2019. In the first phase of polling on Saturday, 23 seats of Jungle Mahal — which has an SC population of 22 per cent and an ST population of 15 per cent — will vote. The remaining 17 seats will vote on April 1. “The Lok Sabha poll results had pointed to our failure in the region and we have tried addressing them in the past two years with the government machinery.… Then came Duare Sarkar, through which we reached out to people,” said a senior Trinamul leader, exuding hope. Binay Jana, a 72-year-old marginal farmer from Sahersai village of Jhargram, can be a poster boy for the Duare Sarkar programme as he is thankful to the state government for giving senior citizens like him a pension of Rs 1,000 a month. “I have diabetes and high blood pressure. Now I don’t need to seek money from my sons to buy medicines. I got the pension after visiting the Duare Sarkar camp,” Jana said. Records available with the state government show that around 90,000 beneficiaries were added under several pension schemes through Duare Sarkar camps in Jungle Mahal. Besides, 22,000 caste certificates were distributed. Senior bureaucrats said Duare Sarkar, the brainchild of poll strategist Prashant Kishor, was planned as the ruling establishment wanted to reach out to people directly through government officials, not the panchayats. “People were angry with panchayat-level leaders. We wanted to keep them away from the service-delivery mechanism. The footfall at the camps clearly suggests that the people are happy with the services offered without hassles. This also proved that many people had been deprived, which we needed to address,” an official said. Service delivery through camps manned by government officials raises the question whether the Trinamul dispensation is weakening the three-tier panchayat system — local self-governments tasked with implementing the majority of development work. Senior Trinamul leaders said the party could address the issue if it returned to power, for which Duare Sarkar seems to be the trump card. “We have realised that holding panchayat polls properly is very important as people can defeat those they don’t like. As it did not happen in 2018, we had to pay a price in the Lok Sabha polls. We need to change a lot of things in the region, but for that we need to return to power.… And our hopes hinge on the success of Duare Sarkar,” a minister said. Sources in the BJP said the party had invested heavily on strengthening the organisation, which was earlier dependent on the RSS. “In 2019, people had voted against Trinamul. Now, we want people to vote for us because of our work and visibility in the area.… We have strengthened our organisation after the Lok Sabha success, which will help us to do better this time,” said a BJP leader in Jhargram. The poll planners in the saffron camp have ensured that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah visit Jungle Mahal several times to hold rallies and create a development narrative that Mamata can’t match. “They have made it clear that jobs will be created, safe drinking water will be provided and pension for the old will be enhanced. People have cheered the Prime Minister whenever such announcements have been made. It is clear that we will win the majority of the seats this time too,” the BJP leader said. This newspaper’s visits to different Jungle Mahal districts have, however, revealed that Trinamul has made a course correction through Duare Sarkar and the BJP’s promises appear to echo the Mamata administration’s projects. “This is the difference between 2019 and 2021. People were angry in 2019 and now they have received some government services. Now, the BJP has to play a different role. They have to convince the people that they will offer more.… That’s going to be easier said than done as the Trinamul government has ensured delivery of services in the last three-four months,” a political observer said. According to him, the BJP will find it difficult to repeat its 2019 performance because of a general perception in Jungle Mahal that the party’s elected MPs have been missing in action. Against this backdrop, the large turnouts at Mamata’s rallies suggest that Trinamul is ready to put up a strong fight against the BJP and the contest will be close. “Many of those attending our rallies are coming after receiving government services. That’s our biggest strength.... But it’s also true that the BJP has a silent voter base and they will vote irrespective of whatever we deliver,” admitted a Trinamul leader in Bankura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||West Bengal||Birbaha Hansda is not only known for her stardom, but also her political legacy||In the star-studded candidates’ list for the Bengal Assembly elections, one person stands out. Birbaha Hansda, 37, the Trinamul nominee from Jhargram, is not only known for her stardom in the Santhali film industry, she also inherits a political legacy. “I come from a tribal family and have seen my parents contest elections. Although I grew up to become an actor and have acted in Santhali films, I have inherited the spirit of serving the people from my parents. I am a daughter of Jungle Mahal and can mix with the people here easily,” Birbaha says while campaigning near Jhargram Palace last week. Birbaha, which means flower in Santhali, has been fielded from an unreserved seat. “The choice of Birbaha has been strategic as Trinamul had trailed the BJP in the Jhargram Assembly segment by 1,600 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The constituency has nearly 30 per cent tribal votes and we want to use her popularity to woo back voters,” says a Trinamul leader who has been campaigning with the party candidate since six in the morning. The English teacher of a local high school, Lalit Hansda, echoes the leader: “Birbaha will help Trinamul get both tribal and non-tribal votes.” Birbaha, who began her film career as an 18-year-old, is pitted against the BJP’s former district president, Sukhamay Satpathi, and the CPM’s Madhuja Sen Roy, who was Birbaha’s classmate in primary school in Jhargram. Although the CPM had trailed the BJP and Trinamul in the Lok Sabha polls, Madhuja feels her “school friend” is not “much in the fight”. “Both the BJP and Trinamul are our rivals but in Jhargram the battle will be between the CPM and the saffron camp,” Madhuja says. Sathpati agrees. “Anyone can contest polls but people have no trust in Trinamul.” Birbaha’s popularity is evident on campaign trail — fans line the roads and speak enthusiastically about Bardu, the film that made her a star. “The film was a superhit and I liked my role. The film was based on Maoist activities in Jungle Mahal,” says Birbaha, a history graduate and mother of two. She has acted in 19 movies, but Bardu is considered to be her best. It was selected for screening at the Goa Film Festival in 2014. “She is very popular in the Santhali film industry, which enjoys viewership in the Jungle Mahal districts and neighbouring Jharkhand. To us she is the equivalent of Suchitra Sen and Hema Malini,” said Opel Mandi, state convener of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal and a resident of Burdwan. Pointing out how Birbaha stood out among other celebrities contesting the elections, Mandi said: “She is not just a star but a girl who has imbibed the tradition of struggling for a better Jungle Mahal.” Birbaha’s father and founder of the Jharkhand Party, Naren Hansda, was a two-term MLA from Binpur. Her mother Chunibala Hansda also represented the seat for two terms. Birbaha has unsuccessfully contested elections thrice. Her first plunge was in the municipal polls, then the Assembly elections in 2011 and the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 in which she had been a candidate of the Jharkhand Party (Naren) in Jhargram. “I have joined Trinamul to strengthen the hands of Mamata Banerjee. Acting in films is my passion but I have joined politics as I want to do something for the people,” Birbaha says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
27-03-2021||Opinion||India-Bangladesh: Friends in deed||The former prime minister, Manmohan Singh, one of India’s most erudite and perceptive statesmen, had once said that the nation can choose its friends but not its neighbours. In a rare and happy occurrence, New Delhi has in Dhaka a reliable friend as well as an ideal neighbour. That the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, is the guest of honour at the celebrations to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the founding of Bangladesh — it also happens to be the centenary birth year of Bangladesh’s founder, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman — is a testament to the strength as well as the potential of this friendship. History, of course, has played its part in cementing the bond. India’s contribution to the creation of Bangladesh is truly historic. The political prudence of Indira Gandhi was matched by the valour of India’s armed forces that facilitated Bangladesh’s birth by fire. India has been a model of freedom and democracy for the smaller neighbour that has witnessed periods of turbulence. Present-day India, arguably, could learn a few things from Bangabandhu’s unfailing commitment to secularism as well as from Dhaka’s progress in the economy — that too, in a pandemic year — and in human development indicators. The two nations have marched forward with some of the most significant strides being taken in recent years. In 2015, the leadership of both countries signed the Land Boundary Agreement, facilitating the exchange of enclaves that not only enabled the resettlement of populations on the basis of their choice of residence but also resolved some border issues. Anti-Indian forces were neutralized effectively by the Bangladesh government under Sheikh Hasina Wajed, removing a contentious crease on the bilateral fabric. Communication and trade ties have bloomed, with Dhaka emerging as New Delhi’s biggest partner in South Asia and India extending lines of credit for development. Shared cultural and linguistic ties between the two Bengals could also be used as a productive asset to deepen the alliance. But there are irritants as well, largely from the Indian side. The sharing of river waters, primarily that of the Teesta, remains the principal bone of contention. Trade imbalances caused by non-tariff barriers on this side of the border as well as the tardy pace of the disbursement of India’s lines of credit must be looked into. Of equal concern are the warts on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bangladesh policy. The rhetoric of the infiltrator — ‘termites’ in India’s home minister’s lexicon — has been used to derive political capital by the BJP in domestic politics. The domesticization of diplomacy was equally evident in Mr Modi’s unprecedented decision to visit a shrine revered by the Matua community in an attempt to derive political brownie points in poll-bound West Bengal. Mr Modi and his party must be careful not to fritter away the gains made by India and Bangladesh over decades at the altar of provincial politics. An injury to this deepening association could have broader — pan-Asian — consequences at a time when China is busy scooping up many of New Delhi’s allies in a widening embrace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
27-03-2021||Opinion||Pressure point: Hindi imposition on IACS||Sir — It is an ominous sign when politics begins to dictate the language of science. India’s oldest science research institute, the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, has been told via a letter that it is not doing enough to meet the Hindi language targets set by the Centre (“Science hub told to cultivate Hindi”, March 24). The institute’s acting registrar has said that its circular on the matter stands superseded, but the developments are worrying. No imperial diktat prevented Isaac Newton from choosing Latin over English when he wrote Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica, one of the most celebrated volumes on science. Modern academia needs similar flexibility and freedom of expression to thrive. This is not asking for much. A task force, formed to study the feasibility of introducing regional languages as the medium of instruction in the Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology, has made a few of its findings public. First, it reveals that Hindi is not a feasible option for premier institutes like the IITs and the NITs. This is mainly on account of the composition of student populations and faculties, many members of which come from all parts of the country, thus covering a much broader linguistic spectrum. Several academics have spoken in unison against the imposition of Hindi, an ill-conceived plan unleashed to divert the focus of academia away from scholarship. The task force also found that it is possible to introduce native languages in numerous local technical colleges which mainly attract the domicile students of the states concerned. The report says that only 5-10 per cent of students in IITs preferred to take their courses in a native language. Another study found that around 44 per cent of students in state technical colleges, which have a considerable presence of local students, wanted to study in the local language. In fact, it is already a practice in many state colleges to use the local language over Hindi or English. The study provides valuable insights into language preferences of institutions based on stature and student demographic. A premier institute like the IACS, where Nobel laureates like C.V. Raman once worked, is a poor candidate for the ‘cultivation’ of Hindi. The race to adopt Hindi for circulars or clerical correspondence in the IACS is also unnecessary. It is a wasteful exercise in terms of consumption of paper, time and resources. Tarun K. Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — It was heartening to read that scientists from several institutions expressed outrage at the Centre’s attempt to harass the IACS, one of Bengal’s most respected institutions, in the name of furthering the use of Hindi as the ‘official language’. On Wednesday, research scholars as well as undergraduate and postgraduate students assembled on campus and formed a human chain that went past the football field. On the field were written the words, “No Hindi Imposition”. After the protest, a new circular was issued that appeared to ‘supersede’ the earlier one, although a teacher at the institute wondered whether it was just the same circular couched in more placatory language. Even if that is the case, the students of the institute will continue to fight the imposition of Hindi. Ankita Poddar,Calcutta Close call Sir — A number of leaders around the world have tested positive for Covid-19. However, it was appalling to read that the prime minister of Pakistan, who was recently diagnosed with the disease, reportedly held an in-person meeting with his media team after he tested positive. Even ordinary citizens are expected to be responsible and isolate themselves after testing positive for the illness. As the leader of a nation, Khan has an even greater responsibility upon his shoulders to set a good example. Given the flagrant flouting of social distancing norms all over South Asia, such irresponsible behaviour from a head of state is shameful and should be condemned. Faiza Khalid,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
27-03-2021||Opinion||Real danger: Crimes against Asian Americans||A little over a week ago, the United States of America had to witness yet another hate crime. Eight people, six of them Asian women, were shot to death by a white gunman at three spas in Georgia. The former US president, Donald Trump, had openly referred to the coronavirus as the ‘China virus’ or the ‘kung flu’, perpetuating xenophobia. Ever since March 2020, when Covid-19 gripped the US, there has been a rise in crimes against Asian Americans. Early last year, the #IAmNotAVirus campaign was created to spread awareness. After the Atlanta attacks, hundreds of protesters took to the streets  with signs saying ‘Stop Asian Hate’. Activists once again called for stricter gun control. According to the Stop AAPI Hate National Report, 3,800 hate crimes against Asian Americans were reported in 2020 — much higher than the 2,600 cases in 2019. According to the data, women report hate incidents 2.3 times more than men do. Other research also indicates that hate crimes against Asians have gone up significantly alongside the rise in Covid-19 cases. Several other Conservatives followed Trump’s example and spewed hate on public broadcast networks, making people associate the coronavirus with Asian Americans. The Covid-19 Hate Crimes Act was introduced to address this discrimination. It increases oversight in Covid19-induced hate crimes and makes such information more accessible to Asian American communities. Land a punch While Donald Trump is enjoying post-presidency life in his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, thousands of miles away, in San Antonio, Texas, a wax statue of him had to be taken down after people kept punching it. The Louis Tussaud’s Waxworks in San Antonio had put up a wax statue of Trump in between the wax displays of Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong-un. However, museum visitors punched and scratched the wax statue so many times that the authorities  had to temporarily remove it from public view. The intentional destruction of a wax statue, especially that of a political figure, by museum goers is not unheard of. Wax statues of George W Bush and Barack Obama have also been attacked by members of the public in the San Antonio museum, including past incidents where the ears were ripped off Obama’s replica according to San Antonio Express-News. A Pew Research Center survey found that a total of 68 per cent of Americans said they did not want Trump to be a major political figure after he left the White House. It is unclear when, or if, the museum will re-display the Trump statue. On the other side of the world, Trump has also been cast not in wax but in ceramic, resembling the Buddha. A Chinese artist created a statue of the former president draped in robes, cross-legged, with his eyes gently closed as if in a meditative state. The statues are sold online, along with the description, “Make your company great again!” Do not forget The Speed Art Museum in Louisville, Kentucky is hosting an exhibition on April 7 in honour of Breonna Taylor, the 26-year-old ER technician who was shot to death by the police raiding her apartment last year. The show, called Promise, Witness, Remembrance, will feature a portrait by the painter, Amy Sherald, and work by several other painters and photographers who captured the protests that took place after Taylor’s death. The show will span five galleries and will also reflect the Black Lives Matter demonstrations that took place following the death of Taylor and other Black Americans at the hands of the police. The exhibition will explore “the dualities between a personal, local story and the nation’s reflection on the promise, witness, and remembrance of too many Black lives lost to gun violence”. Currently, there is an outdoor memorial with murals, posters and artwork in Taylor’s honour at Jefferson Square Park in Louisville. Life changes As people are getting vaccinated, businesses are starting to formulate the post-pandemic work situation. Last year saw many people transform their living rooms into offices, with no idea about when things would return to ‘normal’. Now, people are considering what life would look like in a world without Covid-19. Many prefer to continue remote working. While people miss out on the social work environment or popping into the boss’s office to ask a quick question, the pros outweigh the cons. Remotely, people can cut out the two-hour daily commute. They can run quick errands or pop in at the laundry in the middle of a workday. There is also the class divide to consider. Medium to higher income earners can afford to work from home. You need to be employed at a job that requires nothing more than a computer, steady WiFi, space and privacy. According to the Pew Research Center, “those in upper-income families and... with a bachelor’s degree or more education... are more likely than those with middle or lower incomes and... without a bachelor’s degree to say they have more flexibility to choose their hours and that they feel less connected to their co-workers”. At the same time, if you are working from home you are always working. Tech companies like Twitter, Square, Spotify, Shopify and Amazon are adopting extended WFH policies, including allowing employees to live in different geographic regions. Footnote The National Collegiate Athletic Association came under fire again for blatant sexism and discrimination evident in its weight room amenities for the women’s team as compared to the facilities for the men. Viral pictures showed the men’s fitness area resembling a commercial gym while the women’s room had a couple of weights and yoga mats. The women’s food, ‘swag’ bags and even Covid-19 antigen tests were subpar in comparison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
27-03-2021||Opinion||A shrinking space||“What am I? Asiatic, European, or American? I feel a curious medley of personalities in me.” — Swami Vivekananda In 1873, the social reformer, Jyotirao Phule, published a searing critique of the caste system. Entitled Gulamgiri, the book was written in Marathi, yet it carried a dedication in English. This expressed the author’s admiration for “the good people of the United States” for their “sublime, disinterested and self-sacrificing devotion” to the abolition of slavery. Phule hoped that the passion for racial justice expressed by reformers in America would act as a “noble example” for Indians who sought “the emancipation of their Shudra Brethren from the trammels of Brahmin thraldom”. I was reminded of Phule’s dedication when reading reports of the prime minister’s speech in Parliament, warning Indians against what he damned as “foreign destructive ideology”. The capacious cosmopolitanism of the lonely, struggling reformer on the one side versus the paranoid xenophobia of the most powerful man in India, on the other. Clearly, the Hindu mind was far more open when we were still under colonial rule than at present, when we are a professedly proud and independent nation. Through the 19th century and well into the 20th, the leaders of Hindu society were entirely aware of its weaknesses. They knew that the disabilities that Hindus suffered from were in part, indeed in good part, self-inflicted. Our failures could not merely be blamed on the malevolent foreigners who had colonized us. In ridding ourselves of these disabilities, in preparing to meet the challenges of a complex, interdependent and ever-changing world, Hindus had to take counsel from, and listen to, critical voices both internal as well as external. The modern tradition of Hindu social reform begins with Rammohan Roy. Far from thinking (as our present Hindutvawadis do) that Hindus were pure, perfect, infallible, Roy faulted his compatriots on three grounds in particular — their treatment of women, their lack of interest in modern knowledge and their trust in scripture over reason. These three strands of social reform were deepened and furthered by activists who came in the wake of Roy, who pressed for, among other things, the raising of the age of marriage, the encouragement of the practice of widow remarriage, the promotion of modern education for men and for women, an end to caste discrimination and a culture of open debate through a free press. Rammohan Roy had travelled widely in the West, and interacted with many Western thinkers and activists. Yet, as Rabindranath Tagore once wrote, “with a wonderful breadth of heart and intellect [Roy] accepted the West without betraying the East”. As a scholar of Sanskrit, Bengali and Persian, Roy “had ground of his own on which he could take his stand and where he could secure his acquisitions. The true wealth of India was not hidden from him, for this he had already made his own. Consequently he had with him the touchstone by which he could test the wealth of others”. Like Rammohan Roy, Tagore was a Bengali deeply curious about other parts of India, and an Indian keenly interested in other parts of the world. Notably, his range of cosmopolitan reference was not (as is often the case with Indians) merely restricted to Europe and North America. His search for knowledge took him to Japan, China, Java, Iran and Latin America too. When, as a consequence of these travels, he established a university in rural Bengal, he named it ‘Visva-Bharati’, which we may translate as ‘The World in India’. The university’s memorandum of association described its objectives as the bringing together of “thinkers and scholars of both Eastern and Western countries, free from all antagonisms of race, nationality, creed or caste...”, and their realization “in a common fellowship of study [of] the meeting of East and West”. In 1920-21 Mahatma Gandhi launched the non-cooperation movement. While wishing for India’s liberation from colonial rule, Tagore worried about the xenophobic tendencies within the popular movement for freedom. Are “we alone to be content with telling the beads of negation”, asked Tagore of Gandhi’s followers, “harping on others’ faults and proceeding with the erection of Swaraj on a foundation of quarrelsomeness?” In a private meeting with the Mahatma, Tagore told him that “the whole world is suffering today from the cult of a selfish and short-sighted nationalism... I have come to believe that, as Indians, we not only have much to learn from the West but that we also have something to contribute. We dare not therefore shut the West out. But we still have to learn among ourselves how, through education, to collaborate and achieve a common understanding”. Rammohan Roy and Rabindranath Tagore were visionaries who saw in a fuller engagement with other cultures the enrichment of their own. So did the other Indian reformers of the day. Hence Phule’s invocation of the abolition of slavery in America as an inspirational example for his own lifelong struggle to abolish caste distinctions. Phule himself never travelled outside India; but his great successor, B.R. Ambedkar, did. Ambedkar’s education in the United States of America made a profound impression on him. Like Phule, he came to see the striking parallels between the treatment of Blacks in America and Dalits in India. Meanwhile, the teachings of the philosopher, John Dewey, alerted Ambedkar to the vital importance of education in nurturing a sense of common citizenship. From Roy to Ambedkar via Phule, Gokhale, Tagore, Gandhi, Periyar, Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay and many more, there was a long line of social reformers who worked assiduously to liberate their compatriots from the burdens of the past. For the Hindu society they knew and had experienced was at once unequal, uneducated and unfree. These reformers were determined to make their society more equal, by ending discrimination against women and low castes; more educated, by promoting modern secular learning in schools and colleges, and making such knowledge accessible to all; and more free, by cultivating a culture of public debate and discussion. The work of generations of reformers in opening the Hindu mind culminated in the framing and adoption of the Constitution of India. This drew on the best practices from across the world, incorporating laws and ideas from Europe and America as seemed fit. Notably, this open-minded engagement with other constitutional traditions drew the ire of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. In the last week of November 1949, after the final draft of the Constitution had been presented by B.R. Ambedkar, the RSS mouthpiece, Organiser, complained that “the worst [thing] about the new Constitution of Bharat is that there is nothing Bharatiya about it... [T]here is no trace of ancient Bharatiya constitutional laws, institutions, nomenclature and phraseology in it”. A letter in the Organiser expressed outrage at a writer who had praised Ambedkar as the “Manu of Modern India”. This, said the RSS ideologue, “is an instance of depicting a Lilliput as a Brobdingnag. It borders on ridicule to put Dr Ambedkar on par with the learned and god-like Manu...” This disparagement of Ambedkar by the RSS was in character. For, unlike the reformers I have praised in this column, the sangh thought there was nothing Hindus had to learn from other cultures or countries. On the other hand, they claimed that Hindus had been put on earth precisely to teach the world. This conceit that Hindus were destined to be some sort of ‘vishwa guru’ permeates the writings of prominent RSS ideologues from M.S. Golwalkar onwards. The worldview of the RSS is a peculiar mixture of triumphalism and paranoia. On the one hand, there is the fervent proclamation of global domination by Hindus. On the other hand, there is the continuing stigmatization of Indians of other faiths, and of Muslims particularly. And there is an absolute unwillingness to acknowledge that some, perhaps many, of the failings within Indian society may be attributable to the thoughts and actions of Hindus themselves. Over the decades, as the sangh parivar has grown in power and influence, the Hindu mind has shrunk — shrunk in its capacity for free thought, for self-critique and for self-reflection. Now, with the BJP and the RSS so dominant in our political and institutional life, this closing of the Hindu mind is manifest at the highest levels of government, as Union ministers and chief ministers exalt superstition over science, disparage the independence of women and issue periodic rants against the West. Lower down the sanghi hierarchy, this closing of the Hindu mind is displayed through the thuggish attacks on journalists, artists, writers and film-makers who dare present the truth about the continuing injustices in our society. Back in the 19th century, long before air travel and the internet had been invented, Jyotirao Phule could mentally reach out across the oceans to study the process of social emancipation in a country far distant from his own. Now, in the 21st century, when the world is so closely interwoven, the prime minister of India asks us to turn inwards into ourselves. We shall not listen. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur lawyers stand by rape-accused colleague ||Over 1,500 lawyers of Jamshedpur civil court on Saturday resorted to a pen-down strike protesting the arrest of one of their fellow lawyers by Noamundi police on Friday night. Advocate Birendra Kumar Singh has been accused of raping a 30-year-old woman in February this year. The Jamshedpur Bar Association’s general secretary, Anil Tiwary convened a meeting of the JBA's executive committee which unanimously resolved to go on a strike. The JBA members also burnt deputy inspector general (DIG), Kolhan, Rajiv Ranjan Singh effigy under whom the Noamundi thana falls. "Advocate Birendra Singh (64) is a gentleman and one cannot imagine to have outraged the modesty of any woman. He has been framed by some vested interest. His arrest is illegal and he must be released immediately, " Tiwary told The Telegraph. The JBA general secretary said if advocate Singh is not released unconditionally, then the association will continue its agitation. According to the FIR lodged by the woman, advocate Birendra Singh had promised the victim to provide her a job in Tata Steel. Though the alleged victim was originally a resident of Noamundi, but she would work at a construction site in Potka in East Singhbhum district, she was asked to come to the steel city in connection with her job in Tata Steel and she was subsequently raped by the advocate. The OC of Noamundi thana, Laxman Prasad confirmed that they have picked up Birendra Singh from his house at Baridih on Friday night, but for enquiry only. "Birendra Singh is accused in a rape case registered with the Noamundi thana in February. We are verifying whether the allegation made by a 30-year-old woman was prima facie true, "the OC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Young archers dream of becoming a Deepika or Paltan ||Padma Shri awardee Deepika Kumari and former junior world champion Paltan Hansda who learnt the nuances of archery at Kharsawan, justifies the ambitious plans of Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association of trying to produce more such world class players. Nearly 100 archers (boys and girls) in the under-9, under-12 and under-14 age group are undergoing training at Maa Damidiri archery ground at Kharsawan, 51 km from Jamshedpur. "Both Deepika and Paltan learnt archery lessons during their formative years in Kharsawan. Training these budding archers is a serious attempt to find more Deepikas and Paltans in future," said SKDAA secretary Sumanta  Mohanty. Mohanty, joint secretary of Archery Association of India (AAI) said, "The beginners are shooting at the target kept at a distance of 5m. Our coaches Sumit Mishra, Rajiv Mohanty and Shib Kumar Kumbhakar are presently focussing on the posture, draw and the grip. Trainees are making slow but steady progress." Meera Munda, president of SKDAA and wife of Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda, has presented Indian round bows and arrows as well as quiver,chest guard, finger tape, arm guard and bow stand to the trainees who hail from Kharsawan as and its interior pockets. In Indian round, archers shoot with traditional wooden bows and arrows. "Trainees are taking baby steps in archery but they will become adjusted to shooting technique in due course of time. We feel happy for the interest being shown by the trainees. It would be a huge achievement if we manage to make some of these trainees follow in the footsteps of Deepika and Paltan," said coach Mishra, a former archer. Most of the trainees are aware about the exploits of Deepika and Paltan. They recently wished Deepika, a Padma Shri and former world number 1, for the Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan in July this year. Deepika first learnt archery at Arjuna Archery Academy in Kharsawan in 2005 before heading to the elite Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur the following year. Paltan, on the other hand, hails from Kharsawan and also took initial archery lessons in Kharsawan. Paltan won gold (in compound division) at the Ninth Junior and Third Cadet World Archery Championship held at Merida in Mexico in 2006. He is working for the Railways and presently posted in Bilaspur, Chhatisgarh. Mohanty said the trainees would be gradually put into the globally acceptable recurve division. "Putting the trainees into recurve division is a long process but we have definite plans to go for in a gradual manner. We also have plans to produce Olympians in future," the SKDAA secretary added. Needless to say, Seraikela-Kharsawan is the cradle for archery in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to run two Holi specials for Bihar||The South Eastern Railway has decided to run a pair of Holi special trains between Santragachi and Darbhanga via Tatanagar railway station. Holi will be celebrated on Monday. The train will leave from Santragachi on March 28 and will return from Darbhanga on March 29. The office of chief passenger transportation manager on Saturday issued the time-table of the special train. According to the time-table the Santragachi-Darbhanga Special will leave  Santragachi on March 28 at 3.40 pm . The train will reach Darbhanga at 9.40 am the next day. In the opposite direction, Darbhanga-Santragachi Special will leave Darbhanga on March 29 at 9.10 pm and  will arrive Santragachi at 3.30 pm the next day, after an 18-hour journey. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said,"The Holi special train was introduced keeping in view the rush of passengers. The special train will help in easing the rush," he said. The train with four  AC 3-tier,  eleven sleeper class and two general second class coaches will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar, Muri, Bokaro Steel City, Jasidih, Jhajha, Kiul and Barauni  between Santragachi and Darbhanga. Passengers have been asked to strictly follow all the safety protocols before and during journey in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 cases. With the festival around the rush of passengers in both trains and long distance buses heading for Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other destinations have gained momentum. Confirmed berths were not available in several trains including Puri-New Delhi Purushottam Express which goes via Tatanagar. Railway sources said a similar rush is witnessed in Bihar-bound trains leaving from Ranchi and Hatia stations. Bihar-bound buses leaving Sitaramdera Bus Terminus have witnessed a rush of passengers since Friday. Over 250 buses leave for various destinations in Bihar and Jharkhand daily from the bus terminus, which happens to be the biggest in the entire Kolhan region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Minor girls beaten up by employer for pet's injury||Two minor girls aged 6 and 8, working as household maids here in Hazaribagh, were tortured and beaten by their employer for injuring her pet dog while playing with it. The woman has been identified as Asha Choudhary, wife of late Ramsharan Choudhary, a resident of Vidya Vihar Colony on Baba Path in Huruhu of Hazaribagh town. She escaped after the matter reached the police. The minors, who are from Mahua Toli mohalla of Ranchi, said they were working as maids at Asha's house for two years. They alleged they did all the household work and never served food. The girls said that while playing with the dog, it injured its leg. This angered Asha who, the girls alleged, started beating them mercilessly with a stick. Asha also slashed at the hand of the 8-year-old with a sharp shaving blade resulting in multiple cuts. Neighbours informed Bara Bazar outpost police after hearing their cries. Police reached the house and admitted the girls to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital. They are now on the lookout for Asha. District childline officer Sanjay Prasad said they will ensure that the girls get justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand bans Holi celebrations in public, asks residents to stay indoors||The Jharkhand government has imposed a ban on Holi celebrations in public places, including banquet halls and parks, in the wake of a rise in Covid cases and asked residents to celebrate the festival of colour at indoors with family members only. As per a notification issued by the home, prison and disaster management department on Friday, “All celebrations and congregations at public places during festivals like Holi, Sarhul, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri and Ramnavami, Easter etc. shall not be allowed in the state. People may celebrate Holi with family members in their respective houses.” "Religious processions, including those on Sarhul and Ramnavami, shall remain prohibited until further notice," the notification further stated. Besides, the Ranchi district administration has decided to enforce Section 144 of the CrPC in Ranchi from 6am on Sunday to 6am on Tuesday, prohibiting all gatherings in public places during this period. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan urged residents of the state capital to inform the nearest police station in case they find people participating in Holi Milan ceremonies in public. Police patroll vehicles, he said, will maintain a vigil on the roads during the festival and discourage people to play Holi on the streets of the state capital. “Necessary action, as per the provision of the law, will be taken against those found violating the restrictions during the festival,” he said. The district administration, in a separate notification, also prohibited Kavi Sammelans (conference of poets), which are common during Holi evenings in the urban areas of the state. Guests often smear Gulal on each other during such gatherings, many of which also include cocktail parties. 3 Covid deaths on Friday Covid cases have been on the rise in Jharkhand, particularly in Ranchi, which accounts for more than half of the 1,399 active cases in the state. The count of active cases has tripled in Jharkhand since February, reveals government data. As per figures with the National Health Mission (NHM), the active caseload of Covid-19 jumped from 198 in February to 702 on Friday in Ranchi. The Covid toll in the state has also reached 1,103 with three casualties reported on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad book traders stare at uncertain future ||Book retailers and whole-sellers of Dhanbad are facing uncertainty in sales this year again with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic preventing primary  and middle school sections to reopen leading to a drop in demand . Book traders have not ordered new consignments of books for Class I to VIII and stationery as unsold stock from last year is still lying in their godowns. Online classes during the pandemic worsened their situation. With job losses and a dip in household income, parents are looking to purchase old and used books in order to save money instead of buying new books. Uday Pratap Singh, one of senior-most book retailers of Dhanbad and president of book traders union told The Telegraph Online: “One of worst sufferers of the pandemic are the book and stationary traders.” “This as even after the delayed opening of garment shops they managed to make up for losses due to brisk sell during festivals etc but in our trade  as the books were not sold in beginning of the session there was no make up for the loss due to online classes for the entire session,” rued Singh. Rajesh Kumar Gupta, one of biggest whole-seller of copies at Purana Bazar locality who is general secretary of Pustak Vyavsai Sangh said, “the lockdown came into effect last year immediately after we brought the new stock thus only 25% of stock were sold while around around 25 % more were sold in minor relaxation provided to sell books in April but 50% stock is still lying rotting.” “This year also as only the results of around a dozen CISCE affiliated schools have been announced so far and the pandemic situation is aggravating so we are very sceptical of launching of classes from nursery to Standard VIII and thus not going to bring more stock and instead keep waiting for utilization or old stock” said Gupta. He also requested the state government to clarify situation regarding launching of classes from nursery to VIII so that some necessary preparations can be made by the book traders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand ties up with BIT-Mesra, IIT-ISM to tackle air pollution||The state government has roped in two premier institutes for consultancy and advisory activities in a bid to reduce air pollution in key towns of Jharkhand under centrally sponsored National Clean Air Programme (NACP). A formal memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed with BIT-Mesra (Ranchi) and IIT-ISM (Dhanbad) for rolling out different activities under five different urban local bodies (ULBs) in coming days. Union minister of forest, environment and climate change Prakash Javedkar and senior officials also attended the MoU signing programme via video conferencing held at Project Building. Officials of the state urban development department, which is the overall controlling body of all the ULBs, said that the MoU was signed between concerned civic body, Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) and the institute. While BIT-Mesra is entrusted to provide technical guidance to reduce air pollution in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Jugsalai and Mango, IIT-ISM will be in charge of Dhanbad, country’s coal capital. “BIT signed MoU with respective ULBs in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Jugsalai and Mango. As part of this, they will conduct studies on the current situation of the air pollution in these places, and suggest on ways to tackle the impending dangers to ensure clear air for residents. Similarly, IIT-ISM will work in coordination with the civic body in Dhanbad. JPCB will be an overall agency to monitor the ongoing works, and developments to ensure timely implementation of different mitigation plans,” read an official note, released by the state urban development department on Friday evening. Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra said, "We have been focusing to ensure all-round cleanliness, both in locality and local environment through different initiatives in the recent times. The tie-up will further equip them with latest and technical knowledge to pursue their mission." “Recently, we roped in a specialized agency for waste collection and disposal in a scientific manner. Also, GAIL India came on board to help us generate biomass using the organic municipal waste for clean fuel. This apart, we are trying to increase the urban green cover through plantation drives wherever possible and also beautifying different parts of the city to give it a refreshing look. In terms of mobility too, focus is on promoting cycling, CNG autos and the likes as individual and public transport,” she said. Earlier during the programme, Union minister Javedkar informed about the initiatives undertaken by the Centre under the national clean air programme. He said, “The union government has now allowed BS-6 vehicles to phase out the older ones to reduce vehicular pollution. This apart, under Amrut yojana scheme, union government is asking states to focus on improving eco-friendly public transport system for which central assistance is being provided.” Notably, NCAP was launched in January 2019 by the Government of India to keep a tab on air pollution. It aims to reduce PM 2.5 and PM10 levels by 20-30 per cent by 2024 from that recorded in 2017. Among the 122 cities falling under the non-attainment cities, Dhanbad from Jharkhand is part of the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Family feud leads to lynching of 70-year-old in Chatra||Chatra: A 70-year-old man was beaten to death during a fight between two families on Thursday night in Khirgadda village under Charu panchayat of Rajpur police station in Chatra district. According to police sources the families sparred because of a land dispute, an issue for almost 30 years between them. A house with a sugarcane unit was also gutted by fire during the incident. Officer-in-charge of Rajpur police, Anil Kumar, reached the spot and brought the situation under control following which police officers are camping in the area to prevent any untoward incidents. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: More than a dozen home-makers of Jharia joined activists of Samadhan, a youth organisation, in celebrating holi by sweeping and collecting garbage from the roads. More than a dozen housemakers of Jharia in association with activists of youth organization, Samadhan gave a cleanliness message by celebrating holi by  brooming, sweeping the coal town roads and also collecting garbage from the road side and dumping it into bins. The group led by Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh began the drive at around 3pm near Sahid Hira Jha Sanskarshala. Singh told The Telegraph Online: “Holi is a festival known for its colour and vibrancy but due to the bad habit of a few, huge amount of garbage is generated during the  celebration.” Babita Devi, wife of a chowmein seller whose son is a  student of Sahid Hira Jha Sanskarshala said, “we were provided hand gloves and masks and we picked the garbage and thrown it away in the adjoining bins as nothing could have been better way to celebrate holi.” (Praduman Choubey) Ramgarh: A Munsi was shot dead by unidentified criminals on Wednesday night at Banwar Kanta (wheigh house) of CCL Topa Colliery in Ramgarh district. Doctors at Sadar Hospital declared him dead on arrival. Villagers have shut down the project office at Topa and Kanta House demanding the arrest of the perpetrators. They have stopped the production and dispatch of coal and demanded a job to the next of kin and compensation to his family. Circle Officer Mandu Jai Kumar Ram Kuju and OP in-charge Ajit Bharti requested the villagers to withdraw their protest but they did not comply. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) has come out with an advisory for its 12,000 employees asking them to avoid Holi Milans and other such gatherings for effective control of Covid- 19 after new cases are rising all over the country. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “this notice is being issued in the interest of the employees of BSL and their families.” The district administration has appealed to residents to avoid gatherings. The district is seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, 11 positive cases had surfaced while the active cases are 42. The Bokaro General Hospital’s management has geared up for making appropriate arrangements with Covid patients increasing every day . At present, there are two wards each for suspected and Covid positive patients functional in Dhanvantari Block of the hospital. Sub-divisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh has ordered to continue a mask checking drive on roads. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A police constable and a driver were crushed to death on GT road by a truck on Friday morning near Chouparan, 65kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. The deceased constable was part of a police team that had reached Danuwa Ghati because of a collision between a container and a truck. Sources said after getting the news about collision, the police team reached Danuwa Ghati. They were inspecting the vehicles when a driver of the speeding truck coming from other direction was heard shouting asking all to move aside. He said he had lost control on his vehicle. Seeing the warning, one assistant sub-inspector and four police jawans ran for safe cover. But the constable, Mritunjay Paswan and a driver of the container didn't move away from there. The speeding truck crushed them to death after which it overturned but the driver escaped unhurt. Officials said they have failed to identify the deceased driver. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Jamshedpur: In a major breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan police on Friday arrested two of the three criminals who had robbed a trader at Bagmundi in Purulia district on Thursday evening. The police have recovered two loaded pistols from the arrested criminals. A third accused in the gang, managed to escape. Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that a 38-year-old trader, Bhagirathi Pramanic was cycling home having sold out a stock of goats at the Bagmundi market. The trio who were on foot intercepted the trader at a remote location and took the sale proceeds from him at gun- point on Friday evening. The criminals had looted Rs 15,000 and a smart phone from the victim before firing in the air and moving on foot towards Ichagarh. (Kumud Jenamani Hazaribagh: Deputy Commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand on Friday handed a cheque of Rs.4 lakh to the parents of each of the five children who drowned in a pond on Wednesday afternoon in Gadokhar village in Katkamsandi block of the district. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bharat Bandh: mixed response in Ranchi, Dhanbad||The Bharat bandh called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha marking four months of protests across the country to demand rollback of three contentious farm laws evoked lukewarm response in the state capital and adjoining areas owing to prohibitory orders by the district administration in the run up to the event. The streets were less congested compared with other days but private vehicles and autos plied normally with markets, commercial establishments and banks conducting their usual operations. At around 10 am in the morning, bandh supporters from different outfits backed by Left parties staged a symbolic protest march from Albert Ekka chowk to Sujata chowk for about an hour to press for their demands in violation of the prohibitory orders imposed by the district administration. However, there have been no reports of any formal arrests so far. On the other hand, protesters also blocked roads and staged protests in some rural pockets of the district to enforce the bandh. Police had erected barricades at strategic points since Thursday night at key junctions both in the city and across the district after district administration announced enforcement of section 144 under section CrPc banning assembling of five or more persons, carrying arms among others prohibiting mass gathering. General secretary of CITU Prakash Viplav claimed the bandh was successful. “Farmers of the country are tirelessly protesting the centre's black laws since the last four months and today’s protest too was successful. Till the time, the government of India doesn’t take back the anti-farmer laws, farmers will continue to fight for their genuine demands,” he said. State convenor of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvaya Samiti (JRKSSS) Sufal Mahto said they had completely blocked the Bundu-Silli state highway from 6am till 6pm. “Everyone cooperated with the bandh, the issue for which country’s farmers are fighting concerns every citizen,” he said. Mixed response in Dhanbad Urban areas almost remained unaffected due to the strike but the remote rural areas like Topchanchi, Tundi and Nirsa faced some road blockades. Over 100 supporters at Topchanchi market blocked the National Highway for about half an hour under the banner of Topchani Kisan Sabha. A similar protest was carried out in Nirsa where protesters blocked Maithon Sahebganj road for around half an hour that disrupted vehicular traffic. In the main town, over 100 activists of joint front of different left parties including CPI, CPI (M), CPI (ML), Marxist Coordination Committee and All India Forward Bloc led by district president of Marxist Coordination Committee, Hari Prasad Pappu took out a rally from Jila Parishad Ground of Dhanbad which reached near Dharna site of Randhir Verma Chowk where it culminated into a meeting. The participants of the dharna were shouting slogans like Mazdor-kisan- Chhatra-Naujawan-Mahile ekta zindabad; desh ke kisano tum aage badho ham tumhare Saath hai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi district administration advises festivity via SMS||In view of rising cases of Covid-19 infection, Ranchi district administration has advised people to opt for SMS during Holi and Shab-e-Barat. By SMS it did not mean short message service for wishing friends and relatives but go for social distancing, mask and sanitiser. “Considering that coronavirus is rising its head once again, it is desired that people observed the festivals at home and followed SMS,” Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said while addressing a district-level peace committee meeting at the local collectorate on Thursday that was also attended by other senior officials. “We expect that the people of Ranchi will cooperate the same way they did during the pandemic and celebrate the festivals in a friendly atmosphere,” he further said, also advising all to ignore if they came across any rumour circulated through social media. “Our primary objective is to maintain peace and law and order,” said senior superintendent of police Surendra Jha, adding that they had already taken necessary preparations for the purpose. They would watch the goings-on in the city through CCTV cameras installed at strategic locations and also deploy drones for effective surveillance, he informed. Section 144 has been imposed in the entire area under Ranchi sub-division during March 26-28, banning gatherings of five or more people. Further, DJ and high-decible sound system have also been banned while any songs, speeches or other such materials depicting vulgarity and communal feelings have also been declared as strictly prohibited. Meanwhile, the number of Covid positive cases have considerably increased in the state and also in Ranchi during the past one month. While there was below 500 active cases in the state in mid-February, it went up to 1,175 by 9 pm on Thursday, with Ranchi alone having 574 cases that accounted for 48.85 per cent of the total cases in the state. The increase in the past one week particularly indicated the rising trend of Covid-19 positive cases. There were 624 active cases in the state on March 18 with 97 new cases and 72 recoveries on that day. In Ranchi, there were 363 active cases on March 18 but it went up to 574 on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand farmers to burn copies of new farm laws to mark Holika Dahan||Farmers in all the 24 districts of Jharkhand will be lighting copies of the three new farm laws on March 28 to mark Holika Dahan. “As per call of Sanyuk Kissan Morcha leader we would be lighting copies of the draconian three farm laws. We are already making copies of the farm laws at all the block level and it will be circulated amongst the farmers. The lighting of the copies of the farm laws will be done as part of the Holika Dahan rituals on March 28 across the country and we would also be a part of it to demonstrate our protest against the three farm laws,” said Sufal Mahato, state convenor of Jharkhand Rajya Kissan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity (coordinating the farmer’s agitation in Jharkhand). The Bharat Bandh call by the farmers outfit saw mixed response in Jharkhand. Nearly 15,000 farmers supported by the Left parties and trade unions squatted on the state highways and highways for a few hours before being whisked away by the police. “We had made extensive preparation through maha panchayats at block level and also at district level for the Bharat Bandh. It was a peaceful bandh as our members following our directive did not enter into any scuffle to enforce the bandh. Nearly 150 supporters were taken under preventive custody along the G.T. Road in Dhanbad before being released in the evening,” added Sufal Mahato, a farmer at Tamar near Ranchi. Meanwhile, following the order of the Ranchi sub-divisional magistrate, Sameera S, Section 144 was clamped in the capital city preventing assembling of crowd (more than five persons) at any place between 5 am and 10 pm. Around 50 persons from the farmers outfit and Left supported unions took part in a demonstration at Albert Ekka roundabout for over an hour in defiance of the Section 144. However, business establishments and commercial vehicles plied on the road of Ranchi as usual. Similar rallies were taken out by farmer’s outfit and Left backed unions in all the important cities of the state. Bandh supporters were not seen enforcing bandh anywhere in city areas though. However, in rural areas, of all the 24 districts bandh call was noticeable with vacant roads and very few establishments opened from morning. ADG operations, Jharkhand police, R.K. Mallick said that there was no report of violence during the bandh call anywhere from the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
