28-03-2021||Calcutta||CMA Management Excellence Awards 2021 ||Aniruddha Lahiri Over three decades at the top of the corporate echelons in India and Europe Lifetime achievement award It is very important to keep learning throughout your life. It is also imperative to have the passion to impart the learning to the future generations. Our objective should be to ensure that the next generation managers are better than us. Director, Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta Award for leadership in institutional excellence The Covid-19 crisis reinforced the importance of science. Scientists all over the world put their minds together. The result was the development of vaccines within a year. Director, Institute of Child Health, Calcutta Award for public service We do not have the liberty of working from home. The only time I did not step out last year was when I was down with Covid-19 myself. We, doctors, should not consider ourselves to be gods but service providers. Chairman, Rupa and Co Ltd Business leadership award I started five decades ago. It has been a fulfilling journey. The journey has also taught me to do my bit in supporting the cause of the society at large. Managing director, Skipper Ltd Business leadership award My father started the company 40 years ago. His dream has been fulfilled today. The Covid crisis forced me to spend more time with my family. I re-learnt many things forgotten because of my busy schedule. Managing director, Tata Metaliks Corporate leadership award One of my most memorable moments as a leader has been navigating through the Covid-19 crisis, which would not have been possible without the support of my team. Managing director, Phillips Carbon Black Limited Corporate leadership award During the past year, it was a challenge to keep employees motivated. They were worried about their career, future and weighed down by personal losses. We tend to take communication casually. The Covid-19 crisis showed how important  communication is. Director of Sreeleathers, has launched the retail brand House of SL Emerging leader award My father has always been very supportive and encouraged me to take my ambitions further. Even though it (House of SL) is my dream, it is his support that has brought me to this stage. Founders of SastaSundar Innovation excellence award Selling is one part. We are not here only to sell. We are here to serve the community. We would like to thank our 1000-plus employees and 450 stores operating in nine states. It is because of their hard work that everybody who ordered from us got the medicines within 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Alokananda Roy's 'In Search of a Valmiki' launched in Calcutta ||A book launched in the city on Thursday traces the journey of a danseuse in changing the lives of hundreds of prisoners. In Search of a Valmiki is the story of Alokananda Roy, who had started a dance and music workshop in Presidency Jail in 2007. What started as a therapy evolved into a movement, giving new direction to close to 200 prisoners, some of them once branded as “hardcore criminals”. “This is a tale of the condition of Indian prisons and how Roy brought about a change through art and the instrument of love,” said Sujit Bhar, journalist and the author of the book. “If you’ve wronged you have to be punished but everybody deserves a second chance. We shouldn’t treat them like animals,” Roy had told this newspaper at a programme in 2015. Bhar met Roy on the sidelines of a programme in the city several years ago. “Her work is fascinating, nothing short of extraordinary,” he said. Musician Tejendra Narayan Majumder and cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar were present at the launch. A two-day congregation where the teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Guru of the Sikhs, were relayed was held at the Bhowanipore Gurdwara to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Guru Tegh Bahadur’s birth anniversary falls on May 1 but the celebrations have already begun. Many attended the programme where kirtans (devotional songs) were rendered; there were readings from the Guru Granth Sahib, the sacred text of the Sikhs. “Teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur, stories from his life and the story of his martyrdom were also told,” said a member of the Sikh Sangat. Celebrations will be held across most gurdwaras on May 1. On May 8, there will be celebrations at Bagmari Gurdwara and on May 9 there will be celebrations at Burrabazar Gurdwara. “Sri Guru Teg Bahadur ji’s unparalleled and supreme sacrifice to uphold the value of righteousness, truth and freedom of faith and humanity should be remembered by not only Sikhs, but by every citizen of India. He fought for human rights and sacrificed himself that is why he is referred to as Hind Di Chadar,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia of the charitable organisation, IHA Foundation, which organised the programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Govt appeal on Holi celebrations: Follow Covid rules||The state government has made an appeal to the people to avoid celebrating Holi in large gatherings and follow the Covid-19 protocol to remain safe during the festivities on Sunday and Monday. The Telegraph reports on things that people should know before they step out to celebrate Holi. ⚫To avoid gatherings and processions, to avoid smearing colours by coming in direct physical contact ⚫To celebrate Holi within family and to maintain social distancing in shops, restaurants and market places ⚫Extra caution should be maintained for elderly persons, children, expecting women and ailing people ⚫Mandatory use of masks and frequent use of handwash and hand sanitisers. Public health experts have said that it would be better if people celebrated Holi home indoors with their families. Going close to someone to smear abir or colour would be risky. Hugging and embracing each other should be avoided. Gatherings and processions should be avoided. A public health expert said since people splash colour on each other during Holi, there is a possibility that the mask might get wet. “A mask loses its efficiency to protect from viruses if it gets wet,” said the expert. A large number of police personnel would be present on the roads on Sunday and Monday to prevent disorderly conduct and prosecute rash drivers. “We will make announcements to maintain social distancing and celebrate the festival in their homes,” said an officer in the south division. If you want to report any violation related to Holi, dial: ⚫Calcutta police control room: 033-22143230/033-22141310 ⚫Bidhannagar police control room: 033-23358788/033-23410465 Liquor shops will be closed on Sunday morning and resume service from 2pm. They will be open as normal on Monday. ⚫South City will open from 3pm onwards both on Sunday and Monday ⚫Acropolis Mall and City Centre will remain closed till 4pm on Sunday ⚫Forum Courtyard will be open from 11am to 11pm on Sunday. Metro Railway will run 60 trains instead of 104 on Sunday. The service will start at 2.30pm and end at 10.43pm.. On Monday, 176 trains will run instead of 252. The service will start and end at 6.50am and 10.43pm, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Youngsters grab the chance to hone skills||A group of girls and boys from economically disadvantaged families completed a programme that helped them acquire English, computer and critical thinking skills. The two-year programme that started much before the pandemic by the US Consulate General helped to boost the self esteem of the students between 13 and 20 years. It also helped them realise what they are capable of at a time when their lives have been largely impacted because either their parents have lost their livelihood or are earning less than what they would usually do. During the pandemic, the classes shifted to the online mode when the students were trained in theatre, dance while working on their English-speaking and communication skills through “after school instructions and intensive sessions”. The English Access microscholarship program, funded by the Regional English Language Office of the US Embassy New Delhi and the US Consulate General Calcutta, was started in November 2018 for 30 students of Jungle Crows Foundation that has its roots in rugby as a tool for empowerment. The programme culminated with a graduation ceremony on Monday where US Consul General in Calcutta Patti Hoffman handed out certificates to the students. Hoffman told the students that they would be joining the global Access family of more than one lakh students across 85 countries. “...you have chosen to challenge limitations, challenge stereotypes, and challenge yourselves. Each of you has shown indomitable strength and resilience through the pandemic to step into leadership roles in your communities, and to commit for a better future for yourselves and your families,” said Hoffman. During the pandemic, while fighting economic challenges at home, 20-year-old Najma Sheikh would try not to miss a single class. Najma’s brother has a small electronic shop, which was shut down for three months during the lockdown, and it was a “tough time”. “Since I got this opportunity I did not want to lose it. It gave me the chance to improve my skills,” said the student of hotel management. Najma was not the only one. The programme had other students who were impacted by the double blow of the pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. “It has become incredibly tough for young people now to find jobs and easier for children to drop out of education to support families. Something that is not confined to one group but across the board,” said Paul Walsh, the founder of Jungle Crows. “These skills would give them an edge over others and we have seen a positive impact on them which takes them out of their situation and instills confidence in them. It is not alone English that they picked up but organisation and leadership skills too,” said Walsh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Two killed in bus accidents||A 39-year-old man was run over by the rear wheels of a bus and a 50-year-old woman died after being hit by a private bus. The two fatal accidents took place within four hours in the city on Friday. At 7.05pm, Srinath Roy, who had taken a bus from central Calcutta, was getting off the vehicle in front of a garment store on Rabindra Sarani. Eyewitnesses have told officers of Posta police station that the bus driver was apparently in a hurry and started moving before the man could step down. Roy lost his balance and fell and one of the rear wheels of the bus ran over him, police said. The driver fled. “He was rescued from underneath a rear wheel with multiple injuries,” cops said. Roy was taken to RG Kar hospital where he was declared dead. Around 2.50pm, a bus of the Karunamoyee Salt Lake-Howrah Station route knocked down Devi Shaw at the intersection of Pagaya Patty Road and MG Road, the police said. Shaw was taken to Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. She died at 6.30pm, the police said. The driver was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Jab centre worry about recipients without masks||A number of people coming to vaccination centres to get the jabs or enquire about it are not wearing masks or not wearing them properly, civic officials and officials of government hospitals have said. The officials have to repeatedly insist that the recipients wear masks before they go into the centres to get the vaccine. Sometimes the officials have to be stern and say that vaccines would not be given if someone is not wearing a mask. While some people have their masks hanging from their chins, others keep it in their pockets and take them out when civic officials say no one would be allowed inside the centre without a mask. In a handful of cases, there were people who did not have a mask with them. “We cannot turn anyone away from the vaccination centre because administering vaccines is an important part in the fight against Covid. At the same time, we cannot allow people to come into a vaccination centre without wearing masks. As doctors of the city’s municipal corporation, it is also our duty to tell people that they have to wear masks,” said a senior doctor, who is in charge of a borough of the CMC. “In one of the clinics, there were a handful of people who did not have a mask with them. Finally we had to give them masks from the clinic before we allowed them to enter and take the vaccine. But we do not want to make it a norm, then many more people could start arriving without masks,” said the doctor. The CMC is administering vaccines against Covid-19 in 69 of its 144 ward health clinics. They have planned to administer vaccines in 80 clinics from April, when everyone above 45 would become eligible to get the vaccine. CMC officials said they were worried that there would be an increase in the number of people coming to vaccination centres from April, and many of them could come without wearing a mask. A state health department official said the state-run hospitals were also facing similar problems. “Many people are coming to take vaccines without wearing masks, but the hospitals are not allowing them to enter inside the vaccination centre till they wear the masks. Most people have the mask in their shirt or trousers pocket. Some of them have it hanging from their chins,” said the official. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said that wearing masks is a behavioural change that people need to adopt to stay safe. “If people do not wear masks before taking the vaccine, what will they do after they receive the two doses of the vaccine? Some people are thinking that they can get back the old normal way of living after taking the vaccine shots but that is not right. I think there should be sustained campaign urging people to wear masks,” said Chowdhury. Public health experts and doctors are repeatedly saying that wearing masks, sanitising hands, maintaining six-feet distance and taking the vaccines are the only ways to stay safe from the novel corononavirus. Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a public health specialist and a doctor at Beleghata ID Hospital, said that one should not stop wearing a  mask even after taking a vaccine. “There have been instances of people getting infected with Covid even after taking the vaccine against it. There is no alternative to wearing a mask. A mask will stop the droplets with the virus from spreading when one talks or coughs or sneezes. Wearing a mask reduces the chances of getting infected to a great extent,” said Bandyopadhyay. Since maintaining the six-feet distance may not always be possible, the best protection is covering the face and nose with a mask, Bandyopadhyay said. He added that there were still debates on whether the vaccines work against some of the mutated variants of the coronavirus. “There are examples of people getting infected even after taking the two doses of vaccine. No vaccine can give 100 per cent protection. We must continue wearing masks,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Business||Cairn to file lawsuits to pierce corporate veil between Centre and its owned companies ||UK's Cairn Energy Plc plans to bring lawsuits in the US and other countries to pierce the corporate veil between the Indian government and its owned companies such as in oil and gas, shipping, airline and banking sectors, to seize their overseas assets to recover USD 1.2 billion ordered by an international arbitration tribunal. The firm has moved courts in the US, UK, Canada, France, Singapore, the Netherlands and three other countries to register the December 2020 arbitration tribunal ruling that overturned the Indian government's Rs 10,247 crore demand in back taxes and ordered New Delhi to return USD 1.2 billion in value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. With the government so far refusing to honour the arbitration award and instead choosing to challenge it, Cairn is looking to enforce it by seizing overseas Indian assets, Dennis Hranitzky, head of the sovereign litigation practice at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, a law firm representing the company, told PTI. These assets can potentially be non-diplomatic ones and those owned by entities or companies controlled by the Indian government in those nine countries. "Cairn plans to bring lawsuits in the coming weeks to pierce the corporate veil to establish that (certain) state-owned entities are India's alter ego under Bancec" for enforcing the arbitration award, he said. The Bancec guidelines deal with determining when a judgment against a foreign state is enforceable against its agencies. The lawsuit will be similar to the one brought by Crystallex International Corp to attach property of Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A (PDVSA), the state-owned oil company of Venezuela, in Delaware couple of years back after the Latin American country failed to pay the firm USD 1.2 billion that an arbitration tribunal had ordered to pay in lieu of the 2011 seizing gold deposits held and developed by the firm. "Indian assets across several jurisdictions have been identified that Cairn will be seeking to seize to enforce the award," he said, refusing to name the assets the firm may be looking to attach to recover the USD 1.2 billion plus interest and cost that the arbitration tribunal had ordered. "Until we have commenced proceedings to seize the assets, this information is proprietary," he said. Cairn is pulling out all stops to recover the damages award, including hiring a team of asset recovery experts. Sources said the assets that can be attached could range from airplanes to ships, to oil and gas cargoes and bank accounts of state-owned entities. "Cairn is moving forward with its enforcement plans with all deliberate speed. The timetable for proceedings to seize assets varies from country to country. Under the laws of some countries, these proceedings can begin right away, whereas in others we will have to wait until after the award is recognised," he said without giving details. Cairn had previously said the money ultimately belongs to its shareholders -- which include large investors such as BlackRock, Fidelity and Franklin Templeton, and the ramifications of India not honouring the award will "run across the international investment community more widely". Its management team has held three rounds of face-to-face and one video conferencing discussions with top officials in the finance ministry. India has appealed against the arbitration award on the grounds that taxation-related matters are not covered in its bilateral investment treaty with the United Kingdom under which the case was filed, and therefore the arbitration tribunal does not have the jurisdiction to rule on the matter, sources said. However, the appeal in the Dutch court does not bar Cairn from taking action in other jurisdictions to recover the full amount of the arbitral award which totals USD 1.7 billion after including interest and cost as of December 2020. The company will seek to establish that state-owned entities/firms are India's alter ego under Bancec regulations, that is, to pierce the veil between the Indian government and them. 'Piercing the corporate veil' is a means of imposing liability on an underlying cause of action against a third-party which would not otherwise be liable. By this, Cairn will seek to pierce the veil in order to shift liability for payment of an existing judgment against the Republic of India to a third-party that is not otherwise liable, that is state-owned firms or banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||Business||LIC float likely to raise Rs 1 trillion||The proposed IPO of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) is expected to garner at least Rs 1 lakh crore which would help to achieve the ambitious divestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore set in the Union budget for 2021-22. The disinvestment target for 2021-22 is a carryover of the Rs 2.10-lakh-crore target set for the current fiscal ending March 31. “Of this, BPCL privatisation and LIC listing itself were important contributors. There are estimates suggesting Rs 75,000-80,000 crore or even higher can just come from the privatisation of BPCL itself. The LIC IPO could bring in Rs 1 lakh crore approximately,” chief economic adviser (CEA) K.V. Subramanian said on Saturday. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL in the nation’s biggest privatisation till date. Vedanta Group and private equity firms Apollo Global and I Squared Capital’s Indian unit Think Gas have put in an expression of interest to buy the government’s stake. With regard to LIC’s listing, the government has already got amendments in the LIC Act passed through Finance Bill 2021 in Parliament earlier this week. “These are numbers (disinvestment) which are imminently achievable because work had begun on many of these and they will be completed in FY22,” Subramanian said at a virtual conference by Jana Small Finance Bank. Increasing the authorised share capital of LIC to Rs 25,000 crore is among the 27 amendments relating to the insurance firm as part of the Finance Bill 2021. At present, the paid-up capital of the life insurance company with over 29 crore policies is Rs 100 crore. Starting with an initial capital of Rs 5 crore in 1956, LIC has an asset base of Rs 31,96,214.81 crore. The authorised share capital of LIC shall be Rs 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs 10 each, according to the amendments proposed in the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. The amendments will lead to the setting up of a board with independent directors in line with the listing obligations. According to one of the 27 proposed amendments, the Centre will hold at least 75 per cent in LIC for the first five years after the IPO, and subsequently hold at least 51 per cent at all times after five years of the listing. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders. The government will remain the majority shareholder and continue to retain management control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||Business||Adani Transmission to acquire Warora-Kurnool Transmission for Rs 3,370 crore||Adani Transmission Ltd on Saturday said it has entered into a pact with Essel Infraprojects to acquire Warora-Kurnool Transmission Ltd (WKTL) for an enterprise value of Rs 3,370 crore. The acquisition is in sync with Adani Transmission’s strategy to enhance the value for its stakeholders, through organic as well as inorganic opportunities, ATL said in a statement. ATL, India’s largest private sector power transmission and retail distribution company, has signed definitive agreements with Essel Infraprojects for the acquisition. The regulatory approval for substitution of original awardees in the contract by ATL has already been received from the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission. The lenders consent and other necessary regulatory approvals shall be obtained before closure of transaction, the company said. With this acquisition, the cumulative network of ATL will reach 17,200 ckt km (circuit kilometres), out of which 12,350 ckt km is already operational and 4,850 ckt km (including this asset) is in various stages of execution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||Business||Screening of cars online a hit||About 7.6 million Indians chose to view the features of their next car in 3D mode over the internet in 2020. More than 90 per cent chose to buy the same model as explored online and blue and white were the most preferred colours for customers. Online screening of cars grew 300 per cent over 2019, according to a survey conducted by Eccentric Engine, a firm behind the platform called One 3D that enables vehicle visualisation and also collects data on the same. The survey had a sample size of 100 million interactions and over 5000 respondents across tier 1,2 and 3 cities collected from One 3D deployment across multiple touch points. One 3 D has been adopted by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) such as Maruti Suzuki, Tata Motors, Nissan, MG Motor and Citroen. In the survey, 51 per cent of the digital sessions were from six top-tier cities — New Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Chennai. Tier-2 cities such as Lucknow logged 3 per cent of the digital sessions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||Business||US threatens trade backlash||The United States Trade Representative (USTR) has proposed retaliatory trade actions against India and certain other countries that have imposed or are considering equalisation levy/digital services tax on e-commerce companies. It has issued notices seeking public comments on proposed trade actions against six countries, including India. The USTR, in a statement, said it “is proceeding with the public notice and comment process on possible trade actions to preserve procedural options before the conclusion of the statutory one-year time period for completing the investigations.” According to a USTR document on India, it has requested “written comments regarding a potential trade action in connection with the Section 301 investigation of India’s Digital Services Tax”. Sources in the government on Saturday said India will examine the proposed action with the stakeholders concerned and would take suitable measures, keeping in mind the trade and commercial interest of the country and overall interest of its people. In June 2020, the US initiated an investigation under Section 301 of the US Trade Act, 1974 against the taxation on digital services adopted or under consideration by India, Italy, Turkey, UK, Spain and Austria. The report of this investigation in January this year concluded that India’s equalisation levy, by its structure and operations, discriminates against US digital companies. It was strongly opposed by India. The US had requested for bilateral consultations in this matter, and India had submitted its comments to the USTR on July 15, 2020. It had also participated in a bilateral consultation held on November 5, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Rape survivor tied, paraded with accused in village; 6 held||A total of six persons, including the man accused of rape, and five villagers, have been arrested. A video showing the girl and the accused tied with ropes, being beaten and forced to walk in public in the village under Jobat police station amidst slogans of “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” has gone viral on social media. The girl was rescued by police, a senior officer said. Sub-Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) Dilip Singh Bilwal said two cases were registered on Sunday on the FIRs lodged by the victim. “One of the cases was registered against the 21-year-old man who is accused of rape. Another FIR was registered against family members of the girl and villagers for parading her in the village and beating her,” Bilwal said, adding that the rape accused is married with two children. He has been booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Family members and relatives of the victim were booked under sections 294 (Obscene act in public places), 355 (Assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and other sections of the IPC, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray asks Maha officials to prepare for lockdown||Considering the rise in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked officials to prepare a plan for implementation of a lockdown which will have a minimum impact on the economy on the recommendation of the state COVID-19 task force, on Sunday. According to an official release by the Maharashtra government, during a meeting held between the chief minister, Health Minister Rajesh Tope and other officials, principal secretary to state health department Dr Pradeep Vyas mentioned about there being a “tremendous stress” on the availability of beds, oxygen supply, and ventilators, which could fall short if the positive cases continue to go up. The members of the task force also expressed apprehension that the state might report 40,000 fresh cases in the next 24 hours. During the meeting, the CM reviewed health infrastructure including availability of beds, oxygen, medicines etc. in the state to treat COVID-19 patients. Following which the task force then recommended that the state government implement measures like a stricter lockdown to stem the rise in coronavirus positive cases. “The chief minister has asked officials to prepare a detailed plan for implementation of a lockdown which will have a minimum impact on the economy of the state,” the release said. “There should not be any kind of confusion among the people once a lockdown is announced,” the CM is quoted as saying. Maharashtra has seen a huge rise in coronavirus positive cases over the last week. As many as one lakh new infections have been added to the state’s tally within a short period. “24,619 cases had been reported on a single day in September, 2020. However, on March 27 this year, the state reported 35,726 new cases in a day. This number could touch 40,000 in the next 24 hours,” the release said quoting the members of the task force. Dr Vyas made a presentation on the current status of beds, ventilators, availability of oxygen during the meeting. “There are 3.57 lakh isolation beds in the state of which 1.07 lakh are already filled. The remaining beds are getting filled at a higher speed,” Dr Vyas said, adding that out of the 60,349 oxygen beds, 12,701 beds are already occupied by COVID-19 patients. “Out of the 19,930 beds, 8,342 beds are already occupied with mild symptomatic patients. 1,881 of the 9,030 ventilators also remain occupied,” he said. Dr Vyas mentioned that some districts in the state do not have vacant beds at all, which is an indication of the health system falling short (to tackle the rising cases). However, the health department has blamed the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases to the delayed response by citizens. “People are not testing in time. They are not following COVID-appropriate behaviour. At the same time, private establishments are not following the 50 per cent attendance norms. There seems a casual approach towards home isolation. These all factors could be some of the reasons behind the spike in the cases,” alleged the department. The CM then directed officials to ensure sufficient supply of foodgrains, medicines and all types of medical services to address the challenge of the pandemic. “The industry should produce 80 per cent of oxygen for medical reasons and remaining for other purposes,” he said. According to Tope the cases are rising at a rate of 10 per cent every day in the state. “We fear of falling short of beds in some areas,” he said. Tope said the government has asked for E-ICUs as well as for short isolation and treatment centres across cities to meet the requirement to some extent. “If cold chain facilities are increased in rural areas, we can vaccinate more people and prevent further spread of the virus. There is a sizable number of youngsters in the new cases. We fear some of them might lose their lives,” Tope said. Struggling to arrest the upsurge in coronavirus positive cases, the CM on Friday directed officials to impose section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure under which gathering of five or more persons will be banned in night in the state, beginning March 28. On Saturday, the state government announced a ban on holding of all types of gatherings, including political and religious. It also ordered that restaurants, gardens and malls will remain shut between 8 pm to 7 am beginning Saturday night. People will also not be allowed to visit beaches during 8 pm to 7 am. Maharashtra on Saturday reported 35,726 new coronavirus positive cases, the second-highest daily rise, which took the tally to 26,73,461. At 166, the state reported the highest number of fatalities due to COVID-19 in this year so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Amit Shah claims BJP on course to win over 200 seats in Bengal||Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Sunday exuded confidence that his party will win 26 out of the 30 West Bengal seats and more than 37 of the 47 Assam seats which went to polls in the first phase of assembly elections in these states on Saturday. Citing the internal party feedback that he has received, Shah claimed that the BJP is on course to achieve its target of winning over 200 seats in the 294-member West Bengal assembly and improving its alliance tally of 86 seats in the 126-member Assam assembly, and asserted that people have voted for the "positive" agenda espoused by the party. Addressing a press conference, Shah also rejected West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's charge that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to a temple of the Matua community -- which is in sizeable number in the state -- during his trip to Bangladesh violated the poll code. He said that the visit had nothing to do with the elections and was aimed at fostering deeper ties between the two countries. Shah also parried a query about reports that he might have met leaders of the NCP, which is a key constituent of the opposition-run government in Maharashtra, saying everything cannot be made public. He said that peaceful polling in Assam and West Bengal and high voter turnouts are positive signs for the two states, noting that West Bengal often witnessed violence during polls held earlier. The home minister lauded the Election Commission (EC) for the violence-free polls. Targeting the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, he said an atmosphere of appeasement and an euphemism for alleged pro-Muslim policies have prevailed in the state and illegal immigrants were allowed uninhibited while public funds were misappropriated and development plunged. People had high hopes but only the name of the ruling party changed while the state slid further, he said referring to the TMC ousting the Left from power in 2011. The state has now embraced the development agenda for 'Sonar Bangla' espoused by Modi, Shah said, noting that it has seen such an election after years when there was no violence or any order of a re-poll in any place. "We will win 26 seats in the first phase and succeed in bagging over 200 seats," he said, citing the feedback he has received from BJP leaders involved in the campaign. Asked about a purported telephonic conversation Banerjee had with a BJP leader, who was earlier in her party, to woo him back to her fold, Shah said everyone has a right to solicit support. The home minister hit out at the TMC after it released an audio in which BJP vice president Mukul Roy is allegedly telling industrialist and party leader Shishir Bajoria about their approach to the Election Commission, saying this shows that phones of opposition leaders were being tapped in the state. Is this a democratic practice, he asked. Shah asserted that there is nothing incriminating in that conversation as the BJP has given in writing to the poll watchdog what the two leaders were heard discussing. He also appealed to voters of Nandigram, where Banerjee is locked in a high profile contest with her former protegee and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari, to support his party, saying they can bring about a change for better in the state by their votes. On Assam, Shah said, it is clear that people have voted for the BJP whose government has taken the state on the road of development by making it free of violence and agitation, and has now promised to make it flood-free. Under Modi's leadership, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and his senior ministerial colleague Himanta Biswa Sarma have ushered in a lot of development which has been drawing people's support. To a question about certain media reports that the TMC may be slightly ahead in Bengal, he said similar predictions were made about assembly polls in other states, including Uttar Pradesh, where the BJP had decimated the opposition by winning 312 seats in the 403-member assembly. The first phase of polls in Bengal had over 84 per cent turnout while it was 79 per cent in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Modernisation need of hour in agriculture sector says Modi in Mann Ki Baat address||Modernisation in the agriculture sector is the need of the hour as already a lot of time has been lost, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio address, Modi also hailed the world's largest vaccination programme being carried out in India against the Covid-19 and stressed on "dawai bhi, kadai bhi" (medicines as well as strict preventive measures). He hailed the 'taali-thaali' campaign and lighting of diyas last year, saying it had touched the hearts of 'corona warriors'. "That is the very reason they resolutely held on the whole year, without tiring, without halting. Steadfastly, they endured to save the life of each and every citizen of the country," Modi said. Asserting that adopting modern practices in the agriculture sector is imperative, he said in every aspect of life, newness and modernisation are essential. "In India's agriculture sector, modernisation is the need of the hour. It has been delayed and we have already lost a lot of time," the prime minister said in his 75th episode of Mann Ki Baat. "To create new employment opportunities in agriculture, to increase farmers' income, it is equally important to adopt new alternatives and innovations along with traditional agricultural practices," he said. The country has witnessed this during the white revolution and bee farming is also emerging as one such alternative, he said. The prime minister's call for embracing modern practices in agriculture comes at a time when hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's border points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November last year demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws. The government has maintained that these reform laws will boost farmers' income by bringing investment, modern practices and allow them to sell their produce anywhere across the country at the best prices. Noting that bee farming is becoming the foundation of a honey revolution or sweet revolution in the country, Modi said farmers in large numbers are associating with it. The natural organic honey of the Sundarbans areas of West Bengal is in great demand in the country and the world, he said. Modi also cited the examples of Banaskantha, Gujarat and Yamuna Nagar, Haryana, where farmers have taken to bee farming and increased their income. "Honey bee farming does not lead to income solely from honey, but bee wax is also a very big source of income. There is demand for bee wax in everything pharmaceuticals, food, textile and cosmetic industries," he said. "Our country currently imports bee wax, but our farmers are now rapidly transforming this situation that is, in a way contributing in the Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign," he said. During his radio broadcast, Modi also recalled that in March last year, the nation first heard about the Janata curfew. The Janata curfew was imposed on March 22 last year on the prime minister's appeal following the coronavirus outbreak. "From very early on, the people of India have put up a spirited fight against COVID-19," he asserted. Noting that around this time last year, the question was whether there would be a vaccine for COVID-19 and by when would it be rolled out, Modi said it is a matter of pride that the world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India. He urged the people to take the vaccine. "We are getting to hear such news from all corners of the country...that touch our hearts. 109-year-old elderly mother from Jaunpur UP, Ram Dulaiya ji has taken the vaccination. Similarly, 107-year-old Kewal Krishna ji in Delhi has taken the dose of the vaccine. 100-year-old Jai Chaudhary from Hyderabad has taken the vaccine and it's an appeal to all to take the vaccine," Modi said. "I am observing on Twitter -Facebook how after getting the vaccine for the elderly of their homes, people are uploading their pictures. A youth, Anandan Nair, from Kerala in fact has given a new term to this- Vaccine service'," he pointed out. Modi also said that India's 'Nari Shakti' is excelling in the sports field and lauded the recent sporting feats of cricketer Mithali Raj and shuttler P V Sindhu. Raj recently became the first Indian woman to complete 10,000 runs across formats while Sindhu finished runners-up at the Swiss Open earlier this month. The prime minister also spoke about the success of the Indian shooters in the International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) World Cup. Talking about lighthouses, Modi said India is working towards strengthening tourism facilities in some of them and appreciated the efforts of lighthouse keepers in doing their duties diligently. "Sadly, we had lost many lighthouse keepers during the tragic 2004 Tsunami," he said. On Mann Ki Baat completing 75 episodes, Modi said it feels like just yesterday when in 2014 "we began this journey" and thanked all the listeners. "During Mann Ki Baat, we have discussed a wide range of subjects. We all have learnt so much. Diverse topics have been covered," he said. Mann Ki Baat completes 75 episodes at a time when India is looking forward to marking our 'Amrut Mahotsav', Modi said underlining the importance of the celebrations of 75 years of Independence. "The sacrifices of our great freedom fighters must inspire us to think about our duties as a citizen. This is something Mahatma Gandhi talked about extensively," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||140 rescued in Kanpur govt hospital fire||Over 140 patients were rescued after a fire broke out at the state-run LPS Institute of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery in Swaroop Nagar on Sunday morning, the Uttar Pradesh government said. According to hospital officials, two high-risk patients died in the morning but the deaths were "not caused by the fire". "Around 7.30 am, smoke was seen billowing out of a storeroom on the ground floor. The fire was subsequently doused and the patients were shifted to another building. All the patients are safe," Dr Vinay Krishna, Director of the hospital, told PTI. The deceased patients were Rasoolan Bi (80), a resident of Ghatampur who was suffering from acute respiratory problems, and Tek Chand of Hamirpur, who was put on ventilator support. About the deaths of the two patients, Krishna said, "Tek Chand died around 6.30 am, even before the fire broke out. Rasoolan Bi died later. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Prima facie, the high-risk patients had normal deaths and the fatalities were not caused by the fire. The post-mortem will reveal the exact cause of the deaths." Smoke filled the centrally air-conditioned building but the fire did not cause any casualty, he asserted. Krishna said the cause of the fire was "probably a short-circuit". "We used the fire extinguishers kept on the floor to douse the flames. Two fire-tenders were also pressed into service," he said. The fire broke out near the intensive care unit (ICU) on the ground floor of the hospital. "The fire broke out in a storeroom. Things are under control now and officers are on the ground. There are no casualties. Over 140 patients were evacuated," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told PTI. Kanpur's Additional Commissioner of Police Akash Kulhari said a couple of fire-tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames. Window panes on the first floor of the hospital were broken to let the smoke out, an official said. According to Swaroop Nagar Station House Officer (SHO) Ashwani Pandey, about 175 patients were evacuated from the ICU and other neighbouring wards and shifted to other wards. "A short-circuit is suspected to have led to the fire, but the exact reason will be ascertained only after an investigation," the SHO said. Kanpur's Chief Fire Officer, N P Singh, said that after getting information about the fire at the cardiology institute, an alert was sounded at all neighbouring fire stations including Colonelganj, Fazalganj, and Anwarganj. "Nine fire tenders were pressed into service and firefighters took over two hours to evacuate the patients and completely douse the blaze," Singh said and claimed that there was no casualty reported due to fire. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of the incident and directed that the evacuated patients be provided immediate care. He also sought a report from the district administration, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement issued in Lucknow. The chief minister has directed a high-level team, headed by the principal secretary, health education and also comprising the director general of fire services and the Kanpur divisional commissioner, to visit the site and give its report immediately, the statement said. He has said a campaign should be launched at the earliest to test the fire-fighting arrangements at all hospitals of the state, in accordance with the directives issued earlier to strengthen such measures. The hospital was established in 1975. The JK Charitable Trust had donated the building for the institute and it was named as Laxmipat Singhania Institute of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Amit Shah exudes confidence after first phase of polling in two states||Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Sunday said according to the feedback received from the ground, the saffron party will win 26 of the 30 seats that went to polls in the first phase of the West Bengal Assembly election. Similarly, he said the party has got clear-cut indications that it will win 37 of the 47 Assembly seats in Assam that went to polls in the first phase on Saturday. Addressing a press conference at his residence here, Shah said the peaceful polling and the high voter turnouts are positive signs for the two states and thanked the voters. He also expressed gratitude towards the Election Commission (EC) for conducting peaceful elections in Assam and violence-prone West Bengal. According to the feedback received from the party workers on the ground, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will win 26 of the 30 seats in West Bengal and 37 of the 47 seats in Assam in the first phase of polling, Shah said. He exuded confidence that the saffron party will register a massive electoral victory in West Bengal by winning more than 200 seats in the 294-member Assembly and also improve its tally in Assam. Shah also appealed to the people of Nandigram, from where West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee is contesting the polls, to vote for change and a better future of the state. Rejecting the TMC's criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh, he said the visit is to strengthen bilateral ties and has nothing to do with elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Will not attend public Holi programmes, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he will not attend any public Holi programme due to the increasing number of coronavirus cases and appealed to the people to celebrate the festival with their families and avoid crowds. The national capital recorded 1,558 cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the highest since since December 15 when 1,617 people tested positive for the virus, according to official data. "Corona cases have increased in the last few days, in view of this, I am not attending Holi programs being organized in public this time. Appeal to all of you to just celebrate Holi with your family and avoid crowds, follow the rules of Corona prevention," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri. "The government has set up a number of teams to ensure that people adhere to its directions on Holi. District magistrates and police have created district-wise teams. Legal action would be taken against violators," Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||Modi stresses on the need to modernize agricultural sector in 'Mann ki baat'||Modernisation in the agriculture sector is the need of the hour as already a lot of time has been lost, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat programme, Modi also hailed the world's largest vaccination programme being carried out in India against COVID-19, and stressed on "dawai bhi, kadai bhi" (medicines as well as strict preventive measures). Asserting that adopting modern practices in the agriculture sector is imperative, he said in every aspect of life newness, modernisation is essential. "In India's agriculture sector, modernisation is the need of the hour. It has been delayed and we have already lost a lot of time," the prime minister said in his 75th episode of Mann Ki Baat. "In order to create new employment opportunities in the agriculture sector, to increase farmers' income, it is equally important to adopt new alternatives, innovations along with traditional agricultural practices," he said. The country has witnessed this during the white revolution and bee farming is also emerging as one such alternative, he said. The prime minister's call for embracing modern practices in agriculture comes at a time when hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's border points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November last year demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws. The government has maintained that these reform laws will boost farmers' income by bringing investment, modern practices and allow them to sell their produce anywhere across the country at best prices. During his radio broadcast, Modi also recalled that in March last year the nation first heard about the Janata curfew. The Janata curfew was imposed on March 22 last year on the prime minister's appeal. "From very early on, the people of India have put up a spirited fight against COVID-19," he asserted. Noting that around time last year, the question was whether there would be a vaccine for COVID-19 and by when would it be rolled out, Modi said it was a matter of pride that the world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India. Modi also said that India's 'Nari Shakti' is excelling in the sports field and lauded the recent sporting feats of cricketer Mithali Raj and shuttler P V Sindhu. On Mann Ki Baat completing 75 episodes, Modi said it seems like just yesterday when in 2014 "we began this journey" and thanked all the listeners. "During Mann Ki Baat, we have discussed a wide range of subjects. We all have learnt so much. Diverse topics have been covered," he said. Mann Ki Baat completes 75 episodes at a time when India is looking forward to marking our 'Amrut Mahotsav', Modi said underlining the importance of the celebrations of 75 years of Independence. "The sacrifices of our great freedom fighters must inspire us to think about our duties as a citizen. This is something Mahatma Gandhi talked about extensively," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
28-03-2021||India||NIA arrests Chhatradhar Mahato in 2009 murder case||The National Investigation Agency arrested TMC leader Chhatradhar Mahato in connection with the killing of a CPI(M) leader in 2009, soon after he cast his vote in Lalgarh during the first phase of polling in West Bengal, a senior official said on Sunday. Mahato, the former convenor of the Maoist-backed People Against Police Atrocities (PCPA), was nabbed from his residence in Jhargram district by an NIA team comprising of 40-45 personnel late on Saturday, hours after he exercised his franchise. "He was arrested in connection with the 2009 killing of CPI(M) leader Prabir Mahato. He has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. We will produce him at a city court on Sunday," the NIA official said. The Calcutta High Court had recently directed Mahato to appear before the NIA thrice a week to assist it in investigation of the case. Mahato, 50, had earlier served a 10-year sentence for his involvement in a landmine blast triggered by Maoists in Salboni in 2008, aimed at the convoy of the then West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya and former Union minister Ramvilas Paswan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||India registers over 62,000 fresh Covid cases, 312 casualties in a day||India saw 62,714 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,19,71,624, while the daily deaths crossed the 300-mark for the first time in 2021, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Registering a steady increase for the 18th day in row, active cases have increased to 4,86,310 comprising 4.06 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 94.58 per cent, the data stated. The 62,714 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest since October 16, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,61,552 with 312 daily new fatalities, the highest in around three months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily death toll of 312 is the highest since December 25, 2020 when 336 new deaths were reported. As many as 63,371 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 16. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,23,762, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.35 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,09,50,842 samples have been tested up to March 27 with 11,81,289 samples being tested on Saturday. The 312 new fatalities include 166 from Maharashtra, 45 from Punjab, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Chhattisgarh, and 10 from Delhi. A total of 161552 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 54073 from Maharashtra, 12659 from Tamil Nadu, 12492 from Karnataka, 10997 from Delhi, 10322 from West Bengal, 8783 from Uttar Pradesh and 7203 from Andhra Pradesh and 6621 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||Migrant workers' kin wait for death proof||Sixteen migrant workers walking home to Madhya Pradesh in the lockdown last May were crushed to death by a train after they fell asleep on the tracks. Ten months later, their families are struggling to get their death certificates. Family members said they had approached the then sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Jaisingh Nagar, but were told these would be issued in Aurangabad in Maharashtra where the men were run over. SDM Dileep Pandey said: “We recently wrote two letters to the Aurangabad administration.” There is no explanation why it should take so long. Sunita Singh, Chandrawati, and Parvati Singh lost their husbands. Gajraj Singh lost his two sons. Without the certificates, they can’t access the bank accounts of the dead, or even receive social welfare benefits such as widow pension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||Covid cases: Total ban on gatherings in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced a complete ban on all types of gatherings, including political and religious, to arrest the fresh surge in Covid cases. The government also ordered that restaurants, gardens and malls will remain shut between 8pm and 7am beginning Saturday night. People will also not be allowed to visit beaches during that time. Drama theatres will remain shut from Saturday night. However, the delivery of food at night has been exempted. Violation of the guidelines will attract a penalty of Rs 1,000. “Gatherings of more than five people will not be allowed from 8pm to 7am effective from midnight on 27th March. Violation will attract penalty of Rs 1,000 per person on offenders. “All public places, including gardens and beaches, will remain closed during the same period and violators will be fined with Rs 1,000 per person. Not wearing face mask will attract Rs 500 fine while the same is Rs 1,000 for public spitting,” the order stated. It said that holding of social, cultural, political and religious gatherings in the state is being banned completely. Auditoriums or drama theatres should not allow their property to be used for such events, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||UP riot: Court allows govt to withdraw case against 12 BJP leaders ||A local court on Friday allowed the Uttar Pradesh government to withdraw a case against 12 BJP leaders, including state minister Suresh Rana and legislator Sangeet Som, for allegedly inciting violence during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. The special court judge, Ram Sudh Singh, on Friday allowed the government counsel to withdraw the case in public interest. The accused were alleged to have participated in a mahapanchayat and incited violence through their speeches in August 2013. At least 62 people were killed and more than 50,000 displaced in the communal clashes in Muzaffarnagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||BJP MLA beaten and stripped by farmers in Punjab||A BJP MLA and some other party workers in Punjab were attacked by agitating farmers who stripped the legislator’s clothes and threw ink at him in Malout town on Saturday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is leading the farmers’ protest, condemned the violence. The Abohar MLA, Arun Narang, was accosted near the party office where he was going to hold a news conference. A large number of farmers gathered there beat him up and tore his clothes before the police could pull him away. “This agitation of farmers, under adverse circumstances, turned violent and the MLA was physically assaulted…. We strongly condemn this act,’’ the Morcha said. BJP leaders have faced repeated protests in Punjab and Haryana and villages in western Uttar Pradesh, where they are seen as anti-farmer. “The central leadership of the BJP is rooted in its ego and instead of solving the problems of the farmers, they are busy in the elections, but local leaders are facing the bitter results of this behaviour of the central government,” the Morcha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||India||Hike in  power tariff  in Odisha||The Odisha Electricity Regulatory Commission (OERC) on Saturday hiked power tariff by 30 paise per unit for the fiscal 2021-22. The increase in power tariff will come into effect in the state from April 4. The tariff for BPL (Below Poverty Line) and irrigation consumers will remain unchanged and there will be no change in monthly minimum fixed charge, demand change and meter rent, as per the OERC order. It has allowed a 2% rebate over and above normal rebate on the bill to the Low Tension (LT) domestic and single-phase general purpose category of consumers only who pay through digital means.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
28-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP will win over 200 seats and form govt in Bengal, says Shah||Union Home minister Amit Shah claimed on Sunday that his party would win 26 out of the 30 Assembly seats where polls were held on Saturday during the first phase, leading to a fresh round of verbal sparring with the Trinamul Congress led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Polling was peaceful in both Assam and West Bengal. After discussions with booth-level workers and party leaders, I can say we are going to win 26 out of the 30 seats. BJP will win more than 200 seats in Bengal and form the government,” said Shah, at his residence in Delhi. “It is not just that we will win these seats, but our victory margin is also going to increase,” he emphasised. But the Trinamul was quick to counter his claims. “Mind games won’t work. Mo-Sha. Try your seat prediction stunts at the Gujarat Gymkhana. This is Bengal,” tweeted Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha. Shah, who is scheduled to campaign in Nandigram on Tuesday, claimed the change of political power in Bengal could start from Nandigram. “If the people of Nandigram can bring the change then there will be change in Bengal,” Shah said. The Union Home minister also questioned how a telephone conversation between two BJP leaders from Bengal was “leaked” while polling was on. “We gave that request (not to restrict booth agents only to local residents) in writing to the Election Commission. The question is how was the conversation leaked? Who gave the permission to tap the phones? After the model code of conduct is in vogue can a government issue such an order?” Shah asked. On Sunday evening Mamata was at Reyapara’s Shib Mandir Dol Mela ground in Nandigram to deliver a double dose _ political messaging along with a soiree with Aditi Munshi, the Trinamul nominee for the Rajarhat Assembly seat. “I have rented a house here (Nandigram). I am staying here till the elections and I will come again after the election is over. They will get a big rasogolla without the ras,” said Mamata who visited her constituency on Sunday for the first time since her foot injury during a political event there. In all, she is expected to address seven rallies and hold a couple of roadshows there on a wheelchair till Tuesday evening. The first of these was held on Sunday evening after a visit to the local temple in Reyapara. On Monday and Tuesday, Mamata is expected to address three rallies each in the constituency which has been firmly with the Trinamul since 2008. Monday’s road show will begin from Nandigram block-II. Ahead of the second-phase of polls, when Mamata herself is among the contenders, the Trinamul called Shah’s statement was an attempt to confuse the voters. “Amit Shah has a consistent record when it comes to predicting election results. He consistently gets it wrong. Check track record since 2015,” said O’Brien in another tweet. An accompanying chart showed Shah had claimed the BJP would form governments in Bihar and Delhi in 2015, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan in 2018 and in 2019 Jharkhand and Maharashtra and Delhi in 2020. BJP lost in all the states but went on to form governments later in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Asked about a purported telephonic conversation Mamata had with a BJP leader, who was earlier in her party, to woo him back to her fold, Shah said everyone had the right to solicit support. TMC leader arrested Trinamul leader from Lalgarh Chhatradhar Mahato, who was the face of the land movement more than a decade ago, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing several cases against him. Since his release from jail Mahato had joined Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC asks EC to withdraw its earlier directive on appointment of polling agents||The Trinamool Congress has written to the Election Commission urging it to withdraw a recent order that relaxed a rule on the appointment of polling agents, and alleged that the EC had taken the step to help the BJP. According to a March 2009 rule by the EC, polling agents who are appointed by the contesting candidates shall have to be electors in the same polling stations or from neighbouring polling stations falling in the same constituency. However, the provision was amended recently to allow an elector from any part of an assembly constituency to be appointed as a polling agent. The reason for the same has been stated to be based on inputs and for the convenience of the candidates. Such reasoning is not only ambiguous in nature but also leads us to a conclusion that it has been implemented to help certain political parties, namely the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), due to them not possessing the strength to muster enough polling agents, the Trinamool Congress alleged in a letter to the EC dated March 26. The party released the letter on Sunday. It claimed that the new instructions were made with a mala fide intention to benefit the candidates of Bharatiya Janata Party. Such instruction passed by the Election Commission of India just before the scheduled date of election to take place in West Bengal is arbitrary, motivated and biased, it alleged and urged the EC to withdraw the direction and restore the earlier rule. While the first of the eight phases of assembly polls in West Bengal was conducted on March 26, the second phase is on April 1. A TMC delegation led by MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay had on Saturday raised the issue at a meeting with Chief Electoral Officer Aariz Aftab in Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records 84.13 per cent polling in first phase of assembly elections||Voting percentage in 30 assembly seats that went to polls during the first phase of West Bengal elections was 84.13, according to an updated report of the Election Commission. Polling was "mostly peaceful", barring a few sporadic incidents of violence, an EC official said on Sunday. Of the 30 seats that went to the polls on Saturday, nine were in Purulia, four each in Bankura and Jhargram, six in Paschim Medinipur, and seven in Purba Medinipur district. The highest polling percentage of 86.32 was recorded in the Purba Medinipur district, followed by Jhargram (84.74 per cent), Paschim Medinipur (84.71 per cent), Bankura (84.27 per cent) and Purulia (81.77 per cent). "This is approximate data. We are working on it and the final figure will be released soon," the official told PTI. Till 5 pm on Saturday, 79.79 per cent polling was recorded. Voting had begun at 7 am and concluded at 6.30 pm, with the timing extended by an hour and thirty minutes to ensure that COVID protocols are followed. Sporadic incidents of violence were reported from various places that went to the polls during the first phase of the state assembly elections, the EC official said. Voting was held in 30 seats - several of them part of the once-Naxal-hit Jangalmahal region -- amid tight security and strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines, he said. At least 10 people were arrested for allegedly being involved in incidents of violence that occurred in various places during the first phase of polling. The ruling TMC and the opposition BJP are in a fierce fight in the state elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: What was not good for Ferdous Ahmed is good for Narendra Modi||2019: Bangladeshi actor Ferdous Ahmed allegedly campaigns for a Trinamul candidate at an election rally. The BJP complains to the Election Commission. The Indian visa of Ferdous, who had an acting career in Bengal, is cancelled. 2021: Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits Orakandi, the birthplace of Matua sect founder Harichand Thakur, at Gopalganj in Bangladesh on Saturday, the first day of polling in Bengal. Modi tweets pictures of his “blessed moments” at Orakandi Thakurbari, making sure the description is translated into Bengali too on his Twitter account. Images of Modi at Orakandi compete on TV with those of election day. The Matua community, immigrants from Bangladesh, has considerable clout in North 24-Parganas and Nadia, which will vote in the subsequent phases. Some Matua leaders did say later on Saturday that Modi’s visit would influence the community’s voting preferences. Question: Didn’t Modi virtually campaign for elections in India from a foreign country? Before Modi and the BJP vehemently dismiss any parallels with Ferdous, here’s a nugget: the Bangladeshi actor had played Harichand Thakur, whose birthplace Modi visited on Saturday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday demanded action against Modi for violating the model code of conduct after accusing him of trying to woo “one community” during his visit to Bangladesh at a time elections are being held in Bengal. Addressing a rally in West Midnapore, Mamata asked: “Why are you in Bangladesh while there are polls in Bengal? If you go to Bangladesh to seek votes from people belonging to one community while the poll process is on, why shouldn’t your visa and passport be cancelled for violation of the model code?” She added: “We will complain to the Election Commission. Sometimes they are saying that Mamata has helped infiltration from Bangladesh, and sometimes he is going to Bangladesh for marketing during the poll process. We want answers to who is right and who is wrong.” The BJP has been trying to woo the Matua community in poll season as it accounts for a significant segment of the electorate in districts like North 24-Parganas and Nadia. The Matuas had been with Trinamul till the BJP ate into the 35-lakh-plus vote bank ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls by promising implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act. As the act has not been implemented yet, some Matuas are sulking. Many believe that Modi made it a point to visit Orakandi to win them over again just before the polls. The Prime Minister was on an official tour of Bangladesh to participate in programmes held to mark the centenary of the nation’s founding father, Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, and the 50th birth anniversary of Bangladesh. Modi visited the Jeshoreshwari temple in Satkhira and the Matua temple in Orakandi. After offering his prayers at the temple, Modi addressed a gathering of the Matua community and announced the Indian government would upgrade a middle school for girls in Orakandi with modern amenities and set up a primary school there. “I spoke to some people here. They told me that no one would have thought that India’s Prime Minister would visit Orakandi,” Modi said in his address. The Prime Minister added that the Indian government, with the cooperation of its Bangladeshi counterpart, would work towards making the visit of Matuas from India to Orakandi hassle-free. On Saturday, Mamata spoke about the Prime Minister’s “marketing” in Bangladesh. Trinamul sources said she was referring to the promises Modi had made at Orakandi. The chief minister referred to the controversy over Ferdous for allegedly campaigning for Trinamul candidate Kanhaiyalal Agarwal in Raigunj in North Dinajpur. The BJP had written to the Election Commission objecting to Ferdous’s presence at the rally, and the actor had to lose his visa. “In 2019, Bangladeshi actor Ferdous participated in one of our rallies. The BJP spoke to the government and got his visa cancelled. And what happens if the Prime Minister goes to a foreign country and speaks after polls have been notified? Everything is okay in your case and not in others’?” Mamata asked. The BJP didn’t officially react to Mamata’s allegation but multiple Matua leaders this newspaper spoke to said the Prime Minister’s visit, his activities and promises in Orakandi would indeed yield political dividends for the party in the Bengal polls. “Modiji met the representatives of the Thakur family in Orakandi. They demanded the establishment of a primary school and the upgrade of the middle school. Modiji was kind enough to oblige. We believe this historic visit will considerably increase the Matua vote share in favour of the BJP,” said Mohitosh Baidya, general secretary of the All India Matua Mahasangha, who was part of the Matua delegation that went with Modi. BJP MP and chief of the Mahasangha, Shantanu Thakur, his father Manjul Krishna Thakur and wife Soma Thakur too were in Bangladesh. Ferdous, who has acted in around 50 Tollywood films, has suffered collateral damage. The actor had told this newspaper he had gone to the rally unknowingly and had just waved at his fans. Filmmaker Shyam Benegal had selected Ferdous for the role of Tajuddin Ahmed, regarded as one of the most influential figures in the creation of Bangladesh, for a biopic on Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, a film jointly produced by India and Bangladesh to mark the centenary celebrations. Ferdous lost the chance as Indian authorities did not issue him a visa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Jungle Mahal strongmen back after a decade||Chhatradhar Mahato and Sushanta Ghosh — the two strongmen of Trinamul and the CPM, respectively, in Jungle Mahal — were seen in their old form, after almost a decade, on poll Saturday. The Telegraph followed the two leaders to see what they were doing and assess their impact on voters in Bengal elections 2021. The 57-year-old took an early bath on Saturday and got dressed in a white kurta-pyjama — not his usual attire as he is usually seen in shirt and trousers — before stepping out to vote on Day One of the eight-phase polls in Bengal. Standing at the courtyard of his two-storey mud house in Amlia, a remote village in Lalgarh, Jhargram district, he told this correspondent: “I am feeling like a first-time voter. Do you know I am going to cast my vote after 12 years?” As the car to take him to the poll booth arrived, he was heard prodding his wife Niyati to get ready to take part in the festival of democracy. Soon, Niyati was ready in a new sari. “It is really amazing,” said Chhatradhar while stepping out of his home in Lalgarh, the seat of the Maoist movement in the area between 2008 and 2011. His humble presence and the salt-and-pepper look belies the fact that Chhatradhar had played a major role in the movement organised with Maoist support and under the banner of the People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCAPA) in Jungle Mahal. He was arrested in 2009 under the UAPA and sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case. A lot has changed since then. Chhatradhar has resurfaced in the area as Mamata’s man in  Jungle Mahal in her fight against the BJP. On reaching Birkanr primary school, he queued up with other voters for about an hour to cast his vote. “This was the first priority for me. I voted for Trinamul,” said Chhatradhar after getting inked. Voting done, it was time for Chhatradhar, a state committee member of Trinamul, to focus on his assignment of ensuring victory of 12 Trinamul nominees from four Jungle Mahal districts — Purulia, Bankura, West Midnapore and Jhargram. His phone kept ringing as party colleagues gave him feedback on polling trends. Unlike mainstream politicians, he was talking less and listening more. “There is pressure on us, but we are confident of winning the game here in Jungle Mahal,” he said. “People in the area still love me and more importantly they know Mamata Banerjee has delivered...I think I will deliver what Didi expects from me,” he said. What does she expect? The Trinamul strongman in Jungle Mahal said that his assignment was to connect his party with the people on the ground. “ I tried to be a bridge between the people and Trinamul. I think it will work...that’s what you may find on May 2,” he said. His connect will people is evident. As he stopped near a booth, Putul Mal, 30, from Jamshol village came in front of him with a request. “Dadu, will you fulfil my wish? It is very small. I want to meet Mamata Banerjee,” Putul, with her three-year-old son in her lap, smiled. “Why not. I will make it happen very soon,” Chhatradhar said. By the end of the day, he visited at least hundred booths in his district and attended scores of calls. In between, he visited Lalgarh private hospital where his ailing mother was admitted on Friday night. The only time he looked perturbed was when he reached the hospital. “Is it a hospital? Where are the doctors and nurses? It is so dirty. Can any patient stay here?” he grumbled before ensuring the presence of a doctor and a nurse near his mother. A large number of villagers of Benachapra village gathered in front of Birsinghpur primary school around noon. Some were voters, but most had gathered for a glimpse of Sushanta Ghosh, CPM strongman who was not seen the area for around a decade, but had returned to contest as a CPM nominee from Salbani. Benachapra, a village in Garbeta which now falls under Salbani Assembly, is not just the ancestral home of seven-time CPM MLA Ghosh, now 63. The dusty village had been in the news in the fag end of the Left rule after seven skeletons of allegedly of missing Trinamul men were recovered near Ghosh’s house. Ghosh was arrested in August 2011 for his alleged involvement in murdering the seven Trinamul men. He could enter the area only on December 6 last year. The CPM veteran, a former minister in Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s cabinet, met people. “I voted in 2016 Assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls with special permission from the Election Commission. But after a decade I am a candidate here and can freely roam around in my constituency,” said at Benachapra village. Moving around the constituency on the poll day was not easy for Ghosh as he faced attacks at Chhototara Sishu Siksha Kendra allegedly by alleged BJP and Trinamul supporters. Not only was he manhandled and brickbats were hurled at his car, he said that he was threatened by the goons, who didn’t even spare the media persons. “My rivals, both BJP and Trinamul, are worried about my return here... They attacked me as they don’t want to see me here as a leader of common people,” he said. His mood lifted when supporters told him they were voting for him. “He always interacts with us with a smiling face. He was beaten up a little while ago, but see, he is so composed. That’s our leader,” said Pintu Pan, a CPM supporter in Benachapra. Asked about Ghosh’s alleged involvement in the skeleton case, Pan said: “He was framed, that has been established... We aren’t bothered about such allegations.” Ghosh’s return has helped the CPM tiptoe back in the region. He oversaw reopening of 100-odd CPM offices in Garbeta and Salbani since December 6, 2020. Though the party had suspended him, his popularity prompted Alimuddin Street to field him as a candidate from Salbani. The presence of Ghosh was not only good news for the CPM, it also gave Trinamul a reason to be happy. Along with Ghosh, at least 1,000 CPM workers, who had fled the region, returned, said a Trinamul source. If the CPM gains organisationally, the job of defeating the BJP becomes easier, goes the logic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Edwards and Zimba in popularity contest||The equations of the BJP-GNLF camp still seem unsettled in Darjeeling with supporters of GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards bringing out a rally in town on Saturday, demanding that he file his nomination papers instead. The development comes  despite the GNLF’s senior ally BJP naming sitting MLA Neeraj Zimba as their candidate from Darjeeling. GNLF president Mann Ghisingh has clarified that the hill party will support BJP candidates in the three hill Assembly seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. Zimba is a GNLF leader who had contested on the BJP symbol during the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly by-elections and won. On Saturday Edwards’ supporters gathered at Chowrasta and marched to his residence at the famous Darjeeling eatery Glenary’s, raising anti-Zimba slogans. Edwards tried to smoothen ruffled feathers. “One need not be an MLA to serve the public. From tomorrow (Sunday) itself I will start my social work,” said Edwards who further explained to his supporters that standing as an Independent would bring about a chasm in GNLF unity. The rise of Edwards to prominence is being credited to his relentless social work during the Covid-19 pandemic. Even though Edwards had hinted that he would not go against the GNLF’s decision to field Zimba, questions are being raised whether Edwards supporters would at all cast their votes in favour of Zimba. Zimba, who normally does not lose an opportunity to air his views, has been uncharacteristically silent throughout this controversy. On Saturday, he told The Telegraph that he did not want to “add fuel to the fire” by commenting on the unfolding situation. Zimba admitted that in “big parties” there would be aspirants but added that he was just adhering to his party’s decision. “It is not that I got the ticket (it is of the party, the GNLF’s) or I manipulated (to get) the ticket,” Zimba told this correspondent. Despite the raging controversy within the party, Zimba made it clear that he was in no mood to give up the ticket. “I would have been happy if anyone (from the party) got the ticket. Now that I have been given the ticket, I can’t go back, I have to fight, I have to take up the challenge,” said Zimba. The BJP candidate will file his nomination on March 30 and is “100 per cent” sure that Ajoy Edwards would accompany him. “I am sure Ajoyda will ensure my win. In my win is the win of Ajoy Edwards, and in Ajoy Edwards’ win the party wins,” said Zimba. In a statement which is seen as an attempt to reach out to Edwards, Zimba said : “Ajoy Edwards will be my coach in the 2021 finals. He will plan the strategy for me. We are together.” The BJP candidate has been claiming that the 2019 Assembly by-elections was a “semi-final” in hill politics and the upcoming Bengal elections the final match.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: BJP workers start fast against nominee||Protests in the BJP in Kaliaganj of North Dinajpur district over Soumen Roy’s candidature took a significant turn on Saturday with angry workers and supporters of the saffron party starting an “indefinite hunger-strike” in Sukanta More, a prominent crossing of the town, demanding Roy be replaced. “He is an outsider to Kaliaganj and questions have been raised about his personal image time and again, even by his wife. We do not want such a person as candidate here in Kaliaganj. District and state leaders should realise that if such a person is fielded, it would make the contest tough for us,” said a BJP worker. Roy’s estranged wife Sarbari Sinha Roy, who stays in Falakata of Alipurduar district, had a few days back filed a complaint against her husband, accusing him of threatening her. According to party sources, Sarbari who stays with their daughter — the couple’s divorce case is pending in court — had put up certain posts on social media questioning her husband’s character after his name was announced as the BJP candidate. “Then, on Wednesday, she filed the complaint at Falakata police station, saying Soumen Roy had sent his two aides to her and had asked her to upload fresh posts to nullify the charges and apologise for her earlier posts. As she refused, they warned her of dire consequences and said her daughter might be abducted,” said a party insider. District BJP leaders are red-faced. “We will speak with party supporters who have launched the hunger-strike. Such activities will affect the party’s image ahead of polls. We have told everything about Roy and the situation to the state leadership,” said a district leader. Roy brushed aside the charges levelled by his wife. “They are baseless. Our divorce case is pending in court. I plan to start my poll campaign from Sunday,” he said. Roy’s candidature had angered BJP supporters in Kaliaganj to the extent that they had blocked roads to deny him and his supporters entry earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP lauds EC for the peaceful voting; TMC complains ||A role reversal of sorts marked the first of the Bengal election’s eight phases, with the ruling Trinamul lodging several complaints of muscle-flexing by the BJP and the BJP congratulating the Election Commission for the peaceful voting. Barring stray violence, polling was largely peaceful in the 30 Assembly seats in five western districts that voted on Saturday, with the high turnouts becoming a talking point within political and administrative circles. “By 5pm, almost 80 per cent polling had been recorded. With the polling due to end at 6.30pm, the figure is likely to cross 85 per cent,” an official said. Although 80-84 per cent turnouts are not uncommon in Bengal’s western districts, officials feel even a two to three per cent hike above that range could turn into a deciding factor in this year’s Bengal election. Complaints of malfunctioning electronic voting machines came from Contai South in East Midnapore and Kharagpur in West Midnapore. The voting machines were replaced and polling restarted in these areas. “We have acted on all specific complaints. In about six booths, the voting machines or the VVPATs (voter-verifiable paper audit trail) were changed on account of technical glitches. No complaint of electoral malpractice was found true,” a poll panel source said. The violence included an alleged attack on Sushanta Ghosh, CPM candidate from Salboni in West Midnapore, and the ransacking of a car belonging to Trinamul turncoat Soumendu Adhikari, brother of fellow Trinamul turncoat and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, in Contai South, East Midnapore. Soumendu was not inside the car. There was overnight trouble between BJP and Trinamul supporters in Bhagbanpur, East Midnapore. “The ECI (Election Commission of India) has taken appropriate steps on all these incidents. Overall, the polling was peaceful, especially compared with previous elections in the state,” a senior police officer said. Saturday’s polling involved 10,288 booths, with more than 73 lakh registered voters, spread across the districts of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura, West Midnapore and East Midnapore. Some 730 companies of the central forces guarded the booths and sought to maintain order within 100 metres of the booth premises. Many of Trinamul’s complaints related to its polling agents being allegedly driven away by BJP cadres in the two Midnapores and Purulia. The ruling party also accused the BJP of preventing voters from going to the booths in Keshiari, West Midnapore, and some other places. It further alleged that the central forces had tried to influence voters to back the BJP in several Assembly constituencies in Jhargram and West Midnapore. Around 2pm, the BJP congratulated the commission. “We have come to congratulate the ECI as 90 per cent people could cast their votes without any major problem,” the BJP’s Bengal minder, Kailash Vijayvargiya, said after meeting Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab. “We have also requested the ECI to arrest some noted criminals backed by Trinamul before the next phases to ensure that people can exercise their democratic right without any problems.” Mamata decision Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would be camping in Nandigram, from where she is contesting this year’s election against Suvendu, to see how the BJP can flex its muscle there before Thursday’s vote. Sources said Mamata had decided to set up base in Nandigram till polling day to try and boost the morale of her party workers and colleagues. “The BJP has been creating trouble in the area by getting musclemen from outside,” a Trinamul politician working on Mamata’s campaign in Nandigram said. “Some villagers had to gherao Nandigram police station to pressure the administration, which has so far remained inert despite several complaints being lodged. The chief minister’s presence will definitely help.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Sporadic violence on Day One||The first phase of the crucial Bengal polls held on Saturday, with 30 Assembly constituencies in 10,288 polling booths from five districts, was mostly peaceful, but not without some sporadic incidents of violence. The Telegraph throws light on a few that pock-marked the first day of the state elections that has the whole country riveted. What: A polling agent of the BJP was allegedly hit on the head in a fight between BJP and Trinamul workers at Begumpur booth, a sequel reportedly to the discovery of the body of BJP worker Mangal Soren near home on Saturday morning, with the BJP claiming it was a planned murder by Trinamul. Where: Keshiari in West Midnapore When: 7am on Saturday Officialspeak: “Our probe says the death of the BJP worker had nothing to do with elections,” said a district official. What: Sanjukta Morcha candidate Sushanta Ghosh was threatened by alleged Trinamul workers at Chhototara booth and his car severely damaged. Ghosh claimed he was physically assaulted as well in the incident that also left two journalists injured and media vehicles damaged. Where: East Midnapore’s Salboni When: 7.30am on Saturday Officialspeak: “The Election Commission asked for a report. We have arrested one person,” said a police source. What: Booth 112 near Mejna was surrounded by Trinamul workers who alleged the EVM and VVPAT had been tampered with. “Trinamul votes are going to the BJP,” said a protester. Tyres were burnt in the protest, which lasted three hours. Where: South Contai When: 8am on Saturday Officialspeak: The presiding officer said allegations of tampering were baseless. Voting resumed after a VVPAT was changed under official supervision. What: Crude bombs were hurled in Trinamul-BJP clashes near the Birbandar booth after a Trinamul worker was allegedly beaten up at 9am. Where: East Midnapore’s Battala When: Throughout the day Officialspeak: Central forces were sent to quell the agitation and assure citizens of peaceful voting. What: Soumendu Adhikari, Suvendu Adhikari’s brother and fellow turncoat from Trinamul to BJP, was surrounded by Trinamul workers at the Sabajput High School booth for over an hour. His car was damaged and his driver beaten. Four BJP and Trinamul workers were injured. Where: South Contai When: Noon Officialspeak: “Central forces were rushed to bring Soumendu Adhikari out of the situation,” said a source. What: Trinamul candidate from Purulia Sujoy Banerjee threatened to fire at a BJP worker following a heated exchange. Where: Purulia town When: 11am Officialspeak: Police started a case against Sujoy. What: Central forces lathicharged to disperse a dozen Trinamul workers approaching a polling booth. Around 10 persons received injuries. Where: Basantapur village in Purulia’s Bandwan. When: Around 1.30pm. Officialspeak: Trinamul lodged a complaint with the Election Commission and a probe has started. What: Trinamul candidate from Bankura’s Chhatna Subhasish Batabyal was allegedly pushed around and forced out of a polling station after Batabyal was involved in an argument over why the polling agents were not allowed inside the booth. Where: Bagjuri primary school in Bankura’s Chhatna. When: 10.30am. Officialspeak: Administration has started a probe. What: Central police allegedly ransacked a Trinamul camp office and beat up ruling party workers. Eight persons were injured in the incident. Where: Vidyasagar Bani Bhavan Primary School, Jhargram town. When: 1.30pm. Officialspeak: Trinamul has lodged a complaint and the administration has started a probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Didi to camp in Nandigram for five days till April 1||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would be camping from Sunday in Nandigram, from where she is contesting this year’s election against Suvendu Adhikari, to see how the BJP can flex its muscle there before Thursday’s vote. Speaking at a rally in West Midnapore’s Pingla on Saturday, Mamata anticipated “antics” by “Mir Jafars” in the epic poll battle that awaits her in Nandigram. “Starting tomorrow (Sunday) I will be staying in Nandigram... I am curious to see the antics of these Mir Jafars (Adhikari and associates),” she said. Party sources in Nandigram said Mamata’s early arrival was needed as the BJP had gained an unfair edge of sorts with a Calcutta High Court order reopening the 2007 land protest cases against 63 Trinamul workers, forcing them to leave the area. This week, Trinamul election agent Sheikh Sufian got relief from the Supreme Court that granted a stay on the high court order. A local Trinamul leader said the high court order led to a “dip in morale and strength at a time the BJP is trying to lure away our people”. “We are glad Didi will be here,” he said. Party leaders Dola Sen, Purnendu Basu and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy had been managing Trinamul’s affairs on behalf of Mamata. “Those leaders who have come from outside can stay in Nandigram till March 29 and will have to leave the area in accordance with the Election Commission’s order. The Supreme Court giving respite to Sufian is a big relief and we hope to get similar relief for us too,” said another Trinamul leader from Nandigram Abu Taher, also implicated in the case. Taher and 61 others have moved the Supreme Court on Saturday seeking relief similar to Sufian’s in the 2007 land agitation cases and hope a stay will help them join the campaign in the crucial last few days leading to April 1. At Pingla, Mamata referred to Suvendu Adhikari in rhetorical first-person and said: “Why are you making such a hue and cry about Nandigram if it is indeed your making? I have done everything here, and yet you write your names on all the walls.” “Everyone has been seeing since morning what is going on in Egra, Bhagabanpur, Khejuri, Patashpur and of course Contai South... People are not being allowed to vote,” she added. “You (Sisir and Suvendu) have done as you pleased in Haldia and Digha (as administrators)...Youths there have seen everything,” she added. BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal dismissed her allegations. “Trinamul is unable to accept that it will lose,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Mamata holds aloft amity in art||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday devoted over a third of her campaign speech at West Midnapore’s Pingla to highlight the rich tradition of the Bengal patachitra, practised famously by artists of the Naya village in the area for generations, all of whom are Muslims. Using the patachitra instance, the chief minister upheld secularism and the communal amity at the very core of the complex, multidimensional Bengal ethos that the saffron ecosystem has been allegedly trying to attack. “I am grateful to the people of Pingla, because it is one of the few hubs, exemplary globally…. I would request the Delhi leaders to come and see this. Minority brothers and sisters, how beautifully they draw Hindu gods and goddesses. This is such a heartwarming instance of our communal harmony. They do this with a great deal of love. They are globally known for this,” said Mamata at the Pingla campaign rally. “Come and see, leaders from Delhi, how our Muslim brothers and sisters lovingly draw Ram and Sita,” she added, referring to the foremost deities in the Hindutva universe. Pingla has 2.65 lakh voters, including around 80,000 Muslims. In the Assembly polls of 2016, Trinamul’s Soumen Mahapatra had won by a margin of over 21,000 votes. It was shaved down to barely 6,500 in the extrapolated results of the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Patachitra — pata meaning cloth and chitra meaning picture — is a general term for traditional, cloth-based scroll painting found in Bengal and Odisha. The artform is known for its intricate details and Hindu mythological narratives and allegories. It is a key component of an ancient Bengali narrative art, originally serving as a visual device during the performance of a song. Bengal Patachitra dates back to the pre-Pala period, and is referred to as far back as Buddhist literature of the 1st century AD. The Patachitra has sub-genres such as Durga Pat, Chalchitra, Tribal Patachitra, Midnapore Patachitra, and Kalighat Patachitra. Mamata was mainly referring to the Naya artists, who practise the Midnapore sub-genre. The work of the Naya artists are displayed in several international museums. Naya is part of Pingla. The village has about a hundred families, all belonging to the Muslim community, who have been specialising in the art form for generations. “If we gift a patachitra (piece) to foreigners, they treasure it, it occupies a pride of place in their homes…. Lovely saris are also made (with this art form). In future, I would like to have these sold globally, with four five showrooms at important cities abroad,” said the chief minister. The Naya artists make (Hindu) religious artwork, with stories from mythological epics such as the Ramayan and the Mahabharat, besides Bengal’s own important goddesses Kali, Manasha and Chandi, as well as folk tales such as that of devoted wife Behula and her husband Lakhinder. “In future, women from here can ramp it up (the art form), by forming self-help groups…. Be proud. In what you do, you are Number One in the world,” added Mamata. On Saturday, Mamata enthusiastically spoke about the art form. “Please make some nice patachitra items for me….I buy from you every time I come to this region, because I have to gift foreigners who love your work. I will remember you. I will take big initiatives for you, so that you get more income and wider recognition,” she said on receiving several patachitra gifts from the artists. The chief minister on Saturday once again accused Union home minister Amit Shah of exerting undue influence on the Election Commission of India to try and manipulate the Bengal elections. “Delhi’s Amit Shah is conducting these elections…. Elections should be free, fair and peaceful. Amit Shah is running the Election Commission of India,” she said. Mamata also lambasted the Adhikari turncoats. “They have been trying to stop people from voting wherever they can...The more I speak of them, the more intense my hatred for them becomes,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 16th consecutive day of rise in total number of cases||Bengal on Saturday reported the 16th consecutive day of rise in the total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 377, to 4,608. The number had been falling since Vijaya Dashami last year till March 11. Prior to the rise since March 12, the total active cases had fallen from 37,190 on October 26, 2020, to 3,110. The state on Saturday reported 433 Covid-19 recoveries, but 812 new infections — the highest since January 10 — were detected. There were two deaths, neither in the city. Despite the recent surge, largely because other states have been doing far worse amid the national trend of a renewed rise, Bengal has 0.96 per cent of the national total of active cases and is 14th on the list of states with most active cases in the country. “Around January 10 we had around seven per cent of the national total of active cases, and were third on the list of states with most active cases. So, there has been considerable improvement since then,” said a minister. “The challenge now is to ensure that the damage, presumably from disregard of safety protocols in such a massive election campaign, does not quickly drag us back, undoing the exemplary turnaround since Durga Puja last year,” he added. The recovery rate is 97.44 per cent, still considerably ahead of the national rate, which is 94.6 now. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.43 per cent. On Saturday, the state reported 24,413 tests, taking the total past 90.86 lakh, at 1,00,961 tests per million people. Of the total death toll of 10,322, 8,673 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate improved marginally to 1.76, while the national rate was 1.35 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: 1946 Calcutta Killings becomes topic of discussion||The 1946 Calcutta Killings, a black chapter of history, has re-emerged from the mists to suddenly become a topic of discussion in poll-bound Bengal, courtesy under-the-radar fear-mongering by the saffron ecosystem over social media. While the BJP’s campaigners and official accounts have not mentioned the 75-year-old communal conflagration, its supporters have been broaching the topic over WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter in the context of the elevation, or possible elevation, of any Muslim politician or official. The idea is to polarise Hindus by portraying the 1946 violence as a conspiracy by the state’s then Muslim leadership, and suggesting that the purported promotion of Muslim politicians and officials by the BJP’s rivals could bring back those disastrous days. “This attempt to reap political dividends in 2021 from things that happened so many decades ago may or may not work for the BJP. But it certainly carries the risk of reopening old wounds in a Partition-torn region,” said a Calcutta-based historian, unwilling to be named “amid this politico-social volatility”. He stressed that the 1946 violence had happened largely because of a dubious role played by the British Raj — whose historical wrongs have tended to evoke only silence from the Sangh parivar. The killings began on August 16, 1946, also known as Direct Action Day, following years of divide-and-rule by the British rulers and an utter administrative failure on the day of the violence. Direct Action Day was to mark a nationwide protest by Muslims in response to a call by the Muslim League’s Muhammad Ali Jinnah. The 1946 Cabinet Mission to India, assigned to plan the transfer of power to the Indian leadership, had proposed a three-tier set-up: a centre, groups of provinces, and the provinces separately. In this formation, the so-called groups of provinces were supposed to accommodate the Muslim League’s demand for independent states in Muslim-majority areas. Initially, both the Muslim League and the Congress accepted the plan. However, Jinnah and his colleagues suspected that the Congress was insincere about it and, in July 1946, the League withdrew its assent to the plan. Jinnah called for a general strike on August 16 to push the League’s demand for a separate homeland for Indian Muslims. A series of avoidable and unfortunate events led to large-scale communal violence in Calcutta and elsewhere in the then undivided Bengal. It left at least 4,000 people dead and over 100,000 homeless in the city alone within the first 72 hours. The much-questioned role of the Muslim League’s Bengal provincial government head, Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, is what keeps the saffron camp enthusiastic about this particular chapter of South Asian history. For months now, the Sangh parivar ecosystem has been issuing an overt, or sometimes implied, message: if a Firhad Hakim can become Calcutta’s mayor or a Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui contest elections today, tomorrow could see a return of the days of Suhrawardy. “It’s clear what they want to do. They missed their chance to use these things to access power in post-Independence Bengal, despite the wounds being raw then, because of the positive role played by the Congress and the Left in shifting the focus to secular issues,” a city-based political scientist said, requesting anonymity because he works for a central government institution. “They are betting big on reawakening the public memory of such chapters of Bengal’s history, and using every little development – such as a Hakim becoming Calcutta’s mayor, or a Siddiqui deciding to contest elections — to reignite the majority community’s fears of a possible return to a Suhrawardy-like regime. To the discerning audience, these fears are laughable. But the discerning audience perhaps makes up less than seven lakh among an electorate of seven crore-plus.” Apart from the social media campaign, small groups of BJP supporters have been raising the subject in informal chats at, say, tea stalls at villages and urban slums. To the BJP, such a polarisation campaign is a necessity in a state where almost 30 per cent of the voters are minorities, making it imperative for the party to consolidate as much support as it can among the remaining 70 per cent. A social scientist said that when people receive motivated communication about communal tensions, to most of them it matters little whether the events happened seven days or seven decades ago, or what role the British had played. She said that only the privileged few with a quality education or progressive upbringing can resist such dog whistling. “What the saffron IT cell and its bosses seek to gain from this is immediate. They are not concerned about the consequences or the future,” the academic, who teaches at a top city university, said. “Their insatiable politico-electoral ambition is fuelling this and the risks are immense. But this Neanderthal myopia was, perhaps, to be expected of them. “However, if there is a grisly recurrence as a fallout of the BJP’s polarisation politics, there’s no Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi left among us to go on a fast until all sides drop their weapons.” The social scientist too sought anonymity, citing the political uncertainty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Gandhi Bhavan, where “Miracle of Calcutta” took place in 1947||In the middle of an ever-expanding concrete jungle in Beliaghata stands Hyderi Manzil, a 400sqm, single-storey, 19th-century structure on a 1,000sqm plot. Now better known as Gandhi Bhavan, this building — a rundown and virtually abandoned structure then at the heart of what was Mianbagan — is where the “Miracle of Calcutta” took place in September 1947. Coined by Manubehn Gandhi, the epithet refers to a series of events that occurred over a 26-day period, culminating in a frail Mahatma’s single-handed rescue of Calcutta and Bengal from a frenzy of communal violence. It was in one of Hyderi Manzil’s eight rooms, cleaned up to make it relatively liveable, that Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi spent the tumultuous period between August 13 and September 7, 1947. Staying with him was the Muslim League stalwart and head of the (undivided) Bengal provincial government, Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy. It was in this mansion that Gandhi personally brokered peace between Hindus and Muslims, fasting for 73 hours until key leaders of the warring groups had laid their arms down at his feet and sworn off communal violence on September 4. On September 7, Gandhi was quoted as telling a large gathering at the Ochterlony Monument (now Shaheed Minar): “Even if you want to fight, against whom will you fight? Against your own brothers? I request those who have weapons to surrender them. Weapons will not save anyone; God alone is the saviour of all, so seek His protection.” The colonnaded Hyderi Manzil, with wooden louvres on the facade, was presumably an outhouse surviving from a much larger property that members of the Dawoodi Bohra community from Surat had bought in the middle of the 19th century. However, the Hyderi Manzil sequence in Richard Attenborough’s 1982 film Gandhi was shot not in Beliaghata but in Mumbai. In one scene, just before breaking his fast, Gandhi talks to Nahari, a fictional Hindu rioter who has murdered a child after his own son was killed by Muslims. The Mahatma asks Nahari, played by Om Puri, to adopt a Muslim orphaned by the riots and raise him as his own, and raise him as a Muslim. Historians said Hyderi Manzil had indeed witnessed many such incidents during Gandhi’s September 1-4 fast. “In many ways, the building bears witness to a brief but vital chapter of history that may be deemed a beacon of light in what was perhaps the darkest hour for modern South Asia,” a Calcutta-based political scientist said, requesting anonymity. “The Sangh parivar would like people to forget such chapters of history and remember only what suits the Hindutva line.” He added: “Despite the dubious role the likes of the RSS and the Hindu Mahasabha had played through the 1940s, the saffron ecosystem today stresses only the League’s responsibility and some questionable acts by the Congress. This (propaganda) has been a discernible part of the saffron bid to win Bengal.” The Hyderi Manzil stay marked Gandhi’s last visit to Calcutta, a city he had toured at least 64 times from 1896 and where he spent a recorded total of 566 days. Several historians have underlined that Gandhi chose the location, then primarily a Muslim neighbourhood, for his stay as it had witnessed considerable violence during the 1946 Calcutta Killings. Gandhi spent August 15, 1947, the day of India’s Independence, fasting and praying. Historian Sugata Bose, grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, said it was the Mahatma’s moral force that ensured peace in Calcutta on August 15, 1947. “Gandhi published an editorial titled ‘Miracle or Accident’ on August 16, the first anniversary of the Great Calcutta Killings, in which he narrated how Hindus and Muslims had chanted ‘Jai Hind’ in unison. It was neither miracle nor accident but the willingness of human beings to dance to God’s tune. ‘We have drunk the poison of mutual hatred,’ Gandhi wrote, ‘and so this nectar of fraternisation tastes all the sweeter, and the sweetness should never wear out’,” said Bose, the Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University. Echoing Bose, a city-based social scientist said the Mahatma’s role had been of immense importance to Bengal and Calcutta, perhaps for the rest of the country. She said: “On September 7, 1947, Gandhi said: ‘Let us work with God as witness. Bengal must remain calm, even if the whole of Hindustan is reduced to ashes…. It would be wonderful if the Muslims and Parsis are as free to read the Koran and the Zend Avesta as the Hindus in Bengal are to read the Gita, to recite the Gayatri and perform sandhya.’ That is the Bengal he had envisioned, even after the Partition brutally dismembered it.” Senior historian Rajat Kanta Ray said Gandhi’s tactic was to avoid getting into the reasons for the quarrels and peacefully negotiate a compromise. “He did it very successfully in Noakhali and Calcutta, for instance,” said Ray, professor emeritus of history at Presidency University and former vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati. “Regrettably, there’s nobody left like that nowadays. Least of all, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has been trying to appropriate some of Gandhi’s sermons while growing a beard like that of Rabindranath Tagore.” Ray added: “No matter how hard he tries to compare himself to the Mahatma or the Kabiguru, I do not believe the people of India, or Bengal, will accept that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
28-03-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Cong asks EC to register FIRs against Nadda, Sonowal||Congress has urged the Election Commission (EC) to register FIRs against BJP chief J P Nadda and Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal for advertising claims of winning all seats in upper Assam. The Grand Old Party maintained that the saffron party’s act was a violation of the Representation of the People Act. In a complaint to the EC, Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala, Ajay Maken and Mukul Wasnik sought directions and action against top BJP leaders for giving advertisements in newspapers claiming victory in all upper Assam seats. They said such advertisements are in clear violation of the directions given by the EC that no one can make predictions of the results during the prohibited period. “We pray to the EC to take all such actions as may be necessary and required in law, including direction for registration of offences against Sarbananda Sonowal, J P Nadda and Ranjit Kumar Dass for the blatant violation of Model Code of Conduct and the RP Act, 1951,” the Congress stated. The party also demanded action against the media publishing such advertisements. Assam goes to polls in three phases and the first phase of polling was held on March 27. “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), after realising that their defeat is inevitable, has resorted to desperate illegal and unconstitutional methods to influence voters across the state,” the Congress said in a memorandum to the poll body. The Congress leaders alleged that in a “pre-planned conspiracy and in order to defraud the voters of Assam , Sonowal, Nadda, Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and other BJP members and functionaries” willfully and knowingly have today issued advertisements camouflaged as political predictions as headlines on front page, in various newspapers throughout Assam. They said through such ads, the BJP leaders have disseminated “false/untrue outcome of the results" of the first phase of voting in Assam and have” falsely claimed that BJP will win all constituencies of upper Assam”. Surjewala told reporters that the advertisements have been presented in a manner on the front page of every newspaper “to prejudice the minds of the voters of Assam”. “The advertisements have been presented in a manner so as to look like a ‘newspaper headline’. This deliberate, malicious and malafide set of advertisements are in clear violation of Section 126A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which is punishable up to two years of imprisonment and fine,” he said. “These desperate acts of the BJP have been carried out with malice to soil the fairness of the electoral process, to save their sinking ship and gain undue advantage in the Assembly elections of Assam. It should be dealt with by the ECI with the strongest possible action under law,” he added. The Congress leader asserted that the poll body is mandated to safeguard the voters’ democratic and fundamental right to vote freely and without undue influence. “We request the Election Commission to exercise its power under Article 324 of the Constitution of India to preserve the doctrine of free and fair elections and register FIRs against the persons mentioned. We also urge the Commission to direct all news publication and channels to desist from abetting the crime being committed by BJP leaders as also to adhere to and follow the EC instructions of March 26,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
28-03-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav borrows ‘Khela Hobe’||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday took a leaf out of the Trinamul Congress’s campaign song Khela Hobe to mobilise support for Congress candidate Kamakhya Prasad Mallah from south Assam’s Dhalai constituency, which goes to polls in the second phase on April 1. Addressing a massive election rally, where he attacked the ruling BJP for “growing” joblessness and price rise, Tejashwi asked the gathering in Bhojpuri: “Khela hoi ki na? (Is the game on or not?)”.The crowd roared back: “Hoi, hoi (Yes, yes).” It is in this backdrop that the electoral battle for Assam began on Saturday, amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety steps and security bandobast. The first phase saw polling in 47 of the 126 Assembly seats, spread over 12 Upper Assam districts. At the time of filing this report, the turnout was 76.89 per cent of the total voter count of 8,109,815. Ground reports suggest the 10-party Congress-led grand alliance has mounted a strong challenge to the ruling BJP alliance’s bid for a second straight term at Dispur but whether that translates into seats remains to be seen. A senior BJP leader admitted that the Opposition alliance, of which both the RJD and the AIUDF are a part of, has created a buzz. “It is tight because of the late push by the Congress-led alliance but rest assured we will eventually form the government,” he told The Telegraph. BJP and Congress insiders told this newspaper that the margin of victory in each seat will be very narrow irrespective of who wins. The stakes are especially high for the BJP, which had won 35 of the 47 seats in Upper Assam in 2016. The Congress had won nine while its ally AIUDF bagged two. This time too, Upper Assam, where tea garden/Adivasi voters and indigenous communities play a decisive role, will hold the key to BJP’s prospects. “The first phase remains most crucial because these constituencies have contributed phenomenally to the dominance that BJP enjoys in the state since 2014. The Congress’s ability to mark the return of tea tribes, Scheduled Tribe votes and withhold the religious polarisation by fragmenting the Hindu votes in the region shall be crucial to determine the election,” said Vikas Tripathi of Gauhati University’s political science department. The fate of 264 candidates was sealed in the first phase on Saturday. Prominent among the candidates were chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and the presidents of the AGP (Atul Bora), Assam PCC (Ripun Bora), Raijor Dal (Akhil Gogoi) and Assam Jatiya Parishad (Lurinjyoti Gogoi). The final turnout figure is set to rise as a lot of voters were still in the queue. With the Congress-led alliance playing up the BJP’s “unfulfilled promise” of Rs 351 minimum daily wage for tea garden workers and the “imposition’ of the “anti-Assam” Citizenship Amendment Act, the BJP alliance has had to campaign hard in the first phase to retain its voters evident from as many as 18 visits by the BJP’s top two — eight by Prime Minister Narendra Modi since January 23 and 10 by Union home minister Amit Shah since January 24. Shah made his 11th visit on Friday. “They sold everything where there were jobs. Berozgari (unemployment) is an enemy... It can be solved only if you remove the beiman (dishonest). Khela hoi to berozgari khatam hoi (Only if the game is on you can end unemployment). Five lakh jobs have been guaranteed to you (by the Congress). You have to spread the word. You have to stay away from the BJP... They don’t talk about mudda (issues), only talk about murda (the dead). You people are intelligent. Sambidhan khatre main hai (The Constitution is in danger). You all have to save it,” Tejashwi said on Saturday. He received thunderous applause from the crowd most of whom came from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand to work in the tea gardens. He attended four rallies on Saturday, three in Barak Valley, Besides harping on its development poll plank in the first phase, the BJP top guns of late had also targeted the “communal” Congress-AIUDF alliance and AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal but have not got enough traction to build a wave in its favour. Ajmal is a three-time Lok Sabha MP. The second phase on April 1 will see polling in 39 seats, including 15 from Barak Valley, and the third phase on April 6 in 40 Assembly constituencies in lower Assam where the Congress-led alliance seems to be on a strong footing. In the last polls, the AGP-BJP-BPF combine had won 86 of the 126 seats with a vote share of 41.9 per cent. The then ruling Congress was reduced to 26 seats and 31 per cent vote share and the AIUDF, fighting separately, to 13 seats with a 13 per cent vote share. The BPF has this time joined the Congress-led alliance while the BJP has tied up with another Bodo outfit, the United People’s Party Liberal, which runs the Bodoland autonomous council. The BPF and the AIUDF have become huge factors this time round, suggest ground reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
28-03-2021||Opinion||The man who promised the moon||No one but Thulam Saravanan can say for sure what it is that he is trying to achieve with his tall promises. Does he merely want to draw attention to himself or is he critiquing a high-pitched no-holds-barred poll battle? But come to think of it no matter how outlandish they seem ‑ a mini-helicopter, one crore rupees, a car and a robot domestic help for every household, 100 gold sovereigns for women, a crore to those starting a business, several lakhs every month for the differently abled, a giant iceberg — the poll promises of this Independent candidate from Madurai South is in keeping with the tradition of Tamil Nadu electoral politics. It is believed that this shift to sops was first evident during MGR’s reign. Through the 1980s and 1990s, it was mostly to do with the increasing scope and reach of mid-day meals for children and subsidies. And then in 2006, rival DMK promised free colour TV sets and free gas stoves. That year, the DMDK’s Vijayakanth promised 15kg of free rice to those below poverty line and delivery of goods from ration shops to customers. The Salem-based One Rupee Party reportedly promised free cable connections, gas cylinders, tea and liquor. That election, the DMK, which had been written off in 2001, returned to power. It might be difficult to believe now, but only a decade ago, in the 2011 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, it was Jayalalithaa who shouted the loudest against freebies. She said, “The chief minister [Karunanidhi] is trying to make the people a society of parasites, dependent on freebies, doles and sops.” The DMK went ahead and promised either a mixie or a grinder to women. Not to be outdone, the AIADMK announced a mixer, a grinder and a table fan. “It is not ‘either/ or'; a beneficiary will get all the three,” the AIADMK general secretary, Jayalalithaa, clarified after releasing her party's manifesto. She also promised milch cattle and gold for marriage thalis. In the years that followed, laptops were issued to students, and goats and sheep were given away. Except for the animals, all gift items came with Amma’s face emblazoned, as did subsidised drinking water bottles. The debt burden of the state continued to rise, but what of it. Right now, while Bengal is in raptures over a musical counter to the warring political forces that says Ami onyo kothao jabo na, ami ei deshe tei thakbo… I am not going anywhere else, I am going to stay right here, Thulam - with Rs 10,000 in hand and another Rs 20,000 in the bank - has promised his constituency a space research centre, a rocket launch pad and a 100-day trip to the moon. Perhaps he knows of something the rest of us are yet to get wind of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||Dhamma descending||Pratap Bhanu Mehta’s departure from Ashoka University was followed by a flurry of letters and statements by the concerned parties which had the effect of obscuring rather than clarifying the issues it raised. In his own letter of resignation, Mehta stated his reason for leaving plainly: “After a meeting with Founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the University may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens, is perceived to carry risks for the university. In the interests of the University I resign.” That last sentence is curious because Ashoka’s reason for being is that it’s modelled on the best liberal arts colleges and universities elsewhere. It cannot be in the interest of such a university to have one of its most distinguished professors resign because his public writings vigorously defend constitutional values and freedoms. If a professor of evolutionary biology were made to resign from a university because her robust critique of Creationism had annoyed powerful people (or annoyed wealthy donors acting as proxies for powerful people), would she declare that she was resigning in the best interest of the university? I don’t think so. Mehta might have meant that his resignation was in the material interest of the university administration. Not having him on Ashoka’s payroll might facilitate fund-raising, make it easier to acquire the necessary government permissions to expand, make sure that the university wasn’t suddenly found to have violated FCRA regulations, something that happens regularly to Indian institutions that inconvenience the State. These are important considerations if a university is to grow and flourish and as a former vice-chancellor, Mehta must have been familiar with the pragmatism needed to nurture a young university. Still, when Arvind Subramanian, the former chief economic advisor to the Government of India, resigned his professorship at the university in protest against Ashoka’s unwillingness to make room “… for academic expression and freedom…”, it seemed as if Mehta’s resignation was on its way to becoming a cause célèbre, the cause in question being the matter of institutional support for intellectual freedom. Mehta had already stepped down from Ashoka’s vice-chancellorship because his indictments of the government made the university’s founders and trustees anxious. He was, at the time of his resignation, a faculty member and the fact that an academic as famous and admired as him had been nudged into leaving was, as Subramanian put it, “ominously disturbing”. Raghuram Rajan, the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, who is himself associated with Krea, an embryonic private university not unlike Ashoka, posted a withering indictment of Ashoka’s founders on a social media site. In a passage reminiscent of Mehta’s impassioned prose, he wrote: “Free speech is the soul of a great university. By compromising on it, the founders have bartered away its soul.” The role of a university was to “provide a protected space for its academicians and students to engage freely in open public debate…” Ashoka’s faculty and students rose to the occasion. The student newspaper, The Edict, linked the founders’ docility with the university’s need for real estate. It led with this sharp headline: “Pratap Bhanu Mehta Resigns, Paving The Way For A New Plot”. Ashoka’s faculty members wrote to the vice-chancellor raising, as good academics should, the general problem that Mehta’s specific case illustrated. They asked that the university “clarify its internal protocols of faculty appointment and dismissal, and reinforce its institutional commitment to the principles of academic freedom”. Then, in the middle of this, appeared a joint statement signed by the Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor, the Chairman of the board of trustees, Mehta and Subramanian. In it, the first three expressed “deep regret” at unspecified “recent events surrounding the resignations” of the last two. There was boilerplate about acknowledging unspecified “lapses in institutional processes which we will work to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders”. For their part, Subramanian and Mehta affirmed their faith in Ashoka University’s significance as an educational experiment and promised the institution lifelong friendship and goodwill. It isn’t difficult to see why Ashoka’s leaders wanted this joint statement; in the aftermath of the terrible press they had received in the wake of the resignations, this was damage control. To get Mehta and Subramanian to offer them a form of absolution in exchange for a faux apology and a bland reference to faulty processes was a coup. It’s harder to understand why Subramanian and Mehta signed it. One possible answer is the temptation of magnanimity. Mehta and Subramanian were genuinely committed to making a success of a private liberal arts university, funded by Indian philanthropists, free of the strings that come with State funding. Having made their free speech point, they wanted to tell the world that there were no hard feelings, that they wished their erstwhile university well. This is still puzzling because it doesn’t fit Subramanian’s initial reaction. How “ominously disturbing” could Ashoka’s free speech failure have been if a few days later it had shrunk to “lapses in institutional processes”? Universities like Ashoka are best understood as liberal arts universities with Indian characteristics. The philanthropists who fund and found these universities loom over them like colossi. The virtue of giving generously seems to purge them of self-awareness. In every official communication I’ve read, Ashoka’s founders capitalize their consequence: they are Founders. Ashoka’s board of trustees sent a statement to the faculty declaring that they had never interfered with the academic functioning of the university nor the freedom of faculty members to write about anything they wanted, in any forum that they wanted. That they could write this soon after seeing Mehta off the premises gives chutzpah a new meaning. They signalled their commitment to the autonomy of the university by endorsing the appointment of an Ombudsperson. A Lokpal. Fancy that. In a recent article, Gurcharan Das comes to the conclusion that both Mehta and Ashish Dhawan, Founder and Chairman of the board of trustees, are modern Indian heroes: Mehta for speaking his mind and Dhawan for trying to build a world-class university in India. According to Das, the contretemps was nobody’s fault. There was no political pressure to force Mehta to resign. Wealthy donors, understandably conservative, were alienated by Mehta’s relentless criticisms of the government. Mehta understood that this was the case and understandably resigned. This made the Chairman sad but committed as he was to Ashoka’s welfare he was understandably relieved to see Mehta go. Das’s exculpatory genius lies in transmuting deference to the prejudices of rich patrons into a Founder’s dharma. From Devanampiya to this, every epoch gets the Ashoka it deserves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||Missed target||The prime minister, Narendra Modi, might have thought his Bangladesh visit at the time of elections in Bengal would help the Bharatiya Janata Party in the state. But every action has multiple effects in politics. While the BJP had made ‘illegal infiltration’ a big issue in the neighbouring, election-bound Assam, and the home minister, Amit Shah, built his entire campaign by attacking the All India United Democratic Front leader, Badruddin Ajmal, for supporting ‘infiltrators’, Modi’s sweet talk in Dhaka and the claim that he himself went to jail for Bangladesh’s freedom might have blunted the edge of this emotive plank. Shah’s fierce attacks on Ajmal also sounded hollow as the AIUDF leader tweeted, “I wish a pleasant stay of PM Modi ji in Bangladesh. I [would] like to request him to discuss with Sheikh Hasina... the issues of deportation of illegal immigrants and the Indo-Bangla border sealing to stop further infiltration.” Neither the BJP made any such demand from the prime minister, nor has Modi raised the issue of infiltration, given the sanctity of the occasion. The Congress, which was uncomfortable with the home minister’s focus on the AIUDF, now feels Shah’s blusters on Ajmal sound like a joke. In fact, the BJP’s plan for a long-drawn eight-phase polling schedule for Bengal also ended up helping the Congress. It has allowed the Congress to delink its Kerala strategy from that of Bengal, and effectively conceal the hypocrisy about its relations with the Left. Rahul Gandhi will now embark on the Bengal journey only after the Kerala elections are over. The Congress is quietly thanking the BJP. From @rammadhavbjp he is now @rammadhav_rss. Ram Madhav, formerly a high-profile leader of the BJP, swiftly changed his official Twitter handle after he was shunted to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Like many others, Madhav had come to the BJP from the RSS, the ideological parent of the sangh parivar, in 2014. It was widely felt that Amit Shah, who had taken over as BJP chief, had got him in his core team. Over the years, however, Madhav’s equations with Shah deteriorated. Many in the party said it was Madhav’s high profile and ambitious personality that did not go down well with Shah. Whispers in party corridors even had it that Madhav was aspiring to become party boss if not a key minister in the Central government. Leave aside these high hopes, Madhav could not even become a member of parliament. Now he is back to where he had come from. In spite of being edged out, however, Madhav continues to retain his high profile. He has a personal website rammadhav.in that describes him as an “author and thinker”. He is also a member of the governing board of India Foundation, an international think-tank. Now the RSS as an organization is faced with a personality cult. After the Bihar police attracted nationwide outrage for going on a rampage inside the legislative assembly, thrashing, kicking, and hurling out Opposition lawmakers, endangering their life, limbs and modesty, the officials put the onus on the Speaker, Vijay Kumar Sinha. Although the legislators protesting the tabling of the Bihar special armed police bill 2021 — it has now become an Act — apparently triggered the violence, what happened was unprecedented in the history of the House. As eyewitness accounts and video footage showing the police’s high-handedness emerged, they also brought forth questions whether the police personnel overstepped their brief, and if there would be a probe into it. The additional chief secretary of the home department, Chaitanya Prasad, had said that the police force entered the assembly to assist the marshals on the directions of the Speaker. He had added that it would be the Speaker’s prerogative to order an investigation into whether the police exceeded their brief on the occasion. Reportedly, Prasad also promised strict action if the police personnel were found to have committed a wrong. Now that the Speaker has ordered an enquiry, all eyes are on the pending report. The run-up to the three-phase assembly polls in Assam that began yesterday has been dominated by high-pitched campaigning by almost all senior BJP leaders led by Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda. The Congress, on the other hand, is relying on Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the Chhattisgarh chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel, as vote-catchers. Baghel has been working at the grass roots like the state leaders, having made several trips since his appointment as the party’s observer in January. Congress insiders say that both the Congress general secretary in-charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh, and Baghel have until now done a “good job” helping a “deeply divided” party mount a strong challenge. For most, Baghel has silently activated the grass roots by reportedly deploying his own team of around 400 people. He himself has held many small meetings, interactions and road shows to connect with voters, wooing them with the good things his government has done for the farmers and for income generation. Most importantly, he makes it a point to tell voters that whatever the BJP is “selling” today was “built” by the Congress, to counter the BJP’s claim that no development took place during the Congress rule. Win or lose, Baghel’s silent push to boost the party’s prospects have to be acknowledged, Congress insiders said. The first BJP member ever to get elected in Kerala assembly, O Rajagopal, has often put his party on the defensive with his statements that border on blasphemy in his party. Never hiding his admiration for the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, Rajagopal recently left BJP leaders squirming as he attributed the 90 per cent literacy in the state as the reason why his party was not growing there. The remark came just days after his admission of a Congress-BJP-Indian Union Muslim League understanding in the 1991 polls. By now Amit Shah has perhaps realized that there is only so much he can do in Kerala without a full grasp of the issues in the poll-bound state. Repeating what his state leaders have been saying for the last few years, Shah has hardly moved away from the Sabarimala or the more recent gold smuggling cases. Unlike Rahul Gandhi who makes it a point to address the state’s audience in English, jumps into sea waters and gives Aikido tips to students, Shah sticks to Hindi and harps on the same set of issues. The BJP’s ‘Chanakya’ seems out of his depth when stuck in unfamiliar political territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||So you did think you’ll never go||That time of the year; as a matter of fact, that day. Or thereabouts. We are that sort of people, a little here, a little there. We look at the moon and then we decide where we are. And even the moon is our sort of thing. You know, a bit lunatic, paglots that we are. A bit here and a bit there. It is different from different places on different days and at different times. It affords itself availability and deniability. We know the story about what happened this day, or thereabouts. Or the legend. Or myth. It has all become the same thing now — legend, myth, history, story, all of that is interchangeable and exchangeable. What is myth can become history, a story can become truth and truth can become a story. That is the magic wreaked upon us, we have been heckled to the precipice but we are being told to look down and applaud the AchchheDin we should all be able to see deep down below. And if we cannot for the lives of us see it, then we must be anti-nationals. Such are our times. Anyhow. Anyway. Let’s get back to the day, and the story of it. You know, don’t you? The story of Holi, which comes from the story of Holika and her dahan, or burning. Holika, daughter to the mighty Hiranyakasheepoo, the same one, the daitya king. The Hiranyakasheepoo blessed to immortality, the same. The one who was told to believe he would never die and the one who believed it to be so. Not during the day, not during the night. Not inside and not outside. Not on earth and not in the sky. Not by sword, nor by mace. Not by human, nor by beast. Not inside Parliament, nor outside. Not on home soil, nor away. Not before elections, nor after an election. Not before taking office, nor after. Not before pronouncing a disaster, nor after. Not before ordering an atrocity, nor after. Not before, nor after Never. But then there was Prahlad. And he thought Hiranyakasheepoo not immortal but only God. And he took the name of the God and swore by God and not by Hiranyakasheepoo. And that made Hiranyakasheepoo angry no end. And so he put Prahlad in the lap of Holika, who was blessed against any harm by fire and he set both aflame believing only Prahlad will burn and not Holika for she was fireproof. But Holika turned to cinders and not Prahlad. Prahlad was a bhakta, not a Bhakt. And Prahlad said humbly to Hiranyakasheepoo, there is God in everything, even in khadga and khambha, in inanimate swords and pillars. And is that so, asked Hiranyakasheepoo, enraged. And then he struck the khambha with a sword and, lo and behold, from the khambha emerged Narasingha. And Narasingha did to Hiranyakasheepoo what Hiranyakasheepoo had not been told could and would happen. Tore him with nails at twilight on his lap along the partition between inside and outside. Between day and night, between light and dark, between the realm of the sun and the realm of the moon, there lies a crevice, remember Hiranyakasheepoo, you who thought yourself blessed with immortality, you who believed I shall never go now that I am here. Hear, hear! There is a crevice. A far and deep one. There you can see it, etched between the likeness of the moon and the likeness of the sun, that blackness. That thin strip of it. Do not make light of it, it is a deep place. It is a place so deep that what falls into it can never be retrieved, it is a bottomless sort of strip. That’s where you go. One day, you who believe yourself immortally enthroned. Do not delude yourself; it will come like it will come to all of us, and to all things. The end. The end begins with the beginning, the beginnings are the ends. Never forget. So immortal you, oh my, oh my, I’ll shoot you and you’ll never die; Remember we all go, we have to Remember the Scriptures did not lie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||Finger on the lips||The silent era of films has ended, but only for men. New research tracking speaking parts in Hindi films reveals that on an average, in the biggest pan-national box-office hits from the past five years, “women have less than a third of the dialogue”. In other words, men significantly out-talk women — portrayed to be the more voluble sex. This can seem surprising at a time when the star of Bollywood’s women seems to be in ascendance, with characters like Piku, Sulu, Shivani, Sehmat, Rani et al carrying films to box-office success squarely on their able shoulders. Yet, four of the biggest hits of the past five years had women speaking for an average of 25 minutes in a runtime of at least 2.5 hours. Take, for instance, Dangal, a biographical drama about two female wrestlers — the male narrator and the pontifical father, however, left little room for the ‘protagonists’ to voice their opinions. One reason for the skewed balance in talk time could be the increasing compartmentalization of genders in Hindi movies. Films foregrounding women are believed to deal with ‘women-specific issues’ and are — unsurprisingly — considered niche cinematic projects, while the overwhelming number of movies with male protagonists, Bollywood’s ecosystem of producers, directors and script-writers insist, are meant to cater to the general audience. But there is a double paradox. Kuch Kuch Hota Hai, a box-office success, had nine female speaking parts with women delivering 60 per cent of the dialogues. Yet, this chatter perpetuated the patriarchal stereotypes about the ideal Indian woman who dresses in salwar-kameez and sings tuneful bhajans. There has not been much noise about another discernible disparity. A Forbes report showed that even though ‘leading ladies’ like Deepika Padukone and Priyanka Chopra have proven that they can deliver box-office hits, they only earn two-fifths the amount that their male counterparts like Shah Rukh Khan earn. The fate is worse for Muslim women who bear the double burden of gender and faith and are mostly invisible from the screen or banished to its margins. This phenomenon has remained unchanged since Independence in a nation that is wedded to secularism. But the times, they are a-changin’. The arrival of streaming giants is rewriting the rules of dialogue and engagement in India’s entertainment industry. With Indian women increasingly willing to pay for content they can view on their phones or laptops, streaming platforms are pivoting to this under-tapped market. More than half of the Netflix films released in India in 2020 had a female producer or director, while all six of Amazon Prime originals released in India had women leading the charge as either creators, producers, writers or directors. The push for equality is gaining momentum driven by women seeking more choices in the content targeted at them. Watching movies and television shows is often a group activity in India, with the decision on what to watch typically taken by the men in the household. Streaming on handheld devices allows women a more personal choice in entertainment — at least in some segments of the population. With the audience changing, cinematic content is bound to transform. The ‘lambs’ — patriarchy’s favourite expression for women — may no longer remain silent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Opinion||Popular impression||Sir — The Impressionists are perhaps the most widely appreciated artists in the world. At the heart of this popularity is a romanticized story of a group of young artists who fought against conservatism and embraced plein air painting, capturing nature with unprecedented freshness. But the real reason museums promote the Impressionists is that their works readily lend themselves to merchandizing in an array of mementos, including postcards, mugs, scarves, jigsaw puzzles and even umbrellas. For galleries, people’s willingness to spend on such items is a winning formula.  Srikanta Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — In the past we have often heard the governor of West Bengal lament that people of this state are living in fear. I would have to agree with him. We are living in fear that we might end up choosing a government whose state president cannot respect a woman and a chief minister, a government that embodies patriarchy to such an extent that its members cannot refrain from making lewd and cheap comments about someone who holds a constitutional position. What kind of a future or safety can we expect for women from such a government? Bengal has always given its women the highest respect; they have defined the very essence of our society. Be it Rani Rashmoni, Sarada Devi, Kadambini Ganguly or the likes of Konkona Sen Sharma, Mahua Moitra, Arundhati Bhattacharya, to name just a few, Bengal’s women have ripped the curtains of ignorance and patriarchy to shreds. The lack of ethics, moral principles and decency makes my heart bleed for my city, for my state and for my nation. The Bengal that the likes of Dilip Ghosh envisage is not the Bengal I know and all I can do is hope that we succeed in resisting the fascist forces looming at our door.Srijani Banerjee, Calcutta Sir — Although vulgar comments from the Bharatiya Janata Party are not surprising anymore, what beggars belief is that none of these statements seems to have an effect on the electorate that remains in thrall to this deeply patriarchal, inequitable political party. Dilip Ghosh says that Mamata Banerjee should behave in a manner befitting Bengali culture, which according to him bars women from showing their legs. I would like to point out here that Bengali culture cares more about actions than what a woman wears or how she wears it. Moreover, since when is it part of Bengali culture to denigrate one’s opponent using misogynist statements? One is also forced to wonder why the BJP leaders seem so paranoid about bare legs when it comes to women. The answer is not as simple as it is being made out to be on the internet — although the ingenuity of some of the reasons doing the rounds on social media must be applauded. It is not the bare leg that scares the BJP, it is the woman’s agency over herself and her own body that has the party quaking in its boots.A.K. Sen, Calcutta Sir — While Holi is a joyful time for people, it is important that animals — both pets and strays — are not harmed during the festivities. Stray dogs and cats are the victims of bullying with colours and water balloons. While humans can easily wash off the colours after the celebration, animals cannot do the same. The colours used during the festival are often made with synthetic dyes that contain toxic metals and can cause skin allergies, rashes or even blindness in both people and animals. If animals inhale the powder, it can cause nasal irritation and respiratory allergies or infections. Animals which ingest it while grooming themselves can suffer from stomach ailments or other illnesses, or even die. We need to educate people about the harmful effects of such colours on animals. More important, we should make people aware about how to take care of animals that do come in contact with colours — bathing them with mild shampoo and keeping an eye out for skin infections. If the situation gets worse, the animals should be taken to the vet immediately.  Pinaki Nandy, Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Twin accidents in Hazaribagh, Chatra dampen Holi spirit||Hazaribagh: A 12-year-old and a 30-year-old kulfi seller were killed in two separate road accidents in Hazaribagh and Chatra. The first accident took place in in Salga village of Keredari block, 57kms away from Hazaribagh where Rupesh Kumar, 12, was crushed to death by a speeding tractor on Saturday evening. The driver fled the spot immediately. Sanoj Sahu, 30, a kulfi seller and resident of Karma village under Huntergunj police station in Chatra was crushed to death by a truck when he was travelling for work on his bike. Huntergunj officer-in-charge Rajeev Ranjan arrested the driver of the truck. Villagers blocked the Chatra-Gaya road demanding compensation and other benefits for the family as Sanoj was the sole earner. Circle officer Mithilesh Kumar assured the villagers of proper compensation and other benefits as per government norms in accidental deaths. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Giridih: An illegal stock of explosives kept in a house for mining purposes blew off on Saturday night killing two women and two children. The devastating incident took place in the house of Budhan Rai at Khidia Moad under Tisri Block of the Giridih district. The entire house had collapsed because of the blast. Initially it was suspected that it was a cooking cylinder which caused the blast, but the forensic team from Ranchi who reached the spot on Sunday confirmed that the explosives caused the blast. Deputy comissioner, Rahul Kumar Sinha, SP, Amit Renu and other officials also visited the spot to assess the situation. “Based on the report given by the forensic team, the police lodge FIR. The preliminary investigation indicated that it was explosives that blew off and four persons including two children were killed,” said SP. The village has illegal mica and stone mines. Police sources said, the explosives were kept in the house of Budhan Rai by individuals involved in illegal mining in that area. Raids are being conducted to arrest them. (Our correspondent) Latehar police on Sunday said Rs 4,48,500 was extracted from four over ground couriers of two rebel groups. SP Prashant Anand said the cash was to go to CPI Maoists’ top cadre Chhotu Kharwar and Jitender of the TSPC. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi administration to set up Covid centre at mega sports complex ||The Ranchi district administration is setting up a 700 bed Covid care centre at mega sports complex in Hotwar in the wake of a rise in cases. In the last four days, 629 new cases have been reported in the capital. Civil surgeon V.B. Prasad said they have begun ground works for setting up of the centre which will exclusively cater to asymptomatic patients. “Following the deputy commissioner’s directives, we are making logistic arrangements for laying beds, and making other arrangements like water connection, electricity, food among others to house asymptomatic patients. Last year too, Hotwar complex was utilised when the Covid cases peaked. Even though, we can’t say cases are on peak now, but the way they are on the rise, we have to be prepared to handle the influx of infections,” said Prasad on Sunday. He added that the rise in testing, mainly at transit points are one of the reasons for the spike. “The spike is part of growing trend in the country. As people are returning from high load states for Holi and other festivals, we are making them undergo testing at railway station and airport, which is leading to the spike,” he said. Currently, district administration has already readied 1500 beds including both public and private hospitals. The new addition in Hotwar will take the numbers to 2100. Meanwhile, extending its earlier order, the district administration has extended prohibitory orders till April 30 under which all kinds of congregations, processions, religious functions and the likes have been banned. Earlier, the administration had only enforced section 144 under Crpc for Holi on March 28 and 29 and on Ramnavami and Sarhul falling in the second week of April. In a late night notification, Ranchi SDO Sameera S has annulled previous orders to enforce fresh ban till the end of April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts dry weather in Jharkhand during Holi||IMD's Ranchi Met Centre predicts dry weather conditions to revail acros the state on Holi on Monday, adding that similar condistions are expected to last in all 24 districts for the next two days. Met statistics revealed that dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand during the last 24 hours. The highest maximum temperature of 38.1°C was recorded at Pakur while the lowest minimum temperature of 17.6°C was recorded at Bokaro. " We find no significant weather system which will impact Jharkhand's weather during the next three days at least. Maximum temperatured will witness a rising trend in the next few days," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Met Centre. Statistics revealed that most districts across Jharkhand on Sunday recorded maximum temperatures two to three notches above normal. Sunday's chart analysis and satellite images suggested a cyclonic circulation over western Rajasthan which was unlikely to have any impact on Jharkhand's weather. Weathermen at IMD's Patna Met Centre also predicted dry and clear weather over Jharkhand during Holi. The predictions suggested dry weather till the end of March. The Patna Met Centre hinted rain and thundershowers over Jharkhand from around April 1. The Met office did not rule out the possibility of a Nor'wester in Jharkhand on April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Gadkari set to inaugurate road projects worth Rs 3,300 in Jharkhand||Union minister of road transport and highway Nitin Gadkari will launch road projects covering 277 kms in Jharkhand on April 3 and also lay foundation stones for another 293km network. A formal communiqué in this regard was sent by Gadkari’s office to his cabinet colleague Arjun Munda, union ministry of tribal affairs, on Saturday seeking his participation for the ceremony which is scheduled to take place at 11am via online. Munda’s office has released the launch date and other details to local media in the evening stating that the projects that are set for inauguration will be dedicated to the nation. As per the details, the road projects that are set for inauguration are worth Rs 2536.05 crore, while those getting readied for laying the foundation stones are estimated to cost about Rs 859 crore. The roads that are ready for inauguration include Ghagra-Gumla road on NH 143A (27km; 27.37 cr), Mahulia-Bahragora highway along Jharkhand-Bengal border (71 km; Rs 815 cr), four lane from Kutchery chow in Ranchi via Piska More-Bijupara section (34km; 352.73 cr), Barhi to Hazaribagh four lane (41.28km; Rs 700.68 cr), four lane of Piska More-Palma on NH23 (22.4km; Rs 280.32 cr), Hatgamariah-Jaintgarh on NH75 (27.9km; Rs 27.56 cr) and two lane on NH-114 A (32km; Rs 102.39 cr). On the other hand, foundation stones for as many as 16 projects worth 859.33 crore encompassing 293 km encompassing will be put on the occasion, some of which includes strengthening of a 36km patch on Koleibera-Simdega NH 23, construction of a bridge over NH 23, construction of road over bridge (ROB) at Chandwa in Latehar at NH-99 among others. An official at the regional office of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Ranchi confirmed the programmes stating that they are readying for the launch. “Final touches are being given on few roads that are set for inauguration,” said an official, not willing to be quoted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 340 fresh Covid cases, four casualties in a day||Jharkhand on Saturday reported 340 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection and four casualties, taking the count of active cases to 1636 and the Covid toll to 1107, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). Sahebganj reported two Covid casualties on the day, while Ranchi and Gumla reported one fatality each. The active Covid caseload reached 853 in Ranchi on the day as the district reported only 39 recoveries against the 187 fresh cases, highlighted the NHM bulletin. As many as 99 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on the day. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand reached 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.32 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate dropped to 435.04 days. The doubling rate in the state was above 2500 in the month of February. The State government achieved around 80 per cent of its target of vaccinating 10 lakh residents during a week-long Panchayat level vaccination drive, which concluded on Saturday, health officials said. As per a report released by the NHM on Saturday night, as many as 1,03,848 people, including over 78,000 senior citizens, got the first jab of the Covishield vaccine on the day. As per data compiled by the NHM, Jharkhand had vaccinated over 6 lakh residents before the launch of the Panchayat level drive, and by Saturday, the state managed to vaccinate as many as 13,87,462 people, primarily rural residents. Of the close to 14 lakh people administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state, around 7.86 lakh were senior citizens and over 1.8 lakh were middle-agers with comorbid conditions. As per government data, the state has so far achieved 84 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine. As per the NHM report, over 1.31 lakh people in Ranchi have got the first dose of the vaccine – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Over 1 lakh residents in East Singhbhum have got the first jab, while more than 72,000 people have got the first dose of the vaccine in Bokaro. However, the state on Saturday managed to administer the second dose of the vaccine to only 3 per cent of the over 1 lakh registered beneficiaries. So far, the state has administered the second dose of the vaccine to as many as 2,33,686 beneficiaries, around 71 per cent of those registered. So far, more than 1.22 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand and 97.76 per cent of them have recovered. The recovery rate in the state has also dropped from over 98.60 per cent in February, reveals government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Withdrawal of Pathalgadi cases: Hemant Soren approves home department’s resolution||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday evening gave his nod to the state home department’s resolution on withdrawal of pathalgadi cases lodged in different districts during the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government between 2017 and 2018. The Munda Adivasis of Khunti district had in 2016-17 began erecting stone slabs in their villages inscribed with the provisions of Schedule V of the Constitution — excerpts from the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996 — that grants special autonomy to tribal areas after the then BJP government tried to amend the age-old land laws (CNT-SPT Act). The erection of stone slabs (pathalgadi) was an age-old tribal tradition to demarcate ancestral lands by commemorating the contributions of ancestors. It came to be known as the “pathalgadi movement in 2017-18”. However, the BJP government perceived the movement to be “anti-development and anti-national”. The government deployed paramilitary troops and police forces to suppress the movement with villagers alleging that they were subjected to “police brutality” and “state’s repression”. The Soren government had in its first cabinet meeting after coming to power in December 2019 had announced withdrawal of all pathalgadi related cases lodged in different police stations. The government will now send a requisition to the court to withdraw all such cases, many of which involved charges of sedition. According to a communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office on Friday at 8.50pm, three-tier committees were formed to look into the issue of withdrawal of cases registered in Seraikela-Kharsawan, Khunti and West Singhbhum led by deputy commissioners, head of the police (superintendent of police) and public prosecutors of the respective districts. A total of 23 such cases were registered in the police stations of these districts, it said. However, the data does not match with the figures provided by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch, a social outfit, on the basis of an RTI application filed in January 2020. There a total of 30 cases (Khunti- 23, Seraikela-Kharsawan- 5 and West Singhbhum- 2), the Manch said. The social outfit further said that out of the 30 cases pertaining to pathalgadi registered in different police stations, the sedition charge was invoked in 19. The government’s reply to the outfit’s RTI plea said that only one sedition case was recommended for withdrawal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
