29-03-2021||Calcutta||40 shanties gutted in Salt Lake blaze||At least 40 shanties in Salt Lake City's Central Park area were completely gutted in a fire that broke out on Monday morning, a senior police officer said. Nobody was injured in the blaze which broke out at a temporary roadside shanty in the Central Park area at around 8.16 am, the officer said. At least 12 fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire, he said. "The fire is under control. The cooling process is on. There is no casualty as we had evacuated the entire area," the officer said. State Fire minister Sujit Bose rushed to the spot to supervise the rescue process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
29-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans indulge in Holi festivities minus precautions||The number of Holi revellers on Calcutta’s roads was fewer on Sunday compared with previous years, but almost all of those who stepped out were without masks. Many of them said they did not wear a mask because they would have to take it off while playing Holi. Some others said it was safe to take off masks. They hung around very close, hugged and smeared each other with colour and stood in gatherings outside eateries —everything doctors had warned against. Officers of Calcutta police identified five places — Maniktala, Beleghata, Behala, Rajabazar and Garia — as the areas where most number of violations were spotted. Till Sunday noon, the police slapped fines of Rs 100 on 110 people for not wearing masks. “The crowd was far less this year, but only a handful of those who came out wore masks,” said a police officer. Holi celebrations were muted across blocks of Salt Lake and New Town, but there too most of those who did step out to join revelry were without masks. The state health department had on Friday issued an advisory asking people to celebrate Holi in a restricted manner this year. The advisory said people should consider celebrating Holi with their families and reiterated that the Covid-19 pandemic was still not over. The advisory warned that since the virus has undergone mutations, the number of infections could rapidly rise any time. Some states in India are already reporting a very high number of cases, the advisory stated. It also added that people should not go close to another person while smearing him or her with colour and advised them to stay away from crowded places. Several youths told Metro that wearing a mask would have been an impediment in the way of celebrating Holi, a reason why they didn’t wear it. “We have to take off the mask while smearing each other with colour. The masks will get dirty. Also, it is a lot of trouble taking off and putting on masks repeatedly,” said a youth, standing in a group near the Vivekananda Road-Bidhan Sarani crossing. A group of young women near Tridhara Club in south Calcutta echoed a similar reason for not wearing masks. A tour of the city on Sunday morning and afternoon showed that most people out on the streets did not bother to wear a mask. Around 1.30pm on Sunday, Metro saw about 100 people had assembled outside a soft drink parlour at Golpark and a few neighbouring eateries. Almost no one had a mask on. People were chatting, shouting and celebrating. Earlier, around 11.15am, about 10 kids were seen playing Holi on a road in Lake Town without masks. This newspaper came across similar scenes on Raja Dinendra Street, CR Avenue, Sudder Street and Camac Street, to name a few. Youths smeared with colour were spotted in all parts of the city riding two-wheelers. Many two-wheelers had three persons and none of them was with a mask. The number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise in the state since late last month. The state on Sunday reported 827 new cases, 292 in Calcutta. On February 28, Bengal had reported 198 new cases and 62 of them were from Calcutta. Public health experts had warned that the number of cases could see a sharp rise after Holi if people did not adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We behaved responsibly during Durga Puja and other festivals last year, which is why there was no sharp jump in cases after the festivals. Let us wait for a week or 10 days. We will get to understand if there is a jump after Holi or not,” said one public health expert. In Bidhannagar, norm violation was observed in CF, BF, DL, FD, BB, DB, BC and other blocks. Samir Ganguly, a BC Block resident, who was out with his friends for a round of playing with colours, chose to leave the mask inside a car. So were his friends. “We had made plans to play colours and used only herbal abir. We kept the masks in the cars as we could not play while wearing them,” said Ganguly. In New Town, too, most gated communities had arranged for a string of activities for the day. While some arranged for morning matches, others had organised community breakfast and lunch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
29-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal logs 827 fresh Covid cases on Sunday||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 68, to 4,976, on Sunday. This was the 17th consecutive day of rise in the active case count after a 136-day stint of fall, since Vijaya Dashami last year, ended on March 11. The state on Sunday reported 457 Covid-19 recoveries, but 827 new infections were detected. There were two deaths, both in the city. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for a possible onset of the second wave of Covid, 292 and 193 new infections, respectively, were detected. Bengal now has 1.01 per cent of the national total of active cases and is 14th on the list of states with most active cases in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
29-03-2021||Calcutta||Holi: Events streamed online for safety ||Residents of a few Salt Lake blocks and the New Town authorities shifted their Holi cultural programmes online so that fewer people assembled at the venues. Residents of several other blocks in Salt Lake had placed chairs in such a manner that people in the audience could maintain a safe distance from each other. “No Mask No Entry” signs were put up on the gates of the community halls or parks where such programmes took place. Tapas Sengupta, the secretary of AE Block Samaj Kalyan Sangha, said they had earmarked an area for Holika Dahan on Sunday evening. “We had placed ‘No Mask No Entry’ signs at the entry to the park. We also asked residents to ensure that they wear masks and refrain from playing with colours in big groups,” said Sengupta. In EE Block, chairs were spaced out in the community centre to ensure physical distancing. Partha Chakraborty, a resident of the block, said they had cut down on the number of chairs to ensure some sort of physical distancing.  “We placed the chairs well apart so people were at a safe distance from one another. This was mandatory as most residents of our block are elderly.” The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) streamed it's Basanta Utsav programme online so that fewer people gathered at Rabindra Tirtha, near the Kolkata Gate, where the cultural programme had been arranged. Hidco chairman and managing director Debashis Sen said they had tweaked their programmes according to the guidelines sent by the health department, which prohibited big gatherings during Holi. “We shifted the time and also streamed the cultural programme held at Rabindra Tirtha live as we were not for allowing many people inside the auditorium," said Sen. According to him, the authorities had also discouraged residents from playing with colours, including dry abir, after the cultural programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
29-03-2021||Business||Manappuram plan to take Asirwad Microfinance public within a year||Manappuram Finance, the second-largest gold loan company in the country, is toying with the idea of hiving off and taking its microfinance arm Asirwad Microfinance public within a year, a top company official said. With a loan portfolio of over Rs 5,360 crore and close to 25 lakh customers across 23 states, Chennai-based Asirvad is the fourth-largest microfinance lender in the country in terms of the loan book. Founded in 2008 by S. V. Raja Vaidyanathan, Asirvad was taken over by Manappuram in February 2015 for Rs 48.63 crore. The V.P. Nandakumar-led company first bought a 71 per cent stake which was later increased to 95 per cent and the rest is with the founder Vaidyanathan. Under Manappuram, Asirvad has grown in leaps and bounds. From a loan book of just Rs 300 crore and a few lakh customers across 115 branches in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka when it was bought over, the company has over 1,030 branches across 314 districts in 23 states (excluding Andhra Pradesh and Telangana) and a loan book of over Rs 5,358 crore as of 2020-end, of which over Rs 1,000 crore is in Tamil Nadu alone. As of the December 2020 quarter, Asirvad had a loan book of Rs 5,357.71 crore, a growth of 6.68 per cent from Rs 5,022.14 crore in the year-ago quarter. This makes the microlending arm the biggest vertical after the gold loan business for the group. “We are planning to hive off Asirvad within a year, and then take it public. We are looking at the right valuation. I am looking at a price to book value of 3-4 times, which is 2 times now,” said V.P. Nandakumar, founder and chief executive of Manappuram Finance Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
29-03-2021||Business||Cochin Shipyard Bengal unit by June 2021||Public sector Cochin Shipyard is expected to operationalise a Rs 170-crore modern shipbuilding facility that it is building in Bengal by June 2021. The state-owned company, under the administrative control of the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways, recently emerged as the lowest bidder for a Rs 10,000-crore contract by the Indian Navy to build next generation missile vessels. Cochin Shipyard Limited, through its wholly owned subsidiary Hooghly Cochin Shipyard Limited (HCSL), is currently setting up a modern shipbuilding facility at Nazirgunge, Bengal, at an estimated project cost of Rs 169.76 crore. “The facility is expected to be operationalised in the first quarter of the financial year 2021-22,” the document said. HCSL targets to construct various types of vessels like Ro-Ro vessels, river-sea cargo vessels for bulk, liquids, containers, passenger vessels and other watercraft for the inland waterways. Cochin Shipyard has also commissioned a new marine engineering training institute Vigyana Sagar, which was dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 14, 2021. The company recently inked a pact with Dredging Corporation and IHC Holland BV to locally build world-class dredgers in India. At present, India depends on foreign dredgers for dredging work worth about Rs 2,000 crore per annum. CSL, India’s leading shipyard, can build ships up to 1,10,000 dead weight tonnage (DWT) and repair ships up to 1,25,000 DWT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
29-03-2021||Business||British government rejects Sanjeev Gupta's bailout plea||British ministers have rejected a request from mining magnate Sanjeev Gupta for a £170-million emergency loan to prevent his group, GFG Alliance, from collapsing, the Financial Times reported on Sunday. GFG, a holding company for Gupta’s assets, was the biggest recipient of financing from Greensill, a British financing company, which filed for insolvency earlier in March. The British government wrote back to Gupta formally rejecting the request last week due to multiple concerns, the FT reported, citing people familiar with the situation. GFG and the government did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment on the report. The conglomerate had been in talks with administrators of its former financial backer Greensill on a so-called standstill agreement. Last week, Reuters reported that GFG secured a loan from Trafigura in 2018 by agreeing a six-year deal to sell aluminium to the commodity trader at a discount to market prices. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson had earlier said that the government is “actively engaged” with  Sanjeev Gupta-led Liberty Steel which has been undergoing crisis talks after the collapse of its biggest commercial lender Greensill Capital. Addressing a question in the House of Commons from the Opposition Labour Party about the estimated 5,000 jobs at risk at Liberty Steel, Johnson had said that the UK business secretary Kwasi Kwarteng had held three meetings with Liberty Steel to take the question forward and see what the government can do. There have been some calls for the nationalisation of the firm in order to save jobs. “I share very much the anxiety of families of steelworkers at Liberty Steel. We are actively engaged. We are investing huge sums in modernising British steel, making a commitment to British steel plants and making them more environmentally friendly,” he said. Labour leader Keir Starmer had accused the Conservative Party-led government of not prioritising the British steel industry. “The UK steel industry is under huge pressure, and the government’s failure to prioritise British steel in infrastructure projects is costing millions of pounds of investment,” said Starmer during the Prime Minister’s Questions in the Commons. But Johnson had countered that, saying thanks to leaving the European Union (EU), the UK can direct steel procurement of its major infrastructure projects to British firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
29-03-2021||Business||Skoda shelves electric car plans for India||Czech automaker Skoda is not likely to drive in its electric car in India anytime soon as it thinks the market is not ready for such vehicles because of the high acquisition cost compared with internal combustion cars, a top company official has said. The automaker, which sells models such as the Rapid and the Superb in the market right now and is gearing up to drive in SUV Kushaq in July, has also decided to stay away from diesel powertrains for now and bring in only petrol-powered cars. “The economics of electric (vehicles) doesn’t work in the mass segments just yet. The battery prices have come down but not to an extent where they could compete with internal combustion engine cars and that is some years away,” Skoda Auto Volkswagen India managing director Gurpratap Boparai said. The electric vehicle business is not viable currently as the economics do not work, he added. He was responding to a query whether the company is looking to launch electric vehicles in the country. “Having said that the group is the one that has committed the most to electrification globally, and great steps have been taken in other markets. Those steps will get replicated here when either incentives are sufficient or the costs have come down,” Boparai noted. Under the India 2.0 Project, German automotive group Volkswagen had announced in 2018 that it would invest 1 billion euros between 2019 and 2021 as part of its strategy to enhance its presence in India. Skoda is responsible for pressing ahead with the India 2.0 project on behalf of Volkswagen Group since June 2018.  Boparai said the Volkswagen group would have its representation in the electric segment with a premium offering from group firm Audi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
29-03-2021||Business||Demand for CNG cars rises in Calcutta||With the inauguration of two CNG pumps in the city, Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM)s are gearing up to sell their CNG portfolio to customers here. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) which sells factory fitted CNG vehicles has already sold a few vehicles last week including the Dzire Tour S and Alto. Others including Hyundai and Tata Motors offers dealership fitted CNG vehicles. With a running cost of Rs 3 per kilometer in Calcutta (according to a fleet operator), CNG is not only cheaper than petrol or diesel which have running costs of Rs 7 per km and Rs 6 per km respectively, it is also an eco-friendly fuel that is retailing at Calcutta at Rs 67.67 per kg. Apart from Calcutta, there are CNG stations at Durgapur, Asansol, Bardhaman and Krishnanagar. “Till December 2020, total number of CNG stations in Bengal stood at 13 where as all-India there were 2,540 stations. In the next five years, Bengal will have 510 stations and pan-India the number will be 1,18,000,” said Shashank Srivastava, executive director, marketing and sales, MSIL. “While the overall industry has been down, CNG vehicles has shown a steady growth over the years. In FY 2017-18, Maruti sold 75,400 units, in FY18-19, 99,800, in FY 19-20, 106,000, in FY 2021, 139,000 vehicles. “Maruti’s CNG portfolio includes Alto, Celerio, Wagon-R, S-Presso, Eeco, Ertiga, Tour S and Super Carry and the company enjoys 88 per cent of the market share in CNG segment.  On an average, Maruti’s CNG variants give a mileage of 29 km per kg. Moreover, CNG vehicles are about Rs 75000 cheaper than diesel vehicles,” said Srivastava.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
29-03-2021||Business||RBI likely to maintain status quo at its next monetary policy review ||Amid uncertainty created by a surge in coronavirus cases, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is likely to maintain status quo at its next monetary policy review and wait for some more time before taking any action to spur growth. The RBI is slated to announce its first bi-monthly monetary policy of the 2021-22 fiscal on April 7, 2021 after a three-day meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das. On February 5, after the last MPC meet, the central bank had kept the key interest rate (repo) unchanged citing inflationary concerns. According to experts, the RBI is likely to continue with the accommodative monetary policy stance and wait for an opportune time to announce monetary action with a view to ensure the best possible outcome in terms of pushing growth without sacrificing the main objective of containing inflation. In a report, Dun & Bradstreet said the recent surge in the Covid-19 cases and the restrictions imposed by several states will impose further uncertainty and hurdles to the pace of revival of industrial production. Dun & Bradstreet global chief economist Arun Singh said long-term yields are hardening, leading to rise in borrowing costs. “In this context, the Reserve Bank of India faces the difficult task of managing the inflationary pressures while preventing a rise in the borrowing cost. “Despite the rising inflationary pressures, we expect the RBI to keep the policy repo rate unchanged in the forthcoming monetary policy review in view of the uncertainty posed by the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases,” he said. When asked about his expectations from the next MPC, Anarock Property Consultants chairman Anuj Puri said that with consumer inflation fluctuating and not yet stable and the policy repo rate also being substantially reduced by 115 basis points since February 2020, the RBI may consider keeping the rates on hold. “It is likely to keep an eye on how the inflation and the economic recovery pans out in the coming months amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. “India is witnessing a second wave with partial lockdowns being imposed across different states and cities. In such a scenario, it is only likely that the RBI will maintain status quo,” he said. Moreover, Puri added that even while the real estate industry's perennial hope is fixed on lower interest rates, the prevailing lowest-best home loan rates starting as low as 6.70 per cent are enticing enough for homebuyers. In a recent report, UBS Securities India economist Tanvee Gupta Jain expected the RBI to maintain comfortable liquidity in the near term to ensure least disruption to the government’s borrowing programme and support the economic recovery at a time Covid-19 cases are resurging in India. “We continue to expect the central bank to pursue policy normalisation in the second half of FY22 to keep inflationary pressures contained and preserve financial stability. “In our base case, we expect the MPC to shift towards a neutral policy stance and/or pursue reverse repo rate hikes (25-40bp) without recourse to policy (repo) rate hikes in FY22. We expect the repo rate to be hiked by 50 bps but only towards H2FY23,” Jain said Meanwhile, an Anand Rathi report said that the reversal of the softening trend of retail inflation seen in the past three months would put the RBI under pressure to review the extent of monetary and liquidity accommodation. “Hardening of core inflation would be of special discomfort. Despite these, the continued growth concern is likely to keep monetary policy accommodative during 2021,” it said. The policy repo rate or the short-term lending is currently at 4 per cent, and the reverse repo rate is 3.35 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
29-03-2021||Business|| Govt unlikely to take zero-coupon bond route to further recapitalise public sector banks||The government is unlikely to take the zero-coupon bond route to further recapitalise public sector banks after the Reserve Bank expressed some concerns in this regard, sources said. The government, they said, would resort back to recapitalisation bonds bearing a coupon rate for capital infusion in these banks. To save interest burden and ease the fiscal pressure, the government last year decided to issue zero-coupon bonds for meeting the capital needs of the banks. The first test case of the new mechanism was a capital infusion of Rs 5,500 crore into Punjab and Sind Bank by issuing zero-coupon bonds of six different maturities last year. These special securities with tenure of 10-15 years are non-interest bearing and valued at par. However, the RBI raised some concerns with regard to calculation of an effective capital infusion made in any bank through this instrument issued at par, sources said. As such bonds usually are non-interest bearing but issued at a deep discount to the face value, it is difficult to ascertain a net present value, they added. As a result, sources said, it has been concluded to do away with zero-coupon bond for recapitalisation. These special bonds are non-interest bearing and issued at par to a bank, they said adding that it would be an investment that would not earn any return and rather depreciate with each passing year. This innovative mechanism was adopted to ease the financial burden as the government has already spent Rs 22,086.54 crore as interest payment towards the recapitalisation bonds for PSBs in the last two financial years. During FY 2018-19, the government paid Rs 5,800.55 crore as interest on such bonds issued to public sector banks for pumping in the capital so that they could meet the regulatory norms under the Basel-III guidelines. In the subsequent year, according to the official document, the interest payment by the government surged three times to Rs 16,285.99 crore to PSBs as they have been holding these papers. For the current financial year, interest payment for recap bonds has been reduced to Rs 19,292.77 crore from Rs 25,239.4 crore pegged in the budget estimate. Under this mechanism, the government issues recapitalisation bonds to a public sector bank which needs capital. The said bank subscribes to the paper against which the government receives the money. Now, the money received goes as equity capital of the bank. So the government doesn't have to pay anything from its pocket. However, the money invested by banks in recapitalisation bonds is classified as an investment which earns them an interest. In all, the government has issued about Rs 2.5 lakh crore recapitalisation in the last three financial years. In the first year, the government issued Rs 80,000 crore recapitalisation bonds, followed by Rs 1.06 lakh crore in 2018-19. During the last financial year, the capital infusion through bonds was Rs 65,443 crore. Banks will conduct special clearing operations for the annual closure of government accounts on March 31, which is the last day of the current fiscal year, the RBI has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
29-03-2021||Business||Cairn Energy to bring lawsuits to pierce corporate veil ||The UK’s Cairn Energy Plc plans to bring lawsuits in the US and other countries to pierce the corporate veil between the Indian government and its owned companies such as in oil and gas, shipping, airline and banking sectors, to seize their overseas assets to recover $1.2 billion ordered by an international arbitration tribunal. The firm has moved courts in the US, UK, Canada, France, Singapore, the Netherlands and three other countries to register the December 2020 arbitration tribunal ruling that overturned the Indian government’s Rs 10,247-crore demand in back taxes and ordered New Delhi to return $1.2 billion in value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. With the government so far refusing to honour the arbitration award and instead choosing to challenge it, Cairn is looking to enforce it by seizing overseas Indian assets, Dennis Hranitzky, head of the sovereign litigation practice at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, a law firm representing the company, said. These assets can potentially be non-diplomatic ones and those owned by entities or companies controlled by the Indian government in those nine countries. “Cairn plans to bring lawsuits in the coming weeks to pierce the corporate veil to establish that (certain) state-owned entities are India’s alter ego under Bancec” for enforcing the arbitration award, he said. The Bancec guidelines deal with determining when a judgment against a foreign state is enforceable against its agencies. The lawsuit will be similar to the one brought by Crystallex International Corp to attach property of Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A (PDVSA), the state-owned oil company of Venezuela, in Delaware a couple of years back after the Latin American country failed to pay the firm $1.2 billion that an arbitration tribunal had ordered to pay in lieu of the 2011 seizing gold deposits held and developed by the firm. “Indian assets across several jurisdictions have been identified that Cairn will be seeking to seize to enforce the award,” he said, refusing to name the assets the firm may be looking to attach to recover the $1.2-billion-plus interest and cost that the arbitration tribunal had ordered. “Until we have commenced proceedings to seize the assets, this information is proprietary,” he said. Cairn is pulling out all stops to recover the damages award, including hiring a team of asset recovery experts. Sources said the assets that can be attached could range from airplanes to ships, to oil and gas cargoes and bank accounts of state-owned entities. “Cairn is moving forward with its enforcement plans with all deliberate speed. Under the laws of some countries, these proceedings can begin right away, whereas in others we will have to wait until after the award is recognised,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
29-03-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti's passport application rejected||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti's application for a passport has been rejected by the Regional Passport Office here, based on an "adverse" police verification report. In a letter to the People's Democratic Party (PDP) president, the passport officer has informed Mehbooba that her application for an Indian passport has been rejected as the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Union Territory had recommended against granting the document to her. The letter adds that Mehbooba can appeal against the decision at a higher forum provided by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Commenting on the rejection of her application, the PDP president said it shows the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir. "Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID's report citing it as 'detrimental' to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex Chief Minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation," she wrote on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
29-03-2021||India||Pawar admitted to hospital after complaining of abdominal pain||NCP chief Sharad Pawar will undergo surgery at a hospital here after it was diagnosed that he has gall bladder issue, a minister of his party in the Maharashtra government said here on Monday. "Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb was feeling a little uneasy due to a pain in his abdomen last evening and was therefore taken to Breach Candy Hospital for a check-up. Upon diagnosis it came to light that he has a problem in his Gall Bladder," Nawab Malik tweeted. "He is on Blood Thinning Medication which is now being stopped due to this issue. He will be admitted to the hospital on the 31st of March 2021 and an Endoscopy and Surgery will be conducted. Hence all his programmes stand cancelled until further notice," the minister added. The development comes amid speculation that Pawar (80) met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at a top industrialist's residence in Ahmedabad on Saturday. At a press conference in New Delhi on Sunday, Shah parried a query on the purported meeting, saying everything cannot be made public. Malik, whose party shares power in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and Congress, had said no such meeting took place, adding there is an attempt to create confusion by spreading such rumours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Delhi police warns of strict action against those not following Covid protocols on Holi||The Delhi Police on Monday said patrolling has been increased and strict action will be taken against those who do not follow coronavirus guidelines issued in view of Holi. Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases in the national capital, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Tuesday ordered that there would be no public celebrations here during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri. Delhi reported 1,881 coronavirus cases on Sunday, the highest in around three-and-half months, while the positivity rate rose to 2.35 per cent, according to the health department. Patrolling has been intensified during Holi, Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said. "Pickets have been placed by the district police in their respective areas. Patrolling has been increased. Police are focusing on those who are involved in drunken driving and action will be taken against them," he said. "As public gathering is not allowed this year during Holi celebrations, strict action will be taken against those who do not adhere to coronavirus protocols. Delhi Police appeals to the public to celebrate Holi with their family members at home," Biswal said. Police personnel, besides patrolling, are also urging to people to stay in their homes in view of rising coronavirus cases and making announcements through loudspeakers about guidelines and safety protocols. The Delhi Traffic Police has also made elaborate arrangements to check incidents of drunken driving and over-speeding among others. "Special checking teams have been deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points to detect and prosecute traffic violators. Special traffic police checking teams along with PCR and local police teams have been stationed on various roads and strategic locations or intersections across Delhi," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Choudhary said. In cases of drunken driving, red light jumping, using mobile phone while driving, dangerous driving and over speeding, the driving license will be seized and it will be liable for suspension for a period of minimum of three months, police said. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev had earlier directed authorities to ensure strict compliance of the DDMA order. On Saturday, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava had instructed his officers to ensure optimal visibility of the force and follow safety guidelines while strictly enforcing the DDMA orders amid the COVID-19 pandemic. In view of consecutive festivals in the coming week, he had stressed that the DDMA guidelines regarding COVID-appropriate behaviour should be strictly adhered to and enforced on the ground. The police commissioner had also instructed his staff to follow safety guidelines while enforcing the DDMA orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||All taxis in Goa to have digital fare meters in 6 months||Digital fare meters along with printer, GPS and panic button will soon be fitted on all taxis in Goa, state Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho has said. The task is expected to be completed in six months, Godinho said in a written reply tabled in the Goa Assembly on Friday in response to a question raised by Leader of the Opposition Digambar Kamat. The budget session of the state Assembly is currently underway. Godinho said the state government has amended Section 140 of the Goa Motor Vehicles Rules-1991, wherein every motor cab is to be fitted with a digital fare meter along with a printer, Global Positioning System (GPS) and a panic button. "After floating an e-tender, the work order is issued to an empanelled vendor to supply the devices. The government will soon start fitting the devices on taxis," he said. Goa has 674 yellow/black taxis, 14,575 all India taxis (having permit to go out of the state), 2,593 all Goa taxis and 2,250 app-based taxis, Godinho said in the written reply. Besides, 1,246 motorcycle taxis are also operating in the coastal state, he said. The state government has given permission to M/s Frotamiles Private Limited to operate the app-based cab aggregator Goa Miles, the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||India records biggest one day surge in fresh Covid cases since October||India saw 68,020 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the country's COVID-19 tally to above 1.20 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Registering a steady increase for the 19th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 5,21,808, which comprise 4.33 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.32 per cent, the data stated. A total of 68,020 new cases were reported in a day, the highest recorded since October 11 last year, taking the country's tally of cases to 1,20,39,644, while the death toll increased to 1,61,843 with 291 fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 74,383 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 11. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,55,993, while the case fatality rate has further has dropped to 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council for Medical Research, 24,18,64,161 samples have been tested up to March 28 with 9,13,319 samples being tested on Saturday. The 291 new fatalities include 108 from Maharashtra, 69 from Punjab, 15 from Chhattisgarh, 12 each from Kerala and Karnataka, and 11 each from Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,61,843 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 54,181 from Maharashtra, 12,670 from Tamil Nadu, 12,504 from Karnataka, 11,006 from Delhi, 10,324 from West Bengal, 8,786 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,205 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,690 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Idol falls on Puri Jagannath Temple servitor ||A servitor of the 12th century Puri Shree Jagannath Temple on Sunday sustained grievous injuries in his leg after a portion of a stone idol fell on him at Ugra Nursingha Temple located inside the main shrine. The servitor, identified as Jambeswar Mohapatra, fractured his right leg. Sources said the accident took place while he was performing the daily rituals in the morning. Soon after, he was found writhing in pain. Other servitors and temple officials rushed to the spot and immediately took him to the hospital for treatment. Mohapatra said: “The idol of Hiranya Kashyap which was installed in the lap of Ugra Nrusingha idol, fell accidentally on my right leg as a result of which I sustained injuries. However, by the God’s grace, I am feeling fine now.” The temple administration on Sunday announced that it would stick to its decision taken on March 23 to restrict the entry of devotees to the shrine  on Sundays from next week. “The temple will be disinfected every Sunday. After the temple is properly sanitised, it will be opened to the devotees the next day,” said chief administrator of the temple Dr Krishan Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Panic over death after Covid vaccine in Bihar||A 70-year-old woman died hours after taking the first dose of a coronavirus vaccine in Vaishali district of Bihar on Saturday, triggering panic in the village. Health officials and police rushed to Birma Math village following a ruckus by the villagers over the death of Sanjharia Devi. Her body has been sent to AIIMS Patna for post-mortem. Sanjharia Devi and three others who had taken the vaccine were feeling dizzy, Dinanath Mahto, a neighbour, told this paper. “On Friday night, Sanjharia managed to eat just half a roti because of dizziness and went to sleep with her 10-year-old granddaughter. At 2.30am, the girl woke up to go to the toilet and started crying when she could not wake up her grandmother,” he added. Vaishali civil surgeon Indra Deo Ranjan denied the vaccine had caused the death and said she was suffering from chronic hypertension and had previously suffered a paralysis attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh worker seeks wage, is killed ||A BJP politician’s son allegedly bludgeoned a domestic worker to death after he demanded his last two months’ wages before Holi, which he planned to spend with his family at home. Sandesh Kumar, 22, of village Paindabad in Kannauj district had been working for the past six months as domestic help for former MLA Banwari Lal Dohre in Dahlepur village in the same district. Vikas Rai, a local police inspector, said Banwari Lal’s son Ajit allegedly hit Kumar in the head with a rifle butt on Thursday after he demanded his wages as he wanted to go home for Holi. “However, it’s a subject of investigation,” he added. Some Dahlepur residents informed Kumar’s relatives he was lying injured and unconscious in front of Banwari Lal’s house. Family members rushed to Dahlepur, 10km from Painabad, and admitted him to Kannauj district hospital. “From there, they took him to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital in Kanpur the same evening. He died of brain haemorrhage on Sunday,” said Kannauj superintendent of police Prashant Verma. “We have arrested Ajit on the charge of murder on a complaint from the dead man’s family,” Verma said. Banwari Lal said: “I feel bad about my son’s activities. I don’t live with him; I live in Kannauj city. But I was told the servant had fallen down the stairs. Only a thorough inquiry can reveal the truth.” A BJP source said: “Ajit had been chosen to contest the Zila Panchayat election. Posters with his pictures had been put up across Kannauj city. He is also district president of the Vishwa Hindu Mahasangh, which promotes Hinduism and organises religious events.” A villager said Kumar earned a monthly salary of Rs 5,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls 2021: Stalin urges Rahul to stitch alliance against BJP||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday requested Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to stitch an alliance against the BJP at the national level, like the combine led by his party in Tamil Nadu, and accused the Centre of unleashing a “chemical” and “cultural” attack against the state. Addressing a public meeting here for the April 6 Assembly polls, Stalin said India was “suffocating due to the communal, fascist” forces and Rahul had a big responsibility to protect the nation against it. The rally here was the first in which leaders of all the constituents of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance took part, including Rahul. Stalin said the BJP got only 37 per cent of the votes polled in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, which meant that 63 per cent of the people opposed it, but they voted for different parties. There was no coalition at the national level — similar to the one in Tamil Nadu — against the BJP in the last Lok Sabha polls, he said. Hence, Rahul should take the responsibility to stitch an alliance against the BJP at the national level, he added. Addressing Rahul as brother, Stalin said the Congress MP had told him not to address him as sir. The ruling AIADMK is facing the polls in alliance with the Pattali Makkal Katchi, the BJP, the former union minister G.K. Vaasan-led Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) and other smaller parties. The BJP could not win even a single Lok Sabha seat from Tamil Nadu in the 2019 Parliamentary polls as secular parties, led by the DMK came together, he said. Also, the ensuing Assembly polls would be a “washout” for the BJP in Tamil Nadu, he said. According to the Election Commission data, seven national parties together secured 69 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls which includes the BJP’s 37.76 per cent and the Congress’ 19.7 per cent. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Sharad Pawar meeting? Amit Shah won’t deny ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said “everything can’t be made public” when he was asked if he had met Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar in Ahmedabad on Saturday. The power corridors in Delhi and Mumbai were abuzz with reports of a purported “secret meeting” between NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Shah. The reports came in the backdrop of the BJP’s all-out effort to topple the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra using the allegations of corruption levelled against home minister Anil Deshmukh by Param Bir Singh, who was recently removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner. The BJP has been demanding a CBI probe and resignation of the Uddhav Thackeray government over the charges. Deshmukh is an NCP leader. “Everything can’t be made public,” Shah replied when asked about reports of “two top Maharashtra leaders” meeting him in Ahmedabad. He did not deny such a meeting. Shah was in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar, his Lok Sabha constituency, on Saturday, the day voting kicked off in Bengal and Assam. However, Maharashtra minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik denied any meeting between Pawar and Shah, describing the speculation as the BJP’s way of creating “confusion”. “It is  completely false information deliberately pushed by some people to create confusion. It is something that BJP wants to create some confusion over. Such a meeting has not taken place. There is no reason that Pawar should meet Shah,” Malik said. Deshmukh on Sunday said a retired judge of the high court would probe the allegations of corruption levelled against him by Param Bir. The minister told reporters in Nagpur that he had asked the chief minister to initiate an inquiry into the allegations made against him. “The chief minister and the state government have decided that a retired judge of the high court will conduct a probe into the allegations against me. Whatever is the truth will come out,” he said. Sena leader Sanjay Raut in his weekly column Rokhthok in the party mouthpiece Saamana wrote that the Maharashtra government did not have a damage control machinery, as was seen when the allegations against Deshmukh were made. “Deshmukh got the home minister’s post by accident. Jayant Patil and Dilip Walse-Patil declined the post. That is why Sharad Pawar gave the post to Anil Deshmukh,” Raut wrote. He later tweeted: “Bura na mano Holi hai..”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Liquor vanished? UP cops blame it on rats||A probe has been initiated into a claim by a police station that rats were behind the disappearance of a large number of seized cartons of illicit liquor from a strongroom. A senior police officer has said over 1,400 cartons of liquor have been reported missing from the Kotwali Dehat police station here and a case has been registered against station house officer Indreshpal Singh and clerk Rishal Singh. However, a general diary at the police station mentions that 239 cartons have been damaged by rats. The senior police officer said thisseems to be fishy and unacceptable. Superintendent of police of Etah Udai Shankar Singh on Sunday confirmed the development and said that a probe was on. He, however, refused to elaborate further. A case has been registered against Indreshpal Singh and Rishal Singh. Both of them had not turned up to provide an explanation for the incident despite summons issued in their names, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
29-03-2021||India||Fire engulfs Kanpur hospital, 150 shifted||A massive fire broke out at the LPS Institute of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery in Kanpur city on Sunday, forcing the administration to shift all 150 patients to other hospitals. There was a strong rumour that at least two patients died in the fire but the officials claimed they were already in critical condition and died of other reasons. There were around 150 patients in the hospital, including 10 in the ICU, at the time. Raj Shekhar, commissioner of Kanpur division, said the fire didn’t claim any life in the hospital. “One of the patients had died of some ailment at 6:30am while the other, who was on pacemaker, died at 9.20am. The majority of patients have been shifted to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital in the city,” the officer said. However, eyewitnesses were quoted as saying to the media that there was smoke all over and the two patients might have died of suffocation before the hospital staff broke the glass panes of the ICU and emergency ward. They said it took the fire brigade two hours to control the fire, which broke out at 8am. Vinay Krishna, director of the hospital, said, “It appears that the fire broke out in the store room on the ground floor because of short circuit and eventually spread to the other areas. We have shifted all the patients to other hospitals.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said he had asked the officers and hospital administrations across the state to review the safety measures and upgrade them to prevent the repetition of such incidents. The deceased have been identified as Tek Chand, 65, from Hamirpur and Imam Ali, 60, from Kanpur. “He (Chand) was on a ventilator. The doctors asked us to take him out of the ICU as it was filled with smoke. He died when we brought him out,” a relative of Chand said. Ali had a pacemaker on. It was not clear how many have sustained injuries. A press statement from the information and publicity department of the government said: “Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji taking immediate cognisance of the fire incident in Kanpur’s Cardiology Institute has instructed the district administration to provide prompt and proper treatment to all the injured. “The chief minister has constituted a high-level inquiry committee under the chairmanship of principal secretary, medical education, to investigate the causes of the incident. DG fire service and commissioner Kanpur division will be members of this committee.” The statement added that the chief minister had instructed that the fire-fighting arrangements of all the hospitals should be investigated by running a campaign without delay so that similar accidents could be avoided in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
29-03-2021||India||Two-city scan for re-infections amid Covid surge||Health researchers in Chennai and Pune plan to systematically test blood samples from newly infected Covid-19 patients to determine if re-infections are contributing to India’s sharply rising second wave of the epidemic. The National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, and the Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Government Medical College, Pune, independently plan to look for IgG antibodies — a sign of earlier infection — in blood samples from confirmed Covid-positive patients. “Such studies will be very useful — we need to know who is getting infected,” said Dileep Mavalankar, a senior infectious disease epidemiologist with the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad, who is not associated with the Chennai or Pune efforts. The initiatives come amid what the Union health ministry described on Saturday as India’s “sharpest rise” in weekly new Covid-19 cases and deaths since May 2020 — a 7.7 per cent rise in new cases and a 5.1 per cent rise in deaths. India’s seven-day average of daily Covid-19 cases has nearly doubled in less than two weeks — from 24,400 on March 15 to 50,500 on March 26 — and the daily deaths have increased from 131 on March 15 to 291 on March 26. The epidemic’s current resurgence in places — such as Ahmedabad, Calcutta, Chennai, Mumbai and Pune — that were among the hardest hit during the previous wave in 2020 has puzzled researchers and triggered speculation about possible re-infections by mutated versions of the coronavirus. “It would be premature to say for now that variants are contributing to either re-infections or to the observed surge in different states,” said Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency. Doctors and health researchers know from studies worldwide over the past year that Covid-19 re-infections are rare. Among India’s more than 11.9 million cases, researchers have documented confirmed re-infections in less than 100 cases. “However, re-infection, although rare at this point, is a reality,” Panda told The Telegraph. “But people need to remember that protective measures such as wearing face masks, avoiding crowds and frequent hand-washing reduce the risk of both new infections and re-infections.” The plan by the Chennai and Pune researchers to look for IgG antibodies in newly infected patients can be tricky and challenging to interpret. People infected by the virus develop antibodies anyway and the samples should ideally be taken at the time of Covid-19 diagnosis or as close to it as possible. “We would ideally need at least a few hundred samples to make meaningful interpretations,” said Manoj Murhekar, director of the NIE, an institution under the ICMR that plans to collaborate with the Chennai city corporation for the study. A senior health researcher in Pune said that though there were rare anecdotal accounts of re-infections, the IgG study would help quantify the proportion of re-infections, if any, among the newly infected patients in areas under fresh epidemic waves. While India’s vaccination campaign is expected to enhance the number of people protected from the infection, officials underline that vaccinated individuals might still be able to pass on the infection. “The vaccines in use are able to prevent severe forms of the disease after infection, but might not prevent people from acquiring the infection,” Panda said. The health ministry on Saturday asked 12 states, including Bengal, to bolster public health responses and enforce precautionary behaviour by the public amid concerns that only 44 per cent of people wear masks and one infected person could spread it to 406 others over a month. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a videoconference with local authorities from the 46 hardest-hit districts, including Calcutta and 24 North-Parganas in Bengal, called for increased testing, efficient isolation of cases and quarantining of contacts, and improved hospital preparedness for a surge. Twenty-five of these 46 districts are in Maharashtra and account for nearly 60 per cent of the 332,000 new cases detected across the country over the past week. Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Bangalore, Bhopal, Chennai, Durg, Nagpur, Pune, Raipur, Surat and Thane are among the most affected districts. The ministry has flagged the high fatality rates in Chhattisgarh and Punjab and urged authorities to get doctors to ensure that patients with severe illness are moved to hospital in time and that doctors adhere to standard treatment protocols. The ministry has also asked the states to accelerate the vaccination campaign to immunise all those in the priority population groups in the districts with large numbers of Covid-19 cases as early as possible as an aid to the containment measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Vote for Left-Congress combine to bring Bengal out of darkness||Three days before the second-phase of polling in Bengal, former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee appealed to the electorate to vote for the Samyukta Morcha comprising the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front to save the state. "The Left Front, Congress and ISF have formed an alliance against authoritarianism and communalism. Only this alliance can bring the the state out of this darkness," Bhattacharjee said in a signed statement issued on Monday evening. Battling ill-health for long,  Bhattacharjee has largely kept himself home-bound in the 10 years since his defeat in Jadavpur in the summer of 2011. This year, he stayed away from the Brigade Parade ground rally where the Left, Congress and ISF had pledged to contest the polls jointly. "There is graveyard's silence in Singur and Nandigram. Those who conspired then are now busy trading charges at each other. The opportunity of gainful employment is lost. Our children are moving to other states," said Bhattacharjee. The former chief minister's statement came at a time when the debate over the Nandigram firing was rekindled by his bete noire Mamata Banerjee, who blamed her former confidantes, the Adhikarys of Contai. Bhattacharjee, who also held the home department while he was chief minister, had denied any order to the police to enter Nandigram on March 14, 2007. Many in social media apologised to the septuagenarian former chief minister. "In these 10 years Bengal has slid. The youths dream of getting jobs have crashed, education is in shambles, healthcare is out of the reach of the poor. Corruption, extortion, syndicates have made life difficult for the people," Bhattacharjee said. "The grassroots approach to development during the Left Front has been destroyed. The atmosphere of secularism is poisoned," he said, expressing confidence that the youth of Bengal will take the opportunity to bring about a turnaround in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||For Mamata, ‘gaddar’ Suvendu embodies ‘dirty, mischievous politics’  ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee admitted on Monday that the largesse showered on the Adhikary family by her had allowed them to keep the East Midnapore district on a tight leash, attempting to distance herself from the family on the penultimate day of campaigning at Nandigram, the only seat she is contesting from. Mamata narrated the parable of the mouse that was turned into a tiger but could not stay so for long and was forced to become a mouse again to prove her point. “I feel sad that this boy (Suvendu Adhkary), I made him the minister for irrigation, environment and transport. I made him the chairman of the Haldia Development Authority. His father the chairman of the Digha Development Authority (Sisir Adhikary is also three-time MP from Contai). His brother was the chairman of the Contai Municipality, Contai Co-operative Bank, Midnapore Co-operative Bank. One person ten posts. “Now they have made so much money, the BJP has caught them. Either join BJP or perish. He will be neither here nor there,” Mamata said while addressing a public meeting at Thakurchak in Nandigram, referring to her former cabinet colleague and the current BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari. “I have heard the ITI here is theirs. Trawlers, houses, hotels, petrol pumps everything, they have everything,” Mamata said, while she accused Adhikary of “dirty, nuisance and mischievous politics.” She also refers to him as “Gaddar” (traitor). Not just administrative power, Mamata had entrusted the responsibility of the party’s youth wing to Adhikary as well as and made him the party’s observer in key districts like Murshidabad, the home turf of Adhir Chowdhury, the state Congress president and a bitter critic of Mamata. Adhikary had successfully encroached into Chowdhury’s camp to poach some of the closest aides of Chowdhury like the former Kandi legislator Apurba Sarkar. “She gave a free hand to the Adhikary family because she understood their clout was crucial to keep the support base in the two Midnapores intact. There was no one in the organisation to keep a check on the growth of Tamluk as a separate power centre within the party,” said a senior Trinamul leader who did not want to be named. In his affidavit to the Election Commission, Adhikary has listed as “nil” with reference to commercial buildings and investments made on land for development and construction. In 2016 when he first contested from Nandigram, Adhikary had declared his assets to be around Rs 62 lakh. In the 2021 affidavit, Adhikary’s assets are valued at Rs 1,05,52,749 crore. The acrimony between the chief minister and her once-trusted aide from the region has now spilled over to the campaign where Adhikary is the sitting MLA and is seeking re-election on a BJP ticket. Union Home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to hold a roadshow for him on Tuesday. The 2007 anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram had propelled Mamata’s career as a politician and brought her to the forefront against the erstwhile Left Front government. On Sunday, Mamata raked up the events of March 14, 2007 in Nandigram, when 14 villagers were killed in police firing. In her days as the principal Opposition leader in Bengal, Mamata had claimed that CPM had sent its cadres with police. Then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee had denied sending the police, though the denial was largely seen as a face-saver. The Nandigram movement had sealed the fate of the Left Front government, which was voted out of power in 2011. While campaigning, Mamata claimed that police could not have entered Nandigram without a green signal from the Adhikarys, though she did not name them. On Monday, Mamata claimed the Adhikarys were hand-in-glove with CPM-backed goons. “The CPM leader, Naba Samanta, who had committed atrocities on the people of Nandigram, is now a BJP leader and Gaddar is his leader,” she said. “The CPM (Left Front government) filed cases against everyone but not Gaddar. He was not there. He did not lead the movement,” she said. Filmmaker Kamaleswar Mukherjee, an active votary for the Left-Congress alliance, questioned why Mamata had pointed fingers at then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in a social media post. “The chief minister has said the firing on Nandigram villagers was done by armed men under the orders of a member of her cabinet and undisputed leader. Questions: Why didn’t she stop them that day? Despite being aware of it, why  hasn’t she punished them? Why did she call Leftists “mass-murderers”? If she knew everything, why had she held the former chief minister responsible?” Mamata has claimed that for the April 1 polls, goons have been brought from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh who would  be sent to the villages in police uniform to threaten local residents to vote for BJP. In a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer, West Bengal, the Trinamul Congress has officially requested not to deploy policemen from any of the NDA-ruled states in the country. The party has also alleged that “outsiders” have been given accommodations in hotels, lodges, guest houses, houses of BJP leaders and even rented ones, on Nandakumar High Road and Chandipur, and also in some schools and an election office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Death of BJP worker's mother sparks political uproar in Bengal||The BJP on Monday claimed that an 82-year-old woman, a party worker's mother, succumbed to her injuries sustained during an attack by Trinamool Congress supporters in Nimta area of West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district last month. BJP workers staged a protest in front of Nimta police station and burnt tyres on M B Road, even as the TMC claimed that its activists were not involved in any attack and she might have died due to age-related ailments. Expressing grief over the woman's death, Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted, "Anguished over the demise of Bengal's daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers," he said in a tweet. Union minister Debasree Chaudhuri told reporters that the elderly woman succumbed to her injuries sustained during the TMC attack on her house on February 27. She had undergone treatment at a hospital for 27 days. Dismissing the allegations, TMC MP Sougata Roy said, "The incident has no relation with politics and the BJP is unnecessarily trying to cash on a death." "Any death is unfortunate and tragic. TMC men were not involved in any attack. We have information that she might have died due to old age-related ailments," he added. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday said she does not support violence against women and is not aware of the real reason behind the death and wondered why Union Home Minister Amit Shah remains silent when women are "tortured to death" in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. "I don't know how the sister has died. We don't support violence against women. We have never supported violence against my sisters and mothers. "But the BJP is now politicising the issue. Amit Shah is tweeting and saying Bengal Ka Kya Haal hain. Why does he remain mum when women are attacked and brutalised in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh?" Banerjee said while addressing a rally in Nandigram. Highlighting that Model Code of Conduct is in place, law and order is now under the jurisdiction of the ECI, Banerjee said, "Three Trinamool Congress workers have been killed in the last few days."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah says Modi's Bangladesh trip not aimed at influencing Bengal polls||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday denied that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bangladesh visit was aimed at influencing the Bengal elections. “The Prime Minister’s trip is to strengthen the ties between the two countries, to revive the cultural ties,” Shah said in reply to a reporter who had referred to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that Modi had violated the model code of conduct by courting “one community” during his Bangladesh trip. But before answering, Shah sought to question the reporter for asking the question. “They (Mamata and Trinamul) will raise questions, why are you (doing so)?” the home minister asked. Mamata had threatened to ask the Election Commission to act against the Prime Minister after Modi on Saturday visited Orakandi, the birthplace of Matua sect founder Harichand Thakur in Bangladesh, and tweeted pictures of the “blessed moments”. The Matuas, immigrants from Bangladesh, have a sizeable vote in at least 40 Assembly seats in Bengal and the BJP has been systematically courting them. Several Matua leaders have said Modi’s Orakandi visit would influence the community’s voting preferences. “Kal pradhan mantri ne koi baat ki hai prachar ki (Did the Prime Minister say anything yesterday that amounted to campaigning)?” Shah asked. “Koi baat nahi ki (He didn’t say anything).” He added: “There, the Prime Minister didn’t say anything about Mamata Didi or the BJP or the election.” Shah did not mention Modi’s visit to Orakandi. Shah predicted the BJP would win the overwhelming majority of seats in the first phase of polls in Bengal and Assam, citing specific figures. The Election Commission had on March 26 banned the media from publishing or broadcasting, till the end of the last phase of voting, anything —“astrology, tarot card  readers, political analysts or by any person” — that sought to predict the election results. Asked about Shah’s predictions at the news conference, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “A frustrated home minister is resorting to fake claims, which is his characteristic style. Will Shah tell us how many people refused to even take BJP tickets in Bengal? They gave tickets to people who are not members of the BJP. He is frightened and is now trying to mislead the voters.” Shah had sounded as though he was still the BJP president as he addressed the media on the sprawling lawns of his ministerial residence, a party banner in the background. Conventionally, it’s the BJP president and not the country’s home minister who holds such media briefings relating to the party’s poll prospects. Shah had handed over the party reins to J.P. Nadda in January last year. BJP insiders said everyone knew that Shah continued to be the de facto party chief, and Shah appeared to be underscoring that reality on Sunday. Shah congratulated the Election Commission for the violence-free voting – repeating sentiments expressed by the BJP on Saturday in a role reversal that saw Trinamul complain of muscle-flexing by its rival. “After many years, polling was held without any violence (in Bengal). The Election Commission deserves credit for the peaceful polling,” Shah said. He thanked the women voters, claiming they had voted in large numbers for the BJP. Asked about the purportedly leaked phone conversation between BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Shishir Bajoria about the need to appoint non-resident polling agents, Shah asked how the call had been “tapped”. “The question is, who tapped it and how did it happen?” he said. He claimed there was nothing secretive about what the two BJP leaders were discussing and added that they had made the demand in writing to the Election Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Change in nominee, Trinamul fields Gorkha ||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday announced a Gorkha as the candidate of the Matigara-Naxalbari Assembly segment near here, replacing a retired army officer whom the party had earlier named for the seat with a substantial number of Gorkhas. The new nominee, Rajen Sundas, was an officer in the Bengal transport department. Retired army captain Nalini Ranjan Roy was the party’s earlier candidate. “Rajen Sundas is a well-known face in the Terai, particularly in Siliguri and the surrounding areas. Nalini Ranjan Roy has been made the chairman of the constituency-level committee formed by Trinamul to oversee the election,” said Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) Trinamul district president. The decision, Trinamul insiders said, was made by the central leadership of the party after both the factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha had stressed that a Gorkha candidate could help Mamata Banerjee’s party win the seat. Trinamul has never won Matigara-Naxalbari. “There are over 50,000 Gorkha voters in the constituency. That is why the change has been made. Rajen Sundas is the second Gorkha candidate fielded by Trinamul in the state,” said a Trinamul insider. The other Gorkha candidate nominated by Trinamul in the Assembly polls is Passang Lama in the Kalchini seat in Alipurduar district. In 2011, Trinamul had left the Matigara-Naxalbari seat for the Congress, whose Sankar Malakar had won the election. Malakar had retained the seat in 2016 and is the current Congress candidate also. The BJP has fielded Anandamoy Burman in the seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Polling ends, NIA arrests Chhatradhar Mahato||The National Investigation Agency arrested Trinamul state committee member Chhatradhar Mahato, former poster boy of a Maoist-backed tribal movement in Jungle Mahal, from his Lalgarh home in an old terror case early on Sunday, hours after the region had voted on Saturday. Trinamul Congress vice-president Saugata Roy alleged a political conspiracy to target a man who had played a key role in the party’s campaign for the first phase of the Bengal elections. “As soon as Phase I ended, he was picked up in a political conspiracy. The NIA is a central agency and we suspect the BJP-led government ordered the arrest,” Roy said. Chhatradhar, formerly a leader of the People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCPA) — a tribal body accused of being a Maoist front in Jungle Mahal — has been arrested in connection with a train hijack by villagers in late 2009. His wife Niyati said a group of “at least 40-50 people” raided the house early in the morning. Chhatradhar was later produced at Bankshall court in Calcutta and remanded in NIA custody till March 30. Chhatradhar is also accused of the June 2009 murder of CPM leader Prabir Mahato in Jhargram and spent over 10 years in jail as an undertrial before getting bail in February last year. Both cases are with the NIA, which has slapped the anti-terror law UAPA against him in both. On Thursday, Calcutta High Court had directed Chhatradhar to appear before the NIA in Calcutta thrice a week in connection with the cases against him. The NIA said he was arrested for disobeying the court directive. But a Trinamul leader from Jungle Mahal said: “Chhatradhar had travelled to Calcutta on Friday too, but they arrested him not then but on Sunday morning from his home, after the vote.” Trinamul insiders believe the NIA did not arrest Chhatradhar before the polling lest it hand Trinamul a sympathy plank. They said Chhatradhar looked after a dozen seats in Jungle Mahal and held hundreds of meetings in crucial pockets. Niyati said NIA officers had snatched the couple’s phones after barging into their home early in the morning. “He was pushed and brought down from the terrace. When he asked what the matter was, he was told he had to come out. They said they had come from the police station,” Niyati told reporters. Chhatradhar’s lawyers alleged the NIA had not told the family the reason for the arrest after storming the house with around 35 police personnel. Chhatradhar had come into the limelight as an articulate PCPA spokesperson over a decade ago, enjoying local support for his criticism of the then ruling Left Front over the lack of development in parts of Jungle Mahal. Thousands would gather to listen to him. After several civil society members met him in Lalgarh, Mamata Banerjee decided to share a dais with him in February 2009. But then came Prabir’s murder in June, and Chhatradhar was arrested by the state police before the case was handed over to the NIA. Four months after the murder, a group of villagers blocked tracks and stopped a Bhubaneswar-bound Rajdhani Express at Banshtala station in Jhargram. The armed hijackers allegedly abducted the driver and his assistant and asked the passengers to vacate the train. The NIA accuses Chhatradhar of orchestrating the incident to secure his release from jail. After Chhatradhar walked out on bail last year, Trinamul inducted him into the party realising his reach in parts of Jhargram, Bankura and West Midnapore. But two months after Chhatradhar’s release, the Union home ministry asked the NIA in April 2020 to probe the hijack case and the alleged role of the PCPA and Chhatradhar. A case had already been registered under penal code sections 121 and 121A (waging war against the nation), 506 (criminal intimidation), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting) as well as provisions of the Railways Act. The NIA added the UAPA saying the case involved the “hijacking of persons to threaten sovereignty of India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
29-03-2021||West Bengal||15 Himalayan griffons die in Jalpaiguri, posion suspected||Fifteen Himalayan griffons died and 25 other birds fell ill on Saturday evening apparently after consuming a cattle carcass at Damdim in the Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri district. Himalayan griffon is a vulture species. The forest department has started treating the ill birds and suspects the poisonous carcass caused the vultures’ death. Sources said a group of around 50 Himalayan griffons had gathered near the cattle carcass dumped by some people near a quarry on the bank of the Chel river to feed on the dead animal. “As the evening rolled, one bird after another started falling on the ground. We immediately informed foresters,” said Nafsar Ali, a wildlife conservationist at Odlabari in the Dooars. Officers of the Targhera forest range and the Malbazar wildlife squad seized the dead birds and took the sick vultures to the nature interpretation centre at Lataguri, on the fringes of the Gorumara National Park, for treatment. Later, Gorumara additional divisional forest officer Riya Ganguly went to the spot. “We suspect the carcass was poisonous, which led to the deaths of vultures. Our officers have contacted vets to carry out post-mortem of the birds to know the exact cause of the death. The ill birds have been treated and are under observation,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata returns to Nandigram with plot charge||Mamata Banerjee returned to Nandigram on Sunday, hosting two rallies in the afternoon and evening and visiting Birulia Bazaar where she had suffered injuries to the left foot on March 10, and alleging that it had been an attack aimed at immobilising her during the election campaign. The chief minister said she had got injured at Birulia Bazaar, when “four-five people” had slammed the door of an SUV she was travelling in during her campaign at Nandigram. “I was standing on the footboard to greet people.… Suddenly, four-five people slammed the door on me, and my ankle got smashed. It started bleeding,” said Mamata, addressing a rally at a ground barely a few hundred meters from the site of the incident. “There was a conspiracy and it was an attack to immobilise me during the campaign.” After conducting two programmes — one each in Chandipur and Reyapara — she came to Birulia. “I am here to clarify what happened that day... some people had said that the car had hit a pillar. It’s wrong,” she said, referring to the BJP’s allegations. Then, Mamata took care to explain that although she got injured she didn’t hold any grudge against anyone in Nandigram. “I came here to thank that young man, who got a pack of ice for me after I was hurt,” said the Trinamul Congress chief, while adding that the gesture of the youth proved how much the people of Nandigram loved her. In her 40-minute address, Mamata took care to explain her close association with Nandigram since the anti-land acquisition movement of 2007. The chief minister also used the occasion to counter the BJP narrative, that the Nandigram movement was led by Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, now the BJP’s candidate. “I was planning the protests and sending people here... after the March 14 firing, when I came here, the father and son duo were not here,” she said. “Now they call me an outsider? I could have contested from any seat in Bengal. But I chose this place because you wanted me,” she added. Mamata’s Sunday events marked the beginning of a five-day stay in the area. Mamata is taking on her former protege Suvendu Adhikari, who left Trinamul and joined the BJP, at Nandigram. She gave her usual call to unity in the face of Hindutva and remonstration toward the “father-son” turncoat duo of the Adhikari clan. Mamata also mocked Union home minister Amit Shah over his claim, made in New Delhi, that the BJP would win in at least 26 of the 30 seats that went to the polls in Phase I on Saturday. “Yesterday, votes for 30 seats in Bengal were cast.... Amit Shah is saying the BJP will get 26.... They will get golla (zero),” she said. Mamata was especially critical of central forces deployed in the state, alleging that they had been acting out of order. “Central police have been beating people over here... I don’t know who is directing all this, but people are being denied their right to vote because they are not wearing a mask. This is not the police’s role,” she added. The chief minister’s evening address at Reyapara, a residential area, was a mixture of culture and politics, with Mamata paying her regards on the occasion of Holi as well as lashing out at the Adhikaris. Signing off, Mamata made several references to the history of the land agitation, and underscored how contesting from Bhowanipore would have been relatively effortless for her. “It is your love, how you reacted to the idea when I first brought it up (in January), which encouraged me to contest from here,” she said. “I am contesting from here to honour the innumerable icons of our struggle for freedom who were born here,” added Mamata. The chief minister repeatedly underscored the inclusive, pluralistic worldview of her party, contrasting it with that of the BJP. “The BJP may say otherwise, but in my party, Hindus and Muslims are two petals of the same flower.… Does anyone remember Kazi Nazrul Islam as a Muslim poet? Or Rabindranath Tagore as a Hindu poet? No, they are remembered as poets of the world,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Basanta Utsav turns unofficial in Santiniketan||Basanta Utsav, the time-honoured spring festival in the varsity town of Santiniketan that coincides with Holi, was celebrated here on Sunday at two different locations even as varsity officials made no official comment on its own celebration. Traditionally, Visva-Bharati hosts a carnival in celebration of the event that is visited by tens of thousands of tourists. However, it was cancelled owing to Covid-19 in 2020 and went officially unobserved this year following a spate of controversial on-campus events involving the vice-chancellor and purported on-campus politics. Still, two Trinamul Congress-backed entities — a Durga Puja committee in Jamboni, and the Bolpur traders’ committee at the Kabiguru handicrafts market — organised their own celebrations. “Visva-Bharati is slowly trying to phase out Santiniketan’s culture. We will never allow that and did not want to feel the absence of celebration,” said Jamboni organiser Debabrata Mondal. In the evening, Tagore’s dance drama Chitrangadawas staged. “We had planned the programme after discussing with a group of former students and officials of Visva-Bharati, as our goal was to bring the actual traditional programmes before the crowd. We are successful,” organiser Mondal. In the traditional Basanta Utsav observed by Visva-Bharati, the programme starts from the eve of the Holi through a procession called Baitalik. In the morning, over a 1,000 students marched in a procession singing Tagore songs. In the evening, the varsity organises a dance drama by Tagore. Varsity sources declined comment on the events, alluding to an event last week that reportedly mimicked Basanta Utsav but was held within closed quarters owing either to Covid-19, or the campus climate, or both. “We followed precautions in hosting a song and dance here today, and a performance of Rabindrasangeet,” said organiser Aminul Huda at the handicrafts market. Trinamul’s Bolpur candidate and fisheries minister Chandranath Sinha was present at both the events. “We want the people of Bolpur to enjoy their heritage and we support these events. They are being held to protest the varsity dispensation’s attitude,” he said. Sources in the ruling party said the events were organised to prove a point to the current varsity authorities led by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, allegedly with a saffron bias. In a related event, BJP workers led a folk-song procession in observance of Holi up to the campus grounds on Sunday afternoon. “We always want Visva-Bharati to uphold its traditions. If Trinamul is alleging politics in this, it’s because they are closely linked to the VC. We have nothing to do with all this,” said BJP candidate Anirban Ganguly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
29-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee wanted one hill seat for Trinamul Congress, says Bimal Gurung||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha founder president Bimal Gurung on Sunday claimed that Mamata Banerjee had wanted the Trinamul Congress to contest the Kalimpong seat, while leaving Kurseong for the Binay-Tamang-Anit Thapa faction of the hill party and Darjeeling for the Gurung camp. The Gurung and the Tamang-Thapa factions of the Morcha, despite being bitter rivals, are allies of Trinamul. Trinamul decided to leave the three hills seats to “friends” in Darjeeling. While campaigning in Darjeeling for his faction’s candidate on Sunday, Gurung said: “Don’t you think Mamata Banerjee did not tell me to leave the Kalimpong seat for the TMC, Kurseong for Anit Thapa and was I not asked to stand from Darjeeling? I, however, said these (three seats) are ours and even if the TMC fields candidates, we will go ahead and field our own candidates. It is then that the hills were declared a free zone.” Gurung’s revelation, if true, provides an insight into Mamata’s actual plan for the hills and also his poll strategy to project as a true guardian of the hills. However, Mamata’s  decision to leave the three hill seats to “friends”, which could be both the Tamang-Thapa camp and the Gurung camp, has hurt her party in the hills. Trinamul has not been able and cannot afford to ask its supporters to vote for a particular faction of the Morcha as both are its allies. “In the process, Trinamul foot-soldiers are feeling let down,” said an observer. On Friday, Trinamul workers from the hills met in Siliguri to discuss this particular issue. “We have always sacrificed a lot for the party, but where do we stand now?” a senior Trinamul leader said when asked about the meeting. “But we tried our best to explain that our party’s stand is in our interest.” Gurung’s revelation on Sunday, many believe, is also an attempt to send an impression that he is close to Mamata and he would not be ignored if Trinamul forms the government in Bengal. An insider of Tamang’s camp, however, rejected Guurng’s speech. “We had sent three names to Calcutta (Mamata Banerjee). The list included Amar Singh Rai for Darjeeling, Tshering Dahal for Kurseong and Ruden Lepcha for Kalimpong. It is another story that the party leadership decided to change Amar Singh Rai’s name at the end,” the insider said. Keshav Raj Pokhrel is a Binay-Anit camp’s candidate from Darjeeling. New GTA chief Surendra Gupta, principal secretary, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), was appointed the “administrator” of the GTA, replacing Anit Thapa as the chairman, board of administrators, GTA, on Sunday by the Bengal government. The development came after Thapa had “appealed” to the Election Commission of India (ECI) through social media, to replace him till the model code of conduct is in place for “fair and free” elections in hills. Thapa’s appeal was made public a few hours before the state government’s replacement decision came. “Thapa was smart in his move as he was replaced by the state government and not the EC,” said an observer. The state government’s order read: “WHEREAS the Election Commission of India has received complaints on the disharmony in GTA between political nominees in Board of Administrators and the principles of level playing field and…” Before the EC’s decision, the state government replaced Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
29-03-2021||North East||Congress launches scathing attack on BJP over newspaper ad||Launching a scathing attack on the BJP, Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora on Monday questioned the need for the saffron party to spend crores of rupees on a newspaper advertisement if it's confident of winning all the assembly seats in Upper Assam that went to polls in the first phase on March 27. The Congress has lodged an FIR against Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, BJP chief J P Nadda, state president Ranjit Kumar Dass and eight leading newspapers for "camouflaging an advertisement as news" predicting the saffron party's victory in all the seats in Upper Assam. It has accused the saffron party of violating the Model Code of Conduct (MCC), provisions of Section 126A of the Representation of People Act, 1951 and the ECI's directives issued on March 26. Bora alleged that there is no unanimity among BJP leaders over their prediction and they are hiding their failure by putting up such advertisements. "At first, the BJP had said it will win 46 seats, then the advertisement claimed the saffron party will emerge victorious in all the 47 seats. The state BJP president later said his party will win 42 seats and finally, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the BJP will secure 37 constituencies. "There is no unanimity among the BJP leaders on the number of seats they are expected to win as they want to mislead people and hide their failure. If they are so confident of winning all the seats in the first phase, why did they have to spend crores of rupees on the newspaper advertisement," he told reporters. The state Congress had filed a complaint with Assam Chief Electoral Officer Nitin Khade and the AICC with the Election Commission of India against the publication of the advertisements on Sunday urging immediate action against the BJP and the newspapers. "The question also arises under what circumstance was the BJP forced to spend crores of rupees on advertisements predicting its victory. If it is confident of winning, why will it spend money to stress it? Journalists and other agencies are would have anyway done their assessment and filed reports highlighting the trends," he said. Bora said that the people of Assam have realised that the BJP is out to fool them and they will not give the saffron party the responsibility of running the next government in the state. "The foundation for the formation of the Grand Alliance government after May 2, when results will be declared, was laid in the first phase of the polling in which around 80 per cent of the 81.09 lakh voters exercised their franchise," the PCC chief said. The AICC and the party's state unit have closely monitored the situation and calculated that the Congress will win more than 30 seats in the first phase, he said. Bora said that people of Assam are convinced that only Congress can protect their identity and culture by not allowing the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. "Even if Nadda says that CAA is a central legislation, he seems to have forgotten that the state government will have to ratify it for implementation. We will not ratify it if we come to power in Assam," he said. Bora said his party will repeal the law if it comes to power at the Centre in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. He said the Congress had not given any advertisement but over 1.75 lakh youths have registered themselves for the job guarantee campaign and over 75,000 of them have interacted with party leaders in the constituencies that went to polls in the first phase. "We do not mislead people or make promises without proper planning. Former prime minister and renowned economist Dr Manmohan Singh has examined our job guarantee campaign and given a viability report, after which it was presented before the people," he said. The BJP, on the other hand, makes provocative statements and announces unfeasible schemes without proper planning, just to mislead people and win elections. "We thank the people for showing immense maturity by not getting swayed by such claims and coming out in large numbers to exercise their franchise for bringing a change," Bora added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
29-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Ad in garb of news predicts BJP win ||Splashed across the top of the front pages of many of Assam’s leading newspapers on Sunday was a line proclaiming the BJP would win all the Upper Assam seats, that is, all the 47 constituencies that voted in the first phase on Saturday. To most readers it would have looked and sounded like a news headline — except it wasn’t. It was a BJP advertisement, with the party’s name and lotus symbol printed to its left. All ads published during the poll process are vetted by a group of designated Election Commission officials. The poll panel had on March 26 prohibited media outlets from telecasting or publishing — between 7am on March 27 and 7.30pm on April 29 — anything that “in any way whatsoever predict(s) the results of the election”. A furious Congress has alleged a deliberate ploy to “influence and deceive” voters ahead of the remaining two phases of the Assam elections, scheduled on April 1 and 6. It has approached the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Assam and the Election Commission of India (ECI) in Delhi seeking action against BJP president J.P. Nadda, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and the poll panel officials who cleared the ad. The party has also demanded a fresh poll panel directive to newspapers and TV channels not to publish or broadcast such ads during the polls. Around 8pm, the Congress filed an FIR with Dispur police station in Guwahati against Nadda, Sonowal and Dass for allegedly violating Section 126A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the model code of conduct, state Congress legal department chairman Niran Borah told this newspaper. The FIR underlined that violating Section 126A was punishable with up to two years of imprisonment and a fine. “The EC has a committee to supervise (ad) content. How did they let this deceptive content pass?” state Congress media department head Bobbeeta Sharma told The Telegraph. “The ad appeared as though it was a news headline written by the newspapers. The intent was to mislead and influence the public.” Seven Assamese dailies and one English and one Hindi newspaper published the ad, which said “BJP to win all constituencies of Upper Assam”. Over this line was another in smaller print, saying “Huge enthusiasm among supporters and karyakartas of BJP”. All the 47 constituencies that voted on Saturday are in Upper (eastern) Assam. Assam CEO Nitin Khade told this newspaper the commission was examining the matter. Political parties do make general claims of success after each phase of polling, but none has in the past been known to put out advertisements claiming victory, that too in every seat in a particular phase. “We understand that the ECI has already sought a report from the Assam CEO and given instructions to the newspapers as well,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. The poll panel’s March 26 circular said: “The commission is of the view that predictions of results of elections in any form or manner by way of astrology, tarot card readers, political analysts or by any person during the prohibited period is violation of the spirit of Section 126A which aims to prevent the electors of constituencies still going to polls from being influenced in their voting by such predictions about the prospects of various political parties.” It is for this reason that publishing exit poll results is banned till the voting in the last phase ends. The Congress petition to the Election Commission said: “The BJP after realising that their defeat is inevitable, has resorted to desperate illegal and unconstitutional methods to influence the voters across the state. In a pre-planned conspiracy and in order to defraud the voters of Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal, J.P. Nadda, Ranjeet Kumar Dass and other BJP members and functionaries, wilfully and knowingly have issued advertisements camouflaged as political predictions, as headlines, on front page, in various newspapers throughout Assam by which the said persons have disseminated false/ untrue outcome of the results of the first phase of voting in Assam.” The state BJP’s chief spokesperson, Rupam Goswami, said the advertisement merely reflected the party’s confidence, based on ground reports. “Why is the Congress so worried? All ads are passed after approval from poll panel officials entrusted with vetting advertisements,” Goswami said. R. Ravi, editor of the Hindi newspaper Dainik Purvadoy that carried the ad, told this newspaper: “It is an advertisement, not a news report. The BJP symbol was beside the content.” P.G. Baruah, editor of The Assam Tribune, only said: “The advertisement came in late.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
29-03-2021||Opinion||India's gig economy||One major consequence of rapid economic growth driven by new technologies has been the informalization of the workforce across the world. India is no exception to the rise of what is referred to as the gig economy. Gig workers work outside the traditional employer-employee relationship. They work on platforms like e-commerce, food delivery, cab rides on piecemeal rates or short-term contracts. A survey report by Ernst & Young in 2017 had estimated that 24 per cent of the global gig force was from India. For people entering the workforce, this appears to be the new normal. This sector has been lauded for giving freedom to workers to choose when they work, the quantum of work, and its terms and conditions. However, the main economic benefit goes to business organizations that can increase their sales and reduce labour costs. Gig economy workers are not treated legally as ‘employees’ and, hence, do not have the right to seek certain kinds of compensations and rights. For instance, they are not covered under the minimum wages regulations; neither do they have the right to organize. They are at the mercy of the organization hiring them or, worse, the customers who might give them a poor rating. People on formal, short-term contracts can have some benefits guaranteed under the contract law of the country. However, even in these circumstances, the hired workers are often not granted their rights. The distinction made between a worker and an employee is used sweepingly to cover people with diverse earning potentials — for instance, from a top-end information technology consultant to an e-commerce delivery person. The former can afford to choose a work partner and demand high fees. The latter can afford neither. The labour code introduced by the Centre allows for some benefits to be guaranteed to gig workers, such as minimum wages and health cover under the Employees’ State Insurance Scheme. The workers at the bottom of the gig economy need much more than this. They need regulations that protect them from exploitative contracts or working terms and conditions; they need the right to organize as well as a transparent mechanism for grievance redressal. Workers in this sector require some kind of income protection too, and the right to own their personal data that reveal their performance, efficiency and experience. The gig economy is here to stay. The earlier the problems are addressed, the better for society and economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Opinion||Strong bond: Modi's Bangladesh visit||Sir — The Indian prime minister’s visit to Bangladesh to commemorate the 50th Independence Day of the country was timely. This trip was crucial to cement the bond between India and Bangladesh, which has, in recent times, bent towards China when it comes to bilateral trade. This, the Indian prime minister realized, was not good for the country’s interests. More so given the pandemic-induced dip in the economy. The revival of trade ties is a necessity at this juncture. India must address the bottlenecks in trade relations. In this context, the message delivered by the former prime minister, Manmohan Singh, should be heeded (“Friends in deed”, March 27). There are many practical obstacles in the path to better ties between India and Bangladesh that are seldom addressed in diplomatic missions. These need to be resolved if the approximately 9.5 billion dollar trade relations between India and Bangladesh is to be improved. Narendra Modi has the responsibility of increasing India’s market share in Bangladesh so that China cannot capture any more ground in Bangladesh than it already has. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — India and Bangladesh observed the anniversary of the defeat of Pakistani forces in the war of 1971. The first foreign visit of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, amid the Covid-19 pandemic to Bangladesh indicates India’s firm support for Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed. There is a very special significance to this visit as 2021 is the 50th year of Bangladesh’s independence as well as the 50th year of diplomatic relations with India, besides the centenary celebrations of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s birth. An enormous reserve of goodwill for India exists in Bangladesh for both historical reasons and the strong cross-border linguistic and cultural links shared by the two countries. But New Delhi needs to stop taking this goodwill for granted. Controversial references to Bangladesh and its people in domestic discourse by senior members of the Bharatiya Janata Party, particularly during elections and after the introduction of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, have cast shadows on its ties with India. But last year’s Dhaka visit of the foreign secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, and the participation of a Bangladesh army contingent in the Republic Day parade this year were the first signs of damage control after months of false steps. India also sent two million vaccine doses to Bangladesh, the largest consignment sent to any country abroad. But the Teesta water-sharing fiasco has certainly been a major foreign policy failure. Bangladesh is at present basking in a new self-confidence because of its spectacular economic performance even during the pandemic. Its social welfare indicators are better than even India’s on some counts. It does not bode well for India that the home ministry has chosen this moment to start rounding up Rohingya refugees for “deportation”. The government needs to be constantly mindful of the significance of this year to its relationship with Bangladesh. It is all too easy to lose track and pave the way for China to make serious inroads in the region. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Each neighbour is important for political, cultural, economic and security reasons. If there is one neighbour where all of these interests converge for India, it is Bangladesh. The future of India’s Act East policy, stability and development in the Northeast, economic integration in the larger region, climate crisis, cross-border migration of people, and peace and security are contingent on its ties with Dhaka. Over the past decade, one of the undisputed successes of India’s neighbourhood policy is its relationship with Bangladesh. A lot of credit for this goes to the prime minister of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, and her clear strategic outlook — she has respected India’s security needs, and in turn, New Delhi has backed her, even at the cost of turning a blind eye to Bangladesh’s democratic backslide occasionally. There has also been continuity in maintaining these ties from Manmohan Singh to Narendra Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Liberation War and 101th birth anniversary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Some niggling problems that mar this relationship are the inability to seal the Teesta water sharing deal and Beijing’s increased influence over Bangladesh. These must be resolved but the big picture remains one of enhanced cordiality and connectivity. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Double standards Sir — As per the directives of the West Bengal government, schools in the state have resumed classes for Classes IX to XII, keeping in mind the importance of students’ academic career. But why then are those pursuing higher education being given the liberty to continue their studies from the comfort of their homes while school students and teachers stand the risk of contracting Covid-19? The resurgence of Covid-19 cases has seen a number of states enforcing strict restrictions on the movement of people, with lockdowns being clamped down in certain states. Unfortunately the students of our state have become the victims of assembly elections. It is shocking to see some political leaders brazenly campaign for the ongoing assembly elections, violating Covid-19 protocols themselves while urging the common people to tow the line. This shows the value of the lives of ordinary citizens in the eyes of the political leadership. The state government must take urgent measures to save the lives of not just students but also teachers so that they do not fall victim to the virus for no fault of their own. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Man on a mission Sir — It is poll season in several states and, as is usual, it is raining freebies. But one independent candidate in Tamil Nadu is promising the moon — quite literally. R. Saravanan is making promises that one would ordinarily laugh at — he has assured to provide a 100-day free trip to the moon, a mini helicopter and even a snow-laden mountain to keep his constituency cool. But there is nothing funny about Saravanan’s intention — he wants to raise awareness about the pitfalls of the freebie culture prevalent in Tamil Nadu. If he achieves his purpose, it will indeed be a task as difficult as a 100-day trip to the moon. Rishi Ghatge,Pune||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Opinion||Lower depths: Targetting women politicians||Everyone does it. Political parties in India, whatever their promises about women’s empowerment, often demonstrate gender bias. The situation is much worse when women are political leaders. They are the first, often the only, targets of personal abuse from rival parties during a political contest. Sonia Gandhi, for example, was called a ‘foreigner’ to mark her as an unfit leader. Women politicians are usually perceived as having gone beyond accepted social roles or professional slots; abusing them has the silent — nowadays not-so-silent — support of many. But the Bharatiya Janata Party has taken personal abuse to a level of systematic virulence unknown before. To be fair to its leaders, they are almost gender-neutral in this — Rahul Gandhi as target is an example — but that is the best that can be said: almost. Personal abuse of opponents is an excellent method of rabble-rousing without the trouble of having to be logical, truthful or accountable. But to have a woman as opponent is best; the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, provides an opportunity for the BJP to raise the stakes in the vicious game of abuse. Ms Banerjee is no shy violet when verbally attacking rival parties, but belittling opponents by targeting their gender or person is unacceptable in political leaders in an absolute, black-and-white sense. Recently, the West Bengal BJP chief, who reserves the choicest insults for the chief minister of his state, wondered why Ms Banerjee did not wear Bermudas to show off her plastered leg. The mockery is visual and crass, deriding a woman leader campaigning with a visible injury. Equally fun-loving was the prime minister, repeatedly intoning ‘Didi’ as the taunting refrain of a campaign speech. It is startling when the prime minister of the country expresses contempt and the desire to humiliate by emulating roadside Lotharios. Perhaps he does not believe in the dignity of his chair or the meaning of the power he represents. With the prime minister enthusiastically joining the game of personal abuse, the BJP state chief would probably consider the Bermudas taunt quite tame. Unless people stand up against the overall annihilation of propriety and decency in language as well as the vicious rhetoric used to diminish women politicians, the crudest personal insults will become the most treasured political weapons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Opinion||New risks: Quad, successor to Nato||It has been quite pleasant living on a planet where most of the great powers were not locked up into two hostile nuclear-armed alliances, but nothing lasts forever. Creeping shyly onto the stage via Zoom, the successor to Nato emerged into public view this month. It’s called the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue — the ‘Quad’, for short. It’s intended to be to China what Nato was to the old Soviet Union: an alliance to deter and contain the ‘evil regime’, now located in Beijing. The core four in the Quad are countries that have all fought China in the past: the United States of America and Australia (in the Korean War), Japan (before and during the Second World War), and India (sporadic border wars). Most of the ‘usual suspects’ (the other Nato members) also want to join the team as players, or at least as substitutes: a Canadian warship sailed through the Taiwan Strait earlier, and Britain, France, Germany and the Netherlands will all deploy warships to the Indo-Pacific region later in the year. Is ‘Nato in Asia’ really getting ready for another decades-long cold war and/or a possible hot war? Every nuclear weapons power except Israel and perhaps Russia would be part of this confrontation, and there are many more potential flash-points in the Asia-Pacific region than there ever were in Europe. There is absolutely no evidence that China plans to invade anywhere (except Taiwan, which all members of the Quad acknowledge is technically part of China). In fact, apart from minor border clashes, no Chinese regime, Communist or otherwise, has invaded anywhere at all for centuries. So why worry? There’s something older and deeper at work here. It’s the age-old ‘balance of power’ strategy that appeared among the Sumerian city-states in about 2500 BC, and has dominated international politics for most of the time since. All the major powers in a given region (Mesopotamia 3,500 years ago), or continent (Europe 350 years ago) or even the entire world (Nato versus the Soviet Union 35 years ago) see every other big power as a potential enemy. And history teaches that today’s friend can be tomorrow’s enemy, so you must always be stronger. In particular, countries worry about an emerging great power that might get big enough to upset the whole apple cart — Spain in the 17th century, France in the 18th, Britain in the 19th, Germany in the early 20th century, Russia in the later 20th — and make alliances against it. These arrangements have usually ended in great wars, but recently not so much: 40 years of Cold War against the Soviet Union ended without a ‘world war’. Now China’s growing strength is great enough to set the wheel in motion again, and its behaviour would have to be utterly saintly to stop the others from ganging up on it in the time-honoured way. There are aspects of the Chinese Communist regime that are indeed ‘evil’: its behaviour towards ethnic minorities in Xinjiang and Tibet, for example, and indeed towards dissenters among its own Chinese people. Treaty-breaking in Hong Kong and building military bases on disputed islands in the South China Sea in defiance of international law are hardly ‘confidence-building measures’ either. But there is no need for this Quad alliance. It’s as implausible to believe that China would invade some country beyond its borders now (except Taiwan, of course) as it was to think that the Soviet Union would ever have seriously considered invading West Germany. The Quad is a waste of time and resources, and (given nuclear weapons with many triggers) an unnecessary risk. One staircase thought, however. Are Joe Biden’s advisers cunning enough to realize (a) that China under current management will eventually invade Taiwan and is bound to win; (b) that it would be suicidally dangerous for the US to intervene; and (c) that all America’s current and prospective allies think the same? In which case their real aim might be to spread the blame: they’d rather be just one of the Quad crowd that abandons Taiwan than bearing the blame alone. But I suspect they’re not that clever.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Opinion||Microphone season||A Zee News reporter descends upon a street in Hooghly and darts about buttonholing jhalmuri sellers, students on the road, a rickshaw-puller and sundry other citizens. “Didi ya Modi?” Some say Didi, others say Modi, and some dodge the question. He asks a follow-up “Kyun?” sometimes, not always. Then he’s off, wandering along, nabbing others. When they are not hollering in a studio about issues that are more national-political than civic-local, television journalists on the election beat — be they from Delhi or Calcutta — skim along uncovering so little that you begin to wonder if there is a method in this charade. Indeed there is. The advertiser is interested in eyeballs, but eyes around the country would glaze over if there was anything genuinely civic-local about the coverage of a state election. Narendra Modi sells, Didi sells, harping on the Bharatiya Janata Party expanding its footprint sells. Identity politics, a euphemism for casteism and communalism, sells, as do allegations of syndicates and ‘cut money’. What will not sell for TV audiences outside Bengal is anything that focuses on the quality of life of ordinary people. Jobs, healthcare, roads and wages, for instance. You have to hope that local editions of regional newspapers will take care of that. The polls in West Bengal, the most saleable of the state polls in advertisement-generating terms, can be used to test several hypotheses about the purpose the media in India has come to serve in an election. Does it further accountability by looking at the governance record of the incumbent, or does it privilege politics over governance every time? Who will win, and by how much, and what will that mean for national politics? It became the norm a very long time ago that elections were the only occasion when resources-starved media outlets in a crowded, advertising-dependent universe would send out reporters to actually cover the hinterland, talk to people and assess change. Because the election season is also when advertisers presume higher viewership and loosen their purse strings. So villages get visited, farmers, youth, women and shopkeepers spoken to, and assessments are made about winning and losing, but also about the progress of development in general. But when a state contest is framed as the BJP setting out to capture one more state in the Union, the ‘state of the state’ aspect is drowned out by the political noise. Tracking governance and hiring local reporters for beats are expensive. Telecasting political speeches and debating political developments in studios on a daily basis are not. A number of Hindi channels are scrambling to cover this election. They wouldn’t do that in a non-Hindi speaking state if this contest wasn’t seen as an out and out political winner in terms of audiences. Is the media a platform or an instrument? When a TV network uses an election to start up a new regional channel, is it responding to a business opportunity, which is fair enough, or is it parachuting in to give an edge to a particular political party? (In an earlier time, you could have asked that question about newspaper groups using an election to start a new edition, but for a while at least it seems most unlikely that any newspaper will think of further expansion.) TV9 and Republic TV have used these elections to launch a presence in West Bengal. The latter launched itself with an ‘Ami Arnab’ speech in which Arnab Goswami made an emotional pitch, promising to uphold citizens’ issues and hold politicians accountable. But you could ask what the chances are that Republic TV, given its pro-BJP track record, would launch just in time for the politically-charged West Bengal election and, yet, be thoroughly non-partisan in this high-decibel contest. Commercial TV channels apart, these elections have indeed seen a flowering of media platforms designed to be instruments, mostly for the BJP. The Wire reported last September that it tracked around 30 websites and video channels, the majority of which emerged since 2018, six in 2020, most of them biased towards the BJP. Barring two, all produce content in Bengali, some of it fake news. None of the news sites had ownership information, or dates of incorporation, the report said, nor did they carry reports with bylines. The few that did had only first names of the purported authors. Creating media to serve its purpose is part of the BJP’s strategy and it does the job assiduously. Do newspapers do better than television in assessing the overall governance record? They do, based on data. Several assessments of how this state ranks alongside other states on a host of parameters have been published; one business paper called it “Paribartan in bits and pieces” and detailed a mixed record in job creation, lagging behind some other states in per capita income but improving over the decade in both agriculture and rural infrastructure. Finally, can the media predict electoral outcomes successfully? Media houses commission polls to supplement their election reporting. However, the additional input this time is the emergence of a “Mood for Poriborton” report from a Telangana-based election analysis agency called Peoples Pulse. Its claim to credibility is that its author, the political scientist, Sajjan Kumar, surveyed all 294 constituencies in West Bengal between September and December 2020. His prediction of a clear edge for the BJP in 160 seats based on strong anti-incumbency is providing analytical grist for a range of leading media outlets. The assertion is that the BJP is not winning; it is the default beneficiary of an anti-TMC vote. The edge given to the Trinamul Congress in the polls done till now is countered by his theory that there is a silent voter who has made up his or her mind but will not reveal it. This could be the election then which will either make or break his reputation. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
29-03-2021||Jharkhand||Private security guard found dead at work in steel city||A 55-year-old private security guard was found dead in front of the gate of a residential apartment in Adityapur in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Monday. The deceased identified as Chandradeo Prasad is suspected to have consumed poisonous food. "The deceased security guard who was a resident of Sakchi would work as a night guard at the entrance gate of the Rameswaram Apartment. But the circumstances under which he died is yet to be established. We have, therefore, recovered the body and sent it to the MGM medical college for autopsy," said OC, Adityapur thana, Rajendra Prasad Mahto to The Telegraph Online. Mahto said there are chances that this is being a period of Holi festival, the security guard might have consumed liquor in the night. "But the residents of the apartment pointed out that they knew the guard well and he was never found in a drunken state. Hence we suspect that he might have fallen victim to a food poison," said the OC. Mahto said the reason behind the security guard's death will be ascertained once the autopsy is done. The Rameswaram Apartment is located along the Tata-Kandra Road. The police have found more than one person lying in a drunken state along this road on the occasion of Holi on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
29-03-2021||Jharkhand||Low key Holi celebrations across Jharkhand||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
29-03-2021||Jharkhand||At Palamau Tiger Reserve, officials alert to foil poaching bids||Officials of Palamau Tiger Reserve are more busy than ever, on a mission as they always are during Holi to foil attempts of local villagers to hunt deer and wild boar. Those living in and around the tiger reserve can't resist poaching deer and wild boar for their sumptuous lunch or dinner on the day of holi festival. The north division of the Palamau tiger reserve has plenty of deer while the south division is filled with wild boars. Mukesh Kumar, deputy director of South division said, "We face this problem almost every festival when we pull out all stops to save the wild boars from reaching the kitchen of the unscrupulous villagers who don't mind hunting this wild life for meat as well as sport. "During the last holi, we retrieved a hunted wild boar in Mahuadanr and booked two people on charges of killing wild life and destroying eco balance," he said. Deers and wild boars are killed with muzzle loaded guns which most villagers possess. Sources said there are more than 190 villages in and around the tiger reserve. Mukesh Kumar informed that they have alerted their field staff to remain on high alert to curb and contain the poachers. "Our men will walk down to village meat sellers to find if the meat of wild boars are also on sale," he said. Kumar Ashish, deputy director of North division said, "We have launched a no-break patrolling of our north division to foil any poaching bid. Our main areas of concern are the Ouranga river side and the Palamau Quila where we find vulnerability of poaching is too high." He said four patrol teams are on the job in each of the four ranges that the north division has under it, adding that other teams in the Chhipadohar east and west ranges are on high alert too. Field director and chief conservator of the tiger reserve Y K Das has issued an order to the deputy directors and rangers and asked them to do everything in their power to stifle any attempt of poaching. A noted wildlife expert, D S Srivastava said, "Free feast on deer and wild boar is everyone's choice in festivals like holi and Christmas. Deers and wild boars are chased more now as our tiger reserve has no sambhar except seventeen which are under human custody at the sambhar soft release centre in the south division of the Palamau tiger reserve." Srivastava said the idea behind sambhar in soft release centre was to increase its progeny to replenish the prey base for carnivores in the tiger reserve since 2015-16 but its number has been stagnant at seventeen following deaths of a few by cobra snake bite and due to infighting among them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
29-03-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city celebrates Holi indoors||Holi was celebrated peacefully in the steel city on Monday. No public celebrations took place as the East Singhbhum district administration imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 CrPC on Sunday. People celebrated the festival in their own houses and apartments in various localities - Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Kadma, Sonari, Baridih and Telco. The office of Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh issued the prohibitory orders which came into effect from Sunday night keeping in view Shab-e-Barat and Holi festivities. The prohibitory orders will remain imposed till March 31. Sec 144 prohibited public gatherings. There were no untoward incidents reported from any parts of the city till filing of this report. Police were deployed at strategic locations and sensitive pockets to prevent any unlawful activities. "We played Holi and enjoyed the festival with family members at our own apartment, " said Manoj Ghosal, who owns a duplex at Alok Vihar in Telco. Many people celebrated the festival on their terraces and roof tops instead of going out. Children were also seen playing Holi with their friends in different apartments and flat complexes across the city. Teams of state excise department also remained vigilant to check sale and consumption of spurious liquor across the district. The South Eastern Railway (SER) had also issued an alert and vigil was intensified in trains and in various railway stations concerned over spurt in cases of Covid-19. Notably, the state government had earlier imposed a ban on Holi celebrations in public places, including banquet halls and parks, in the wake of a rise in Covid cases and asked residents to celebrate the festival of colour at indoors with family members only. According to a circular issued by the home, prison and disaster management department on Friday restrictions was imposed on all celebrations and congregations at public places during Holi, Sarhul, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri Ramnavami and Easter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
