30-03-2021||Calcutta||Religious leaders come together to celebrate host of of festivals||Leaders of different religious communities greeted and fed each other sweets to celebrate a host of festivals together at the Archbishop’s House in the city on Sunday. This year, Holi and Hola Mohalla, a Sikh festival, coincided with Shab-e-Barat and Palm Sunday. The United Interfaith Foundation India had organised a multi-religious celebration to spread the message of inclusiveness, peace and harmony. Taking part in one another’s celebrations is the true culture of Bengal and must be preserved, the organisers said. The participants included the Archbishop of Calcutta, Reverend Thomas D’Souza; Maulana Qari Fazlur Rahman, one of the senior-most maulanas in Bengal; and Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, general secretary of Gurdwara Behala. Swami Achyutananda Puri, secretary of the International Vedanta Society, could not attend because of Holi-related programmes but sent a message of solidarity, saying: “Togetherness is the essence of our culture. We will continue to live together, come what may.” Archbishop D’Souza, president of the United Interfaith Foundation, said: “The celebration of various festivals of different religions makes us aware of the presence of the divine in our midst and also inspires us to share the joy of that presence with all our brothers and sisters.” Maulana Rahman, who leads the namaz at Red Road during Id every year, said Bengal had always been known for “harmony between Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians and everyone else”. “But there is a conspiracy to disturb this peaceful co-existence. Outsiders are trying to spread hatred to stoke communal tension. But they will not be successful,” he said. A statement from the foundation said: “The festival of Shab-e-Barat is celebrated with pomp and enthusiasm as Allah writes the destinies of all men and women for the coming year by taking into account the deeds they committed in the past, whereas Palm Sunday commemorates Jesus’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem, an event mentioned in each of the four canonical gospels; at the end all these festivals bring us together, irrespective of our differences and beliefs.” The statement added that the interfaith meeting had been organised to deliver the message of inclusiveness at a time “unrest and divide is spreading, and the pandemic has deeply affected people”. Foundation spokesperson Ahluwalia said: “Celebrating festivals together irrespective of religion and caste has been the culture of Bengal. We must preserve that culture. There is an attempt to pit one religion against another and spread divisiveness. But we must resist the attempt.” The foundation, which has representatives from all faiths, had donated dry rations to thousands during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Cyclist killed in road accident ||A man riding a bicycle died and another man riding a motorbike was injured in separate accidents on Sunday. Around 10.45pm, a lorry hit cyclist Monojit Bhar, 57, of Bagmari Lane in Kankurgachi, at the CIT Road-EM Bypass crossing near Hudco. Bhar was declared dead at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.The lorry driver has been arrested. Around 8.15pm, Krishnendu Halder of Sonarpur got injured after he lost control of his motorbike and rammed into a sidewall of the Parama flyover. Halder was treated at the National Medical College and Hospital for multiple injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Salt Lake shanty fire engulfs 50 homes||A fire broke out in a cluster of shanties adjacent to Central Park, opposite Bikash Bhavan, on Monday morning. More than 50 bamboo and plastic structures were gutted in the fire. More than a dozen trees were charred and the boundary wall of Central Park was damaged in some places. At least 10 fire tenders were called in from the Sector V fire station. Firefighters took 45 minutes to douse the flames, a fire official said. The flames, leaping up to 35 feet, were checked just before they spread to the adjacent Central Park. According to residents, the fire broke out around 9.30am and spread rapidly to engulf the entire colony, spread across 1,000mX25m. “Shob chhai hoye gyalo (everything has turned into ashes),” mumbled Shabina Ali, a vegetable vendor, whose home was reduced to a heap of debris in less than an hour. “I don’t know what to do. We (her family of five) are alive, but where do we spend our nights now?” she wondered aloud sitting on the pavement with her five-year-old son. A fire official said that at least two gas cylinders had burst fueling the flames. "There were inflammable materials in the area. These included bottles of kerosene as well as gas cylinders. There were two big explosions, possibly triggered by cylinders," said the official. The fire spread quickly through shanties, most of which are constructed of plastic sheets and bamboo. Apart from fire department officials and police, a team from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation visited the spot. “We will accommodate the families who have lost their homes in temporary shelters,” said an official of the civic body. Another fire department official said the blaze could have been triggered by an electrical short-circuit. At least four men who had tried to get their belongings out of their burning homes were injured. They were taken to Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital, near City Centre, from where they were discharged after treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Certificate hurdle for out-of-turn jab||The state health department on Monday expressed concern that some private healthcare units were administering Covid shots to people not yet eligible for them, in violation of the immunisation rule. At a meeting with the units to plan vaccination of all people above 45 from April 1, health department officials said they were getting complaints from those who were given Covid shots despite not being eligible for them, that they were unable to collect vaccination certificates, people present at the discussions said. Among the other issues discussed were increasing the pace of the immunisation campaign and following the standard operating procedure. Shots for non-eligible Health department officials told representatives of private healthcare institutes that many people had complained that they had received at least one dose of a Covid vaccine but were unable to get a certificate from the Co-Win portal. Officials found out that those people were non-eligible for the jabs. “Vaccinate only those who are eligible. We are getting complaints from people who have been vaccinated out of turn and are now unable to get the certificate,” an official in the health department was quoted as saying by hospital representatives who were at the meeting. Initially, healthcare and frontline workers were eligible for a Covid shot. Later, senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were brought within the immunisation ambit. From April 1, anyone above 45 can be vaccinated against Covid. “To vaccinate people above 45, those born on or before January 1, 1977, should be considered,” a health department official told hospital officials at the meeting. Department sources later said they had received information that a few sales representatives of pharmaceutical companies and personnel of insurance companies had been vaccinated out of turn. “This is unethical. If this is not stopped, we’ll take strong action,” said a health department official. Step up drive Private healthcare units have been asked to vaccinate more people above 60, officials said. “The Covid-19 mortality rate is higher among the aged. So we need to vaccinate them in more numbers. Also, those above 45 should be brought to the vaccination sites after April 1 in high numbers. This way we can try to prevent a fresh surge in cases in Bengal,” an official said. The private hospitals were asked to approach residential complexes and offices in the vicinity and urge residents and employees meeting the eligibility criteria to get vaccinated. A health department official said that with the existing supply of vaccine doses from the Centre, around five lakh people could be vaccinated in a day at the 5,000-odd centres in the state. “We want more supply to further speed up vaccination,” the official said. Follow SOP At Monday’s meeting, private hospitals were told to strictly follow guidelines. According to some of those who attended the meeting, health officials asked the healthcare units not to administer the jabs with pre-filled syringes because that could affect the vaccine’s efficacy. They were also asked to ensure biomedical waste is disposed of in designated bins. Metro had earlier written that the state health department had told private healthcare institutes that many were not following the SOP. Case count The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 176 on Monday, to 5,152. The total crossed 5,000 for the first time since February 5. The state on Monday recorded 639 new infections and 462 recoveries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Holi: Housing complexes stick to rules, not others||Parts of the city and its adjoining areas exercised caution in celebrating Dol and Holi amid the Covid pandemic, but many others did not. Tens of thousands of people, young and old, played with colours on Sunday and Monday without adhering to the safety protocols despite a sharp rise in the number of Covid cases in the city and its adjoining districts over the past few weeks. The social media was flooded with pictures of people celebrating standing cheek by jowl, just as they used to do before Covid had surfaced. A large part of the city played Holi on Sunday. On Monday, revelers from parts of Posta, Burrabazar, Girish Park, Maniktala, Ultadanga, Alipore and Bhowanipore celebrated the occasion by joining gatherings where most were without masks. Even when not playing with colours, revelers were not wearing masks. Many who are known to express outrage on social media and other platforms at gatherings of people without masks chose not to wear face coverings while celebrating the festival of colours. The blatant violation of safety norms across the city left doctors and others worried over the impact on the Covid case count in the next few weeks. In contrast, residents of many housing complexes strictly adhered to the Covid-19 protocols. "We had issued notices warning residents about the rise in Covid cases. We had requested them to wear masks and stay at a safe distance from one another. They did as told,” said Ranjit Sarkar, who lives in a housing complex in Kasba. On Sunday and Monday, police fined over 200 people across 79 police station areas in Calcutta for not wearing masks, a figure that public health experts said was way too little considering the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Senior officers said they tried to spread awareness and visited markets and localities with loud hailers, asking residents to abide by the Covid-19 norms. But in most places the words fell on deaf ears. Till late Monday evening, the police had seized around 37.2 litres of illicit liquor and arrested 275 people for drunken brawl. “All police stations sent out teams on both days to warn revellers of the Covid-19 situation,” said an officer at Lalbazar. “But it is impossible to have police posted in every nook and corner to ensure revellers maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour.” On Friday, the state health department had issued an advisory asking people to celebrate Holi in a restricted manner this year. The advisory said people should consider celebrating Holi with their families and reiterated that the Covid-19 pandemic was still not over. Most revelers said they did not wear masks because they would have to take them off while playing Holi. Some said it was safe to be without masks in public places. They hugged and smeared each other with colours and stood in gatherings outside eateries — doing everything that experts had warned against. The health department's advisory on Holi had warned that since the virus had undergone mutations, the number of infections could rapidly rise any time. Some states in India are already reporting a very high number of cases, the advisory stated. It had also added that people should not come close to one another while playing Holi and advised them to stay away from crowded places. But not many were ready to listen. “When you are using only abir on Holi, it gets difficult to breathe with the mask on,” said Hari Mohan Kejriwal, a resident of Raja Katra in Burrabazar. “We normally wear masks. But it is not possible to do so on Holi.” Public health experts had warned that the number of cases could see a sharp rise after Holi if people ignored Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We behaved responsibly during Durga Puja and other festivals last year, which is why there was no sharp jump in cases after the festivals. Let us wait for a week or 10 days. We will get to understand if there is a jump after Holi or not,” said an expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University to set up workshop on tech campus in Salt Lake ||Calcutta University will shift the workshop of BTech students from its Ballygunge campus to the Salt Lake campus (also known as the tech campus), possibly over the next few months, so that students don’t have to travel to Ballygunge Science College twice a week. BTech students are taught engineering mechanics and drawing at the workshop in the second semester. Because of the absence of a workshop on the tech campus, students are required to travel to Ballygunge Science College for lessons in engineering mechanics and drawing. Only the Ballygunge campus has a workshop, which was set up in 2000 for the students of the four-year BTech course in jute and fibre |technology. A CU official said that though the university had decided to launch four-year BTech programmes in eight other disciplines like computer science and engineering, and information technology in 2015 on the tech campus, the workshop could not be set up until now. “We will dismantle the workshop on the Ballygunge campus and have it shifted to the Salt Lake campus. We hope that from this academic year, which is likely to start in August, students won’t have to travel to Ballygunge from the Salt Lake campus,” CU registrar Debasish Das told Metro. An official said the tender for the removal and reinstallation of the gadgets would be floated in May, after the Assembly elections. “The long commute from Salt Lake to Ballygunge, apart from inconveniencing students, was eating into their time for theoretical classes,” he said. The engineering classes of Calcutta University are held on the Salt Lake, Ballygunge and Rajabazar campuses. As the duration of the other eight engineering courses of the university was three years before 2015, the students were not required to attend workshop classes. “Attending workshop classes is mandatory only for students in the four-year BTech course,” said a teacher in the radio physics department. Sankhayan Chowdhury, a professor in the computer science and engineering department, said they had flagged the absence of the workshop on the tech campus over the past several years. “The workshop should have been set up in Salt Lake much earlier…. These days if you don’t provide the required infrastructure, a bright student will not enrol,” said Choudhury, the general secretary of the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association. CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee had told Metro in May 2018 that the university had released funds to build a workshop on the tech campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Embroidery lessons come to aid of jobless primary schoolteacher||A 50-year-old primary schoolteacher who lost her job in September last year because children had stopped going to school, started taking embroidery training in January. With around 15 days left to complete the course, she has got an offer from a boutique and hopes to restart her career with something she did years back as a hobby. Women across age groups, whose livelihood has taken a hit during the Covid pandemic — some of who live in slums — are getting three months’ training in embroidery, using sewing machines and tailoring so they can earn a living. Calcutta Rescue started the project in January and aims to train 100 women in batches of 20 by 2021. The schoolteacher, Sima Paul, and her brother lost their jobs during the pandemic. Paul was part of an organisation and taught children in Classes I to IV in different schools. “I was teaching children whose level was not equivalent to the class they were in. But small children are not coming back to school. So, in September, they told us we were not required. I was not the only one to lose my job,” said Paul, a history graduate. “It is difficult to get a teaching job under the current circumstances. I hope that with this training in embroidery I am able to restore my livelihood in some way,” she said. The “Restoration of Livelihood Project” has been started under the Calcutta Rescue Handicrafts project that has been running for the last four decades and receives orders from across the country and overseas. The project includes women like 36-year-old Monika Patra whose husband worked at a private firm as an electrician but since the office is closed, he is no longer required. “The pandemic has decimated jobs and livelihood… The project supplies women with skills so they can earn an income. Beyond that, for these women it’s restoring their dignity and place in society,” said Jaydeep Chakraborty, CEO, Calcutta Rescue. The women are getting a stipend of Rs 150 per day, so their travel expenses are taken care of. It is difficult for some women to spend hours at the training because they have children at home who need their time and attention. “We conduct a thorough screening before enrolling the women to understand their interests and future plans so we know they will put the learning to some use. Some have started getting offers and boutiques have approached us. We plan to give some of them work at the handicraft unit,” said Arunava Ghosh Roy, manager, Calcutta Rescue Handicrafts. “We also see that the women have basic education because tailoring includes measurements,” he added. The NGO also plans to give some of them sewing machines, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 1,128 points to finish above 50,000 ||Extending its gains to the second consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 1,128 points on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 1,128.08 points or 2.30 per cent higher at 50,136.58, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 337.80 points or 2.33 per cent to 14,845.10. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Infosys, NTPC, Nestle India, TCS and HUL. On the other hand, M&M, Bharti Airtel and Axis Bank were the laggards. Except for today's depreciation, the INR has remained quite steady even though the dollar index rose. Also when the US 10-year bond yields has spiked sharply India's 10-year bond yield has remained quite stable. These two factors could act in India's favour and help Indian equities outperform its peers in the emerging markets, said Rusmik Oza, Executive Vice President, Head of Fundamental Research at Kotak Securities. Recent correction could be due to rising COVID-19 cases and year-end phenomenon wherein retail and HNI investors would have avoided taking any fresh positions, he said, adding that the start of new settlement for FY22 and forthcoming Q4 earnings seasons could be the reasons for fresh investor interest in stocks. US markets, especially the Dow Jones and S&P 500 are showing firm uptrend due to the ongoing stimulus and faster vaccination drive which could also be one of the reasons for our markets to inch upwards, Oza noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.49 per cent lower at USD 64.60 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
30-03-2021||Business||HDFC Bank acknowledges net banking glitches, says restoring services top priority||The country's largest private sector lender HDFC Bank on Tuesday said it is taking steps to resolve glitches in its digital banking platform and restore services on priority. "Some customers are facing intermittent issues accessing our NetBanking/MobileBanking App. We are looking into it on priority for resolution. We apologize for the inconvenience and request you to try again after sometime. Thank you," HDFC Bank said in a tweet. This is not for the first time that the customers of the bank have faced service outage. In fact, the bank has been penalised by the Reserve bank of India (RBI) for two major outages in the past. In December, the RBI temporarily barred HDFC Bank from launching new digital banking initiatives and issuing new credit cards after taking a serious view of service outages at the lender over the last two years. "RBI has issued an order dated December 2, 2020, to HDFC Bank Ltd with regard to certain incidents of outages in the internet banking/ mobile banking/ payment utilities of the bank over the past two years, including the recent outages in the bank's internet banking and payment system on November 21, 2020, due to a power failure in the primary data centre, HDFC Bank had said in a regulatory filing. The bank has been penalised for two major outages, one in November 2018 and the other in December 2019. Taking a stern view of the repeated outages, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had said in December the regulator had some concerns about certain deficiencies and it was necessary that HDFC Bank strengthens its IT system before expanding further. ... we cannot have thousands and lakhs of customers who are using digital banking to be in any kind of difficulty for hours together and especially when we are ourselves giving so much emphasis on digital banking. Public confidence in digital banking has to be maintained," Das had said. HDFC Bank, the largest lender by assets in the private sector, has been classified as a systemically important entity by the RBI in the past. It is also the largest issuer of credit cards and has a significant share in the payment processing segment. The bank is the largest issuer of credit cards and had 1.49 crore customers as of September 2020 while on the debit cards front, it had 3.38 crore customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
30-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, HUL and ICICI Bank amid largely positive cues from the Asian peers. The 30-share BSE index was trading 510.31 points or 1.04 per cent higher at 49,518.81, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 162.70 points or 1.12 per cent to 14,670. HUL was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Titan, NTPC, ONGC, Dr Reddy's, Nestle India, PowerGrid, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, M&M was the sole laggard. Domestic financial markets were closed on Monday for Holi. In the previous session on Friday, the Sensex surged 568.38 points or 1.17 per cent to finish at 49,008.50, and Nifty climbed 182.40 points or 1.27 per cent to 14,507.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 50.13 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. Market opened on a positive note on Tuesday tracking positive cues from Asian markets, traders said. "Sharp decline in FII selling coupled with large buying by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) can support the market and even take it higher. "But there are many concerns like surge in COVID-19 cases, particularly in economically crucial Maharashtra, appreciation in US 10-year bond yield above 1.7 per cent and the dollar index moving up to 92.8 levels, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight trade amid worries over the impact of a default by a US-based hedge fund on margin calls last week. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.18 per cent higher at USD 65.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
30-03-2021||Business||Visa Inc to allow use of cryptocurrency USD Coin to settle transactions||Visa Inc said on Monday it will allow the use of the cryptocurrency USD Coin to settle transactions on its payment network, the latest sign of growing acceptance of digital currencies by the mainstream financial industry. Visa has launched the pilot programme with payment and crypto platform Crypto.com and plans to offer the option to more partners later this year, it said. The USD Coin (USDC) is a stablecoin cryptocurrency whose value is pegged directly to the dollar. Visa’s move comes as major finance firms, including BNY Mellon, BlackRock Inc and Mastercard Inc, have embraced some digital coins, sparking predictions that cryptocurrencies will become a regular part of investment portfolios. Tesla Inc boss Elon Musk said last week that customers can buy its electric vehicles with bitcoin, marking a significant step forward for the cryptocurrency’s use in commerce. “We see increasing demand from consumers across the world to be able to access, hold and use digital currencies and we’re seeing demand from our clients to be able to build products that provide that access for consumers,” Cuy Sheffield, head of crypto at Visa, said. Traditionally, if a customer chooses to use a Crypto.com Visa card to pay for a coffee, the digital currency held in a cryptocurrency wallet needs to be converted into traditional money. The cryptocurrency wallet will deposit traditional fiat currency in a bank account, to be wired to Visa at the end of the day to settle any transactions, adding cost and complexity for businesses. Visa’s latest step, which will use the ethereum blockchain, strips out the need to convert digital coin into traditional money in order for the transaction to be settled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
30-03-2021||Business||Ascendas India Trust to acquire 1.65 million sq ft area at Bangalore IT park||Ascendas India Trust (a-iTrust) will acquire 1.65 million sq ft area at an IT park in Bangalore for an estimated deal value of Rs 1,441 crore, according to a statement. Ascendas Property Fund Trustee Pte Ltd, the trustee-manager of a-iTrust, has entered into a forward purchase agreement with Gardencity Realty Pvt Ltd to acquire two buildings in an IT Park with a total net leasable area of up to 1.65 million sq ft located at Hebbal, Bangalore. a-iTrust will provide funding for the development of the project as part of the forward purchase arrangement, the company said in a statement. It will subsequently acquire a net leasable area of up to 1.65 million sq ft in two buildings spread across two land parcels. Initially, and during the construction period, a-iTrust’s investment in the construction of the project will be through debt. “The proposed acquisition will provide an opportunity to establish our presence in Hebbal, one of Bangalore’s upcoming IT/ITeS micro-markets, which is witnessing stable demand and rent,” said Sanjeev Dasgupta, chief executive officer of the trustee-manager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||Nomura reels on US fund’s bad bets||Credit Suisse and Nomura Holdings warned this morning that they faced huge losses from a multibillion-dollar fire sale of stocks held by just one investment firm, Archegos Capital Management. It’s the latest sign of the fragility of the global markets, and could spur more attention from regulators on the murky world of swaps and investor borrowing. Archegos manages the personal fortune of former hedge fund mogul Bill Hwang, who won Wall Street'’s business despite having pleaded guilty to insider trading years ago. It amassed huge positions in media giants such as ViacomCBS and in several Chinese tech companies — largely with borrowed money. The Archegos strategy included using swaps, contracts that gave Hwang financial exposure to companies’ shares while hiding both his identity and how big his positions really were. It is also becoming increasingly apparent that several Wall Street banks lent Archegos money without knowing that others were doing the same thing for the same trades. Trouble for Hwang and his banks arose when the prices of those stocks started to fall. That prompted some of his lenders to demand cash to cover his bets. When they began to question his ability to do so, some of them, including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, seized some of his holdings and kicked off the sale $20 billion worth in huge block trades. That forced selling led to even bigger drops in the prices of those stocks, starting a vicious circle. Credit Suisse and Nomura acknowledged being hit especially hard. Credit Suisse told investors that a “US-based hedge fund” had defaulted on its margin calls, which could lead to losses that were “highly significant and material to our first-quarter results”. Nomura said that one of its US arms could suffer “a significant loss” because of the forced sales. Shares in Credit Suisse were down 14 per cent this morning; those in Nomura were down 16 per cent. Goldman, on the other hand, has told investors that its potential losses are “immaterial”, having covered its exposure. Some bankers told The Financial Times that Archegos’s downfall highlighted the risk of one firm taking on so much leverage from multiple banks. It also raises fresh questions about whether the mania for meme stocks, largely attributed to day traders, was actually fueled by hedge funds jumping into the trading. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||Dr Reddy’s Labs expects Russian Covid vaccine to get approval from Indian regulator||Dr Reddy’s Laboratories expects Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V to get approval from the Indian regulator in the next few weeks. “We expect to get the approval in the next few weeks. It is a two-dose vaccine. You take the first dose on Day zero and the second one on day 21. The peak immunity develops somewhere between Day 28 and Day 42. So, it is a two-dose vaccine and we expect it to be available in the next few weeks,” a PTI report quoting Deepak Sapra, CEO, APIs and services at Dr Reddy’s, said. Sapra disclosed this while speaking at a webinar. He was asked how soon Sputnik would become available and how many doses would be required. Dr Reddy’s has joined hands with the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to bring the Sputnik V vaccine to India and other countries. Observing that the trials of the vaccine have been conducted in Russia, India, the UAE and others, Sapra said the vaccine demonstrated an efficacy of 91.6 per cent as published in reputed journal Lancet. The data on trials is at present with the Indian regulator and the company expects to get the green signal in the next few weeks, he added. “We also conducted trials in India and evaluated the vaccine on the Indian population for both safety as well as for immunogenicity,” he said. The webinar on “India’s vaccination journey and the second wave of Covid-19” was conducted by the All India Professional Congress (AIPC), Telangana. During the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, Dr Reddy’s had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 27.9 crore compared with a net loss of Rs 538.4 crore during the same period of the previous fiscal. The company’s total revenue from operations stood at Rs 4,941.9 crore for the quarter under review, up 12.38 per cent. During the third quarter ended December 31, 2019, the total revenue from operations was at Rs 4,397.1 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||HPCL to buy off Shapoorji from joint venture||Cash-strapped Shapoorji Pallonji Group is selling its stake in SP Ports Private Ltd (SPPPL) to joint venture partner HPCL for an undisclosed sum. It had entered into a joint venture with the state-owned refiner to set up a 5 million tonnes per annum LNG re-gasification terminal, which is being set up at Chhara in Gujarat. SP Ports Private Ltd is a unit of Mumbai-based Shapoorji Pallonji Group, with JV HPCL Shapoorji Energy Private Ltd setting up the LNG re-gasification terminal. The venture is building the terminal at a cost of around Rs 5,411 crore. The sum received from HPCL would help the SP Group lower its debt. However, reports said banks have referred the Rs 10,900-crore debt restructuring of SP Group to the KV Kamath Committee for final approval, after the banking regulator accepted the committee report which allows firms to recast their debt for two years. The group is reportedly looking to sell partial or full stakes in group firms such as Eureka Forbes, Afcons Infrastructure and Sterling & Wilson Solar and the proceeds will be used to pare some of its debt. The group has a total debt of over Rs 22,000 crore. After the Supreme Court handed down its verdict last week in the battle between the Tatas and the Cyrus Mistry camp, the banks have turned very cautious and are unwilling to increase their exposure to the group. The apex court ruling on March 26 was a big win for Tata Sons in its four-year-long dispute with the Mistry family, its single largest stakeholder. The top court, however, refused to ascertain a fair value to the Mistry family’s 18.3 per cent holding in Tata Sons. According to some reports, the lenders would like the SP group to raise funds through asset sale before the debt revamp is agreed upon. The other option is to pledge the shares held by the SP group in Tata Sons but that cannot be done now because of the court order. HPCL in a regulatory filing said it has “has entered into a share purchase agreement (SPA) dated March 27, 2021 for acquisition of 50 per cent of the paid-up equity share capital of the Target Entity from SP Ports Private Limited”. The company stated that the acquisition is likely to be concluded by March 31, 2021, and does not require regulatory approval. HPCL Shapoorji Energy Pvt Ltd (HSEPL) is an associate unlisted company of HPCL and a 50:50 JV with SP Ports, a unit of Shapoorji Pallonji Group. HSEPL is in the course of setting up and developing the re-gasification terminal at Chhara, Gujarat with capacity of 5 million tonnes per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||Tatas, Mittals and Jindals in the fray to acquire Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd||The Tatas, Mittals and the Jindals are in the fray to acquire public sector Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL) via a centrally sponsored divestment programme. Monday was the cut off to submit an expression of interest (EoI) for the Odisha-based steel plant. All the major Indian steel players, including Vedanta, are believed to have submitted EOIs for the 1.1 million tonne asset. Tata Steel put in the EoI through subsidiary Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, sources said. JSW Steel Ltd, which completed the acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd on Friday, and AM/NS India — the joint venture between ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel — also submitted EoIs. According to the preliminary information memorandum circulated by the department of investment and public asset management, the successful bidder will get full ownership of the company, apart from the mining rights and leasehold land spread over 2,500 acres. The secretary, Dipam, tweeted on Monday saying “multiple expressions of interest were received for privatisation of NINL. The transaction moves ahead to the second phase, on schedule”. The asset Central PSU Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation (MMTC) is the largest shareholder of NINL having a 49.78 per cent share, apart from NMDC, which holds 10.10 per cent. Two Odisha government entities, Odisha Mining Corporation (OMC) and Industrial Promotion and Investment Corporation of Odisha Ltd (IPICOL), hold 20.47 per cent and 12 per cent, respectively. The remaining 7.65 per cent is owned by an unlisted entity. Set up in 1982 to promote industrialisation in the state of Odisha, the company has been underperforming for many years. Nine months into 2020, it recorded net sales of Rs 801.18 crore and loss of Rs 826.73 crore. The net worth of NINL stands at negative Rs 1,332.23 crore. The company has Rs 1,425 crore of working capital loan/borrowing from the related party and other current liabilities in trade credit advance of Rs 1,796 crore. However, the biggest asset of NINL, which makes pig iron and long products , appears to be the land in Kalinganagar, apart from a captive iron ore mine. The players All three top private sector players stand to gain from NINL’s assets. Tata Steel has a strong presence in Odisha where it operates a 3mt plant at Kalinganagar. It is being scaled up by another 5mt. The company has expressed a desire to bid for NINL because of the strategic fit to the existing unit, apart from increasing exposure to the long products. For JSW Steel, NINL could help expand operations significantly, soon after setting foot in Odisha with 2.5MT BPSL. The company has also acquired four iron ore mines in Odisha last year through an auction. The company is also interested in setting up a greenfield plant near Paradip even as land acquisition could be tricky. AM/NS India also signed a fresh memorandum of understanding last month to set up a new plant in Odisha. It also won rights to one iron ore mine in auction last year. The company also operates a large pellet plant at Paradip. NINL could allow the company to significantly expand presence in the east and in the Indian market. Benefits are no less for ESL Steel Ltd which may allow Vedanta to be a significant steel player from non-ferrous giant. However, the successful bidder has to find a way to pacify the employees of NINL who have filed court cases to oppose the selloff. They want NINL to be taken over by other PSUs like SAIL or RINL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||GE Capital faces heat from the taxman||After Vodafone Plc and Cairn Energy, another foreign investor finds itself in a stew with the taxman. The Mauritius-based subsidiary of GE Capital is facing the heat from the tax authorities over a capital gains tax demand from the sale of its 40 per cent stake in SBI Cards and Payments Services that dates back to December 2017. The resultant tax dispute, which came up recently before the Delhi high court, has once again placed that old chestnut in the fire: can the income-tax department deny benefits guaranteed under the Indo-Mauritius double tax avoidance agreement to a foreign investor routing funds through the island nation? The tax department believes it can — and has tried to do precisely that while turning down a tax refund claim filed by GE Capital Mauritius Overseas for approximately Rs 249.39 crore, including interest. At the heart of the dispute is the taxman’s argument that the Mauritius entity “is a mere puppet” of its London-based parent, GE Capital International Holdings Limited UK. GE Capital Mauritius has no assets in India and has never filed a tax return in India. The only time it did so was in October 2018 when it filed a return for the assessment year 2018-19 to claim a refund of Rs 226.72 crore that had been deducted at source. The plea was turned down by the tax authorities on the ground that GE Capital International Holdings Limited had floated the Mauritius subsidiary with the sole purpose of making investments in India and avoiding tax on any capital gains that might arise when it sells its stake.. The argument flies in the face of the judgments handed down by the Supreme Court in the so-called Azadi Bachao Andolan case and the Vodafone verdict where it was held that tax planning is a legitimate device as long as the artifice falls within the four corners of the law. In the Azadi Andolan case, the Supreme Court had held that as long as a Mauritius entity could produce a tax residency certificate from the island nation, it could enjoy the tax benefits under the double taxation avoidance pact. In the Vodafone case, the Supreme Court had ruled that the exercise of refund must be undertaken promptly, while keeping in mind the time limit for sending an intimation of a tax demand under section 142 (1) (d) of the Income Tax Act, which is before the expiry of one year from the end of the financial year in which the tax return was filed. The high court determined that the tax authorities had adhered to the time limit by serving the intimation in November 2019. It served another notice under section 143(2) of the Act which basically deals with any discrepancies relating to income or loss reporting . But the problem arose over a notice issued under section 241 A of the Act — a clause inserted from April 1, 2017 —which empowers the assessing officer to withhold a tax refund if he feels that such a grant may hurt the interests of the revenue department. But he must record his reasons and seek approval from the principal commissioner or the commissioner and only then “withhold the refund up to the date on which the assessment is made”. This is where the tax authorities appear to have messed up. The court said the order under this section ought to have been served before March 31, 2020. But it was served only on July 15, 2020. The tax department has claimed there are extenuating circumstances for the delay: after the lockdown last year, an ordinance was passed extending all time limits first till June 30, then till December 31 and finally till March 31 this year. It also argued that the petitioner had never filed a tax return till the assessment year 2018-19 and, therefore, the department had no idea of the affairs of the petitioner. The tax department also said a scrutiny of the documents showed that the Mauritius entity had spent $40 million of the stake sale proceeds and had passed on $305 million to its UK parent. In its ruling issued last Friday, the Delhi high court has permitted the taxman to withhold the refund till the assessment is completed. The court has ruled that GE Capital’s attempt to challenge the IT order under section 241A could not be countenanced and dismissed its case but said its views ought not to prejudice the final outcome of the assessment. If it had admitted the petition, it said, the court would be flooded with tax appeals. However, Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon made one observation that is interesting. They said that the senior counsel for GE Capital had made a strong argument when suggesting that the actions of the tax department flew in the face of the Azadi Bachao Andolan and Vodafone cases. “It is (an ) attractive (argument) and tempts us to examine further and if indeed find so, nip the proceedings in the bud... However, what is beyond our jurisdiction is beyond our jurisdiction and howsoever well intended the said thought may be, cannot be allowed to have a free run”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||India||Covid-19 situation turning from bad to worse, warns govt ||The coronavirus situation is "turning from bad to worse" and is a huge cause of worry especially for some states, the Centre said on Tuesday while stressing that the whole country is at risk and nobody should be complacent. It said eight of the top 10 Covid-19 high-burden districts of the country are from Maharashtra and that Delhi, taken as one district, is also on the list. At a press conference, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the 10 districts with maximum active Covid-19 cases are Pune (59,475), Mumbai (46,248), Nagpur (45,322), Thane (35,264), Nashik (26,553), Aurangabad (21,282), Bengaluru Urban (16,259), Nanded (15,171), Delhi (8,032), Ahmednagar (7,952). Though technically speaking, Delhi has many districts, but it has been taken as one district, he said. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said, "Covid-19 situation is turning from bad to worse. In the last few weeks, especially in some states, it is a huge cause for worry. No state, no part of the country or district should be complacent." "We are facing an increasingly severe and intense situation, more so surely in some districts. But the whole country is potentially at risk and therefore all efforts to contain and save lives should be taken. "Hospital and ICU preparations have to be readied. If the cases increase rapidly, the healthcare system would be overwhelmed, Paul said. About surge in case positivity rates, Bhushan said Maharashtra last week had an average positivity rate of 23 per cent, followed by Punjab 8.82 per cent, Chattisgarh 8.24 per cent, Madhya Pradesh 7.82 per cent, Tamil Nadu 2.5 per cent, Karnataka 2.45 per cent, Gujarat 2.22 per cent, and Delhi 2.04 per cent. The average national positivity rate during last week was 5.65 per cent. All states and Union Territories are reporting a surge in cases and there is a need to significantly and exponentially increase the number of Covid-19 tests. The proportion of RT-PCR tests need to be increased too, Bhushan said. "On Saturday, we held meetings with these states and also spoke to 47 districts. We requested them to increase the number of tests with a special focus on RT-PCR tests. Rapid antigen tests must be used for screening and in densely populated areas where cases are coming in clusters. The preferred test should be the RT-PCR ones," he said. On variants of the virus, the health secretary said 10 laboratories have done genome sequencing of 11064 samples since December of which the UK variant was detected in 807 samples, South African variant in 47 and Brazilian variant in one. A total of 6,11,13,354 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till 10 am. About 81,74,916 healthcare workers got the first doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and 51,88,747 the second dose. As many as 89,44,742 frontline workers got the first dose and 37,11,221 the second dose. Bhushan also said that 48.39 per cent, Telangana tops the list of states with the highest Covid-19 vaccine doses given in private facilities. Delhi came second with 43.11 per cent vaccinations in private facilities, he said. From April 1, people above the age of 45 years would be eligible for vaccination. They can register themselves in the CoWIN platform, the Aarogya Setu app or go for on-site registrations which would start after 3 pm, the health ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Modi targets TMC over death of BJP worker's kin in Bengal||Decrying the 'anti-women' mindset of the Congress, Trinamool Congress and Left parties, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hit out at them over the death of the mother of a BJP worker in West Bengal, Shova Majumdar, following an assault. In a veiled attack against DMK leader and former union telecom minister A Raja for his objectionable remark against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami's mother, Modi, in a poll rally here, said the opposition's 'anti-women mindset' is not restricted to Tamil Nadu alone. In West Bengal, an elderly lady, Shova Majumdar, lost her life, he said. "A few weeks ago, we all saw with horror how goons belonging to TMC brutally attacked her just because her ideology was different." Though this has been in the news for long, he asked if the Congress showed any empathy or its ally DMK condemned it. Also, he wondered if DMK's ally the Left parties condemned such behaviour. "Did their friends TMC, with whom they hold strategy meets in Delhi, show any regret? No not at all. Pin drop silence among the opposition." Without naming Raja, Modi said the Congress and DMK have launched their 'outdated 2G missile', which has one clear target, the women of Tamil Nadu. "A few days back, this missile was launched by UPA with a clear order to attack the nari shakti of Tamil Nadu." Today Congress and DMK have insulted the respected mother of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he alleged. "God forbid, if they come to power, they will insult many other women of Tamil Nadu." Days ago, in his campaign, Raja allegedly spoke in an offensive, derogatory manner over the birth of Palaniswami, following which the ruling AIADMK lodged a police complaint and a case has been registered against him. Raja later apologised for his remark, but claimed that his words were taken out of context. Asking the Congress and DMK leadership to control their party leaders, the PM said the 'proud' sons and daughters of Tamil Nadu never compromised on their ideals and fought against injustice. BJP leaders had on Monday condoled the death of Shova Majumdar, the 85-year-old mother of a party worker in West Bengal, who was allegedly attacked by Trinamool Congress members. Home Minister Amit Shah had said the pain and wounds of Majumdar's family would haunt West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee for long. BJP president J P Nadda said Majumdar lost her life for being the mother of a worker of the saffron party and added that her sacrifice would be remembered forever.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||CAA an attack on Assam's culture, history, says Rahul||The Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is an attack on the language, history and culture of Assam and the Congress will not allow it to be implemented, party leader Rahul Gandhi said in a video message on Tuesday. Gandhi posted the video message for the people of the Northeastern state as he was unable to attend his scheduled election-related programmes due to heavy rains. The Congress-led Grand Alliance, if voted to power, will fulfil the five guarantees it has given to the people of the state, he said. "The first guarantee is we will not allow CAA to be implemented. It is an attack on Assam, your language, history, your tradition and culture," Gandhi said in his video message. The objective of the CAA is to grant Indian citizenship to people of minority communities Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, who had come to India till December 31, 2014 due to religious persecution in these countries. The state witnessed violent protests against the CAA in 2019 and five persons lost their lives. The protestors saw the law as a threat to their cultural identity and livelihood. The other four guarantees are five lakh government jobs in five years, increasing the daily minimum wage of tea garden workers to Rs 365, 200 units of free electricity per month for all, and Rs 2,000 per month for every homemaker, Gandhi said. He alleged that the hill tribes people are under attack from the BJP as the saffron party seeks to scrap Article 244A of the Constitution. Article 244A deals with formation of an autonomous state comprising certain tribal areas in Assam and creation of local legislature or council of ministers or both. The Congress leader was scheduled to address a poll rally each at Haflong in Dima Hasao hill district and Bokajan in Karbi Anglong hill district, besides an interactive session with women at Silchar. "Due to bad weather, I was unable to reach you today. But my and the Grand Alliances message is clear - we will take Assam to the path of progress and prosperity with the five guarantees," he said in the video message posted on his official Twitter handle. Earlier in the day, Gandhi tweeted that the people of Assam have understood that there is no relation between 'jumlas' (rhetoric) and development, and asked the Centre to explain what it had done for the upliftment of labourers, including tea garden workers, in the state. His remarks come two days before the second phase of the assembly elections in the state on April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19||Veteran politician and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday and he received wishes for speedy recovery from several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  In a tweet this morning, the National Conference (NC) leader's son Omar Abdullah informed about his father testing positive for the coronavirus and also urged everyone who came in contact with him recently to get tested. Prime Minister Modi, while replying to his tweet, wished Farooq Abdullah, a Lok Sabha member and a former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, a speedy recovery.  "Praying for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Farooq Abdullah Ji. Also praying for your and the entire family's good health @OmarAbdullah," he tweeted. Omar Abdullah, also a former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, promptly replied to Modi, saying, "My father and the rest of the family join me in thanking you for your wishes and prayers @narendramodi ji." Farooq Abdullah (85), who received the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine on March 2, is in isolation at his home. Doctors from the SKIMS Hospital checked his vitals and also took blood samples for testing, officials said. In his tweet, Omar Abdullah said, "My father has tested positive for COVID-19 and is showing some symptoms." "I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions," he said. Former chief ministers N Chandrababu Naidu and Mehbooba Mufti, among others, also wished for Farooq Abdullah's speedy recovery. Mehbooba replying to Omar Abdullah's tweet said, "Very sorry to hear that. Hope he (Farooq Abdullah) recovers soon." "Saddened to learn about Farooq Abdullah Ji testing positive for COVID-19. I wish him speedy recovery and the best of health," Naidu said. People's Conference leader Sajad Lone wished a speedy recovery for Farooq Abdullah. "Wishing Dr Farooq Sahib a speedy recovery in his fight against COVID," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Modi lashes out at former minister, calls him ‘outdated 2G missile’||In a veiled attack, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday dubbed former union telecom minister A Raja, as an 'outdated 2G missile' of the Congress and DMK and slammed him for insulting the mother of Chief Minister K Palaniswami and targeting Tamil Nadu women. Without naming Raja, Modi in his election rally here said Congress and DMK have launched their 'outdated 2G missile' and this missile has one clear target, the women of Tamil Nadu. "A few days back, this missile was launched by UPA with a clear order to attack the nari shakti of Tamil Nadu." Today Congress and DMK have insulted the respected mother of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he alleged. "God forbid, if they come to power, they will insult many other women of Tamil Nadu." Days ago, in his campaign, Raja allegedly spoke in an offensive manner over the birth of Palaniswami and the ruling AIADMK lodged a police complaint and a case has been registered against him. Asking Congress and DMK leadership to control their party leaders, the PM said the people of Tamil Nadu are noting everything and they would never tolerate insult to the women of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India|| DGCA asks airports to impose fine on those flouting mask rule||Aviation regulator DGCA on Tuesday told airports to consider imposing spot fines, with the help of police authorities, on passengers who are found not wearing masks properly and not maintaining social distancing as per the Covid-19 rules. On March 13, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had asked airports and airlines to ensure that passengers wear masks and maintain social distance at all times during air travel, and take action against those violating the norms. In a circular issued on Tuesday, the regulator said, "During the surveillance of some airports, it has come to notice that compliance (of Covid-19 protocols) is not satisfactory." "All airport operators, therefore, are requested to ensure that the instructions on Covid-19 protocol from the standpoint of wearing face masks properly, covering nose and mouth, as well as maintaining social distance norms within the airport premises are followed scrupulously," it said. Accordingly, all airport operators can increase surveillance in this regard, the DGCA said. "The possibility of taking punitive action, such as levy of spot fines in accordance with the law, shall also be explored with local police authorities so as to serve a deterrent for violation of Covid-19 protocol," it stated. The March 13 circular had asked the airport operators to hand over the passengers, who are not following the Covid-19 protocol even after repeated warnings, to the security agencies. Moreover, it had asked the airlines to de-board the passengers who refused to adhere to Covid-19 norms even after repeated warnings and consider banning them from flying for at least three months. Fifteen passengers, who were found violating Covid-19 norms on domestic flights of three airlines between March 15 and March 23, might be banned for three months by the carriers, senior officials of the DGCA had said last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Modi compares Left govt in Kerala to Judas over gold smuggling scam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday targetted Kerala's ruling LDF over the gold smuggling scam, saying the CPI(M)-led government "betrayed" the people of the state just as Judas did to Lord Jesus for a few pieces of silver. He also slammed the LDF government over the manner in which it dealt with the agitation against the decision to implement a Supreme Court verdict allowing entry of women in all age groups into Sabarimala temple, saying the Left dispensation should be ashamed of showering lathis on innocent devotees. "About LDF it can be said: Judas betrayed Lord Christ for a few pieces of silver. LDF has betrayed Kerala for a few pieces of gold," the PM said while attacking the Left government over the sensational gold smuggling case. Addressing his first election rally in Palakkad where 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan is contesting as the BJP candidate, Modi also criticised the UDF over corruption, saying during its rule, the Congress-led government did not even spare rays of sun, a reference to the solar panel scam. The veteran BJP leader claimed that the politics of the southern state was seeing a major shift driven by aspirations of the youth who have questioned the "match-fixing" politics of the LDF and the opposition UDF. "Over the last few years, the politics of Kerala is seeing a major shift. This shift is being driven by the aspirations of the youth, especially the first time voter in the state. For many years, the worst kept secret of Kerala politics was the friendly agreement of UDF and LDF. Now, the first time voters of Kerala are asking- what is this match fixing?" Modi said. Training guns on the LDF and the UDF over the Sabarimala temple issue, Modi said, "LDF government should be ashamed of showering Lathis on innocent devotees. UDF should be ashamed of remaining silent when this was happening. I am proud to belong to a party that has, is and will always defend the culture of our land." "I want to tell the LDF and UDF: If you abuse our culture, we will not be mute spectators," he said, referring to the agitation led by party's state unit chief K Surendran to protect faith in the state. "Our state unit President Surendran Ji was arrested and ill-treated by the Kerala government. What was his crime? That he spoke for Kerala's traditions?" Modi asked. Taking on the Left parties on political violence in the state, Modi said they have been in power many times in Kerala but their leaders still behave like junior level goons or party leaders. "Under their eyes and with their blessings, political rivals are killed, hacked, beaten," Modi said. He promised that if voted to power, the BJP government will stop the culture of violence in the southern state. "In a democracy we can have political differences. But, violence is not acceptable. So many of our young BJP Karyakartas have lost their lives. A BJP government in Kerala will stop this culture of violence", Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||Sikhs with swords attack policemen in Maharashtra's Nanded, 14 arrested||Police have arrested 14 people in connection with an attack on policemen by a mob of sword-wielding Sikhs in Nanded after they were denied permission to hold a public procession due to the COVID-19 pandemic, an official said on Tuesday. The Wazirabad police in Maharashtra's Nanded district have registered three FIRs against 64 people (who have been named in the FIRs) and other unidentified persons in connection with Monday's incident at the Sri Hazur Sahib gurdwara, he said. A viral video showed the sword-wielding mob barging out of the gurdwara, breaking the barricades put up by police and attacking the policemen. Four constables were injured and six vehicles were also damaged in the violence. The condition of one of the injured policemen was serious, the official said. The police were also trying to ascertain if anyone from the gurdwara committee had any role in the incident, he said. "We have arrested 14 people till now on charges of attempt to murder, rioting, and under provisions of the Arms Act and other sections. Around 64 people have been named in the FIR, while search is on for others," Deputy Inspector General of Police, Nanded Range, Nisar Tamboli told PTI. The official on Monday said permission for the Hola Mohalla public procession was not granted due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The gurdwara committee was informed and they had assured us that they would abide by our directives and hold the event inside the gurdwara premises," he had said. However, when the Nishan Sahib was brought at the gate around 4 pm on Monday, several participants started arguing and over 300 youth stormed out of the gate, broke the barricades and began attacking the policeman, he had said. Nishan Sahib is a triangular saffron-colour flag furling outside a gurdwara on a steel pole covered with a saffron cloth. The flag also has an insignia called Khanda in the middle, which includes two swords and a chakra. Hola Mohalla (Hola) is a Sikh festival that comes a day after Holi. Unlike Holi, when people sprinkle coloured powder on each other, Hola Mohalla is an occasion for Sikhs to demonstrate their martial skills. Nanded is an important Sikh pilgrimage centre as it is home to the sacred shrine - the Takht Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib. It was here that the 10th and last Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh (1666-1708), anointed the holy book Guru Granth Sahib as the eternal Guru of Sikhism and spent the last 14 months of his life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
30-03-2021||India||After Mehbooba, police reject her mother's passport application||The passport application of Gulshan Nazir, wife of former Union home minister and two-time Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, has been rejected following an adverse police report. According to a letter sent to Nazir, who is the mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, the Regional Passport office informed her that the Jammu and Kashmir Police's CID department has not cleared her passport application under section 6 (2) (c) of the Passports Act. Under this section, a passport is rejected by authorities if they feel that the applicant may engage outside India in activities prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India or the departure of the applicant from India may, or is likely to, be detrimental to the security of the country. A passport can also be rejected, under the section, if the presence of the applicant outside India may, or is likely to, prejudice the friendly relations of India with any foreign country. This section can also reject an application if the central government is of the opinion that issuing a passport or a travel document to the applicant will not be in public interest. There are other reasons in this section which bars processing any application where an applicant has been convicted or is facing criminal proceedings or has a pending summon, according to the Act. But this is not attracted in the case of Nazir, whose husband Mohammed Sayeed had served as Union home minister in the 1990s and later as chief minister twice of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. "...your application for issuance of passport is refused," said the letter issued by the passport officer to Nazir. Mehbooba tweeted that the passport office has rejected her mother's passport application. "CID (Criminal Investigation Department) claims that my mother who is well into her seventies is a 'threat to national security' and therefore doesn't deserve a passport. GoI (Government of India) is employing absurd methods to harass and punish me for not toeing their line," she said. Mehbooba's passport has also been rejected under the same clause and her petition in the Jammu and Kashmir High Court was also dismissed. Dismissing the petition, Justice Ali Mohammad Magray had observed that Mehbooba's application for a passport was rejected by the passport officer, Srinagar, as the police verification report recommended against the issuance of the document to her. "In such circumstances, I am of the considered view that no direction can be issued by this court for issuance of passport in favour of the petitioner," the judge said in his order. "Even otherwise, the scope of this court in the matter of grant or otherwise of passport in favour of an individual is very limited in as much as the court, in this behalf, can only direct the concerned authorities to expeditiously consider the case of an individual in the light of the mandate of the scheme of law governing the subject," the order read. In a letter to Mehbooba, the Regional Passport Office here had informed the People's Democratic Party (PDP) president on March 26 that her application for a passport was rejected on the basis of the "adverse" police verification report. The passport officer also informed the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister that the CID of the Union Territory had recommended against granting a passport to her. The letter said Mehbooba can appeal against the decision at a higher forum provided by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Commenting on the rejection of her application, the PDP president had said it shows the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir. "The Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID's report citing it as 'detrimental' to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex-chief minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation," she had tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||India logs over 56,000 fresh Covid cases, 271 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 1,20,95,855 with 56,211 more people testing positive for the infection in a span of 24 hours, while 271 more fatalities pushed death toll to 1,62,114, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. Registering a steady increase for the 20th day in row, active cases have increased to 5,40,720 comprising 4.47 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.19 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,93,021, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 24,26,50,025 samples have been tested up to March 29 with 7,85,864 samples being tested on Sunday. The 271 new fatalities include 102 from Maharashtra, 59 Punjab, 20 from Chhattisgarh, 16 from Karnataka, 14 from Tamil Nadu and 11 from Kerala. A total of 1,62,114 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 54,283 from Maharashtra, 12, 684 from Tamil Nadu, 12,520 from Karnataka, 11,012 from Delhi, 10,325 from West Bengal, 8,790 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,210 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,749 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||OCI cardholders no longer required to carry old passports for India travel||People of Indian origin and the Indian diaspora having Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards are now not required to carry their old, expired passports for travel to India, as required earlier, according to a government notification that has been welcomed by members of the community. The Overseas Citizens of India or OCI card is issued to people of Indian origin globally which gives them almost all the privileges of an Indian national except for the right to vote, government service and buying agricultural land. The OCI card gives them a visa free travel to India. In a March 26 press release, the Indian missions in the US said that in order to ease the travel of OCI card holders, it has been decided that the time line for re-issuance of OCI cards in r/o OCI card holders, who may be required to get their OCI card reissued has been extended until 31 December, 2021. Further requirement of carrying old and new passports along with the OCI card has been done away. Henceforth, the OCI card holders travelling on the strength of their existing OCI card bearing old passport number are not required to carry their old passport. However, carrying a new passport is mandatory. New York-based social activist Prem Bhandari, who has been taking up the cause of OCI card holders for the past several years, welcomed the announcement. He expressed gratitude to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of External Affairs and the Government of India for not only extending the renewal up to December 31 this year but also for relaxing the guidelines and not requiring OCI card holders to carry their old, expired foreign passports. The OCI card holders can heave a sigh of relief worldwide, with these new guidelines, he said. He expressed thanks to Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla for the new guidelines. Bhandari said that he had seen first-hand the inconvenience caused to members of the Indian diaspora due to certain OCI card rules as they undertook travel to India during the pandemic. He said some of the passengers were not allowed to board flights to India and were sent back from airports as they were not carrying their old foreign passports, which was required as per government rules. The OCI card, among other benefits, allows multiple entry, multi-purpose life long visa to an Indian-origin foreign national to visit India. Under the provisions of the OCI card, which gives the cardholder lifelong visa to India, those below 20 years and above 50 years need to renew their OCI card every time they have their passport renewed. The Indian government has relaxed the provisions since last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. The timeline has been extended multiple times so far. However, this is for the first time that the guidelines have been relaxed for carrying old passports and the new passports along with the OCI cards for overseas Indians. In May last year, the central government had allowed certain categories of OCI card holders, who were stranded abroad, to come to the country. Earlier, according to the regulations issued by the Indian government, visas of foreign nationals and OCI cards were suspended as part of the new international travel restrictions following the COVID-19 pandemic. OCI cardholders were asked to carry their old passport with them to fly to India. Now, under the new provisions, OCI cardholders are not required to carry their old passports but will still need to carry their new passport. Bhandari said that Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines for OCI card holders to carry old expired foreign passports had been in place since 2005 but till 2019, it was not being thoroughly checked or applied. Bhandari had previously also requested Indian authorities to initiate measures such as granting emergency visas on departure to help Indian-origin families travel to their homeland for health or other emergencies amid the COVID19 pandemic. Bhandari, Jaipur Foot USA Chairman, had said that late last year he had written to the Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, as well as the Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola and Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla outlining some of the hardships faced by Indian-origin families in travelling to India for emergency reasons and suggesting measures that can be taken to ensure smoother travel for these families. Bhandari had suggested that holders of Indian passport/PIO/OCI card be allowed to travel with their US-born minor children under the age of 14 with any unexpired visa obtained anytime without applying for an emergency visa at consulates. He added that in case it is difficult to carry out these measures, authorities may consider either granting Emergency Visa on Departure (E-VoD) or restoring immediate e-Visa process for approval online. Last year, Bhandari had also requested extension of the date of renewal of OCI cards till December 31, 2020 such that the Non-Resident Indian/Person of Indian Origin community had enough time to understand the new requirement and renew their OCI cards. Bhandari also expressed hope that the issue of tourist visas will also be resolved soon. In October last year, the Indian government had decided to restore with immediate effect the validity of all existing visas, except electronic, tourist and medical category visas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||Fight to liberate Nemom from ‘Gujarat of Kerala’ tag||A senior BJP leader’s description of the party-held Nemom Assembly constituency as the “Gujarat of Kerala” reverberates ahead of the elections since the rest of the political spectrum has taken it as an insult to the southern state known for its syncretic culture. With less than a fortnight to go for the April 6 Assembly polls, the Nemom constituency in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram has deservedly been grabbing eyeballs from all parties fighting for their share of the pie. Nemom is the sole seat represented by the BJP in Kerala. Veteran BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekaran, who returned to state politics in March 2019 after a brief stint as Mizoram governor and is contesting the Nemom seat, is the man under fire for likening Nemom to Gujarat. Two months after Rajasekharan said “Nemom is the Gujarat of Kerala”, the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front are separately assuring the electorate that they would not allow the BJP to retain the seat. Although Rajasekaran appeared to have made the Gujarat reference to convey that the BJP would be similarly invincible in Nemom, many had bristled at the association with the eastern state where atrocities have frequently been committed against the minorities, especially during the 2002 riots. It was O. Rajagopal, now 91, who had stunned everyone by opening the BJP’s account in Kerala by unseating the CPM’s V. Sivankutty in 2016. The UDF had put up a dismal show with its candidate V. Surendran Pillai of alliance partner Janata Dal United polling just 13,728 votes. While Rajasekharan is desperately trying to emulate his predecessor and Sivankutty is pulling out all the stops to regain the seat he had won in 2011, the Congress has defied its own diktat not to field Lok Sabha members by asking K. Muraleedharan to take the field and regain the party’s honour. “We will not allow the BJP to convert Nemom into Gujarat, which is known for all the wrong reasons as opposed to Kerala that stands for progressive values,” Muraleedharan told The Telegraph, setting the tone for a tough triangular fight he is confident of winning. The LDF has made a similar pledge. “We all know what the BJP did to Muslims in Gujarat. Malayalis will never allow him (Rajasekaran) to fulfil his Gujarat dream in Nemom,” Sivankutty told this newspaper. Rajasekaran iterated his “Gujarat of Kerala” comment when this newspaper met him during his campaign in peak Kerala summer. “It is the development work of my predecessor (Rajagopal) that has helped make Nemom our Gujarat. It’s the same reason why the BJP is invincible in Gujarat.” But certainly Gujarat is not the only topic being discussed in Nemom, an Assembly constituency part of the Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha seat represented by Shashi Tharoor of the Congress. Unlike in 2016, when the fight was between the LDF and the BJP, the entry of Muraleedharan has added a new dimension to a contest the whole state is hooked to. After two consecutive losses, the Congress is back as a challenger in Nemom since, in the words of Muraleedharan, the UDF partners insisted on fielding a heavyweight unlike in the last two state polls. “The UDF had painted a dismal picture in 2011 and 2016 when we gave the Nemom seat to a smaller partner with no roots here,” Muraleedharan said. Socialist Janata (Democratic) that was given the ticket in 2011 had later merged with the Janata Dal United. Muraleedharan had won from the neighbouring Vattiyoorkavu seat in 2016 by a margin of 7,446 votes against his current rival Rajasekharan. The UDF’s performance in Nemom had since turned into a gauntlet around its neck with the LDF alleging massive “trading” of votes to help the BJP, a charge the Congress has vehemently denied. Even Pillai recently attributed his loss to the Congress “transferring” votes to Rajagopal. “The BJP won because we fielded a weak candidate from a party with no roots here. But things are different this time,” Muraleedharan said, rubbishing such allegations. While Sivankutty is banking on the fact that the LDF managed to keep its head high by polling 644 more votes than even the BJP in the December local body polls in the 26 wards that comprise the Nemom Assembly segment, Muraleedharan had no doubts that the UDF was coming back to power. “The civic polls are done and dusted. We are now engaged in a fight for the state that we are going to win,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||Teenage rape victim paraded in Madhya Pradesh village||A 16-year-old girl who had allegedly been raped was beaten up, tied to the rape accused with a rope, and paraded in a Madhya Pradesh village on Sunday by a mob that chanted “Bharat Mata ki Jai”. A video showing the girl and the 21-year-old accused, who are tied with a rope, being forced to walk around the village amid slogans of “Bharat Mata ki jai” has been shared widely on social media. The atrocity occurred in a village under Jobat police station in Alirajpur district. The girl was rescued by police, a senior officer said. Sub-divisional police officer Dilip Singh Bilwal said two cases were registered on Sunday on the basis of FIRs lodged by the victim. “One of the cases was registered against the 21-year-old man. Another FIR was registered against the family members of the girl and villagers,” Bilwal said. Six people — the accused and five villagers — have been arrested. The rape accused, who is married and has two children, has been booked under sections of the IPC and the Pocso Act. Family members and relatives of the victim were booked under Sections 294 (obscene act in public places), 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and other sections of the IPC, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||Rape accused gets anticipatory bail at special SC hearing on Holi ||The Supreme Court on Monday held a special hearing on Holi to grant anticipatory bail to a Goa restaurateur accused of raping a woman from Delhi besides trying to intimidate and poison her. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Abdul Nazeer granted the relief after hearing senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for the accused, Jude Lobo. Rohatgi claimed Lobo had been falsely implicated because he had refused to let the woman hold a rave party of more than 50 people in December on the ground of the Covid restrictions. The woman and the prosecution were not represented. The bench has issued notices to the woman and the investigating agency. A trial court in Delhi had cancelled Lobo’s anticipatory bail and Delhi High Court had refused to interfere with the matter. Rohatgi asked why a complaint would be lodged last December for an alleged rape in 2009. He stressed that Lobo was a married man with three children.“We are satisfied that the petitioner has made out a prima facie case for grant of anticipatory bail,” the bench said in its order. The Supreme Court is on a week’s holiday from March 29 on account of Holi and will reopen on April 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||More infectious coronavirus variant circulating in Maharashtra||Anecdotal evidence suggests a coronavirus variant more infectious but less virulent is circulating in Maharashtra, a top state medical adviser said on Monday as India’s count of active patients increased to over 521,000, past the midpoint of the previous peak in September. Shashank Joshi, a senior Mumbai-based physician and member of the state’s Covid-19 task force said Maharashtra may need to consider a lockdown if hospitals continue to fill up with patients. Maharashtra accounted for about 325,000 (62 per cent) of India’s 521,808 Covid-19 patients under medical supervision on Monday with daily new cases in the state over the seven days exceeding the daily counts during the peak of its first wave in mid-September. The seven-day average of daily new cases in Maharashtra has increased over 5-fold over the past month — from around 6,400 on March 1 to 33,400 on March 28. The state detected 40,414 new cases on Sunday, or nearly 60 per cent of India’s count of 68,020 new cases. “We’re seeing an exponential rise in cases. Hospital beds are filling up fast — private hospitals are already close to approaching or at peak capacity, but we still have beds in public hospitals,” said Joshi. The state has around 30,000 oxygen-supported beds, nearly 11,900 intensive care unit beds, and 6,100 ventilators reserved for Covid-19 patients. In line with observations during the previous wave, 80 to 90 per cent of patients recover at home and do not require hospital care. “We’re seeing fast recovery and a low case fatality rate — it is possible that this is a variant that is more infectious and possibly less virulent,” Joshi said, citing observations such as more household members of a case becoming infected now than during the earlier wave. Joshi said the state is seeking to collaborate with the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, to accelerate work to determine what variants are circulating in the state and contributing to the current resurgence. State authorities have increased testing and contact tracing and are trying to curb the risk of infection spread from cases under home isolation but health experts are worried at the speed at which the cases are rising in the state. Joshi said a lockdown has been discussed as an option if the epidemic begins to overwhelm the state’s hospital infrastructure. A decision would depend on how fast cases rise in the coming days, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||Kashmir: Militants storm municipal council meeting killing a BJP councillor ||Militants stormed the venue of a municipal council meeting in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore on Monday, killing a BJP councillor and a security guard and injuring another councillor in indiscriminate firing. The attack has led to major embarrassment for the security establishment after militants not only inflicted casualties but managed to escape unharmed. The attack triggered panic among hundreds of students and parents as the council complex is close to a school. All the students were safe. BJP state chief Ravinder Raina claimed the party’s state secretary and Block Development Council chairperson Dr Farida Khan was critically injured in the attack. But Khan told The Telegraph she escaped unharmed. A police spokesman said councillor Reyaz Ahmad and special police officer Shafqat Nazir were killed in the attack. Injured councillor Shams-ud-din Peer was shifted to Srinagar’s SMHS Hospital. CRPF constable Jagannath Ray, who was injured in Srinagar’s Lawaypora attack on March 25, succumbed to his wounds on Monday. A CRPF sub-inspector and a driver had died on March 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||India||Three Dalit kids charred to death during Holika Dahan ||Three Dalit children were charred to death and another was seriously injured during Holika Dahan in Bihar’s Bodh Gaya on Sunday evening. The incident happened at Rahul Nagar village under Moratal panchayat where the four children aged around 12 to 13 years had gone to put offerings in the bonfire of wood (Holika) that is burnt on the eve of Holi. They were placing the offerings when somebody lit the bonfire from two sides. The fire spread quickly and the children got trapped in it. People heard their screams and managed to pull them out after much effort, but three of them were charred to death by then and one was writhing in pain. The injured child was admitted to a hospital in a serious condition and is battling for life. “It was an accident that snuffed out the lives of three children. The parents should not have let them go near the bonfire. Our village is not celebrating Holi this year because of the incident,” Nandu Manjhi, a resident of Rahul Nagar, told reporters. None of the victims’ families have lodged a police complaint. They performed the last rites of the deceased near the Falgu river. Bodh Gaya station house officer Mitesh Kumar said: “The villagers cremated the deceased children on Monday morning. They have not lodged any complaint so far.” Several other mishaps and crimes were reported from different parts of the state, which witnessed slightly low-key celebrations of the festival of colours on Monday following the government’s ban on public gatherings in the wake of the surge in Covid cases. A woman at Pandeypatti village under Muffasil police station in Buxar district was shot at and injured on Monday when she opposed the playing of obscene songs by a group of youths near her house. One of the revellers whipped out a pistol and shot her. The youths fled after the incident while villagers took the injured woman to the government hospital. Buxar sub-divisional police officer Gorakh Ram said: “The firing happened during a dispute over the playing of songs. The woman has suffered a bullet injury in her leg. We are investigating the matter.” Two persons were killed near Mushahri village under Parsauni police station in Sitamarhi district on Holi after the motorcycles they were riding collided with each other. On the other hand, two groups of people clashed with each other over a land dispute in Madhubani district on Monday. One person was shot dead while five were left injured in the incident. Earlier, a speeding truck rammed into a sweets and snacks shop at Telhara in Nalanda district, killing six persons on Sunday. The locals, angered over the incident, attacked the Telhara police station and torched several vehicles parked on its campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Battleground Nandigram||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Time to create new history for Bengal, urges Buddhadev ||Once his was the only baritone emanating from the Left camp in Bengal’s political landscape. Ill-health has kept him away from active politics, and the annual Brigade Parade Ground rally,  for a long time now, so much so that the former chief minister has recused himself from the highest decision-making body of his party. On Tuesday, in an audio message that was shared widely by the CPM and its supporters, Buddhadev Bhattacharjee spoke out. In a trembling, halting voice, he asked voters to create history in Bengal. “Everybody realises that this is a crucial juncture for the state. The Left Front came out with the slogan, 'Farming is our base, industry is our future'. We gained in agriculture and were on the verge of expanding industry. Since the Left Front was voted out, everything has come to a standstill,” Bhattacharjee said in the 3.41minute-long message, released as the campaign for the second phase of polling on April 1, came to an end. “Since Trinamul came to power, a dangerous situation has been created in the state. Economy is in peril. Agriculture and farmers are under threat. Prices of farm-produces are touching the sky,” he said. “No major industry has come up in the last 10 years. Democracy is under threat. Urban livelihood is feeling the pinch,” he said a day after  he had issued a statement seeking support for the Left-Congress Sanyukta Morcha. Bhattacharjee said the situation could not be allowed to continue as the youth of the state were becoming the victims of it. “While there is a threat to the state from the Trinamul and BJP, this has also given rise to a possibility. The Left, Congress and a secular party have formed a front to fight to preserve democracy and bring Bengal back on the path of development,” he said. “This government will be alert to the needs of farmers, workers and the common people. This is my appeal to create a new history in Bengal,” he said. Five years ago, he had lobbed the idea of the CPM and the Congress shedding their political differences and coming together for the sake of the state. That was also the last time he was heard at a public meeting, as he pitched hard for a Left-Congress government while sharing the dais with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The 2016 Assembly results had proved to be a disaster and the electoral experiment had evidently failed. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, feeble attempts were made but the two fought separately and were decimated. The only difference that the CPM has offered this time is by fielding number of young candidates, some fresh from the party’s dwindling organisational pool. Bhattacharjee, in his back-to-back messages, also emphasised on the youths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
30-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC lodges formal complaint to EC against Modi's Bangladesh visit||The TMC has written to the Election Commission alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visit to Bangladesh violated the model code of conduct in place for the West Bengal Assembly polls and some of his programmes there "intended to influence the voting pattern" in certain constituencies of the state. The letter dated March 28 was released by the Trinamool Congress on Tuesday. Modi visited Bangladesh from March 26 to 27 to attend the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the country's independence and the birth centenary of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman following an invitation from his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina. The subject line of the letter written by TMC national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien read: "Gross violation of democratic ethics and the Model Code of Conduct by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi during his visit to Bangladesh." "We have no objection whatsoever to his visit to Bangladesh for this official purpose. After all, India played a critical role in the liberation of Bangladesh. West Bengal, in particular, made an immense contribution to the heroic struggle of our fellow Bengalis in (what was then) East Pakistan for freedom from the brutal regime in West Pakistan. "However, the All lndia Trinamool Congress strongly objects to Shri Modi's programmes in Bangladesh on March 27. These had nothing to do with either the 50th anniversary of the independence of Bangladesh or the birth centenary of 'Bangabandhu'. Rather, they were solely and exclusively intended to influence the voting pattern in certain constituencies in the ongoing elections to the Legislative Assembly of West Bengal," O'Brien said in the letter. "No lndian Prime Minister has so brazenly indulged in an unethical and undemocratic act and violated the Model Code of Conduct by indirectly campaigning for his party from foreign soil," he said. The TMC leader further alleged that the political motive behind Modi's visit is proven by the fact that he took along with him BJP MP from West Bengal Santanu Thakur, who holds no official position in the government of lndia. "No MP or representative from the Trinamool Congress or other parties was invited to accompany the PM. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has thus grossly misused his official position to interfere from foreign soil in the election process in West Bengal," O'Brien said. "The All lndia Trinamool Congress demands that the Election Commission of lndia not only censure him but also take deterrent punitive action against him so that he dares not repeat such misconduct in future," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Police forces from BJP-ruled states 'terrorising' Nandigram residents, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged police forces from BJP-ruled states have been brought in to "terrorise" voters in Nandigram assembly constituency and also accused BJP ministers and security forces of distributing cash to lure voters. Banerjee is pitted against her one time loyalist-turned- rival Suvendu Adhikari of BJP in the high-profile Nandigram constituency that will go to vote on April 1. Criss-crossing the assembly segment on wheelchair in the last leg of campaigning,the TMC supremo alleged at Sonachura that huge amount of cash was being brought from all over the country and "distributed from hotels by the (BJP) ministers" to lure people cast their votes in favour of the saffron party nominee. Banerjee further alleged that cash was also being distributed from vehicles of the security forces to bribe voters and accused BJP of crossing all norms to come to power in the state. "This is the money of PM Cares Fund, this is unaccounted cash amassed during demonetisation, this is the cash having swelled their coffers after sale of PSUs. "This is the public money they had looted and now giving in Rs 500/1000 to each voter. We had informed the Election Commission about this but it still continues unabated," she said. At the second meeting at Basulichak, she said, "several ministers from BJP-ruled states and Central ministers are behind distribution of cash." The feisty Bengal leader also asked at Basulichak "why more than 100 cars are in the convoy of Union Home Minister Amit Shah while not more than 5 vehicles are allowed in a convoy during elections? "Someone is being given more privileges than others," she alleged. At the meeting at Basulichak, the CM while taking an apparent dig at Suvendu Adhikari said "CPI(M) harmad (pirate) from whose house shots were fired at protestors in Nandigram in 2007, has now become the right hand man of the betrayer of people." At the Sonachura meeting, Banerjee alleged "police forces from Madhya Pradesh and some other BJP-ruled states have been brought to Nandigram to terrorise voters in villages and tilt the verdict in favour of the saffron party". Predicting a massive win from the seat and her party returning to power in the state, she warned "they (police forces from outside) will be here only for few days. Make no mistake. We will be back and give the betrayers a befitting reply." She said the Election Commission is being apprised of the alleged act by police forces from outside of terrorising villagers. "We have no issue if the outsider police function impartially. But, we have credible information they are not," she alleged. Banerjee iterated her call to the electorate to wait if the EVM malfunctions during voting and "not leave the place even if you are asked to come back after a while to avert any bid to change your verdict." Banerjee urged the people to be on alert against "any bid to instigate communal riots in the seat in the run up to the polling and on the day of polling." "They have plans to kill their own people and pass the blame on us to engineer riots. We have information. Be on guard," she said without naming the BJP. "Nandigram stands for united battle against forcible land acquisition participated by different communities. Be on guard against any bid to fuel tension by keeping any object in places of worship. We are all united. Defeat riot mongering BJP," she said. Banerjee promised a model Nandigram connecting the place with the industrial hub Haldia to expedite economic development in the area. Trying hard to explain that she never meant people from Nandigram were involved in alleged attack on her on March 10, Banerjee said "outsider goondas were brought in to attack me." Banerjee on Monday accused Adhikari of plotting attack on her drawing a sharp retort from her former ministerial colleague who accused the cm of wearing crape bandage in public to gain sympathy of voters and wanted her x ray report be made public. The TMC supremo took part in a road show covering 3 km meandering through the narrow alleys of Nandigram as crowds shouted "Jai Hind", "Jai Bangla", "Mamata Banerjee Zindabad" and criticised 'Mir Zafars' (betrayers) who had left TMC to join BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata greeted by 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans in Nandigram||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, who is contesting the assembly elections from Nandigram, was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans by BJP supporters on Tuesday at Reyapara here, where she had been camping for the past two days. The chief minister, moments before she was about to leave for her programme at Bhangabera in the constituency - set to go to polls on April 1 -- was seen sitting calmly inside the vehicle, as police personnel deputed for her safety made sure that the saffron camp supporters got out of her way. Banerjee, who is scheduled to address multiple rallies on the last day of the campaigning here, had strongly reacted to 'Jai Sri Ram' slogans in the past. A senior BJP leader here said raising 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan was not a crime, as people across the country revere the Hindu deity. Local TMC members, however, claimed that the "BJP, sensing defeat, is resorting to cheap tactics" to inconvenience others. The TMC chief, an MLA from Bhawanipore, this time decided to fight the elections from Nandigram, where her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari has been fielded by the BJP. The two had engaged in a bitter war of words over the past few days, with Adhikari accusing Banerjee of practising appeasement politics, and the TMC boss alleging that the saffron camp had been trying to polarise voters on religious lines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah holds roadshow in Nandigram amid 'Jai Shri Ram' chants||In a show of might ahead of the second phase of Bengal elections, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday held a massive roadshow in the high-profile Nandigram constituency. Standing atop a lorry, decked up with flowers and BJP flags, Shah, with TMC turncoat and party candidate Suvendu Adhikari by his side, waved at enthusiastic crowds that gathered along the four-km stretch between Bethuria and Rayapara in the East Midnapore assembly segment. Locals queued up on two sides of the road and watched the procession, which inched its way through the narrow streets amid chants of 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Narendra Modi Zindabad' and 'Amit Shah Zindabad'. Many of them were seen shooting videos and clicking selfies at the roadshow. Later, while talking to reporters at a party office in Nandigram, Shah exuded confidence that BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari will win the elections from Nandigram by a record margin by defeating TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, a co- contestant from the seat, terming it as "absolutely necessary to bring about the much-desired change in Bengal." He further said that the saffron camp's victory margin "should be so big that no politician will dare to fool the masses with false promises ever again." "By defeating Mamata didi in Nandigram, you can bring about the much-desired change in West Bengal. You defeat her here, The TMC will automatically get defeated in other parts of the state," he said. Referring to a recent incident of rape in Nandigram, Shah wondered why women are not safe in the state, despite "tall claims" made by Banerjee. "She talks big about women's safety. What is the situation here? A woman was raped here, just a few kilometres away from where she has put up in Nandigram," he said. All eyes are on battleground Nandigram, where West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has locked horns with her protege-turned-rival Adhikari. The campaigning in the constituency, which will go to polls on April 1, is set to end at 5 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Amphan key issue in coastal belt ||In an election campaign largely woven around identities such as religion, caste, culture and ethnicity, Cyclone Amphan takes centrestage in the storm-torn coastal South 24-Parganas. Sources said the BJP and the Sanjukta Morcha have been going to people of Amphan-hit areas to highlight the alleged corruption over relief funds and other resources by ruling Trinamul, even as Trinamul leaders highlight examples of how many people received help from the state and how the BJP-led Centre deprived the people there. Four constituencies of the coast — Gosaba, Kakdwip, Sagar and Patharpratima — will go to the polls on April 1, while the rest 10 seats of the region will vote on April 6. Union home minister Amit Shah had openly in his campaign rally from Gosaba on March 22 alleged that “nephew and company (referring to Mamata’s nephew Abhishek)” had swindled central funds for Amphan relief. It was strongly countered by chief Mamata Banerjee during her poll rally in Sagar. On March 25, she recounted how she had spent a sleepless night at Nabanna on May 20 last year, when Cyclone Amphan had scythed through south Bengal, and how she used the entire pool of resources at her disposal to support people, from shifting them to safe houses to providing relief and rehabilitation. BJP leaders in South 24-Parganas said Amphan is the prime issue as the people remember their sufferings and how Trinamul leaders allegedly diverted the relief money to the accounts of their relatives. In every village, BJP leaders have been collecting names of villagers deprived from Amphan relief and referring to them personally in their poll campaigns. “Amphan is the prime issue here as people have not forgotten the blatant corruption of Trinamul leaders. It is easier for us to reach them and ask for votes for better development and governance. We have asked the villagers to ask the Trinamul leaders to publish village-wise lists of beneficiaries to show who actually received money. This is an issue which could ruin Trinamul here,” said Palash Rana, a BJP secretary in the Mathurapur organisational district in South 24-Parganas. Bikash Kamila, BJP’s nominee from Sagar, has been reaching out to people every day over “Amphan corruption”. “Amphan is recent in public memory. Hundreds of youths who protested against corruption (in relief funds) were tagged in criminal cases by Mamata Banerjee’s police. We are highlighting that,” said Kamila. The CPM has fielded Kanti Ganguly, a party veteran and former minister, from Raidighi. Ganguly became popular for helping out in relief work by way of food, shelter and rebuilding breached embankments. The CPM youth wing even made a song on Ganguly, which talks about how only he came to people’s aid. Ganguly is reminding people of this too amid fears of whether the BJP’s agenda of polarisation will take precedence. “I have been going to the people with the issue of Amphan. I have been telling them that I can help them in a better way if I become an MLA again. But as a great misfortune for Bengal, polarisation is also a reality here,” said the CPM veteran. Trinamul leaders said the issue of Amphan was a “staged” campaign by the BJP and the CPM in South 24-Parganas. “People know how little the BJP-led Centre did for people,” said a leader. “We have been admitting to the few mistakes during distribution of Amphan aid. But there are thousands of examples of people who got help. Many BJP and CPM workers also received the aid,” said Bankim Hazra, Trinamul MLA from Sagar and party nominee. Dinhata death report Special police observer Vivek Dubey, in his probe report of the death of BJP leader Amit Sarkar, told the Election Commission that it was suicide. The BJP had alleged “Trinamul goons” had murdered Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Harmony at peril: Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee||Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee on Monday issued a statement, listing the alleged ills of 10 years of Trinamul Congress rule and urging the electorate of Bengal to vote for the candidates nominated by the Left-Congress-ISF alliance, dubbed as the Sanjukta Morcha. In a six-paragraph statement issued in Bengali, Bhattacharjee has accused the BJP of harming the economy in favour of capitalists, and indulging in divisive politics and communal polarisation. “The economic-political concept we have been trying to convey to the people since the time of the Left Front government is, agriculture is our foundation, industry is our future. We have followed that path since,” Bhattacharjee wrote, echoing the efforts of the Left Front to weave their poll narrative around the promises of employment and industrialisation. “We have fallen back in agriculture in the past 10 years under the incumbent government. There has been no significant industry in the past decade. There is the silence of a cemetery in Nandigram and Singur. The conspirators of the shrewd screenplay of that time are now divided into two and throwing mud at each other. The youth of Bengal have lost the possibilities of employment. There is no appointment in the government sector. Bengal’s intelligence and skill which is our asset is being bound to leave our state and go to other states,” Bhattacharjee wrote. Bhattacharjee’s allegations are targeted at both Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari, her former protégé who is now contesting against her from the Nandigram seat on a BJP ticket. He also alleged that the people of the state had been suffering the nexus of the “corruption-extortion syndicate”. During the Left rule democracy had percolated to the bottom of the democratic structure and had proved to be the basis of development, Bhattacharjee said and added that this system had been ruined in the last ten years. “Most important, the environment of communal harmony which was the pride of West Bengal has been poisoned. On one side, there is Trinamul’s autocratic hooliganism, on the other side, BJP’s dangerous economic policies for the sake of large capitalists, divisive politics, communal polarisation — behind which is the dangerous ideology of the RSS...,” Bhattacharjee’s statement read. “I appeal to the people of all sections to help this force win the Assembly polls to form a new government for the sake of the people. This state government will work for West Bengal’s democracy, communal harmony and for the sake of the life and livelihood of labourers-farmers and hardworking people. Hence, help the candidates of the Sanjukta Morcha win in all the seats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Politics is no bar for tea and muri with opponents||A few politicians are embracing courtesy to shape their poll campaign in Bengal where politics is usually all about being merciless to rivals. Sometime around 5pm on Saturday evening, CPM’s Dumdum North nominee Tanmoy Bhattacharya dug his heels into an anti-Trinamul polemic at a media event. He echoed the “cut money” refrain sounded out by the BJP. But minutes after the media event ended, Tanmoy made a unique gesture of inviting his rival party workers to tea at a nearby stall. The gesture seemed to echo Calcutta’s Coffee House culture of endless debates minus personal attacks. In this poll season, some of Bengal’s political faces are keeping these unwritten manners alive. Tanmoy and a handful of CPM rivals ended their day’s work with an hour’s worth of conversation and puffed rice. The stoic vendor did not know how to tell his customers apart politically. Speaking to The Telegraph, CPM candidate Tanmoy, also the sitting MLA of Dumdum North, said: “I always interact with people without political prejudice. To me, interaction at a personal level is important. I do not believe all Trinamul workers are bad. There are many good people among our rivals. I never mingle with the bad elements.” He said he recently walked into Trinamul’s office in Durganagar in his constituency. “After some pleasantries, one of the Trinamul workers offered me some almonds. Then I found them taking tea with muri (puffed rice). Without hesitation, I picked up some muri from the bowl and joined the chat and returned,” said Tanmoy. In Kalyani, CPM candidate Sabuj Das feels the same. “Polls last only a month. Life is much longer,” smiled Sabuj, who tries to keep vitriol out of his campaign messages. Sabuj added: “I believe that politics is for people. For me, it will be unfortunate if relationships with people are soured just over political differences. So, I never mind interacting with activists of my political rivals and seeking votes inside their party offices.” In Chakdah, Trinamul candidate Subhankar Singh, who is no stranger to the acerbic nature of most Trinamul-BJP fights, tries to keep a cool head. Residents of the area take note of his ability to befriend rival party workers even as they are drawing opposing graffiti on walls. “We have grown up together. A (political) party is not going to put a wall between us,” he says. Singh credits his party chief Mamata Banerjee for the lesson in manners. “She never mixes politics with personal relations. She always inquires after rival leaders if they fall ill or meet with an accident.” Singh’s efforts in particular made waves on social media a few weeks ago. In its wake, netizens have also found out about Sabuj and Tanmoy, who are sure-footed enough to remain pleasant. “This courtesy is the culture of Bengal. These are gestures we have always expected from our politicians. There is definitely an acrimonious battle ahead. Nevertheless, amid such political enmity, it is great to see that these candidates are keeping their culture of courtesy alive,” said Anirban Sen, a playwright in Calcutta. Singh may have the last word here. “The polls will be over soon, but people will always remember my behaviour. To me this is very important,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Four boys drown in Damodar on Holi||Four teenagers drowned in the Damodar river near the Durgapur Barrage at Borjora in Bankura after playing Holi on Monday afternoon. Six others were rescued from the river and four of them hospitalised. Police said only one of the deceased had been identified — Aviraj Gupta, 14, of Durgapur town in West Burdwan — while the three other deceased were from nearby Borjora in Bankura district and remained unidentified so far. Police said after celebrating Holi, Aviraj, a student of Class VIII, had gone to the Damodar Barrage at Borjora, 2km away from his residence at Karangapara in Durgapur town, with six of his friends to bathe in the river around 2pm. Three other boys from Borjora joined them. “Initially the boys were bathing where the water was chest-deep. Suddenly three boys went towards the gates of the barrage where water was at least 30-foot deep,” said one of the eyewitnesses. “The others went after them and soon they all went under.” People, mostly fishermen, raised an alarm and many dived into the river to save the boys. Police and rescue teams from Durgapur’s Coke Oven and Borjora police stations also rushed the spot. “We managed to drag out all 10 boys and rushed them to Bankura Sammiloni Medical College and Hospital where doctors declared four of them dead on arrival. Four others were admitted to Durgapur subdivisional hospital,” said a police officer. The area falls under Borjora police station limits in Bankura. Local residents alleged lack of police patrolling along the river bank leading to such incidents. “The police should not allow people to go into the river,” said a Borjora resident. “Our policemen were patrolling in the area. We will investigate why they overlooked the boys bathing,” said a police officer. He however admitted ladditional workload ahead of the Assembly elections. The police and local administration had earlier installed boards warning people about the dangers of going into the river. Another death Police said that on Sunday Sourdipta Sengupta, 23, from Durgapur’s City Centre locality drowned in the river while bathing. Sengupta’s body was recovered later in the evening and sent for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||EC: 697 companies of central forces for phase 2||The Election Commission of India is set to deploy 697 companies of central forces during the second phase of Bengal polls on April 1. Thirty Assembly constituencies, including Nandigram in East Midnapore where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is pitted against her former protégé and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, will go to polls in the second phase. The 30 Assembly segments which would go for polls in the second phase are spread over four districts — East and West Midnapore, Bankura and South 24-Parganas. In the first phase on March 27, again where 30 Assembly segments had voted, the EC had deployed 730 companies. “A total of 636 companies of central forces will be deployed to guard the booths and other related activities on poll day. The remaining 61 companies will be used as security cover for teams carrying postal ballots to voters aged above 80 and the physically challenged voters and provide security to the strongrooms,” said a source. According to sources,189 companies of central forces would be deployed for nine Assembly seats to go for polls in the second phase, in East Midnapore. Similarly, 198 companies will be deployed for nine Assembly seats in West Midnapore, 161 companies for eight Assembly seats in Bankura and 89 companies for four Assembly seats in South 24-Parganas. The state police will deploy more than 100 inspectors and 300-odd sub-inspectors in the second phase. The central forces will guard polling premises and the area within 100-m radius of each polling station. The state police will maintain the law and order in the rest of the areas. Sources in the EC said as all booths would be guarded by the central forces, the deployment of so many companies of central forces was needed. Officials said the huge deployment in the first phase was somehow justified as it included Jhargram, Bengal’s only district considered Maoist-hit by the Centre. “But as there is no Maoist-hit district in the second phase, the deployment (of 697 companies) could be considered huge,” said a senior government official. “The overall peaceful polling in the first phase has encouraged the EC to deploy all its resources to hold polls peacefully in the next phases too,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Feud-hit candidate in front of returning officer, BJP recalls him ||The BJP’s proposed candidate from East Burdwan’s Galsi, Tapan Bagdi, on Monday had to return from the district election office without filing his nomination papers as the saffron party denied him the ticket at the last minute. In the evening, the BJP replaced Bagdi with Bikash Biswas, a leader of BJP teachers’ wing. Sources said that after the BJP had announced the name of Bagdi as the party’s nominee from Galsi, many party workers started campaigning against him and openly condemned the party’s decision to field him as he had been accused in a case of molestation. Bagdi, however, had started campaigning with graffiti in his name. At the same time, many BJP workers protested against him with posters, which became embarrassing for the party. On Monday morning, Bagdi arrived with five of his aides to file his nomination at the district election office. “When he was before the returning officer, a phone call from Calcutta arrived on his cell phone. Apparently, some senior leader told him to not file the papers,” a BJP leader of the area said. BJP district president Abhijit Tah, when contacted, said: “There was some embargo and so we could not field him, because of his alleged involvement in a criminal case. It the party leaders in Delhi changed the name.” On why the issue was not scrutinised before Bagdi’s name was announced as the candidate, Tah said he could not comment about it. A BJP leader who was part of those who protested against Bagdi’s candidature, said: “Despite knowing his criminal background, the party announced his name. That was the reason for our protest. There were many in the party who could have been fielded instead of him.” On the sudden turn of events, Bagdi said: “I came to file nomination but the party did not give me a ticket. I was asked by a leader not to submit my papers. I can’t say more.” BJP insiders said Bagdi’s removal was part of a much larger ongoing feud between the BJP old-timers and newcomers. Bagdi is an old-timer. The district saw fierce infighting between the old and new camps on January 21, when a new three-storey BJP party office in Burdwan town, inaugurated by its national president J.P. Nadda in December, was stoned by party workers during an alleged clash between two factions, over charges that then district president Sandip Nandi had been neglecting old-timers for turncoats. Later, Nandi was showcaused and removed from his post. Sources said some BJP old-timers had decided to stand as Independents in places where the party chose candidates from among the newcomers. “Old-timer Ganesh Majhi has already filed his nomination in Burdwan North. Another will file his papers soon in Burdwan South. All the old-timers have said they will try their best to defeat the party’s official candidates,” said a BJP source. Tah, the BJP’s district president, insisted there were no such issues. Even Alok Majhi, the Trinamul MLA from Galsi and a party candidate from Jamalpur, vouched for Bagdi. “Tapanda (Bagdi) is an old-timer in the BJP, we had seen him working for the party since early 1990s,” Majhi said. “He may have some cases against him, but there are such cases against scores of BJP candidates. This (denial of the party ticket to him) proved once again that the BJP is neglecting its old loyalists. It will ruin the dream of the BJP coming to power,” Majhi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Death of Shova Majumdar after assault sparks political uproar||Shova Majumdar, the octogenarian mother of a BJP worker in Nimta of North 24-Parganas, on Monday died of month-long injuries allegedly at the hands of Trinamul goons, her death prompting Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda to promise a safer Bengal for women and chief minister Mamata Banerjee to ask why the BJP was silent over Hathras. “Anguished over the demise of Bengal’s daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata (Banerjee) didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers,” Shah tweeted. Echoing Shah’s words Nadda also took to Twitter. “I pray for peace for the soul of Nimta’s old mother Shova Majumdar. She had to give her life because (her) son Gopal Majumdar is a BJP worker. BJP will always remember this sacrifice. She was also Bengal’s ‘mother’ and Bengal’s ‘daughter’. BJP will always fight for the security of Bengal’s mothers and daughters,” Nadda tweeted. The use of the words “mother” and “daughter” in the posts appeared to be a direct jibe at Mamata’s poll slogan, “Bengal only wants its own daughter”. Mamata, at a poll rally in her constituency Nandigram, reacted to Shah’s tweet by reminding him of atrocities against women in other states, especially those ruled by the BJP. “I condemn any attack on women...I cannot digest attacks on mothers and sisters. Some people are raising questions about our Bengal...I would like to ask them what is the condition of women in states like Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan? How far are they safer there? Where were you when the Hathras incident occurred? Did you close your lips with leucoplast?” Mamata said. Allegations against Trinamul were refuted by her party colleagues Saugata Roy and Partha Chatterjee. “The BJP is trying to encash on the death. The woman’s death has nothing to do with politics,” Roy said. Chatterjee added the clash was the result of a family issue. “There was no political angle. The woman died of old-age ailments.” On February 26, Shova and her son Gopal were allegedly assaulted by Trinamul activists at their home under ward 4 of North Dumdum Municipality. The BJP claimed Gopal was attacked because he was key to developing the party organisation in the area, and Shova was injured when she tried to save her son from attackers. “She was punched on her face and also beaten with sticks...” said a relative. Nimta police are investigating the case. A group of BJP workers, led by BJP’s general secretary Sayantan Basu, demonstrated in front of the Nimta police station demanding the arrest of goons. Archana Majumdar, the BJP’s North Dumdum candidate, visited the family on Monday and alleged the doctor called in to write Shova’s death certificate was “threatened” to fudge it. As Archana is a doctor, she signed the death certificate, she said. A delegation from the BJP Bengal women’s wing called upon governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on this issue. They demanded charges against the accused in the FIR include section 302 of IPC (punishment for the offence of murder) and that the matter be moved to and tried at a Fast Track court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Amit Shah set for Nandigram road show ||Union home minister Amit Shah will hold a road show here on Tuesday, covering a part of the route that Mamata Banerjee traversed in a wheelchair on Monday afternoon. The last-minute decision by the BJP to field Shah on the last day of campaigning in Nandigram, which votes on April 1, is being seen as a clear affirmation of the “khela hobe (match is on)” slogan coined by the Bengal chief minister. “Our leader and India’s strong home minister, Amit Shahji, will hold a road show from Reyapara Bridge to Shiv Mandir tomorrow,” said Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s candidate from Nandigram. After Shah, Mithun Chakraborty will hit the streets before campaigning ends for the second phase of Bengal polls. BJP sources said Shah had volunteered to be in Nandigram amid suggestions that Mamata’s prolonged presence in the area ahead of the polls may cost Suvendu, the BJP’s most prized catch in Bengal, dear. Shah will visit a temple along with Suvendu and address a meeting near Shiv Mandir. Around the same time, Mamata will be in Sonachura, less than 20km away, after a road show. “The contest is getting really close. Amitji’s presence will give Dada’s campaign a boost. Besides, his temple trip will help our polarisation agenda,” a source in the BJP said. The explanation from the saffron camp — an unofficial one — suggested that despite its claims of having an edge over Trinamul, the BJP is deploying all its resources in Nandigram. With both Mamata and Shah campaigning in Nandigram on the same day, a nervous district administration was finalising the security arrangements on Monday evening. “Keeping law and order under control will be a challenge tomorrow.… Both sides are really charged up,” a senior district police officer said. The Election Commission has already deputed 22 companies of central forces to Nandigram while the state police have stationed over 1,200 men and women in uniform to ensure peace in the area till April 1. Nandigram, the epicentre of the anti-land-acquisition movement that catapulted Mamata to power in 2011, has become the most important battle ground in Bengal since Mamata nominated herself to take on turncoat Suvendu, whose rise in state politics too owes to the land crusade. An impression that the battle for Nandigram is turning into a cliff-hanger gathered ground last week when Mamata announced she would camp in the East Midnapore village for five days in a row till April 1 to expose the turncoat before the people who had elected him five summers ago as their Trinamul MLA. Since she launched an intensive campaign here on Sunday afternoon — the chief minister attended seven programmes, including a road show, in less than 24 hours — Mamata has been walking the talk and carrying out a vitriolic attack on Suvendu and his father, Sisir. “What were the traitors doing when the police fired on March 14 (2007)? Where were they on November 10, the day known as Operation Sunrise (recapture of Nandigram by the CPM in 2007)?” Mamata thundered at a rally in Thakur Chowk on Monday afternoon. The meeting was held after a 10km road show through Nandigram under the blazing March sun. Mamata, in a wheelchair and holding a cordless mic, urged the people standing along the road to vote for her for the development of Nandigram. “The weather was so hostile, but the chief minister still chose to suffer the sun for two hours. It’s set to be a close contest,” said Naresh Manna, a middle-aged shopkeeper, near Reyapara Bridge. At the rally after the road show, Mamata made an all-out attempt to dissociate Suvendu from the anti-land-acquisition protest, which the Trinamul turncoat claims he had led. At meeting after meeting, Suvendu has been saying that Mamata became chief minister in 2011 only because of the movement he had led. The war of words between Mamata and Suvendu over the ownership of the movement has become the overt theme — the covert one being the polarisation along religious lines — of the campaign in the last lap before the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
30-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Hill leaders change colours||On Holi, the predominant conversation across Darjeeling was on hill politicians changing colours in the ongoing festival of democracy, the Bengal elections. Ajoy Edwards, owner of Glenary’s, the most prominent eatery in the hill town of Darjeeling, who had so far not been accepting the GNLF’s decision to field a “losing” party candidate on a BJP symbol (sitting MLA Neeraj Zimba) till very recently, changed his mind on Monday. Edwards, who had so far been almost choking up in every other speech while saying Zimba was a “losing candidate” for GNLF-BJP, on Monday smiled and hugged him. Edwards also accompanied Zimba as the latter went to file his nomination papers. The Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), a Left ideology party which had allied with the Right-wing BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, on Thursday said they would not support the saffron party, but made a U-turn on Monday to support the saffron party again, brewing dissent within the party ranks. “Can we trust the current lot of hill politicians?” asked a political watcher from the hills. “Can they first take a stand, discuss and decide and then make public their views?” The CPRM, which had earlier decided to field their own candidates from the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong, on Monday decided against it. The party justified this support to the BJP on the grounds that they would stick with the saffron ally GNLF till 2024. However, many CPRM leaders were not convinced with this sudden change in political stance by “central leaders” of the party headquartered in Darjeeling . On Monday itself, CPRM leader from Kalimpong Kishore Pradhan said that they would neither “vote for the BJP nor support the BJP” in the upcoming elections. “We cannot accept this decision (to support the BJP) and the Kalimpong regional committee (of the party) will not vote for the BJP,” Pradhan, who had been named a CPRM candidate from Kalimpong, said. There was no immediate reaction from the CPRM central committee leadership to Pradhan’s announcement. “Political developments during the festivity of Holi definitely suggest that hill leaders are comfortable changing colours unlike the hill people,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
30-03-2021||West Bengal||6-year wait for teaching job||Name: Nitu Bera Occupation: Preparing for competitive examinations Age: 28 Education: MA (history) Annual income: None Size of family: Parents, elder brother and herself Seat: Nayagram, Jhargram Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? My choice was based on two major issues — bad roads and joblessness. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016 and why either way? Yes, I voted for the same party I had supported in 2016. I believe in the ideology of the party I voted for and have seen them work for the people since childhood. Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you. The schemes of the Mamata Banerjee government did not benefit me in any way. Three things she has done that hurt you? One, there has been no recruitment of teachers during her tenure. Two, the Trinamul-run gram panchayat did not undertake development in our area and her government did not look into it. Three, only Trinamul cronies have benefited from government schemes like housing projects. Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? Throughout her 10-year rule, Mamata and her party leaders had nothing but narrow political benefit in mind. What do you think of the charge that she is only a pishi? She could be a pishi or mashi of anyone, but to us she is our chief minister. Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefit you? There is not one scheme that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or his government has undertaken that has benefited youths like us or the poor. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? One, the Centre cares less for farmers and the three farm laws will in the long term harm every citizen Two, the hike in prices of LPG cylinders, petrol and diesel is affecting us. Three, the unplanned demonetisation made people suffer. Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? A: Modi has done nothing for the poor and the schemes of his government are nothing but an eyewash. The Modi government has been working to serve his cronies, who are big industrialists. Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? It is worse as I did not get appointed as a schoolteacher after passing the School Service Commission exam in 2015. What do you think about the Left's chances and about its alliance? I think the Left alliance will not come to power in this election, but I believe they will get more votes than they did in the last polls. Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? There are no Muslim residents in my immediate neighbourhood, but there is harmony elsewhere.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
30-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: TMC worker shot at, clashes turn heated||Incidents of political violence were reported from parts of Bengal with campaign ahead of the remaining seven phases of polls gaining pace. In the past 24 hours, a Trinamul leader received a bullet wound, while over a dozen workers of various political parties suffered injuries in clashes. Trinamul leader and Amjhara gram panchayat member Anup Halder, 37, was shot at from close range in Basanti of South 24-Parganas on Sunday night. Anup was returning home with his elder brother on a bike when he was shot at in Taldah village. “He suffered bullet injuries in the back while trying to flee on the bike,” said a police officer. Both Anup and his brother fell when goons attacked them with sharp weapons. Residents rescued them and admitted them to the Canning sub-divisional hospital. The local Trinamul leadership accused the BJP of engineering the attack. BJP candidate for Basanti Assembly seat Ramesh Majhi attributed the attack to personal rivalry. In Haroa of North 24-Parganas, at least 14 persons, including women and children, were injured on Sunday night in a clash between Trinamul and Sanjukta Morcha supporters. Police said a group of goons with alleged Trinamul links had attacked the homes of some Indian Secular Front (ISF) activists of the Sanjukta Morcha in Bakjuri-Mathura village of Haroa. “The goons attacked us with sharp weapons and firearms. They did not even spare women and children,” said one of the victims. The ISF and Trinamul filed complaints against each other with Haroa police after which a police contingent has been deployed in the area. In Bhandarkhali village of Hasnabad in North 24-Parganas, at least five Trinamul workers were injured on Sunday night after being allegedly attacked by armed BJP workers. The BJP denied the charge. “BJP workers tore our party flags and began beating us when we protested and tried to stop them,” said local Trinamul leader Govinda Das. “The local BJP leader Liaqat Gaji has unleashed terror in the area along with goons.” BJP leader Gaji denied the allegations and claimed Trinamul workers were injured in the party’s infighting. “This has nothing to do with our party,” he said. The police have started a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Trinamul leadership, against seven BJP workers, including Gaji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
30-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Water woes trigger no-vote decision||Residents in Sunderbans’ Sahebkhali panchayat and East Midnapore’s Sonachura panchayat under Nandigram constituency have decided not to cast their votes in the Assembly elections to protest against the district administration’s inefficiency to solve the long-pending crisis of pure drinking water. People in both the areas have been suffering from water crisis for almost a year due to damage caused to the tube wells during cyclone Amphan. While the repair and fresh installations were completed a few months ago, they have been facing a fresh water crisis with the onset of summer as the water level has dropped alarmingly. Angry over the inaction of the administration to settle their long-pending water crisis, the residents of the two pockets of Hingalganj and Nandigram, from where chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will fight this time, have decided not to cast vote, and also decided not to allow the political parties campaign in their areas. Last week Sahebkhali residents blocked Dulduli-Hemnagar road demanding immediate installations of pump sets and water storage tanks in the areas, whereas the villagers in Southkhali of Nandigram asked Trinamul and BJP workers to leave the area as they were not ready to rely on empty “promise”. “Why should we vote? If the administration cannot meet our basic needs like water, there is no purpose in taking part in the poll process. We have made it clear,” a villager in Sahebkhali said. The residents of Sahebkhali, Gobingakati, Kalitala, Jogeshganj, Dulduli, Panchabali of Hingalganj as well as Gangra, Southkhali of Sonachura areas alleged that every year during February to June they suffered tremendous water crisis due to drop in water level. “This year the water level dropped so much that it takes an hour to fill a pot of ten litres,” Gouranga Mistry, a villager said. Villagers in Sahebkhali said the drop in water level compelled them to undertake a cycle ride of about 3km to bring water from adjacent village. In Sahebkhali, the situation has come to such a passé that around 100 tube-well in the area had become non-functional. The families who have no means to fetch the water from such a distance are being compelled to drink pond water after boiling it at home. “We don’t have money to buy water. Amphan had destroyed our lives,” a villager said. Residents of Gangra in Southkhali echoed the allegations of Hingalganj’s Sahebkhali. “The problem of the dropping of water level is there for over a decade. But the state government has never bothered to resolve it. The situation has aggravated with no rain during the past few months. As a result, the crisis of drinking water has become bigger here,” said Kanai Chandra Pal, 54, a resident of Gangra in Sonachura. “Suvendubabu was the MLA during the past five years, but did nothing despite being several reminders,” Pal added. Badal Samata, a quack from Southkhali said: “Many of us are not in a position to fetch water from distant areas and are forced to drink pond water. Many villagers are suffering from water-borne diseases as they are compelled to drink pond water.” Acknowledging the problem, Sonachur panchayat pradhan Kalikrishna Pradhan said: “This is definitely a long-pending problem. In certain areas we have installed submersible pumps, which has not been done in Southkhali because of land issue. The problem is likely to be resolved by 2022 when the river surface water supply project in Chandipur is completed.” Hingalganj BDO Saswata Prakash Lahiri said: “It is a recurring problem. We are trying our best to solve the water crisis by arranging water for the villagers through PHE supply.” BJP leader in Hingalganj Tarun Mandal said: “We will urge the administration to assure the villagers to solve the water problem so that they take part in voting.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
30-03-2021||North East||Assam govt's 'free rice for the needy' policy worry farmers||Dimbeswar Saharia of Sipajhar and Bonojit Hussain of Nalbari are rice growers belonging to different generations but sharing similar concerns: For how long can they remain invested in paddy at a time the market has continued to remain depressed mainly because of the Assam government’s policy of providing free rice to the needy. Rice growers The Telegraph spoke to asserted that the welfare initiative has resulted in a situation where they are being forced to sell their produce at prices far less than the cost of production. And due to lack of fair price for their labour they are now looking at other options, with some confining themselves to cultivating only one crop or not cultivating at all or going for share cropping. Still others are looking at tea and mustard as viable options. “Let the poor benefit but the government should also ensure we get the right price or this price freefall will not only kill us but also hit the state’s rice production in the long run. We hope the incoming government looks into our problems and takes appropriate steps to rectify the situation. Already 90 per cent farmers in our village have stopped growing boro (summer) rice. We are continuing with sali (winter) rice but not sure for how long,” Saharia, 63, of Maroi village in Darrang district said. Saharia said rice growers were getting around Rs 1,200 per quintal of paddy when the cost of production was about Rs 1,600-1,700 per quintal. Pranab Saikia and Ajit Borah of Titabar, a rice belt in Jorhat district, and Ainuddin Ahmed of Kharupetia in Darrang district, echoed Saharia. “There are 80 households in my village of which 20 have already given up on paddy. Since everyone is getting free rice imported from states such as Punjab and Haryana, demand for paddy is less and distress sale is rising. Where is the incentive and encouragement to continue?” Saikia, 55, said. Hussain, 40, who quit a teaching job in a college to pursue his passion for farming, said low paddy price was a ticking time-bomb that needed to be defused before it was too late. Rice growers across Assam have been affected, he said, adding that the new government that would assume charge in May after the three-phase elections that started on Saturday would need to go for course correction. Rice growers, mill owners and officials feel the solution lies in procuring paddy locally on a regular basis and distributing it among the beneficiaries. Titabar-based Ravinder Kumar Sharma, 81, a pioneer in the milling business, said: “Procuring locally will help both the farmers and millers. I had suggested it to the administration a few years ago. But the procurement process has to be simplified to encourage the participation of local farmers.” He should know. Sharma’s family owns the National Rice and Flour Mill and the Madhopur Rice Mill, opened in the 1940s. Officials said about 1.25 lakh tonnes of free rice were distributed between April-November to 58 lakh families last year under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. Each person received 5kg a month. Although the PMGKAY was stopped, a family eligible under the regular Antyodaya Anna Yojana continues to receive 35kg free rice a month. Then those with annual income less than Rs 1 lakh receive 5kg per person per month under the Priority Households scheme. A ration shop owner said at times a family received as much as 80kg rice a month, leading to a glut. Hussain’s prescription too includes procuring paddy locally, distributing it among the beneficiaries and making up the shortfall by importing. The incoming government should implement the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act, 1972, which would help set up mandis (wholesale markets), modernise the farm sector and ensure immediate payment by government agencies to farmers for their produce, he said. “It is sad there is no discussion on this pressing issue. Our farmers need a protective regime. They are growing rice because there is this pressure of tradition. We are witnessing such long-drawn-out protests over the three farm laws, but nothing similar is happening in Assam because most don’t know about minimum support price (MSP). The real issues of farmers have not been raised by our political parties. The government needs to engage more with farmers. It is high time to be vocal for local,” Husain said. Figures provided by Hussain reflected the “real” problems. A grower in Assam produced 1,935kg of rice per hectare at a cost of Rs 27,500 in 2019-20, but a farmer in Punjab produced 7,400kg a hectare at an investment of Rs 51,000. Secondly, the Food Corporation of India procured 81.5 per cent of the total produce in Punjab but a paltry 3.1 per cent from Assam. Assam is self-sufficient in rice with an annual production of 50 lakh metric tonnes from 26 lakh hectares. But growers and millers are not sure for how long, if the situation created by free rice distribution is allowed to drift.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-03-2021||North East||'5 guarantees' approved by Manmohan Singh: Assam Congress||The Opposition Congress on Monday said its “5 guarantees” to the voters of Assam were made public only after a thorough examination and approval by none other than former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Assam PCC president Ripun Bora made the disclosure about Singh, also a “globally renowned” economist, at the party headquarters here primarily to reassure voters that it had gone ahead with the guarantees after exhaustive deliberations about their feasibility and implementation unlike the promises made by the ruling BJP in the past. The five guarantees, first announced by AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at an election rally in Tezpur on March 2, included a law to nullify the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, generation of five lakh government jobs, raising the daily wage of tea garden workers to Rs 365, free electricity up to 200 units per household and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives. The guarantees have been worked out by a core team which studied the economy of the state, she had said. Bora said: “Our five guarantees were thoroughly examined by former Prime Minister and globally renowned economist Manmohan Singh ji. He is the person who has seen India through several economic crises. Only after he had endorsed the viability of the guarantees, we released it in the public. “Our guarantees are working in the field, evident from the turnout in the first phase held on March 27. About 1.5 lakh youth have registered with our job portal. We have had interactions with them in 43 constituencies to answer their queries on job creation.” The PCC’s media department chairperson, Bobbeeta Sharma, said that the guarantees have been structured based on ground assessment, the future vision for Assam and after consultations with revered scholars and economists. “Dr Manmohan Singh has been pivotal in all big financial transformations in the country, and gave his approval on the feasibility and economics of our guarantees. Besides five lakh government jobs, we will also be creating 25 lakh jobs in the private sector,” she said. Singh had been Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP from Assam between 1991 and 2019. Though the former Prime Minister has not physically campaigned in the state, he had released a video message on the eve of the first phase of polls conveying his close ties with the people of Assam while urging them to vote for a government that will “uphold” the Constitution and the principles of democracy, ensure inclusive growth that will put Assam on the path of peace and development “once” again. In his message, Singh also affirmed that his party had prepared a “Jan manifesto (people’s manifesto)” with assurances which are “practical”. He then stressed on the “5 guarantees”, an integral part of the manifesto and a clear indication of the party’s determination to lead the state on a path of prosperity. The first phase of polls in Assam witnessed a turnout of 79.97 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-03-2021||Opinion||Bloodbath: Myanmar military coup||Symbols function as ciphers. The message need not be heartening always. The symbolism of eight countries — India was among them — sending their representatives to attend Myanmar’s Armed Forces Day — a day in which over 100 civilians protesting against the Tatmadaw’s coup fell to military violence this year — will not be lost. The world, at least for now, seems content to look the other way as Myanmar’s military unleashes a brutal crackdown on a civilian movement demanding the restoration of democracy. The global fraternity has, of course, made the usual benign noises. The chief of the United Nations has condemned the bloodshed as have the president of the United States of America and the European Union — but to little effect. After the carnage on Saturday — Armed Forces Day — that saw the death toll climb over 100, the military is reported to have fired upon mourners the following day. Conscience is not a force to reckon with among juntas: the manner in which the Tatmadaw has predated upon a fledgling democracy is a case in point. Worryingly, the conscientious global fraternity has been found wanting too when it comes to stopping the butchery in Myanmar. What makes this silence — a form of complicity — tragic is that the world order did have some options. The EU has announced sanctions against 11 members of the junta but there is a case to take the punitive steps further by expanding the scope of such sanctions so that they hurt the material interests of the generals. That might soften the blow on the people. These interventions must be accompanied by curbs on trade and development with Myanmar. Regional blocs — the newly-minted Quad can be one such alliance — could also be mobilized to put pressure on Myanmar. It is imperative that the global order uses its leverage on some of its partners — China and Russia are both heavily invested in the supply of arms to the Tatmadaw — so that they, in turn, force the generals back to the negotiating table. The principal reasons for the collective inertia lies in the conflicting relationship that binds the rights and lives of citizens in a distant country to strategic considerations. The world along with New Delhi — the latter has expended capital to smoothen its ties with the junta — must find a way around this difficult balancing act. Till then, it is unlikely for the blood to stop oozing on the roads of Mandalay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Opinion||More control: Regulating civil society organisations||The Prime Minister’s Office cannot afford to rest. It has now instructed Niti Aayog to formulate a national policy to regulate civil society organizations so that, according to a member of its working group, a ‘healthy partnership’ between the government and CSOs is enabled. Since the government decides what is healthy, sceptics could suspect that compliance with it and its dominant party’s objectives and silence instead of criticism would mean health. Niti Aayog is professedly revising a 2007 policy regarding the regulation of voluntary organizations but the aim, according to the agency, is also to identify CSOs breaching the rules governing them, especially those deriving from the amended Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. In 2020, the International Commission of Jurists said that these amendments violated the country’s international legal obligations and the Constitutional rights of freedom of association and expression. However, the government is no doubt alert to embezzlement and duplication of funds by CSOs in spite of the restraints on accessing and using foreign funds for non-governmental organizations, mandatory registration of CSOs applying for tax exemption on the portal, Darpan, from which the government gathers data on funds, a 40 per cent drop in foreign financing and the shutting down of 13,000 NGOs between 2014-18. Bringing CSOs in line seems to be an unending battle. Registered voluntary organizations must abide by an array of laws, perhaps for very good reasons. Surely those violating laws can be identified by the ever vigilant agencies of the government? What would a national regulatory policy mean in this context? Are NGO projects going to be ‘regulated’ or will the actions a CSO can take be defined by the government? The insistence on transparency for NGOs — no transparency is required for electoral bonds — and the government’s reiterated belief in their tendency to dishonesty make up the case for ceaseless vigilance. Narendra Modi’s government — Darpan was reportedly Mr Modi’s idea — could be perceived as aiming at a complete assimilation of the non-governmental space. The alternative is dangerous, with the likes of Stan Swamy and Shoma Sen, for example, allegedly conspiring to assassinate the prime minister and overthrow democracy. It is only natural that Niti Aayog should include the joint secretary of the home ministry’s counter terrorism and counter radicalization division/combating of funding of terrorist cell in the working group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Opinion||Corruption in an illiberal State||India’s ranking among 180 countries on the Corruption Perceptions Index 2020, compiled by the Transparency International, has slipped from 80 to 86. India’s score is worse than the global average and also the Asia-Pacific average. We are behind China, which has a rank of 78, but much above our bête noire, Pakistan, graded at 124. This news comes on the heels of another report — The Global Corruption Barometer — compiled by the Transparency International in November 2020. According to the GCB, India has the dubious distinction of the highest bribery rate (39 per cent) in Asia and the greatest number of people who use personal connections to access public services (46 per cent). Most of the respondents (89 per cent) felt that corruption in the government was the main problem. A large number (63 per cent) think that reporting corruption would invite retaliation. According to the report, “unnecessary red tape and unclear regulatory frameworks force citizens to seek out alternate solutions”; this assessment touches upon only a fragment of the government’s inimical role in exacerbating corruption. The report has also ignored the venality of the middle-class and the business elite — self-righteous, selfish, and conscienceless — that are the prime propagators of this nexus between bribe-taker and bribe-giver. These reports on corruption in India have not turned a hair because in the last few years, corruption as an issue of public concern has dropped off the nation’s radar. A decade ago, the India Against Corruption movement organized a nationwide stir against endemic political and bureaucratic corruption that brought a jittery, dishonest government to its knees and governance to a standstill. After two years of the Anna Hazare fraternity holding a gun to the government’s head, the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 was passed by parliament, paving the way for the establishment of a Lokpal. What on earth happened to the spirit of the Anna Hazare movement? Arguably, the cardinal reason for the dissipation of the anti-corruption movement is the towering persona of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. So imposing and clean is his public image that his devotees — bhakts, big business, the media — have amplified his personal integrity to the extent that it has subsumed criticism of corruption in his government. Ironically, the government that rode to power in 2014 on an anti-corruption wave and on its poll promise of a corruption-free India must take responsibility for undermining the Lokpal. Such is the stranglehold of the prime minister on the body politic that the government put off the setting up of the Lokpal by more than five years until March, 2019. In the interim, the statute was subverted with critical amendments that considerably diluted the powers and the reach of the Lokpal. An amendment passed in 2016 did away with the requirement for public servants to disclose the incomes of spouses and dependent children despite evidence that corrupt officials pass on their illegitimate booty to family members. Furthermore, the Prevention of Corruption Act was amended whereby the Lokpal was required to seek the government’s permission for prosecuting even a retired public servant against the earlier proviso that covered only serving officials. The manner in which the composition of the Lokpal Selection Committee was decided and the procedure adopted for selection of the chairperson and members of the Lokpal are stunning examples of the imperious ways of an illiberal State taking decisions unencumbered by democratic niceties. The Supreme Court passed a judgment on April 27, 2017 stating the appointment of a chairperson or a member of the Lokpal would not become invalid merely because of any vacancy in the Selection Committee, which was the opening that the government needed to make the appointments with a truncated committee and without the leader of the Opposition, whose role is to provide objectivity in the assessment of candidates. Expectedly, there are allegations that candidates well-disposed towards the government now occupy the top posts in the supreme body ordained to fight corruption in government, from the prime minister down to the Group ‘D’ recruit. The Lokpal is a pale shadow of the ombudsman envisaged by the Lokpal law enacted in 2013. The Lokpal Act envisaged the transfer of the powers of the Central Bureau of Investigation to the investigation and prosecution wings of the Lokpal. The rationale for this change was that freed from the shackles of government control, the investigating agency would be non-partisan and, thereby, effective in rooting out corruption. It is evident that the Modi government will not cede control of the CBI’s powers to the Lokpal. It is also clear that the Lokpal will accept this violation of the Act without demur. The ruling establishment has created an intimidatory environment that is potent. The bureaucracy cowers behind the steel frame in an ecosystem where loyalty to the ruling dispensation, not impartiality and probity, is of paramount importance. The prime minister has promised more governance and less government, but the decision-making is more opaque than ever. The pall of fear and distrust has made civil servants risk-averse and unwilling to take quick, bold decisions. But there are no holds barred when it comes to the ‘special interests’ of the government. Sadly, most institutions have become subordinate adjuncts of the executive. The latest reports by Transparency International have revealed only the tip of the iceberg. Corruption permeates many aspects of our social life and affects us all. But at present, our apprehensions have gone beyond bribing and other monetary depredations to a much darker place — the corruption of the nation’s soul. The greatest concern is the contagion of majoritarianism that threatens our very survival as a democracy. In such a fraught environment, whither the fight against corruption?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Opinion||Breathing on campus||Two recent events have reopened the debate on academic freedom. One was the departure of two eminent scholars from Ashoka University; the other, an ongoing confrontation between the vice-chancellor and the faculty of Visva-Bharati. The cases are widely different in nature and impact. The Ashoka imbroglio exercised the nation’s intelligentsia; that at Tagore’s university hardly stirred even Bengal’s bhadralok. Our view of these matters is skewed by geography and social visibility. Jawaharlal Nehru University receives unfailing attention. The worse turmoil at Manipur University over many years goes unnoticed. In Bengal, Jadavpur and Calcutta Universities monopolize attention over 33 other establishments. This creates the false impression that academic intolerance in India chiefly affects prominent scholars and institutions. Of course that happens. In 2018, Ahmedabad University withdrew its offer of a chair to Ramachandra Guha after protests from the Far Right. But such dramatic instances are rare. The system functions to obviate them. More often than not, there is no political dissent. The Indian Council of Medical Research reportedly approved an article on Covid-19 only after excising some data at odds with the government’s pandemic strategy. The same syndrome appears in the doctoring or suppression of socio-economic surveys. The objection is not to the content but the resulting ‘embarrassment’, as the IIT service rules put it: it threatens some extraneous agenda of the institution or the State. An iconic scientific institute in Bengal faces a diktat to operate more in Hindi to avoid ‘any unpleasant situation’. The Central Civil Services rules now apply to teachers of Central universities. Many states have enacted or are mulling similar provisions. The cornerstone of these edicts is a ban on all protest and criticism. Equally ubiquitous is the micro-level regulation of routine activities: by literally mechanical means such as biometric attendance and classroom CCTV, or by monitoring private activities that do not affect one’s duties. These formal provisions can be embellished by petty tyrants. One vice-chancellor deployed uniformed policemen at meetings with senior faculty. (No, there was no history of earlier violence.) Another returned unread any correspondence that did not address him as ‘Honourable’. A third, today, makes his colleagues surrender their mobile phones before meetings. In several states, it is common practice to appoint an IAS, IPS or army officer as vice-chancellor; or in private universities, a corporate luminary. Visiting a college or university, I have often been appalled by the subservience exacted by the institutional head from his academic colleagues. In a word, the suppression of academic freedom in India is not a matter of beating back a tsunami of radical protest. For most part, it is small-minded, paranoiac authoritarianism that works precisely because the community is quiet and submissive. The basic harm is to collegiate morale and the spirit of participation. Teaching and research suffer as collateral damage. Two features specially impede academic work: first, the growing curbs on publication and even public expression of views. To organize a conference is to invite surveillance. ‘Technical’ subjects are notionally exempt; but the line is hard to draw, not only in the social sciences but also in science and technology, on issues concerning public works and health, industrial or agricultural policy. Most preposterously, educators are silenced from discussing educational matters. The other issue concerns research time. Scholars cannot find all their research material within the confines of the institution or on the internet. They need to visit libraries and archives, make field trips and do surveys, attend conferences. These activities are hampered by restrictions on leave, abolition of off-days, and the idle nine-to-five confinement in staff common rooms. The young teacher-scholar soon discovers that she can do little beyond routine teaching. Needless to say, teaching should not be a routine matter: rather, a creative adventure. To prevent this from happening, the exercise is prefabricated and mass-produced. The University Grants Commission imposes a uniform curriculum across the land. The pattern of evaluation is also pre-set: brief, standardized and devoid of conceptual content to allow computerized marking. Entrance tests follow the same pattern, as even the National Eligibility Test for teachers. In this robotic education system, virtually nothing is left to the actual educator. The teaching community is effectively disempowered. The same pre-imposed drill governs educational administration. Till the other day, teachers were selected by their Academic Performance Index, calculated not only mechanically but also with bizarrely skewed and volatile priorities. In such a milieu, institutional autonomy means little. It is often a euphemism for reducing funds, which the institution must then ‘freely’ seek elsewhere, usually by raising fees. The National Education Policy repeats the magic word, ‘autonomy’, like a refrain — while placing higher education under no less than four regulatory bodies plus a centralized Research Foundation. As it is, some institutions, entire states like Gujarat, and major funding programmes under the Union government confine scholars to a list of approved research topics. The wonder is that free thought and innovation still linger on our campuses, so irrepressible is the intellectual urge of a section of our youth and their mentors. Let us thank them for their hard-won productivity, not complain that there is no more. The Western universities by which we set our benchmarks would face revolt against a tenth of these curbs. It need not have been so. In the half-century since Independence, India developed a network of public universities with UGC support. Their bottom ranks were dismal (like today’s inferior private teaching-shops); but the top and even second tier achieved impressive gains we undervalue or ignore. They were bureaucratic but not authoritarian. Despite their cheapskate ways, they rustled up the infrastructure for productive research. Global rankings were then unknown, but there was intensive international exchange and collaboration: we could look the world in the eye. The public university was also the only space in our polity where young citizens of all classes and communities met on level ground: this did not endear them to the privileged orders. For reasons only tangentially related to its real deficiencies, this system has been dismantled in the new century, with no viable replacement. I have spent 30 years at a university that made inspired use of the earlier system. Jadavpur University has many failings. The state of its campus is a disgrace. Its students are adept at creating mayhem, not always for wrong reasons. Its assured grants scarcely meet the salary bill. But in its heyday, it earned enough from research funding for a flourishing international profile, with more scientists among the world’s ‘top 2%’ than any other Indian university. Its most improbable success was 21 interdisciplinary schools that attracted up to a crore of external funding for every lakh invested by the university. This was possible because the faculty had full freedom to forage and negotiate within certain broad parameters — and, of course, with rigorous scrutiny of accounts. Given that freedom, many faculty were happy to shoulder the extra responsibility pro bono, pursuing innovative research that the teaching departments could not accommodate; yet the departments, down to first-year undergraduates, profited from that enriched atmosphere. This productive freedom of operation was first threatened by the change of guard in Bengal. The ways of the present Union government make it virtually unthinkable today. In 2019, Jadavpur University received a substantial grant initiated by the Centre, though with 40 per cent state input. After a long lull, the campus started humming again. A year later, Delhi inexplicably shifted the goalposts to cut off funds mid-way, halting over 200 large and small projects and the careers of some 450 young researchers. That Pratap Bhanu Mehta had to leave his post is deplorable, but his voice will be heard through other channels. Let us also listen to the silence of voices never allowed to speak, and weigh the loss of the knowledge we did not cultivate. The author is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Opinion|| Dreaded colours||Sir — Fewer people celebrated Holi this year than usual, but many who stepped out did so without masks. In a violation of Covid-19 norms, people gathered in close quarters, hugged and smeared each other with colour. The Calcutta police had to levy fines of Rs 100 on 110 people for not wearing masks, all before Sunday noon. It is unfortunate that people continue to prioritize momentary fun over their health and safety. There is only so much that the authorities can do to arrest infections unless people are mindful of their own activities.  Nupur Bapuly, Calcutta Sir — It is good news that the first phase of the elections in West Bengal and Assam was largely peaceful (“BJP lauds EC; TMC complains”, March 28). But it was also shocking to learn that at a polling booth in the Majra area of Kanthi in West Bengal, supporters of the Trinamul Congress complained that after pressing the electronic voting machine buttons in favour of their party candidate, the voter-verified electronic paper trail slips showed that the votes were recorded in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party. It seems the chief electoral officer there brushed aside this serious accusation as an “error” and said that it was addressed. Subsequently, voting was resumed. Even if it was an error, it is quite a wonder how it was only the BJP receiving the malfunctioning votes, and not any other party. One cannot forget that there were many such complaints reported in the last general elections as well. It is also to be remembered that people are not always alert when casting their ballots — few check the voter-verifiable paper audit trail — and presume that their votes have been registered correctly. If the Election Commission continues to trivialize such incidents as errors, then there is little doubt that the assembly election results will not reflect the real mandate of the people. This destroys the sanctity of free and fair elections. The people must not lose their faith in the functioning of the EC.Tharcius S. Fernando, Chennai Sir — Voters in 30 constituencies of West Bengal and in 47 constituencies of Assam turned out in huge numbers to exercise their right to vote as the first phase of polling began. According to the EC, Assam recorded a voter turnout of 76.89 per cent while West Bengal saw a turnout of 79.79 per cent till 5 pm on the first day of polling. Tight security arrangements were put in place across the 12 districts in Assam where voting took place. Meanwhile, in Bengal, tensions ran high in East Midnapore after two security personnel were injured in a firing incident. The BJP has claimed that the vehicle of Soumendu Adhikari — he is the brother of the former TMC leader, Suvendu Adhikari, who recently joined the BJP — was attacked. However, barring a few incidents, the first phase has been peaceful. With a high percentage of voting witnessed in both states, it is evident that the fight is going to be neck-and-neck.  M.R. Jayanthi, Calcutta Sir — The BJP has time and again accused the TMC of appeasement politics. It is, however, clear now that the prime minister’s recent visit to Orakandi in Bangladesh, the birthplace of the founder of the Matua sect, Harichand Thakur, was to woo the Matua voters — they are immigrants from Bangladesh — who have considerable clout in North 24 Parganas and Nadia. This is curious when considered against the backdrop of the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Several immigrant communities, including the Matuas, are deeply concerned about their safety and security in India. Their anxiety has deepened further as the BJP recently promised to take up the CAA issue at the first cabinet meeting if voted to office in Bengal. On the other hand, Mamata Banerjee has already announced the formation of a new development board for the Matuas. The TMC has also worked towards the development of the Thakurnagar railway station and Banerjee has shown her commitment towards the overall development of the community. Moreover, Banerjee has been a vocal opponent of the controversial CAA and even assured the Matua community in a recent rally that its rights will be protected by the TMC. The BJP’s eyeing of the Matua belt is evidence of the party trying to polarize voters along identity lines in Bengal. The Matua vote will be crucial in determining the outcome of the West Bengal assembly elections.Khokan Das, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren visits ancestral village, hears out problems of residents||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand in midst of season's first heat wave ||Jharkhand is experiencing a heat wave - the first one this year - with maximum temperatures staying four to five notches above normal at several places in north-western, central and southern Jharkhand. According to the IMD centre in Ranchi, Jamshedpur was the warmest place in the state with an oppressive  42.9°C. Tuesday's maximum reading in Jamshedpur was five notches above normal. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, recorded 42.2 °C, six notches above normal. "A heatwave condition is prevailing in several places including Palamau, Garhwa, Chatra, Jamshedpur and  Ranchi. Several places in South eastern and north western Jharkhand  also experienced Loo, the hot and dry wind which blows in the plains during peak summer. The situation is expected to remain the same for the next 48 hours or so, " said Abhishek Anand, deputy  director of  Ranchi Met Centre. Ruling out  possibility of rain, he said, several places would experience strong dry gusty wind, blowing at a speed of 30kmph to 40 kmph during the next two days. In Met parlance, a heat wave condition is declared when the maximum temperature climbs five notches above the average normal. The maximum reading in Ranchi and its adjoining areas in central Jharkhand was close to 40 °C on Tuesday. Tuesday's maximum reading in Ranchi was five notches above normal. Met statistics revealed that Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, Ramgarh and several other places recorded an oppressive 40°C prompting the weather office to declare a heat wave in Jharkhand on Tuesday. Notably, weathermen had earlier predicted a severe summer. Met data revealed that heat wave made an early debut this summer. Last year ( 2020 ), heat wave conditionsset in in the second week of May. A weather bulletin issued by Ranchi Met Centre said dry weather condition is expected to prevail in Jharkhand during the next three days.  Day temperature  would hover above normal by 4-5°C  in the districts of Garhwa, Palamu, Chatra, Latehar, Gumla, Simdega, Lohardaga, Khunti and Ranchi and Kolhan region, said the Met bulletin. In Jamshedpur, Ranchi and other places people preferred to stay indoors due to the heat wave condition. "Fans were of no use. We had to switch on our ACs through the day as the heat was unbearable. If such is the condition we are facing now what will happen during peak summer? " said a Sunita Sinha, a homemaker at Bistupur in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur byelection: AJSU turncoat files nomination as BJP candidate ||Ganga Narayan Singh, who left AJSU Party to join the BJP and be the candidate for the April 17 Madhupur bypoll, filed his nomination on Tuesday in the presence of veterans from the saffron camp. The 42-year-old will take on the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance candidate and incumbent minister Hafizul Hassan. Hassan, a debutant in electoral politics, filed his nomination in the presence of chief minister Hemant Soren last week. Singh filed nomination in four sets after which a massive rally was held at Ramleela ground in Madhupur with chants of "Jai Shri Ram". In 2019, he fought on an AJSU-P ticket and finished third with 45,000 seats. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, Godda MP Nishikant Dubey, former Dumka MLA Louis Marandi, were among those present at the rally. Madhupur, which will be the third byelection to be held after the  formation of the Hemant Soren government, will be significant since voters will be forced to choose between a minister and an MLA. The ruling alliance is more than confident of clinching victory. BJP on the other hand is in no mood to give a walk-over. Addressing the rally in Madhupur, Marandi said, “The government’s nervousness can be assessed from the fact that even without being an MLA, Hemant government has made Hafizul a minister and now fielded him as a candidate. But he must remember that in 2009, a sitting CM (Shibu Soren) had lost his seat (Tamar).” Notably, the Madhupur seat fell vacant last year after the demise of Haji Hussain Ansari, who was also a cabinet minister in the Hemant Soren government. Earlier this year, his son, Hafizul was inducted as a minister before being fielded as candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri students concerned over offline exams amid rising Covid-19 cases||Around 1,500 students of BIT-Sindri and their parents have raised concern over their safety amid rising Covid-19 cases in the country, as the institute has started to gear up for the shifting of the pupils. Seventh semester students, who are scheduled to shift to their hostels between April 3 to 5, are required to furnish their own Covid-negative reports as well as those of their parents, for the offline examinations set to begin on April 8. Several students, who got recruited during the campus drive, are also worried as their employers have asked them to shift to their workplaces and have to come back to the institute to sit for the examinations. “We had to book expensive air tickets to go to the college since trains were not available. We are not even sure if we have to return in case new guidelines are issued,” a parent of a Madhya Pradesh-based told The Telegraph Online. He said that the examinations could have been easily conducted online, much like the classes, to avoid unnecessary health risks. A third year student of the M.Tech department agreed and said, “At a time when institutes like IIT-ISM have not launched offline classes, this decision of holding examinations is incomprehensible.” A teacher told The Telegraph Online that despite understanding the situation, nothing much can be done as the examinations are conducted by the Vinoba Bhave University. “Who will take responsibility if a Covid outbreak takes place in the college? The university should consider conducting online examinations,” the teacher added. Contacted, Dean (Student Welfare) of BIT Sindri, Pankaj Rai said the authorities will act accordingly if fresh guidelines are issued by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Foresters issue high alert in Dalma villages as elephants return||The forest department has issued a high alert across 80 villages hamlets dotting the Dalma wildlife sanctuary, as most of the 155 elephants have returned to the jungle after their annual sojourn West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. The jumbos are presently scattered everywhere inside the sanctuary, located 30 km away from Jamshedpur, while some are positioned in the foothills. A herd damaged a kutcha house at Gerua village on the foothills on Sunday night and foresters apprehend more such incidents. Gerua has been a favourite place for elephants. Day and night patrolling has been intensified across the jumbo abode and villagers have been handed over torches, kerosene and crackers. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said a high alert has been issued among villagers since most of the elephants have returned from Bengal. "We are working hard to avert man-animal conflict. Elephants are present inside the sanctuary and it is our responsibility to alert villagers lest something untoward happens," he added. “Most of the jumbos are anchored near Bota (the largest jungle inside the sanctuary) while some are located near Bhilaipahari, Gerua ,Nutandih, Konkadasa and other villages," a forest guard said on condition of anonymity. A section of elephants are also anchored near the Badka Bandh, a watering hole not far from the Pinderbera forest guest house, he said. According to him, villagers have been asked to not venture out of their homes at night. "Villagers should avoid coming out of their homes at night unnecessarily. You never know about the presence of elephants, who usually make movement in the dark," the forest guard said. The elephants had migrated to Bengal in August-September last year. They usually come back to Dalma after harvesting season in Bengal. This year, some elephants had returned to the sanctuary early. The elephants follow two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka and the other from Burudih. The first one leads to Nutandih while the second passes through Narsingpur (Ghatshila range), Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Both the corridors merge at Mirjadih from where they cross Haludbani, Bhadodih, Bota and  Dimna to reach Dalma. Foresters have also instructed trackers to keep a tab on the animals since it is peak tourist season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Health department to conduct massive Covid test drive in East Singhbhum||Health authorities of East Singhbhum are set to launch a special Covid-19 testing drive across urban and rural areas of the district from Wednesday to gauge the extent of cases, which are on the rise since March. The authorities have also decided to carry out Covid-19 tests of every commuter travelling from Bengal to Odisha. District disease surveillance officer Sahir Pal informed that 2,000 tests will be carried out in urban areas, and 400 tests will be done at each of the nine blocks in the district. “Rapid Antigen Tests will be conducted in government health hubs like MGM Medical College Hospital, Sadar Hospital, Khaasmahal and the private-run Tata Main Hospital across urban areas. In rural areas, primary health centres will carry them out,” Pal elaborated. The disease surveillance officer pointed out that in absence of adequate  tests, the extent of actual number of Covid cases is not known. Additional District Magistrate (ADM), Nand Kishore Lal said that the authorities have ordered 10,000 Rapid Antigen Test kits. “We are expecting them to reach here by Wednesday morning. As soon as they arrive, the health officials put them for use,” he added. District health department authorities apprehend a post-Holi surge in the Covid cases here. As of Tuesday, 269 active cases of Covid-19 have been detected in the district and the total number of the cases since last year has gone up to 18,751.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two Jharkhand athletes bag medals in para athletics meet ||Jharkhand athletes bagged two medals -- a silver and bronze --at the 19th National Para Athletics Championship held under the aegis of Paralympic Committee of India in Bangalore from March 24 to 27. N S Krishna and Ryan Francis claimed silver and bronze respectively in running long jump event at the national meet. Both were part of a 5-member team from Jharkhand. Krishna, who claimed two medals at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Abu Dhabi in 2019, and Francis are students of Jeevika, a special school in Jamshedpur which is promoting intellecually impaired for over a decade. Akash Sharma (Jeevika), Anirudh Pandit (Deogarh) and Prakash Chandra Saha (Dumka) were other members of the state side. Avtar Singh, founder of Jeevika and a former international cyclist who accompanied the Jharkhand outfit as support staff  to Bangalore, said he was happy over the medal-winning feat of Krishna and Francis. "All our athletes tried their best during the four-day national meet. However, only two finished with medals," he added. Singh informed that the organisers would despatch the medals to respective athletes by post. Sugandh Narayan Prasad and Madhav Gope went as team manager and escort, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand asks for gene-sequencer to detect new virus strains ||The Jharkhand National Health Mission (NHM) has sent a proposal to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for procurement of a gene-sequencer machine to detect  new strains and mutated variants of the coronavirus  in the state, officials said on Tuesday. The machine, if procured, will be installed at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, the largest Covid-care facility in the state, NHM officials said. The health department is expecting a reply to their proposal from the Government of India within a week, and the procurement would depend on the reply, officials added. “We have sent a proposal to the Centre for a gene-sequencer machine, which will be installed at RIMS. A reply from the concerned agencies is awaited,” said Ravi Shankar Shukla, the Director of NHM in Jharkhand. While the ‘Double Mutant’ Coronavirus has already been found in India, there is no mechanism in the state to detect the new and more lethal strain of the deadly virus. As of now, Jharkhand is dependent on RT PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT), which do not specify if the tested sample is infected by a mutated form of the virus or not, officials said. The state has reported a significant spike in cases of Covid-19 infection in the past couple of weeks, swinging the government into action for checking the spread of the virus during the festive season. As per government data, the count of active cases in Jharkhand jumped from 485 on March 1 to 1968 on March 30. In the wake of the rise in cases, the government has also intensified vigil in public places and made Covid tests mandatory for people travelling from ‘high-positivity’ states like Maharashtra and Kerala. A sequencer machine will not only help detect new strains of Coronavirus, but also make detection of new strain of Rotavirus and Chikungunya easier, say doctors. A sequencer machine helps detect new strains of virus by examining the DNA of the subject. If the procurement is made, then this would be the first ever sequencer machine for Bihar and Jharkhand, doctors from RIMS said. As of now, the machine is available only in New Delhi and Pune, they added. In a "double mutant" virus, two mutations of the virus come together in one virus, say scientists. Researchers in India are currently studying the genome of the new strains of virus found in other states of the country. However, Jharkhand needs to be prepared to detect the new mutation of the virus if at all such cases surface in the state, and a sequencer machine was a must for doing so, say doctors spearheading Jharkhand’s fight against the Covid-19 virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Texas couple donates over Rs 1 lakh crore to health sector in Bihar, Jharkhand||An Indian American couple has donated over Rs 1 crore for healthcare works in Bihar and Jharkhand, the Bihar Jharkhand Association of North America (BJANA) announced on Monday. The generous donation of USD 150,000 by the Ramesh and Kalpana Bhatia Family Foundation to the BJANA would be used for healthcare efforts in the rural areas of the two states through the PRAN-BJANA clinic initiative. The Pravasi Alumni Nisshulk (PRAN) is an initiative by like-minded Indian-American physicians who are working to provide healthcare to the underprivileged and underserved in Bihar and Jharkhand. These doctors have set up a PRAN clinic in Ranchi, providing free healthcare services to the needy. Their endeavour is to provide free healthcare services across the states. "With the generous donation of Ramesh and Kalpana Bhatia, this became possible. BJANA getting a large donation is a testament to its ongoing philanthropic activities both here and back home," BJANA president Avinash Gupta said. Alok Kumar, former FIA president, said this kind of donation would help the BJANA carry out its healthcare works in the region. Bhatia came from NIT, Patna, and runs a successful business in Texas. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 50 makeshift shops gutted in fire in Dhanbad market ||Over 50 makeshift road side shops, including a large number of vegetable shops and a few grocery shops, were gutted in a fire that broke out last night at Steel Gate area under Saraidhela police station about 5 km from district headquarters and continued till the wee hours of today. Though no one was injured as the majority of shops were closed due to Holi, a rough estimate suggests that properties worth more than five lakh were gutted in the fire. Dhanbad fire officer, Surendra Yadav said, “We received information about the incident at around 8 pm last night and immediately rushed to the spot with fire tenders and doused the fire after four hours at around 12.30 pm. “Altogether five fire tenders of our station were used in the operation,” said Yadav. “Though the exact cause of the fire will be known after detailed investigation, local residents informed us that several LPG cylinders stocked in two illegally operated LPG refilling shops operating in the market aggravated the fire. One is owned by Manoj Rawani and other by Mukesh Kumar Mallick,” said Yadav and added that around 16 LPG cylinders including 10 small cylinders of five liters and six large cylinders of 14 liters blasted in the fire. “The exact estimate of losses caused in fire is yet to be made as the majority of the shopkeepers remained busy in collecting their remaining articles from the rubbles till the next morning but we have asked them to submit details” said Yadav. Rajesh Keshri, a puja paraphernalia shop owner of Kunti Market, situated less than 100 meters from the site said, “My shop was also closed like every other shop. We received information around 8 pm last night over the phone about the fire and reached the site to find huge flames engulfing the adjoining shops.” “The bursting of LPG cylinders invited the risk of fire being spread further throughout the market. We stood at the site till the fire was controlled,” said Keshri. A large number of CISF personnels of adjoining CISF post of BCCL also helped in the fire fighting operation. Fire in the Steel gate vegetable market last night propelled the district administration to tighten the noose against the illegally operated LPG refilling stations dotting different market places of the district including the densely populated market places. This, amidst criticism of lack of administrative action by Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha during inspection of the market site this morning. Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Prasad, who reached the accident site this morning said, “We launched an enquiry into the causes of fire and enquiry will look into details of the presence of LPG refilling shops in densely populated areas.” Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha accused the district administration of not being proactive about the incident of last night He said, “No officer was present at the site even after 12 hours of the incident, while the SDO just reached this morning after being called by me. "How the LPG refilling shops operated in the area need to be looked into,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand activist to speak at international webinar||Ranchi-based tribal and women’s rights activist Aloka Kujur will represent India as a speaker at a webinar as part of the Israel Apartheid Week campaign of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement (a Palestinian-led movement promoting boycotts, divestments and economic sanctions against Israel) on April 3. Kujur will be speaking at the webinar whose theme is “Crack in the Wall: Resistance to Racism and Discrimination in Asia Pacific”. “I got a call from the Delhi unit of BDS on Sunday evening informing me about the webinar. I will be speaking on discrimination against tribal people and women in Jharkhand and in our country and the suppression of voices raised against such discrimination by the current BJP-led government,” she said. Kujur, who was in Jamshedpur on Sunday evening, has written several research papers on tribal and women’s rights, especially on atrocities committed against them in stone mines and bidi factories. She had been at the forefront of the protest demanding the release of jailed octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy. She said that there will be selected activists from New Zealand, Australia and Malaysia at the webinar who will share their views on racial discrimination in their own country. Kujur had written on the witch-hunting menace prevailing in the state in the Jharkhand Encyclopaedia and is a member of the National Alliance for People’s Movement (NAPM). She is also a recipient of the National Foundation for Media Fellowship, the Jharkhand government media fellowship and the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) award. She has also written the script for the documentary Burugadha (rivers of hills) in 2008, which received an award from the then President Pratibha Patil. Kujur has been at the forefront of raising her voice against alleged fake encounters of tribals in the name of anti-Maoist operations, displacement related issues, etc. Israel Apartheid Week is a tool for mobilising grassroots support on the global level for the Palestinian struggle for justice. It is a grassroots mechanism to raise awareness about Israeli “apartheid” and to mobilise support for strategic BDS campaigns to help bring an end to this system of oppression. It provides an opportunity to network and strengthen the links between the Palestinian liberation struggle and other struggles against racism, oppression and discrimination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
