31-03-2021||Calcutta||Ghutiari Sharif: testament to Bengal’s secular fabric||A BJP rally kept raising high-pitched “Jai Shri Ram” cries as it marched along the Baruipur-Canning Road in South 24-Parganas on Friday afternoon. Slogans in support of the incumbent regime in Delhi were belted thick and fast and scorn was heaped on “infiltrators and termites”. It was around 12.30pm and the road was not busy. But some cars were stalled by the rally. One of them was headed to a shrine dedicated to a Muslim saint, 35km from the heart of Calcutta and two stops before Canning, the gateway to the Sunderbans. All the occupants of the car were Hindus. “I am going to Ghutiari Sharif for the first time. I have heard that if you pray sincerely, Ghazi baba answers your prayers,” said Suparna Dutta, 22, part of the group from Garia. A suburb in South 24-Parganas, Ghutiari Sharif is known for the mazaar (resting place) of Pir Ghazi Mubarak Ali, a revered 17th century figure. It is also a testament to the secular character of the popular devotional culture of Bengal at a time religious polarisation is the dominant narrative everywhere from political rallies to election manifestos. Legends and folklore in Bengal are often a part of everyday life, transcending barriers of religion and caste. When this reporter visited the shrine on Friday, scores of women with sindoor-smeared foreheads were seen dipping their palms into a pond in the shrine compound, praying silently to have their wishes (manat) fulfilled. The shrine embodied the deep-rooted syncretism in Bengal’s culture, something that social scientists said would pose a formidable challenge to any political party seeking to polarise voters. That syncretism was perhaps best represented by an image of two women — Debi Majumder and Umme Habiba Laskar — dipping their palms together in the pond. Majumder, a first-timer at Ghutiari Sharif, had come from her home in Lake Market. She came to know of the place from Laskar, an ayah who looks after one of Majumder’s neighbours. Laskar is a resident of Champahati, another suburb not far from Ghutiari Sharif, and has been there several times. They had boarded a train from Ballygunge to reach the Ghutiari Sharif station on Friday. The shrine is a less than five-minute walk from the station. Around 1.30pm on Friday, the two dipped their palms into the pond together. “I prayed at the mazaar and then made my wish at the pond. I have skipped breakfast, in keeping with the ritual,” said Majumder. Many visitors fast till they pray at the mazaar. Suparna Naskar, who lives in Baruipur, had accompanied a Muslim friend who had come with her newborn. “She had wished for a child. Today, we have come to thank Ghazi baba for granting the wish,” said Naskar. The shrine is a five-minute walk from the Ghutiari Sharif railway station in the Sealdah-Canning suburban section. The narrow road is dotted with shops. The resting place of the pir is at the centre of the compound. The top of the shrine has a mosaic dome with four towers. Legend has it that the area, then part of the Sunderbans, was hit by a severe drought four centuries ago. Pir Ghazi Mubarak Ali is said to have brought rainfall to the area. He is also said to have cured a Hindu king, Madan Roy, from a severe bout of illness, after which Roy gifted him swathes of land. The mazaar stands on that land. “Baba’s spirit still endures, taking care of this place. He did not discriminate between people. We have maintained that tradition. Around one-third of my customers are Hindus,” said Salim Dewan, 65, who owns a store selling incense sticks, flowers, chadars and other objects offered to the pir’s resting place. Dewan is a common title given to the future generations of the pir, some of whom are also part of the managing committee of the shrine. “Many such mazaars and dargahs in Bengal are entrenched in a syncretic culture. The devotees come from all faiths, light incense sticks and offer sinni (a sweet concoction of milk, flour, bananas, raisins and other fruits, usually made during pujas in Bengali homes) and other homely food to the presiding saint,” said Epsita Halder, who teaches comparative literature at Jadavpur University and has researched on the scriptural understanding and popular devotionalism of vernacular Islam in Bengal. “In medieval Bengal, many Islamic preachers became popular among the common people because they spoke in a simple language that everyone could connect with. They were not heavy on scriptural understanding of a religion but talked about devotion as a way of life,” Halder said. Ghutiari Sharif falls under Canning West Assembly seat, won by Trinamul’s Shyamal Mondal in 2016. This time, the ruling party has fielded Paresh Ram Das. His main contender is Arnab Roy of the BJP. Roy switched sides from the TMC to the saffron camp recently and his candidature has triggered protests from local BJP workers, like at so many other places of the state. The influence of the shrine goes far beyond one constituency. Ghutiari Sharif hosts two major fairs in a year. One is in the first week of August, commemorating the death anniversary of the pir. The other is in June, which coincides with the famous Ambubachi Mela at the Kamakhya temple in Assam. According to the local legend, King Madan Roy, a regular at the Kamakhya temple during the fair, started a similar fair near his home after being impressed by the pir. Special trains are run during the fairs and lakhs of people, Hindus and Muslims, throng the shrine, apart from tens of thousands every week. Those at the helm of the shrine said they kept off politics. “We have always practised an inclusive culture and will continue doing so, irrespective of which party comes to power,” said Siraj Dewan, caretaker of the managing committee of the shrine. Political commentator Maidul Islam said the politics of polarisation has yielded dividends in the urban middle class but suburban and rural Bengal was a different ballgame. “The urban middle class is divided into the conservative and the liberal sections. The conservatives have already sided with the saffron brigade. There is a deep churning in a large section of the liberals. Many of them are still undecided among the Left and Trinamul. But the syncretic culture of rural and suburban Bengal is so deep-rooted that it will not be erased in the course of one election,” he said. Ghutiari Sharif is not far for the Sunderbans, the land of another syncretic legend, Bon Bibi, the protector of humans and the forest, worshipped by Hindus and Muslims alike. “All across the Sunderbans, rituals to Bon Bibi are performed by Hindus as well as Muslims. I think it is a wonderful kind of syncretism that you see there. In popular culture, in Bengal, it is incredibly mixed. These traditions, they are impossible to pick apart and say this is Hindu and this is Muslim. I think that’s what makes the popular culture of Bengal so vibrant and so interesting,” author Amitav Ghosh, who had introduced Bon Bibi to the world, said of the legend while speaking on the occasion of a literary meet in Calcutta in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Ward-wise data to fight air pollution in Calcutta||Calcutta, like Delhi, will soon start generating ward-wise air pollution data that will make it easier to manage local pollution, an air pollution expert from IIT Delhi said. “Based on our suggestion, the pollution control board is setting up sensor-based air pollution measuring points all over the state. We expect to use the data generated by these sensors along with satellite data to find ward-wise pollution levels in the Calcutta metropolitan area and elsewhere,” said Sagnik De, from IIT Delhi that has conducted a study, at a meeting organised by Climate Trends. “We have already placed an order for around 150 air pollution sensors. Initially, the sensors will be put up at all district headquarters, followed by all municipal cities,” Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the PCB told Metro. Rudra said the PCB was putting the sensors mostly in universities. Though Calcutta metropolitan area — greater Calcutta, from Budge Budge to Kalyani — followed by the Asansol-Durgapur area are the most polluted, the whole of Bengal’s air quality remains above compliance levels annually, De said. He said that despite increasing awareness and claimed actions, the PM 2.5 level, the most critical pollutant that can reach the deepest layers of the lungs and trigger a range of diseases, has increased significantly between 2010 and 2019 compared to the previous decade. “If you compare the decadal map, you will find that during 2001-09, only the southern part of the state was polluted. The whole of the south and central Bengal surrounding Calcutta became acutely polluted during 2010-19,” De said. The IIT data, accessed by Metro, shows that while the 2001 annual average PM 2.5 was 66.6 microgram per cubic meter of air in the state, it rose to 78.2 microgram in 2019, increasing exposure both in urban and rural areas of the state. The national annual limit is 40 micrograms. The IIT study pointed out that increasing emission load over the years, rather than meteorological changes, has mainly been responsible for the rise in pollution. “Though a sizeable amount of the pollution must be locally generated from vehicles, industry or domestic sources, a part of it is expected to be coming from outside Bengal, say Bihar, Jharkhand or Bangladesh air shade,” De said. A recent international study has shown that Bangladesh is the worlds most polluted country. “Pollution is also coming from Nepal, states in the Northeast, the eastern ghats, besides the Indi-Gangetic plains,” said Abhijit Chatterjee, a scientist from Bose institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine booking rush begins in Calcutta||Private hospitals and civic health clinics in Calcutta and Salt Lake are flooded with requests from people above the age of 45 for slots for Covid jabs. Some hospitals that have been booking slots for a few days said the number of requests had been increasing by the day. An official of a private hospital said 200 people in the “45 and above” category had booked slots for Covid jabs for April 1. The Centre has announced that anyone who is 45 or above will be eligible for a Covid shot from April 1 (Thursday). Till Wednesday, senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities, apart from medical personnel and frontline workers, were eligible for vaccination against Covid. “We have already received 200 bookings for April 1. About 40 people have also booked slots for April 2 and 3. A lot of people are calling up our hospital to book slots. Many others are coming to the hospital for appointment,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. Officials in several other hospitals like Peerless, AMRI and the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) said a large number of people were calling them up or turning up with requests for vaccine slots. An AMRI official said around 2,200 people were calling them up every day with requests for slots. “Around 42 per cent of the callers are people aged between 45 and 59,” the official said. At Peerless Hospital, booking of slots for the “45 and above” category started on Tuesday. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless, said the number of calls and visits to book appointments was far more than what they had witnessed in the days preceding the onset of vaccination of senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities. “The rise in the case count has made people realise that the threat from Covid-19 is still not over. Also, the population above 45 is the working population. People in this category are keen to get vaccinated and stay protected. We are expecting a very high turnout from April 1,” said Mitra. Peerless, which is vaccinating about 200 people a day, has planned to administer jabs to about 500 a day from Thursday. “We can do it if we receive more vials,” he said. At the RN Tagore hospital, 100 people have booked slots for Thursday. Slots have also been booked on all days of the first week of April. The hospital has decided to run vaccination for four more hours every day from Thursday. “We are vaccinating from 8am to 5pm. We will stretch it till 9pm. We will also run vaccination on Sundays if there is a demand. We are doubling the number of registration and document verification counters,” said R. Venkatesh, regional head (east), Narayana Health, which owns the RN Tagore hospital. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), too, will increase its vaccination centres from Thursday. “We are administering shots at 69 ward health clinics. From Thursday, that will go up to 80. On Saturdays, vaccination will continue till 4pm, instead of 1pm,” a CMC official said. The Covid-19 vaccine clinics run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation as well as the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) in New Town will set up help desks where people who are above 45 can register for the shots. The NKDA is running two vaccine sites — one at the CB block community market and the other in Action Area III, opposite the Greenfield Heights housing complex. Those who want to get their shots can register their names by calling up the New Town helpline at 18001037652, an NKDA official said. “The decision to allow residents to book appointments and to get themselves registered on the spot was taken after it came to our notice in the initial days of the vaccination drive that many people were not being able to get themselves or their family members registered on the Co-Win portal,” the official said. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said the helpline number had received several hundred calls about the vaccination. “A lot of people have registered for getting the shots through the helpline,” said Sen. At the clinics run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake, Narayanpur, Ashwininagar, Rajarhat and other areas have planned to operate help desks that will allow people to register for their shots. The NKDA vaccination centres and the ones run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will operate from 9am to 4pm. Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital will take a call whether to allow spot registration at a meeting that will be held on Wednesday, an official of the hospital said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Safety guidelines on ISC cards||The ICSE council has included “safety instructions” for Covid-19 in the ISC Class XII admit cards issued this year. The council started sending the admit cards to the schools two weeks ago. The council started sending the admit cards to the schools over the last couple of weeks. The heads of several schools said the safety instructions would serve as a reminder to students to follow the Covid protocols because they would have to carry the admit cards to the exam centres. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has specified the following safety instructions: “The council has stated that the Covid safety protocols mentioned in the instructions published with the timetable should be followed by each examinee. To put more stress on the safety protocols, the council has mentioned it in the admit cards as well,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School. The ISC theory papers will begin on May 4 and schools have to hold practical exams between April 1 and May 31. “The mention of the protocols will be a ready reckoner for students. At no point should children forget that they have to follow these safety measures,” said Seema Sapru, principal, The Heritage School. “Earlier, the council had also sent us (schools) safety guidelines that we have to follow,” she said. Several schools said they are already following the Covid safety protocols, but a council instruction on a document that students are to carry with them adds more weight to the matter. Parents have been concerned because of the rise in Covid-19 infections. Three schools in the city had to shut down for about a week because two students and a teacher tested positive for Covid. Last year, some tests could not be held across boards because of the pandemic. Usually, the board exams are held in February and March but this year they have been delayed because of the pandemic. The ICSE council was waiting for the dates of the Assembly elections before announcing the timetable for ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. Some schools have already issued admit cards to Class XII students and some are in the process of doing it. “We have issued admit cards to students. We will start with practicals, which we have scheduled in such a way that they will be over by April. If students complete the practicals before they begin their theory papers, they will be less stressed,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government to ramp up Covid tests to tackle rise in cases||The state government is planning to ramp up tests for Covid-19 across Bengal as the number of cases has started rising again, officials said. The health department has decided to increase the number of RT PCR and rapid antigen tests for Covid from 10,000 to 20,000 daily across the state. The ramp-up plan follows a recent spurt in the number of Covid-19 patients being admitted to hospitals. The state registered 628 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. On March 1, this figure was 198. “Calcutta, which recorded 265 new Covid cases on Tuesday, should conduct around 3,000 tests every day. Now around 2,000 tests are being conducted. North 24-Parganas, which registered 145 new Covid cases on Tuesday, has been set a target to conduct 2,000 tests daily. South 24-Parganas and Howrah have to conduct 1,500 and 1,000 tests every day,” a health department official said. The department is planning to involve more healthcare workers, who will go door to door to find out whether anyone has symptoms of Covid-19 and get suspected patients tested. “The implementation might be difficult initially because many healthcare workers are also involved in poll duties. But, we are hoping to achieve the target,” the official said. “Private hospitals and diagnostic centres will be asked to increase testing. Doctors there will again be asked to send people with symptoms for testing.” Gopal Krishna Dhali, the coordinator of the Covid-19 management committee of the state and head of the gastroenterology department at SSKM Hospital, said: “The tests are very crucial for contact tracing because a large number of people are now attending political rallies and meetings throwing caution to the wind. District officials have been asked to be more proactive in meeting the target of daily tests.” With an increasing number of people across the state violating the Covid-19 norms and public health experts pressing the alarm button, the health department has scheduled a videoconference with district health officials on Wednesday. “It is a two-pronged approach — increasing vaccination cover and conducting more and more tests for early detection. District officials will have to engage more of their health workers to get people with Covid-19 symptoms tested,” said another official of the health department. Officials of the districts that went to the polls on March 27 — Bankura, Jhargram, Purulia and East and West Midnapore — have pleaded helplessness saying health workers were engaged in the poll process. Swasthya Bhavan now wants the workers to be more actively involved in getting people with symptoms tested. Doctors at the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata said on Tuesday 30 Covid patients were in the facility, seven of them in the ICU and three in the high dependency unit. A week back, around 20 Covid-19 patients were in the hospital. The number of patients admitted to other Covid-19 hospitals across the city, including MR Bangur Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and SSKM, was increasing by the day, senior health officials said. Some of these patients are from the three adjoining districts of Howrah, and North and South 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Dry winds heat up Bengal poll season||The heat is on the rise in the poll season, literally. The mercury climbed to around 38 degrees in Calcutta on Tuesday, a couple of notches up from the day before and three notches above normal. The next couple of days could see the maximum temperature rise to 39 degrees, the Met office has warned. In the western districts of Bengal, the mercury could rise to 41 degrees, said a Met official. The Met office has attributed the rise in temperature to hot and dry winds flowing into south Bengal from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “A trough of low pressure is stationed over parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, the Northeast and Bangladesh. Westerly winds are originating under the trough. These hot and dry winds are flowing into Bengal via Jharkhand, pushing the Celsius up,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “Dry weather is likely to prevail over the districts of Gangetic West Bengal. Gusty wind (30-40 kmph) likely at one or two places over the districts of south Bengal. Heat wave condition likely to prevail over the districts of Purulia, Bankura, West Burdwan, Jhargram and West Midnapore,” said a Met bulletin on Tuesday. In Calcutta, the weather portal AccuWeather showed the temperature to be 37.5 degrees around 3.15pm. The RealFeel was a staggering 44 degrees. From north to south, umbrellas were out on the city roads to shield pedestrians from the scorching sun. People often took shelter under a shade or a tree. A week ago, the humidity content in the Calcutta air was unusually low because of very little moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal. The minimum relative humidity, a measure of the moisture content during the driest part of the day, had been in the range of 20 per cent, compared to the around 40 per cent which is usual for March-end. But over the past few days, the moisture content has been rising. On Monday, it was a little less than 40 per cent. Some moisture incursion from the Bay has increased the relative humidity, the Met office said. But there is no chance of rain in the city over the next couple of days. “The dry winds are expected to weaken after April 1. If the moisture content increases in the coming days, it can combine with the pent-up heat to form rain-bearing clouds,” said a Met official. “The showers, if any, will be brought by local clouds. There is very little possibility of Nor’wester in the coming days,” the Met official said. While rain is unlikely in south Bengal, the Himalayan regions of Bengal and Sikkim are likely to get widespread rain because of another trough over north Bengal and Sikkim, the Met office said in a bulletin issued on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: LGBT persons feel left out ||A brief mention in the party manifesto but not a single candidate in 294 seats. Members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, asexual (LGBTQIA) community on Tuesday gave a scathing opinion of how they felt “left out” of the electoral and political process. Amid the high-voltage poll season, community members had taken part in an interaction with a handful of CPM candidates. The meet was organised by a group called the Left for Rainbow Rights. “No party has fielded a single member from our community in the Bengal elections. However, parties have time to run after film stars,” said Ranjita Sinha, the founder of the Association of Transgender/Hijra in Bengal. Sinha said political parties should communicate with the community, not only before elections but throughout the year. Dipan, another speaker, questioned “liberal Leftists” for taking so much time to reach out to the community. “You claim to be progressive and forward thinking. You claim to be able to adapt yourselves to the needs of the time. Yet, you have kept us marginalised for so long,” said Dipan. Multiple LGBTQIA members spoke of their fears stemming from the citizenship thrust of the BJP regime. “Most of us have been discarded by our families. We do not have any papers that can prove our citizenship. What is going to be our future? Should we be prepared for detention camps,” said one of them. The movement against the citizenship thrust in Calcutta had a sizable participation of members of the LGBTQIA community. The Rainbow flag was common across the rallies. The CPM manifesto does not speak beyond the “necessary steps” for the LGBTQIA community. But at the meeting at Shramik Bhavan, off CIT Road, on Tuesday, the CPM candidates released a detailed statement. “The meeting has been organised to stage a united fight in the coming days against the fascist plot to keep LGBTQUIA community members out of the social, economic and political mainstream,” the message said. Dipsita Dhar, the CPM candidate from Bally constituency, said: “Whatever you are saying is absolutely true. Had we been able to establish a perfect society, there would have been no room for this discussion. But as the joint secretary of SFI (Students’ Federation of India), I have taken part in many Pride rallies (organised by members of the LGBTQIA) community. I have friends who belong to the community. Even they think we are the only political party which will take you along.” Sujan Chakraborty and Fuad Halim were among the other politicians present at the meet. Chakraborty, the CPM candidate from Jadavpur, spoke of the need for a separate department for the community. “Speak your heart out. You have equal rights like everyone else. Just as we are with students in their fight for rights, we are beside you in your fight for your rights. Our government in Kerala has taken steps that have resulted in uplift of the marginalised people,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||CU next semester to start online on April 5||The undergraduate and postgraduate classes of Calcutta University in the next semester (even semester) will start on April 5 through the online mode, the university said on Tuesday. The rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and the absence of any directive from the state government on reopening of campuses have prompted Presidency University to announce the start of online classes for the even semester from April 2. Rabindra Bharati University will start online classes on April 8. An official of Jadavpur University said classes for the even semester are likely to start in the online mode in the first week of April. CU’s pro vice-chancellor (academic) Ashis Chatterjee asked the principals and the heads of all postgraduate departments on Tuesday to adhere to the September 24 UGC guidelines and start online classes on April 5. The exams of the even semester will be held from August 9 to 21. “The principals and the heads of the departments at the masters’ level have been informed about the schedule,” vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee told Metro. When asked about the mode of classes, she said: “Classes will continue to be held on digital platforms as the higher education department has not yet said anything about the resumption of on-campus classes.” “We will soon draw the routine as advised by the university authorities,” Joydeep Sarangi, the principal of New Alipore College said. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had on February 3 left it to the universities to decide when to start classes for the even semester and the mode of classes. A VC who did not want to be named said there had been no improvement in the situation since the February meeting with Chatterjee. “The situation has rather worsened since. We will keep opposing the resumption of in-person classes because we are not sure whether the physical distancing norm, a vital precautionary measure against Covid-19, could be followed in hostels, where each room is shared by as many as four students,” the VC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
31-03-2021||Business||Sensex dives 627 points to close below 50,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 627 points on Wednesday, dragged by losses in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 627.43 points or 1.25 per cent lower at 49,509.15, and the broader NSE Nifty slumped 154.40 points or 1.04 per cent to 14,690.70. The HDFC duo was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 4 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Tech Mahindra, ICICI Bank, ONGC, Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, Infosys and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, ITC, Bajaj Finserv, HUL, SBI and TCS were among the gainers. "Domestic equities traded lower as concerns pertaining to spike in COVID-19 cases and resultant restrictions continued to weigh on investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, rise in US treasury yields and strengthening dollar index aggravated concerns, he added. Financials, especially private banks, witnessed heavy profit booking, which along with selling pressure in IT stocks dragged benchmarks. However, investors continue to lap up FMCG, metals and pharma names. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent lower at USD 63.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
31-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 400 points in early trade on Wednesday, dragged by losses in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 440.84 points or 0.88 per cent lower at 49,695.74, and the broader NSE Nifty dropped 116.05 points or 0.78 per cent to 14,729.05. The HDFC duo was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, Infosys and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Reliance Industries, NTPC, Sun Pharma, Axis Bank and Maruti were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 1,128.08 points or 2.30 per cent higher at 50,136.58, and Nifty settled at a nearly two-week high of 14,845.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 769.47 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities do not look to be good at the moment. The recent announcements of night curfews by various state governments and indication of lockdown by Maharashtra authorities certainly do not augur well for equities, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. He further noted that the strengthening dollar index, which already gained 1.5 per cent last week and surpassed 93 levels so far this week, can aggravate investors' concern in emerging markets including India. US equities ended lower as concerns of rising bond yields and higher inflation once again weighed on investors' sentiments, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading marginally higher. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.45 per cent higher at USD 64.46 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
31-03-2021||Business||Indian corporate houses raise Rs 1,88,900 crore through equity markets in 2020-21||Indian corporate houses have raised Rs 1,88,900 crore through equity markets in 2020-21 surpassing the previous high of Rs 1,75,680 crore in 2017-18, according to data compiled by primedatabase.com. The number that includes initial public offer, follow-on public offer, offer for sale, qualified institutional placements and funds raised through InvITs and ReITs was more than double the Rs 91,670 crore raised in 2019-20. A total of 30 main IPOs came to the market collectively raising Rs 31,268 crore, an increase of 54 per cent from Rs 20,350 crore raised through 13 IPOs in 2019-20. The largest IPO was from Gland Pharma for Rs 6,480 crore. The average deal size was Rs 1,042 crore. Pranav Haldea, managing director, Prime Database Group, said there was a strong response from retail investors with the highest number of applications received by Indigo Paints (25.88 lakh) followed by Mtar Technologies (25.87 lakh) and Mazagon Dock (23.56 lakh). Also 18 IPOs listed are trading above issue price (closing price of March 26, 2021). On the FPO side, Yes Bank raised Rs, 15,000 crore during the year. The research firm said that the IPO pipeline continues to remain strong with 18 companies holding Sebi approval for raising Rs 18,000 crore and another 14 awaiting regulator’s approval to raise Rs 23,00 crore. But market analysts remain cautious over pricing. Qualified institutional placements (QIPs) remained strong with 31 companies mobilising Rs 78,731 crore, 54 per cent up from Rs 51,216 crore raised in the previous year. The largest QIP was from ICICI Bank raising Rs 15,000 crore and accounting for 19 per cent of the total QIP amount raised. QIPs were dominated by banks, NBFCs and real estate companies. The year also saw the first QIP in ReIT with Embassy Office Parks raising Rs 3,685 crore. The offer for sale through bourses, which is for dilution of promoters’ holdings, saw an increase from Rs 17,326 crore raised in 2019-20 to Rs 30,114 crore raised in 2020-21. The largest OFS was from Tata Communications (Rs. 5,386 crore) followed by Hindustan Aeronautics (Rs 4,961 crore) and IRCTC (Rs 4,408 crore). Amounts raised through rights issue during the year were Rs 64,256 crore, 15 per cent up from Rs 55,998 crore in 2019-20. While there were 20 firms that tapped the rights route, the biggest one was of Reliance Industries at Rs 53,124 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
31-03-2021||Business||Harsh Vardhan Patodia becomes new national president of Credai||Harsh Vardhan Patodia, the developer of Trump Tower in Calcutta, has become the new national president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai). The chairman of city-based Unimark Group, Patodia will be the first national president from the East after  Santosh Rungta, who was president between 2009 and 2011. Credai is the largest body of developers in India with 13,000 members across the country. Patodia will have a two-year term at the top. “This is a great honour to be there, especially from the east, a region that often suffers from perception problems,” Patodia said this evening. Eastern region lags west, south and north in terms of construction activities, both residential and commercial. In his maiden official speech as the president, Patodia announced Covid-19 vaccination drive for 2.5 crore construction workers at sites. Credai would talk to the governments at the states and the Centre to hold camps at the site in association with public and private hospitals. “We are ready to bear the cost of vaccination of the workers,” Patodia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
31-03-2021||Business||Nazara Technologies shares make strong but volatile market debut||Shares of mobile gaming firm Nazara Technologies made a strong but volatile market debut on Tuesday as it closed with a premium of over 44 per cent against its issue price of Rs 1,101. The company, backed by ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, listed at Rs 1,971 on the BSE, thus showing a huge gain of 79.01 per cent over the issue price. It later jumped 84 per cent to hit an intra-day high of Rs 2,026.90. However, the stock fell more than 22 per cent to a day’s low of Rs 1,576.80 from its high point as investors sought listing gains. Later, it closed at Rs 1,576.80, a gain of 43.21 per cent. Similarly, on the NSE, it debuted at Rs 1,990, a rise of 80.74 per cent. It finally closed higher by 44.59 per cent at Rs 1,592. In terms of traded volume, 8.37 lakh shares were traded on the BSE and over 74.91 lakh units on the NSE during the day. At the end of the trading session, its market valuation stood at Rs 4,801.80 crore on the BSE. Nazara Tech’s initial public offer was subscribed a whopping 175.46 times earlier this month. The company is popularly known for its games on World Cricket Championship, Chhota Bheem and Motu Patlu series. The Rs 583-crore share sale came in a range of Rs 1,100-1,101 per share. Ahead of the issue, brokerages such as Motilal Oswal had asked investors to subscribe to the issue. The brokerage said in a report that the Indian mobile gaming market is expected to grow at 40 per cent CAGR over 2020-23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
31-03-2021||Business||Cairn Energy acknowledges receipt of notice on petition filed by Indian government||Cairn Energy said it has received a notice on the petition filed by the Indian government that appeals to the Dutch Court of Appeal to set aside the court’s  December 21, 2020, arbitration award. The company has full confidence on its position and “as previously advised, Cairn will continue to take all steps necessary to protect the interests of its shareholders”, Cairn said. The firm has moved courts in nine countries to get the arbitral award registered and recognised. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can petition it to seize any Indian government asset such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, aeroplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, to recover the amount due to it. It said the award is binding on the parties under the terms of the Treaty and UNCITRAL arbitration rules, and it is enforceable internationally under the 1958 New York Convention. An international tribunal in December had unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014, when the income tax department had slapped a Rs 10,247-crore tax assessment using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. India had lost another major international case against Vodafone over a $2 billion retrospective tax dispute. The government has challenged the verdict in the Vodafone case. After losing a Supreme Court case against levying tax on capital gains made in the 2007 sale by Hutchison of its India business to Vodafone for $11.2 billion, the government had in 2012 enacted a legislation that gave it powers to tax such deals retrospectively. Thereafter the tax department said Vodafone should have withheld tax on the deal and issued a notice seeking Rs 11,218 crore, later augmented by Rs 7,900 crore in penalties. In January 2014, the department assessed that Cairn too made an alleged capital gain on reorganising its India business prior to an IPO in 2006-07 and sought Rs 10,247 crore in taxes. But unlike Vodafone where no enforcement action was taken, it seized and sold Cairn's residual stake in the India unit, confiscated dividends due from such holding, and stopped tax refund due to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
31-03-2021||Business||HDFC Bank faces intermittent service outage in digital banking platform||Customers of HDFC Bank again faced intermittent service outage in the lender’s digital banking platform. “Some customers are facing intermittent issues accessing our netbanking/mobilebanking App. We are looking into it on priority for resolution. We apologise for the inconvenience and request you to try again after sometime. Thank you,” HDFC Bank said in a tweet. Later in the evening, the private sector bank said that the issue faced by some of the customers has been resolved. “We apologise for the inconvenience caused and thank you for your patience,’’ the bank added. This is not for the first time that the customers of HDFC Bank have faced service outage.The  bank has been penalised by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for two major outages previously. In December 2020, the banking regulator temporarily barred HDFC Bank from launching new digital banking initiatives and issuing credit cards after taking a serious view of service outages at the lender over the last two years RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had said in December the regulator had some concerns about certain deficiencies and it was necessary that HDFC Bank strengthens its IT system before expanding further. “We cannot have thousands and lakhs of customers who are using digital banking to be in any kind of difficulty for hours together... Public confidence in digital banking has to be maintained,” Das had said. The bank has been classified as systematically important by the RBI. HDFC Bank, the largest lender by assets in the private sector, has been classified as a systemically important entity by the RBI in the past. It is also the largest issuer of credit cards and has a significant share in the payment processing segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
31-03-2021||Business||Govt plans to lease out  Delhi's The Ashok hotel as part of privatisation policy||The Modi government plans to lease out iconic hotel The Ashok in Lutyens Delhi as part its privatisation policy. The hotel in the heart of the capital was the pet project of India’s first PM Jawaharlal Nehru and built in time for the country to host the UNESCO meet in 1956. Sources said a core group of secretaries have finalised a plan to offer the property on lease for 60 years along with developing a 22-acre adjacent land to set up a market complex and service apartments. However, Ashok's twin, Hotel Samrat, will continue to be run by India Tourism Development Corp. (ITDC) because of its proximity to the Prime Minister’s residence, a sensitive location that demands high security. The NITI Aayog had suggested leasing out the hotel to private business players. The divestment department predicted the government could get Rs 7,500 crore from the monetisation of its hotel assets. In its plan to lease out the hotel property, the inter-ministerial group has allowed commercial opportunities to flourish in the land, provided they follow the required security measures. Doors shut Apart from putting the hotel on lease, ITDC has shut down many of its hotels in various states because of  losses incurred in the last few years. Some of those properties include Hotel Janpath in Delhi, Hotel Jammu Ashok in Jammu and Hotel Kalinga Ashok in Bhubaneswar. Several attempts have been made in the past to sell the hotel run by the ITDC but the plans had to be abandoned due to a string of factors including labour issues, dues and past contracts that the iconic hotel had signed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
31-03-2021||Business||Union cabinet expected to kick off IDBI Bank privatisation next month||The Modi government is set to step on the gas to achieve its  ambitious Rs 1.75 lakh crore disinvestment target for 2021-22 with the Union cabinet expected to set the ball rolling on the privatisation of IDBI Bank from next month. Finance ministry officials said the Union cabinet was expected to consider a note on IDBI privatisation, which is apart from the two banks to be put on sale in the next fiscal. The cabinet is expected to deliberate on the amount of the stake to be sold by the government and the biggest promoter Life Insurance Corporation. Sources have indicated that the government and Life Insurance Corp will look to sell their stakes in the bank. While the government owns about 45.28 per cent stake in the bank, LIC, the largest  promoter,  holds 49.24 per cent. LIC was brought in when the bank was in trouble, but now the government considers the phase is over. The bank was taken out of the RBI's prompt corrective action framework that imposes restrictions on the operations of banks whose bad loans exceed 25 per cent of assets. Officials said the roadshows to sell the bank could begin by the end of next month immediately after the Cabinet approval. The government is open to foreign players bidding to take management control in the bank.. The government allows maximum foreign direct investment (FDI) of 74 per cent in private banks, while it allows 20 per cent in PSU banks under the government approval route. The amendment to the Industrial Development Bank (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2003 in the Finance Bill 2021 would enable it to be deemed to have obtained a (Banking) license under Section 22 of Banking Regulation Act, which would boost its sale prospects. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget for 2020-21 has set a target to raise Rs 2.1 lakh crore from the privatisation and sale of minority stakes in state-owned companies. This includes Rs 1.20 lakh crore from selling a stake in CPSEs and Rs 90,000 crore from stake sale in financial institutions. So far this fiscal, the government has collected Rs 19,499 crore through minority stake sale in CPSEs and share buybacks. The board of the bank last week has approved a plan to raise Rs 8,000 crore in rupee bonds. IDBI Bank's managing director and CEO Rakesh Sharma had said the bank would  now look to grow its business in a calibrated way with more focus on profitability and in improving efficiency ratios. According to a regulatory filing by the bank to the stock exchanges, the money would be borrowed in one or more tranches during financial year 2021-22. The bank has also won approval to issue additional tier-I bonds and infrastructure bonds. The share price of the bank on the BSE moved up 1.44 per cent to Rs 38.65 on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
31-03-2021||Business||Cyrus Mistry expresses disappointment over Supreme Court order||Cyrus Mistry on Tuesday expressed disappointment over the Supreme Court order in his dispute with the Tata group but said his conscience was clear and he had no doubt about the direction he took regarding the generational change in leadership during his tenure at the conglomerate. “Every member of society looks to institutions such as courts to validate and endorse the appropriateness of his or her actions and beliefs.” “As a minority shareholder of Tata Sons, I am personally disappointed by the outcome of the judgement with respect to our case,” Mistry said in a statement, his first remarks since the order of the top court. He added, "although I will no longer be able to influence the direction of governance of the Tata group directly, I hope that the issues I have raised will cause deeper reflection and influence individuals concerned to catalyse change. I sleep with a clear conscience’’. Defending his performance at the Tata group when he was the chairman, he said that over the last four years, he had the ``opportunity to reflect on my actions and on whether I could have handled the generational change in leadership better. In hindsight, while I may have had many imperfections, I have no doubt or erosion of conviction about the direction I chose, the integrity behind my actions and their consequences," he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
31-03-2021||Business||Shapoorji lenders vet Rs 10,900cr debt recast plan||Lenders to the Shapoorji Pallonji group led by the State Bank of India (SBI) have given their green signal to a Rs 10,900cr debt recast package plan for the group. The proposal is now before the K.V. Kamath-led RBI panel for its approval. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in August last year had said the Kamath panel will vet all resolution plans of entities hit by the vagaries of the coronavirus-induced lockdown and having exposures of at least Rs 1,500 crore. Care Ratings has given an RP4 rating for the restructuring plan of the SP group, the minimum rating required by an entity keen on a resolution and whose exposure is over Rs 100 crore. The RBI had mandated that entities keen on a recast must get itself rated by at least one credit rating agency. According to the recast plan, the SP group will not have to make principal payments for two years while the interest payments will be suspended till September this year. However, there is no relief on the interest rate and the  group will have to pay the previously agreed rate set with the lenders. The group owes a little over Rs 22,000 crore, but under this package loans worth Rs 10,900 crore will be restructured. The SP group had earlier told the lenders that it was also looking at asset sales in various arms of the group such as  Eureka Forbes, Sterling & Wilson Solar and Afcons Infrastructure which are expected to be completed in the next fiscal. It is also learnt that promoter borrowings of around Rs 2,700 crore will be converted into perpetual debt to lessen the burden. The development comes just days after the Supreme Court upheld the sacking of Cyrus Mistry as the chairman of Tata Sons back in 2016 by the board. Last week, a bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said it was allowing the appeals filed by Tata Group. The court said, “all the questions of law are liable to be answered in favour of the appellants Tata Group and the appeals filed by the Tata Group are liable to be allowed and those by Shapoorji Pallonji Group are liable to be dismissed”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
31-03-2021||Business||BSE Sensex soars 1128 points in biggest single day gain in almost two months||The BSE Sensex soared 1128 points on Tuesday, its biggest single day gain in almost two months as investors bought on positive global cues following the re-opening of the Suez Canal amid hopes of  an enhanced Covid-19 vaccination coverage in countries such as the US. The markets were weighed down by the spike in coronavirus cases in India that has raised the spectre of another lockdown. However, hopes of a global economic recovery with the vaccination rollout gathering speed and the end of the Suez Canal blockage that was feared to have an adverse impact on certain commodities led to stocks gaining in Europe and Asia — with a positive spinoff in India. Analysts said the attention in India will now be on the vaccination drive which will be extended to more number of people from the next month and the upcoming results season. There is an optimism that corporate India will continue to report good numbers for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. The 30-share Sensex on Tuesday opened in the green at 49331.68 and breached the 50000-mark to hit a day’s high of 50268.45. It thereafter ended 1128.08 points or 2.30 per cent higher at 50136.58 — a level not seen since March 16.  On Friday, the benchmark had closed 568.38 points higher. Markets were closed on Monday for Holi. Driven by the rally, the market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies soared Rs 6.02 lakh crore to Rs 2,04,77,472.33 crore in two trading days. Similarly, the  broader NSE Nifty on Tuesday also posted its biggest single-day rise since February 2 to settle at a nearly two-week high of 14845.10, a gain of 337.80 points or 2.33 per cent. As many as 46 of its constituents closed in the green. Buying was seen across financials, FMCG and tech stocks. Among the Sensex pack, HDFC Bank led the list of gainers as its shares ended higher by 4.11 per cent. It was followed by HCL Technologies, Infosys, Hindustan Unilever and NTPC which rose up to 4 per cent. All the sectoral indices ended on a positive note with BSE IT, tech, metal, healthcare, FMCG, basic materials and finance indices rallying up to 3.51 per cent. Broader midcap and smallcap indices surged up to 1.30 per cent. “The markets opened firm on strong global cues with (US President) Joe Biden slated to announce his $3 trillion infrastructure package. Investors shrugged off the rising coronavirus cases in a few states as the Centre prepares for a vaccine rollout on a larger scale. Steel & IT stocks led the bull charge while FMCG stocks joined the party in late afternoon trade as the sensex scaled past 50k,” S Ranganathan, head of research at LKP Securities, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
31-03-2021||India||Farmers will march on foot to Parliament in May, say leaders||Announcing their plans for the upcoming two months, farmers, who have been protesting against the new farm laws at the Delhi borders, said they will march to the Parliament on foot in May, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said on Wednesday. "The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha met yesterday, and decided that the farmers will be undertaking a march to the Parliament. The date for the march is yet to be decided. "It will be joined not just by farmers, but also by women, and unemployed individuals, and labourers who have been supporting the movement," farmer leader Gurnaam Singh Chaduni said. Addressing a press conference, he said that the march would be carried out in a "peaceful" manner, and special care would be taken that "what happened on January 26 is not repeated". The leaders also shared their plans of forming a committee to control protesters if there is police action in parliament march. “We will form a committee to let the protestors know what to do in case there is police action during the march,” they said. "It will also be made clear to them that SKM condemns all kinds of violence. So the protestors will know that if there is any damage of property by them, they will have to serve the penalty," a farmer leader said. Farmer leaders also announced their plans to block the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway for 24 hours on April 10. "We will be blocking the KMP expressway on April 10 for 24 hours, that is from 11 am on April 10 to 11 am on the next day. "We will be doing this because the government has not been listening to us. It has been sleeping. This is to wake up the government," another farmer leader said. An event to honour the farmers who have lost their lives during the agitation will be organised on May 6. "Soil from different parts of the country will be brought to these borders and a memorial will be created for all our brothers who have lost their lives while participating in this movement," a farmer leader said. Separate events will also be organised to commemorate Ambedkar Jayanti, and Labour Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||Centre holds meeting with states, UTs ahead of  above-45 vaccine drive||As India prepares to open up its COVID-19 vaccination drive to people above 45 from April 1, the Centre on Wednesday asked states and union territories to identify low vaccine-coverage pockets, particularly in districts reporting a surge in new infections, and take corrective action. National Health Authority (NHA) CEO and Empowered Group on COVID Vaccination chairperson Dr R S Sharma and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with health secretaries, mission directors of NHM and immunisation officers of all states and UTs during the day, a statement said. The status and pace of the inoculation drive across the country were reviewed at the meeting held through video-conferencing, as were the preparations for April 2021, when vaccination would be extended to cover everybody above the age of 45, the ministry said. "A key theme underlying the meet was the identification of low vaccine coverage pockets particularly in districts showing COVID-19 surge and for taking corrective actions there," it said in the statement. On vaccination coverage of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), the states and the UTs were advised to ensure that only eligible beneficiaries were registered and inoculated under the respective categories. They were also advised to archive incorrect and duplicate entries on the Co-WIN platform, identify pockets of low vaccination coverage health facility, professional association, blocks, districts for taking corrective action, and ensure saturation of vaccination of these groups on priority. States and UTs were asked to conduct regular reviews of capacity utilisation at private COVID Vaccination Centres (CVCs). They were also asked to undertake GIS analysis of CVCs to identify the need for more such facilities, and address apprehensions of private CVCs regarding vaccine supply and guidelines, the statement said. The states and UTs were also advised to ensure that there was no sedimentation of vaccine stocks at any level of storage, and that their distribution was based on consumption to avoid overstocking or under-stocking at cold chain points and CVCs. They were asked to conduct regular reviews of vaccine stocks and consumption to identify gap areas and address the same, the ministry said in its statement. The Centre also advised the states and UTs to maintain vaccine wastage at less than one per cent (current National Wastage Percentage being six per cent). They were asked to ensure timely utilisation of available stock to avoid expiry of vaccines and update the vaccine consumption data on Co-WIN and eVIN portals. Dr Sharma assured that there was no problem in storage and logistics of the vaccines. He re-emphasized that there was no value in conserving vaccines for the second dose and that states must promptly supply vaccines to all government and private hospitals where there is a demand, the statement stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||Taxi services to Bangalore airport disrupted after driver dies by suicide||Taxi services to Bangalore’s Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) were disrupted on Wednesday as they stayed off the road, after an airport cab driver who allegedly set himself ablaze, died last night. Pratap, 34, from Ramanagara, working with the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation's airport taxi service, had allegedly set himself ablaze inside his car near the pick-up area of the airport on Tuesday, depressed over his financial troubles, police sources said, adding that they were trying to ascertain the exact cause. Aircraft rescue and fire-fighting teams had rescued him and he was rushed to hospital, but succumbed to injuries at midnight, they said. According to airport taxi drivers, Pratap took the extreme step due to poor financial condition, poor business and inability to pay EMIs. They said most taxi drivers including those linked to Ola, Uber, KSDTC and other airport taxi services have stayed off the roads as a mark of protest following his death, as many of them are going through similar financial problems. KIA in a passenger advisory said taxi services at the airport have been impacted and passengers are requested to use the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses to travel to or from the airport or make their own travel arrangements. BMTC has deployed additional buses on the airport route to help passengers, official sources said. Alleging that the price war in the cab industry and government's apathy has led to Pratap's death, former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets said KSDTC was following taxi fare of Rs 24 per km fixed by the state government. Taxi aggregators, however, were offering fares of Rs 9 per km to attract passengers, resulting in business loss for KSDTC drivers, he added. He urged the state government to intervene and come to the rescue of the taxi drivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||Delhi to hold random Covid tests on flyers from surge ||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will conduct random Covid-19 test of passengers coming from states where there has been a surge in cases recently, said the Delhi airport's operator DIAL on Wednesday. The Centre had on Tuesday said the COVID-19 situation is turning from "bad to worse" and is a huge cause for worry, especially for some states, warning that the whole country is at risk and any complacency at this stage will have "heavy costs". The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) stated on Twitter on Wednesday, "As per the latest government mandate, DDMA shall conduct random COVID-19 testing of passengers coming from the states where cases are increasing." "After the collection of samples, the travellers would be allowed to exit. However, the passengers who were found to be positive shall be mandatorily quarantined as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare protocol," it added. Six states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, have reported a high number of daily COVID-19 cases and account for 78.56 per cent of the 56,211 fresh cases recorded in the country in a day, the Union Health Ministry had said on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
31-03-2021||India||India ranks 140 among 156 countries in Global Gender Gap report||India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2021, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia. According to the report, India has closed 62.5 per cent of its gender gap till date. The country had ranked 112th among 153 countries in the Global Gender Gap Index 2020. Noting that the decline also took place on the economic participation and opportunity subindex, albeit to a lesser extent, the report said India's gender gap on this dimension widened by 3 per cent this year, leading to a 32.6 per cent gap closed till date. Most of the decline occurred on the political empowerment subindex, where India regressed 13.5 percentage points, with a significant decline in the number of women ministers (from 23.1 per cent in 2019 to 9.1 per cent in 2021). "Among the drivers of this decline is a decrease in women's labour force participation rate, which fell from 24.8 per cent to 22.3 per cent. In addition, the share of women in professional and technical roles declined further to 29.2 per cent. The share of women in senior and managerial positions also remains low: only 14.6 per cent of these positions are held by women and there are only 8.9 per cent firms with female top managers," the report said. Further, the estimated earned income of women in India is only one-fifth of men's, which puts the country among the bottom 10 globally on this indicator, it said. Discrimination against women is also reflected in the health and survival subindex statistics. With 93.7 per cent of this gap closed to date, India ranks among the bottom five countries in this subindex. Wide gaps in sex ratio at birth are due to the high incidence of gender-based sex-selective practices. In addition, more than one in four women has faced intimate violence in her lifetime, the report said. "Conversely, 96.2 per cent of the educational attainment subindex gender gap has been closed, with parity achieved in primary, secondary and tertiary education. Yet, gender gaps persist in terms of literacy: one third of women are illiterate (34.2 per cent) compared to 17.6 per cent of men," it added. Among India's neighbours, Bangladesh ranked 65, Nepal 106, Pakistan 153, Afghanistan 156, Bhutan 130 and Sri Lanka 116. Among regions, South Asia is the second-lowest performer on the index, with 62.3 per cent of its overall gender gap closed. "Within the region, a wide gulf separates the best-performing country, Bangladesh, which has closed 71.9 per cent of its gender gap so far, from Afghanistan, which has only closed 44.4 per cent of its gap. "India is the third-worst performer in the region, having closed 62.5 per cent of its gap. Because of its large population, India's performance has a substantial impact on the region's overall performance," the report said. In South Asia, only Pakistan and Afghanistan ranked below India. The report stated that India, home to 0.65 billion women, has widened its gender gap from almost 66.8 per cent one year ago to 62.5 per cent this year. In Pakistan and Afghanistan, the income of an average woman is below 16 per cent of that of an average man, while in India it is 20.7 per cent, it said. As the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic continues to be felt, the global gender gap has increased by a generation from 99.5 years to 135.6 years, the report noted. Now in its 15th year, the report benchmarks the evolution of gender-based gaps in four areas: economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment. It also examines the drivers of gender gaps and outlines the policies and practices needed for a gender-inclusive recovery. For the 12th time, Iceland is the most gender-equal country in the world. The top 10 most gender-equal countries include Finland, Norway, New Zealand, Rwanda, Sweden, Ireland and Switzerland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||CBI court discharges 3 cops in Ishrat Jahan encounter case||A special CBI court on Wednesday discharged police officers G L Singhal, Tarun Barot and Anaju Chaudhary in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan alleged fake encounter case. Special CBI judge V R Raval allowed the discharge applications of Singhal, Barot (now retired) and Chaudhary. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 20 conveyed to the court that the state government had declined prosecution sanction against the three accused. The court in its October 2020 order observed that they had "acted in their official duties," so the probe agency was required to obtain prosecution sanction. Ishrat Jahan, a 19-year-old woman from Mumbra near Mumbai, was killed along with Javed Shaikh alias Pranesh Pillai, Amjadali Akbarali Rana and Zeeshan Johar by Gujarat police in an 'encounter' near Ahmedabad on June 15, 2004. The police claimed the four were terrorists who were planning to assassinate then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi. However, a high court-appointed Special Investigation Team concluded that the encounter was fake, after which the CBI registered a case against various police officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||DCGI extends shelf life of Covishield from 6 to 9 months||India's drug regulator DCGI has extended the shelf life of Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, from six to nine months from its manufacturing date. In a letter to the Serum Institute of India, Drugs Controller General of India V G Somani said the SII is permitted to apply the shelf life of nine months to unlabelled vials available on hand. Shelf life is the length of time for which an item remains fit for use. The DCGI said it has no objection in respect of 'Extension of Shelf Life of Covishield Vaccine' in multi-dose glass vial (10 dose-5ml) from six months to nine months. "You are permitted to apply the shelf life of nine months to unlabelled vials available on hand, subject to the condition that the details of such stock, batch-wise, shall be submitted to this office and Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli," Somani said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||India records over 53,000 fresh Covid cases, 354 casualties in a day||As many as 53,480 fresh infections pushed India's COVID-19 tally to 1,21,49,335, while 354 new fatalities, the highest single-day spike so far this year, took the death toll to 1,62,468, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. The country had recorded 355 deaths on December 17. The active caseload increased to 5,52,566 and accounts for 4.55 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 94.11 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,14,34,301, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it stated. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 24,36,72,940 samples had been tested up to March 30 with 10,22,915 being tested on Tuesday. The 354 new fatalities include 139 from Maharashtra, 64 from Punjab, 35 from Chhattisgarh, 21 from Karnataka and 16 each from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Of the total 1,62,468 deaths reported so far in the country, 54,422 were from Maharashtra, 12,700 from Tamil Nadu, 12,541 from Karnataka, 11,016 from Delhi, 10,327 from West Bengal, 8,800 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,213 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,813 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||Centre asks districts to give first dose of vaccination to people above 45 years within two weeks||The Union health ministry has asked the hardest hit districts across the country to give the first dose of vaccination to all people above 45 years within two weeks. Although such districts have not been identified in Tuesday’s directive, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas were among the 46 districts the ministry had named on Saturday with large numbers of patients or sharp increases in daily new cases. “All districts with high case loads and fast growth of cases must ensure 100 per cent saturation vaccination of the priority age group of 45 years and above in the coming two weeks,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote in a letter sent to all states on Tuesday. The accelerated rollout of vaccinations to all above 45 years in districts with large case loads or surge is intended to protect those at highest risk of severe disease or death from Covid-19. The vaccination campaign will open to all above 45 years from April 1. India’s seven-day average of daily new cases has climbed five-fold since mid-February — from around 11,200 to over 58,000 on Tuesday. The ministry has asked all districts to take steps to reduce Covid-19 deaths by tracking case fatality rates and identifying localities or hospitals where mortality is unusually high. It has also asked local authorities to conduct “death analysis” to understand “system-related issues of why the death happened”. For instance, late detection of severe cases may imply surveillance failure, late admission to hospital may signal delayed referral, while deaths may also occur due to lack of oxygen, lack of beds, or non-adherence to clinical management protocols. The ministry has asked all districts irrespective of whether they are seeing a surge now or have low case loads to map their cases, track their geographical spread, activate surveillance teams and implement containment zones. “The current rise in cases is of concern and has the potential of overwhelming the healthcare system unless it is checked right now,” Bhushan said in the letter to state chief secretaries. He called on all districts to set up emergency operations centres to monitor the outbreak 24x7. Clusters of cases are now emerging in many districts because of events or locations with large crowds of people congregating without adequate precautions, he said, cautioning that lack of precautions and laxity in public health measures could trigger sudden surges. The seven-day average of daily new cases has increased by over 10-fold in Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh and over 6-fold in Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh, over the past six weeks. Maharashtra this week documented an average of 34,450 new cases daily compared with 3,000 cases in early February. Senior health officials have attributed the surge in Maharashtra, Punjab and other states to poor testing practices, inadequate isolation of positive cases and inefficient quarantine of contacts, all of which facilitate chains of transmission. Maharashtra has over the past week shown an unacceptably high test positivity rate — the fraction of positive cases among those tested — of 23 per cent, an indication that the state is not testing in adequate numbers and thus missing cases. Experts say the figure should ideally be lower than 5 per cent. The health ministry has asked the states to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by the public and ensure that all positive cases are isolated and at least 25 to 30 of their close contacts are traced, quarantined and tested as required under standard protocols. “We have reasons for huge concern — the virus is still active,” said Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog and chair of the national Covid-19 task force and expert group on Covid-19 vaccination. “We need greater vigilance in every state — not just in those where the battle is raging.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||NCP chief Sharad Pawar in hospital||NCP chief Sharad Pawar was on Tuesday admitted to a hospital here, a day ahead of a scheduled surgery after he experienced pain in his abdomen, a party leader said. NCP leader and minister Nawab Malik said Pawar, 80, was supposed to get admitted to Breach Candy hospital on Wednesday. “As he experienced pain in his abdomen today, he was admitted to the hospital in the afternoon.” Malik had on Monday said Pawar would undergo a surgery at the hospital after he was diagnosed with gall bladder issues. “...All his programmes stand cancelled until further notice,” the minister had tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||India extends shelf life of Covishield||India’s drug regulator has allowed the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to be used for up to nine months from its manufacture date, as opposed to the prescribed six months, according to a document reviewed by Reuters and a source. The approval, given to a licensed version of the drug made by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and exported to dozens of countries, could help health authorities minimise vaccine wastage and better plan their inoculation programmes. Some African countries have only until the middle of next month to use up more than a million doses of the vaccine — branded Covishield by the SII — if the shelf life is not extended. “You are permitted to apply the shelf-life of nine months to unlabelled vials available on hand,” India’s drugs controller-general, V.G. Somani, wrote late last month in reply to a request from the SII. AstraZeneca had said in a statement last week that its product could be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions for at least six months. The World Health Organisation website also gives the shelf life of Covishield and the South Korean-made AstraZeneca shot as six months. Reuters has reviewed Somani’s approval, which has been communicated to some African countries, but could not determine if his recommendation applied to unused vials. Each vial typically contains 5 millilitre of vaccine, or 10 doses. The source, with direct knowledge of the matter but not authorised to discuss it publicly, said the approval was given based on data submitted by the SII. The source did not specify what kind of data was shared by the company, the world’s biggest vaccine maker. Somani, the SII and AstraZeneca did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||UGC: University students can pursue up to 40 per cent of academic programme online||University students can now pursue up to 40 per cent of an academic programme online with the flexibility of choosing any institution for the Net-based learning, according to new rules of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Academics warned that such a move would dilute academic standards and reduce the workload at institutions, causing sanctioned posts to shrink. The higher education regulator last week notified the UGC Credit Framework for Online Learning Courses through Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (Swayam) Regulations, 2021, under which every university is expected to recognise the credits, or points, earned by students from online courses, which can be up to 40 per cent of an academic programme. “The higher education institution may allow only up to forty per cent of the total courses, being offered in a particular programme in a semester, through the online credit course, through the SWAYAM platform,” the notification said. Universities in India now offer courses in the traditional face-to-face mode. After the Covid outbreak, they shifted to the online mode. However, there have been multiple complaints about poor quality of teaching and learning in the online mode and many students have been blighted by the lack of stable Internet connections and required devices such as mobile phones and computers. Under the new rules, the Swayam-based online credit courses shall be developed and delivered by a course coordinator. On any particular topic, there can be multiple online courses developed by different coordinators of different universities. A student may choose to pursue an online programme from any university and her parent university will have to accept the score she gets. However, the same programme will have to be offered by the parent university as the remaining 60 per cent of the course will have to be completed there. The exam for the online course may be conducted under the supervision of approved persons or through technology-enabled proctoring services. The UGC had in 2017 allowed universities to permit students to earn credits for up to 20 per cent of any programme through the online mode. However, most universities are yet to implement it. Delhi University (DU) Executive Council member Seema Das disapproved of the idea of substituting offline teaching with online learning. “The conduct of teaching-learning activities in the face-to-face mode in classrooms is most productive. The teachers understand the needs of the students and address them to achieve impactful learning. In the virtual space, the quality of learning will be adversely affected. There is limited scope for teachers and students to interact. Online education can be used to supplement offline education, not substitute it,” Das said. She also questioned the regulations being imposed on institutions. “The universities should be left to decide on academic matters. However, the UGC is imposing new norms on academic matters. This is against the academic autonomy of universities. When it comes for discussion in the statutory bodies of the university, there will be resistance from teacher representatives,” Das said. She said the motive behind pushing online courses was to reduce the workload in educational institutions, thereby cutting down on expenditure on higher education. Nandita Narain, a faculty member of St Stephen’s College, said DU had about 5,000 ad hoc faculty members and many of them could face the axe when this policy was implemented. “The ad hoc teachers have been working for over a decade in colleges. This policy will reduce the sanctioned strength of teachers. Many optional courses may be discontinued by the university because they are available online. The axe will immediately fall on the ad hoc teachers,” she said. Former DU Executive Council member Abha Dev Habib said the students’ stake in the institution would be adversely affected if they were made to pursue 40 per cent of a course from online forums. “When the students know they will have to come to university for partial classes, their interest will be affected. Their participation in extra-curricular activities will also go down,” Habib said. UGC member Prof R.P. Tiwary said the proposed model would give more flexibility to students to pursue higher studies. “The option to choose online courses will benefit the students. They will avail themselves of quality education offered by the best faculty from anywhere in the country. Academic rigour will be maintained,” he said. Tiwary said the students would participate in e-tutorials and receive e-content on online courses. They will have ample opportunity to take part in discussions and clarify doubts, he added. There will be scope for self-assessment in terms of quizzes, assignments and multiple-choice questions, according to Tiwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||Indo-Tibetan Border Police plans to double its women’s contingent on LAC||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police plans to double its women’s contingent to be deployed along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and the Northeast, sources in the border guarding force said. “We have proposed to double the women’s contingent along the sensitive India-China border. At present we have 500 women troops mainly deployed along the LAC in Ladakh and the Northeast,” said a senior ITBP official. India and China have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Under the disengagement process that began on February 10, India and China have moved back from their positions on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks, with the Indian withdrawal taking place entirely across India-claimed territory. The Chinese army, however, is said to have strengthened its position at Ladakh’s Depsang Plains, where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. For the first time in 2019, a women’s contingent comprising 500 troops of the ITBP broke the glass ceiling and were deployed in the high-altitude border outposts along the Indo-China border in the treacherous terrain after completing 44 weeks of training in battlecraft and mountain survival. Like their male counterparts, they had undergone gruelling drills and learnt to handle weapons, read maps, gather intelligence and were trained in commando tactics. Earlier, women in the paramilitary force were deployed for maintaining law and order and VIP duties and were also posted at the cantonments and hospitals. Sources said the total number of women troops in ITBP was 2,000, mostly constables, head constables, sub-inspectors and inspectors. “We are now also planning to recruit women officers in the ITBP in supervisory and combat roles. A proposal for recruitment of officers in the rank of commandants and assistant commandants has been sent to the Union home ministry,” said another ITBP official. The ITBP protects the 3,488km border with China that passes through the five states of Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The Indian Army is behind this first line of defence. On the Chinese side too, the People’s Armed Police, also a paramilitary force, guards the border, while the People’s Liberation Army is stationed behind it. The 90,000-strong ITBP was introduced on October 24, 1962, specifically to guard the Chinese frontier after the India-China war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Priyanka Gandhi pulls no punches on Left||The Congress, which has aligned with the Left in Bengal, has been explicitly comparing the CPM-led Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala with the BJP in terms of propaganda, corruption and even the tendency to curb people’s freedom. While Rahul Gandhi, who is expected to campaign in Bengal, has avoided launching a brutal attack on the Left, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who started her tour of Kerala on Tuesday bluntly attacked the CPM for “borderline fascist culture” and demonstrating traits similar to the BJP in governance style. She condemned the Pinarayi Vijayan stint as a “government of fraud and scams”. Without feeling hemmed in by the political exigencies of Bengal camaraderie, the Congress chose to intensify its attack on the Left in Kerala after feedback from the ground suggested a much closer contest than predicted initially. Reports from both Assam and Kerala indicate the Congress is very much in the race for power, compelling both Rahul and Priyanka to step up campaigning in both states. While Rahul, who has toured Kerala and Tamil Nadu extensively, would have reached Assam on Tuesday but for bad weather that cancelled his flight, Priyanka who had been in Assam for the past two days has started her Kerala campaign. Comparing the CPM rule in Kerala with the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, she said: “The Kerala government’s attitude towards women’s security is similar to what we see in Uttar Pradesh. Their handling of the Walayar rape case was similar to the Hathras case of Uttar Pradesh.” In Walayar in 2017, two Dalit sisters had committed suicide after being raped by multiple men over a period of time. The accused were later acquitted amid allegations of political interference and a botched-up probe by police. Priyanka also wondered how an LDF ally was raising the issue of “love jihad” like Adityanath. The Congress has run a campaign on social media, pointing out that the term “love jihad” was coined by former CPM chief minister V.S. Achuthanandan, not Adityanath. Priyanka alleged the LDF government was curbing people’s freedom and instilling fear in the minds of citizens. Rahul, who has campaigned in Kerala extensively, focused on the economy and jobs although he said both the CPM and the BJP didn’t have any answer to the scourge of unemployment. He said the Kerala chief minister looked for answers in his favourite book — Das Kapital by Karl Marx — instead of trying to understand what the people were actually facing on the ground. But he avoided comparing the CPM with the BJP unlike Priyanka who made the “borderline fascist” jibe. While Rahul will campaign in Bengal after a few days, Priyanka is not scheduled to do so. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala, who has been camping in Kerala, has been viciously attacking the state government, going to the extent of accusing Vijayan of striking a deal with the Adani Group to save himself in the “gold smuggling” case. He said: “Narendra Modi and Vijayan together reduced the quota of solar energy for Kerala from 2.75 per cent to 0.25 per cent to facilitate the purchase of wind power from Adani at a much higher cost than available in the open market.” Surjewala issued a statement on Tuesday along with senior leaders from Kerala, which said: “The six “Ds (disasters) of Pinarayi Vijayan’s rule are the hallmarks of the disastrous five years of the LDF government in Kerala. Pinarayi Vijayan is a replica of Narendra Modi, both in ‘authoritarian’ style and in running a self-centred ‘autocratic’ government. ‘Pinarayi-nomics’ has destroyed Kerala’s progressive march. ‘Pinarayi-cracy’ has derailed Kerala’s growth story. ‘Pinarayi-deals’ has created space for the BJP by way of a secret deal between the chief minister and the Prime Minister.” Surjewala identified the “six disasters” as “decimating economy, deceiving farmers, denying drinking water, demonising Scheduled Castes, denuding youth of employment and diabolical corruption.” These are the same allegations that the Congress usually levels against the Modi government. After polling in Kerala on April 6, the Congress will have to sing a different tune in Bengal, transplanting these allegations on the main challenger BJP and the ruling Trinamul Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
31-03-2021||India||Govt official dies in police custody in Bihar||A government official allegedly died in police custody in Bhagalpur district of Bihar on Holi, leading to strong protests by the local people and sending the administration into a tizzy. The station house officer (SHO) of Barari police station has been suspended in this connection. A judicial inquiry into the incident began on Tuesday, though senior officers asserted that the police personnel were not responsible for his death. The incident occurred at Mayaganj locality under Barari police station area late on Monday evening when a police posse reached there following information about a clash between two groups of people following some trivial fight between their kids over playing music. Family members of the deceased Sanjay Yadav, a clerk in the minor irrigation department in neighbouring Banka district, said that he had just returned home around 9pm after celebrating Holi with friends, when the police barged into the house and grabbed him. “Barari SHO Pramod Kumar Sah and other policemen put a towel around his neck and dragged him out like a criminal. We went to the police station later in the night with our relatives and friends but were told that he had died,” Sanjay’s daughter Monika Bharti told reporters. The locals then surrounded the police station through the night demanding action against the police officials. They relented on Tuesday morning only after Bhagalpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nitasha Guria suspended Sah and assured Yadav’s family of all help in getting justice. Bhagalpur range deputy inspector general (DIG) Sujeet Kumar admitted it was a case of custodial death but refuted allegations of police torture. Sujeet said Sanjay was brought to the police station because he was aggressively arguing with the police. Two large sound boxes or amplifiers were also seized from his house. “Technically, it is a case of custodial death because Sanjay was brought to the police station. He was present on the premises for around 25 minutes. We have around 15 minutes of CCTV footage showing him entering the police station and sitting on a chair. “He removed his T-shirt and complained of uneasiness. He was immediately taken to the nearby government hospital, but was declared brought dead there,” he told The Telegraph. “The doctors said he had high blood pressure and suffered a paralytic stroke, which resulted in his death. However, we are yet to receive the post-mortem report. Sanjay was not beaten up inside the police station,” the DIG said. Kids charred Nine children were charred to death in separate incidents in Araria and Bhagalpur districts, while four kids are feared drowned in the Indrapuri barrage in Rohtas district on Tuesday. The Araria incident happened at Kabaiyya village under Palasi block on Tuesday afternoon. Six children aged between three and six years and belonging to a family of the minority community were roasting corn on the cob in their hut, which caught fire. The fire spread so fast that the children could not escape. They died before the villagers could douse the blaze. Three children died in Athania village under Pirpainti police station in Bhagalpur town when their house caught fire in the early hours of Tuesday. Their parents also suffered serious burn injuries and are undergoing treatment at the local hospital. Local officials said that it took a couple of hours to control the blaze with the help of the fire brigade, but the three children had died by then. In another mishap, four children, who had gone with their family members and friends for a picnic near the Indrapuri barrage over the Sone river in Rohtas district, went missing after going to take a bath. The Rohtas district administration has roped in divers to locate the missing children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
31-03-2021||India||Odisha: Pregnant woman forced to walk 3km for not wearing helmet||A woman, who is eight months’ pregnant, was allegedly made to walk 3km in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district in the scorching sun as she was not wearing a helmet while riding pillion on her husband’s motorcycle. Police took Bikram Biruli, a Gramin Dak Sevak, to the police station but left his wife Gurubari on the road even after she pleaded to accompany him. Later, she was forced to walk 3km to the police station. The incident took place on Sunday. After the incident triggered a furore, Mayurbhanj district police placed the officer-in-charge of Sarat police station, Reena Baksal, under suspension on Monday. Biruli, 24, told The Telegraph: “My wife, who is eight months’ pregnant, complained of pain in the abdomen on Sunday. So I decided to take her to the nearest subdivisional hospital in Udala, which is 40km from my village. On the way, we met a police team. The police officer in-charge asked us to pay Rs 500 as my wife was not wearing helmet.” Biruli, a PhD scholar, asked the head of the police team and officer-in-charge Baksal to give them an e-challan which he would later pay. “As I did not have the money, I asked them for an e-challan which I would later pay. They insisted on offline payment. This led to an argument following which they forced me to go with them in the police van. “Though I asked the police team to take my wife with me in the van, the woman officer denied and abused me and misbehaved with me in front of my wife.” Biruli said the incident took place at 9.30am on Sunday, 5km away from his village Matkami Sahi under Nota gram panchayat, around 260km from Bhubaneswar. Gurubari, who has studied till Plus Two, said: “Even I pleaded with the woman officer to consider my health status as I am expecting a baby in May. My health condition is deteriorating day by day. They did not listen to anything. I waited for my husband for nearly one-and-a-half hours. As he did not return, I decided to walk to the police station.” Narrating her plight, Gurubari said: “It was almost 40 degrees Celsius that day. People started asking questions. I was terrified. Later I decided to walk. I had only one litre of water in a bottle with me. “I started walking around 11am. I was feeling tired and it took me nearly one-and-a-half hours to reach the police station. Seeing my husband sitting on the floor in a miserable condition in the police station, I cried.” Gurubari further said: “I am happy with the officer being suspended. I have only one appeal to the police that they should not misbehave with tribal people, particularly women.” However by the afternoon, the family members came and paid the money and took away the motorcycle. After the couple lodged a complaint with the higher authorities, Mayurbhanj superintendent of police ordered a probe and based on the report, the police officer has been suspended. The district police also suspended constable R.K. Singh for allegedly misbehaving with a man during helmet checking near Karanjia on Monday evening. “We are very sensitive towards the cause of the public,” Mayurbhanj superintendent of police Smit P. Parmar told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
31-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP files complaint with EC against Mamata accusing her of threatening its supporters||Accusing Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of issuing threats to its supporters in her rallies, BJP has registered a complaint with the Election Commission over comments made by her. In its letter to the poll panel, BJP on Tuesday alleged, despite "pro-active" role of the commission, "large- scale violence" has been reported during past several days due to such utterances by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief. To back up its claim, the letter mentioned a widely circulated video of a meeting addressed by Mamata at Nandigram on March 29. "In the meeting she said the central paramilitary forces will go one day, but she will stay in Bengal. Who will then save her rivals," the letter quoted Banerjee as saying. Raising objection to the TMC supremo's remarks, the letter signed by BJP leaders Shishir Bajoria, Arjun Singh and Pratap Banerjee said, "Such statements are a threat to free, fair and peaceful elections ... and have been brought to the notice of the commission." The saffron party also described the speech as a violation of the model code of conduct that urges political parties to avoid offences such as intimidation of voters. "Threatening and criminal intimidation is not only an abuse of free and fair polls but also a criminal act as well as an electoral offence which needs strong and immediate check," the BJP said. Referring to the video clip, the letter alleged that the Trinamool Congress dispensation has failed to prevent incidents of violence such as attack on voters, stopping polling agents from entering polling stations, targeting BJP workers in the run up to polls and on the voting day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Prohibitory orders imposed in Nandigram ahead of polling||The Election Commission (EC) on Wednesday imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in Nandigram assembly constituency in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, a day ahead of the high- stakes elections here, a senior official said. Besides, the EC has also started air surveillance in the area with the help of a helicopter, he said. People who are not voters of Nandigram are not being allowed to enter the constituency in view of the sensitivity, he added. "Nandigram is a sensitive constituency with high- profile candidates like Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikary. We want to ensure that the law and order situation is not compromised and people can vote freely without fear," the official told PTI. "That is the reason for imposing the prohibitory orders, which will be in place till Friday midnight. A person who is not a voter of Nandigram will not be allowed to enter the area till the polling is over," he said. The order prohibits the assembly of five or more persons, besides imposing other restrictions, he said. Twenty-two companies of central forces are being deployed in the constituency, which has a total of 355 polling booths and 75 per cent of them will have a webcasting facility, the official said. Central forces along with the state police have already started naka checkings at crucial junctions in the area, he said. "Vehicles are being thoroughly checked before they are allowed to enter Nandigram. No outside vehicles are being allowed in," the official said, adding that anybody found trying to create a disturbance "will be handled strictly". The EC has also decided to deploy a 22-personnel quick response team (QRT) in the area on the election day, the official said. The EC has also constituted a team of officials who will supervise the proceedings in Nandigram on the poll day, he said. The local authorities were also asked by the EC to execute all the pending arrest warrants by Wednesday night and take people, accused in various cases, into custody, he said. Nandigram wore a deserted look during the day with only a few shops open. Vehicles such as e-rickshaws and autos were mostly unavailable with people choosing to stay indoors. "We want peaceful polling and no disturbance here on April 1. People should get a peaceful environment so that they can cast their votes without any fear," a resident of Sonachura said. All eyes are on battleground Nandigram that is going to the polls on Thursday with the chief minister engaged in a fierce contest with her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Goons have come to Nandigram to intimidate voters, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the Election Commission to take action, alleging that goons from other states have come to Nandigram to foment trouble and intimidate the voters. Speaking to reporters before hitting the campaign trail for the later phases, Mamata alleged that locals are being hounded out of various villages in the assembly constituency in the Purba Medinipur district. "Goons from other states have entered Nandigram to intimidate the voters. The villagers of Balarampur and many other areas are being hounded out. They are intimidating voters," she alleged. "We are lodging a complaint with the EC. The Election Commission must take note of it and take action," she added. BJP leader Jaiprakash Majumdar said that although it is for the EC to look into the allegations, it seems that sensing defeat the chief minister is making such claims in advance. All eyes are on battleground Nandigram that is going to the polls on Thursday with Banerjee engaged in a fierce contest with her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. On Tuesday, the chief minister had alleged police forces from BJP-ruled states have been brought in to "terrorise" voters in Nandigram assembly constituency and also accused the saffron party ministers and security forces of distributing cash to lure voters. Mamata is pitted against her one time loyalist-turned- rival Suvendu Adhikari of BJP in the high-profile Nandigram constituency that will go to vote on April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata ends Nandigram campaign, stands up to National Anthem||Mamata Banerjee was on her feet in full public view on Tuesday, 20 days after she suffered an injury in her left leg, as she sang the national anthem to wrap up her campaign for Thursday’s poll in Nandigram. The image captured her resolve — as well as the challenge confronting her — to take on the might of the BJP in the most high-profile contest in the eight-phase Bengal elections. “I am ending my campaign for the April 1 poll.… We should end it with the national anthem. I will somehow try to stand on one leg and with help,” said Mamata at the end of her third and last rally on Wednesday at Tengua in Nandigram. The chief minister criss-crossed Nandigram on the last day of campaigning, holding two road shows and covering at least 6km on a day the mercury hovered around 40 degrees Celsius and discomfort peaked because of high humidity. A veteran of Bengal politics with seven Lok Sabha and two Assembly poll victories to her credit, Mamata admitted that she had never campaigned as extensively in an election as now. “In the case of Bhowanipore (from where she contested and won in 2011 and 2016), I used to address at best two rallies. Here I started my campaign on March 8 and went around meeting people and holding meetings on March 9 and 10 till I got injured. I came back again on March 28 and since then I have been going to the people. Yes, I gave more time to Nandigram as I think it’s my responsibility,” said Mamata, who looked relaxed as the curtains came down on campaigning for the April 1 poll. After explaining how she was giving extra attention to Nandigram, Mamata elaborated on why she decided to contest from the East Midnapore constituency, the epicentre of the anti-land acquisition movement that she had led in 2007, in an apparent attempt to answer Trinamul turncoat and BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari, who has called her an “outsider” and accused her of contesting from the seat to “finish” his “political career”. “I have a special place for Singur and Nandigram in my heart and I always wanted to contest from any of these two seats. Actually, I had considered contesting from Singur in 2016 but could not by replacing an aged person like Rabindranath Bhattacharya (who has recently switched to the BJP),” said Mamata. “But when I decided to contest from Nandigram, the sitting MLA had resigned by then,” she added. In a departure from her fiery speeches against the BJP and the Adhikari clan that the people of Nandigram had heard in the past three days, Mamata chose to be humorous and sarcastic. Some of her salvos: ⚫ Thank God, the traitors left the party before the elections. And they got tickets as BJP candidates. ⚫ But I feel so sad for those who have been with the BJP for years as they haven’t got nomination. Even Jayprakash (Majumdar), who abuses me through the day, didn’t get nomination. ⚫ The old-timers in the BJP, who have been denied tickets, don’t have any option other than donning saffron robes and singing “Hare, Hare”. ⚫ Mukul Roy was not as bad as Suvendu Adhikari. But look at his plight, instead of giving him nomination from Bhatpara-Jagaddal where he grew up, he has been pushed to Krishnagar. ⚫ I compliment Amit Shah on his chubby looks. He has such glowing cheeks. After leaving the audience in splits, Mamata returned to the basics as she rolled out a list of welfare schemes she had launched as chief minister. Addressing the audience — the majority of whom belonged to the Muslim community — she accused the BJP of fanning communal hatred to polarise voters in Nandigram. “The entire world came to know of Nandigram during the anti-land acquisition protest days as the Hindus and the Muslims fought shoulder to shoulder.… But the BJP is now trying to divide the people here. Please do not let that happen,” said Mamata in her last appeal before the most important battle of her life on Thursday. Many in Trinamul believe that Mamata’s repeated pleas to maintain harmony are underscoring the BJP’s agenda of polarisation along communal lines. “Suvendu had been successfully polarising people with his communally loaded speeches.… With her steady presence in the area and multiple programmes in the past three days, Didi has partially defused that bomb and we have made significant recovery of the ground initially lost to the BJP,” claimed a Trinamul insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee investigates reports of BJP violence||A wheelchair-bound Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sprang back into the mould of the firebrand Opposition leader that made her a household name decades ago, taking a 10km journey at the close of another round of gruelling campaigning to investigate reports of violence allegedly perpetrated by the BJP. On her way out from a rally in East Midnapore’s Tengua, which was slated to be her final political activity in the area before Thursday, an incensed chief minister sat in the front seat of her hatchback. “I will go.… Let me see who is doing what,” she said, patting the head of a young man crying inconsolably. Raju Manna, 24, had complained that his father Rabin was grievously injured and currently admitted to a government hospital in Calcutta. Rabin was allegedly beaten up by a group of BJP supporters outside his house in Balarampur last Friday, apparently because he is sympathetic to Trinamul. Sources said pockets like Balarampur, underdeveloped and located far from concrete roads, have been replete with reports of BJP-Trinamul clashes since Suvendu Adhikari’s defection in December. “What is happening over here? A youth is terrorised and cannot live in his own home, with his own family, just because the BJP has managed to scare everyone else in the area? This cannot go on,” the chief minister said after hearing out Raju and as the convoy began to pull away around 5.30pm with the youth in the back. The chief minister’s intention to go to Balarampur threw her security detail — headed by director (security) Gyanwant Singh — into a tizzy. “The road to Balarampur is a 10km stretch paved in mud. The road is also filled with ditches, making the journey an arduous one. Not to mention the security angle of driving through the forests after dark,” said a source. Once the convoy reached Balarampur, Mamata made her way to the Mannas’ home where family members, including Raju’s mother, grandfather and sister, fell at the chief minister’s feet. They said their lives had “become hell”. “The BJP has been giving us all kinds of threats. We are helpless, and on Friday, they beat my husband almost to death. He is in hospital now,” said Lakshmi Manna, Raju’s mother. “On Friday midnight, 20 BJP goons came to our door and asked for our father, a known Trinamul supporter. They threatened him and immediately beat him senseless,” added Raju. Central forces were reportedly called later that night. Rabin was taken to a government hospital in Calcutta. The chief minister assured them of medical help and security against further attacks. Family patriarch Manoranjan appealed to Mamata to be allowed to vote, saying the family “had been cautioned against leaving the home”. Addressing reporters, Mamata said: “The BJP does not believe in democracy. So, they have taken to the path of violence. I have said innumerable times that the area is full of outsiders who are doing these things.” Mamata left the area after spending almost an hour with people in the neighbourhood, who echoed fears of an “atmosphere of BJP terror”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Nigerians held for cyber fraud||The cyber cell of Sikkim police arrested two Nigerians from Delhi on March 26 for allegedly duping a resident of Gangtok of Rs 82 lakh through online transaction. John Obilor and Charles Chisvoki Nwanyan were arrested from Noida adjoining Delhi and booked under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the IT Act. They have been taken to Gangtok where they are presently in police custody. Tenzing Loden Lepcha, the superintendent of police of the CID, told reporters in Gangtok that the accused had duped a Gangtok resident of Rs 82 lakh in 2019 by fraudulently promising huge returns on online business. “Both have records of indulging in such duplicity in Uttarakhand and Bihar as well.” “We have seized 14 mobile phones, a laptop, seven debit cards, passports of Myanmar, the Republic of New Guinea and the United States and Indian Aadhaar cards and driving licences from them,” added the SP. Pranita Sinha, 70, a Visva-Bharati alumnus and member of the women’s socio-cultural outfit in Santiniketan, Alapini Mahila Samity, on Tuesday danced to a Rabindranath Tagore’s song celebrating spring — but on a rebellious note. Over a dozen members of the samity, mostly senior citizens, on Tuesday observed Basanta Utsav — the traditional festival of spring started by Tagore in the university town — along a road on Visva-Bharati campus to protest against the varsity’s steps to stop many traditional events that would connect the people of Santiniketan with Tagore’s varsity since the latter came up. Aparna Das, 86, president of Alapini Mahila Samity, said the event was organised to protest against the varsity and its vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty’s attempt to cut off the institution from Santiniketan residents. Sources said the varsity had organised a programme similar to Basanta Utsav earlier this month, but in a hush-hush manner, without any formal intimation to anyone. As the varsity did not organise any public celebration of the festival of spring, the Trinamul organised a Holi event on Sunday in the manner celebrated by the varsity over the years. Last year, the varsity did not organise the traditional festival of colour because of the pandemic. Report by Snehamoy Chakraborty,||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Amit Shah holds road show in Nandigram||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday that “all of Bengal” should “support a BJP government” to ensure that infiltrators are not allowed to step into Indian territory, marking his party’s first overt reference on the Nandigram campaign trail to the controversial citizenship matrix that feeds into the party’s polarisation agenda. Shah, who on Tuesday morning held a road show in Nandigram’s Reyapara, held a news conference at party candidate Suvendu Adhikari’s election office, making it clear through his comments that Adhikari’s divisive agenda for the April 1 vote had his backing. “This is not a battle for Nandigram alone, this is a battle for all of Bengal. All of Bengal should support a BJP government. All of Bengal wants infiltration to stop. All of Bengal wants that refugees get citizenship via the CAA, they want development, progress, employment for their youth and good education and infrastructure, for Calcutta to become a global city again and for the culture of Bengal to spread all over the world again,” Shah said. Although Shah did not elaborate further on the CAA during his four-minute speech, his juxtaposition of refugees and infiltrators — a topic he had dwelt on at a rally in Assam days earlier —suggested he was adding to the polarisation debate that Suvendu has stoked in his recent campaign speeches. Adhikari has pulled no punches in his attempts to polarise the electorate, targeting the minority community and making it clear that he was reaching out to the “70 per cent majority” among Nandigram’s 2.65 lakh voters. During his news conference, Shah also criticised chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has fielded herself from Nandigram, over the alleged rape of a woman in the area earlier in the day. “I have been informed that 5km from Mamata Didi’s local residence, a woman was raped. Now I want to ask her, if the perpetrators are able to act within 5km of your residence when you are in Nandigram, then what will happen to the larger issue of women’s safety in Bengal?” Shah asked. The Union home minister signed off by referring to the CAA. Shah said that the party’s victory in the constituency by a “huge margin” was imperative to bring “change” to all of Bengal. Sources said Shah’s roadshow earlier in the day was attended by over 10,000 people. The 1.5km road from Reyapara bridge to Shibmandir was decked with saffron cloth, bouquets and banners, an elaborate arrangement reportedly overseen by a BJP team from Uttar Pradesh. Speaking about the event later in the day at a rally in Tengua, Mamata alleged that Shah’s road show had been attended by “outsiders”. “They have no support here, so they have called in outsiders to attend the road show,” the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Dissidents BJP pick Bharatiya Jana Sangh||BJP workers disgruntled with the party for giving tickets to turncoats, particularly from Trinamul, have now joined its political parent, the Bharatiya Jana Sangh. These dissidents are gearing up to contest in at least eight of the 12 Assembly seats of Malda “to teach a lesson to the BJP’s official candidates”. Sanjit Mishra, former district BJP president, is the new district president of Jana Sangh, said sources. “The Jana Sangh had merged with the Janata Party in 1977 and L.K. Advani was its last president. A few years ago, Jana Sangh was revived by Subrata Mukherjee, the great-grandson of Syama Prasad Mookerjee. Being true BJP supporters, we joined the Jana Sangh,” said Mishra on Tuesday. He said they spoke to BJP leaders who felt cornered by defectors. Jana Sangh will field candidates from eight seats under the  “diya” (traditional oil lamp) symbol, originally that of the Jana Sangh. This sudden political development in Malda, a district with a minority population of around 55 per cent, has come as a fresh poser for BJP, said political observers. “In Malda, the BJP is trying to polarise votes by focussing on seats where the minority populace is fewer. If Jana Sangh, with a similar ideology as that of the BJP, fields candidates, BJP votes may split and help its rivals,” said an observer. The BJP leadership sounded unperturbed. “Voters know well that the battle is between the BJP and Trinamul. They are keen to put an end to Trinamul’s misrule. Hence, they will not waste votes to support a party that has no chance of winning any seat of Malda,” district BJP chief Gobinda Chandra Mandal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Ear slashed in BJP-TMC clash in Jalpaiguri||A BJP supporter’s ear was slashed allegedly by Trinamul supporters on Monday night in the town while the two rival parties clashed at one more location around the same time in Jalpaiguri Sadar block. Trouble started when BJP supporter Subhas Roy forcibly smeared colour on a Trinamul supporter and shouted “Jai Shri Ram” in Padri Kutir on the outskirts of Jalpalguri. Soon, some 100 Trinamul supporters reached the local BJP office, ransacked it and attacked Roy who was there, alleged Alok Chakraborty, a district BJP leader. “Trinamul supporters attacked him with a sharp weapon and slashed his left ear. They also hit him in his head. He is hospital and in a critical condition,” Chakraborty said. Police  have arrested four Trinamul supporters, and later, two of the BJP for the violence. In another incident, supporters of both parties clashed on Monday night in Dhapganj area when BJP supporters were putting up flags. BJP supporter Rabi Roy was injured and hospitalised. Trinamul leaders dubbed both clashes as the outcome of BJP’s internal feud. “They are falsely implicating our supporters in police cases,” Trinamul’s youth wing chief (Jalpaiguri district) Saikat Chatterjee said. On Tuesday, BJP supporters demonstrated at Kotwali police station to demand arrests of all attackers. Leaders of the Jalpaiguri district youth Trinamul also alleged that a BJP office-bearer molested a 10-year-old girl in Dhupguri during Holi celebrations on Monday. The accused was arrested under Pocso based on a complaint by the girl’s family. The BJP has said that the accused did not hold any post of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Coal pilferage case probe||Anup Majhi alias Lala, one of the prime accused in the multi-crore coal pilferage case, appeared before the CBI for questioning on Tuesday, riding a recent Supreme Court order restraining the central agency from arresting him till April 6. A division bench of the Supreme Court, while passing the order recently, had instructed Majhi to cooperate with the agency in its probe in the coal pilferage case. Armed with the apex court’s order, Majhi turned up in the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in Calcutta — with two lawyers in tow — around 11am to face a team of interrogators from the CBI, which has been on his lookout for several months. Sources said the CBI had questioned Majhi about the beneficiaries of the alleged pilferage of coal, which was apparently carried out with the help of a few officials of the Eastern Coalfields Limited  in Bengal’s coal belt in Asansol. The CBI apparently wanted to know from Majhi the extent of his reach across districts in Bengal and even beyond and who active players in the pilferage of coal were. Apart from issuing lookout notices against Majhi, the central agency has raided Majhi’s office, residences and other properties in Asansol, Raniganj and Calcutta. On Tuesday, the CBI said Majhi evaded several questions leaving the interrogators looking for another engagement with him over the next few days. “We will want to question him further in this case,” said a CBI officer. “Hopefully, he will respond to our appeal.” The CBI, which has been probing into the case since November last year, is of the opinion that Majhi has masterminded the pilferage of coal from some of the abandoned quarries in and around Asansol and Raniganj coal belts and the amount involved is several hundreds of crores of rupees. The central investigating agency is of the opinion that a part of this money had moved out of India to bank accounts abroad. The Enforcement Directorate is probing into this alleged money laundering in this case. In Bengal, the CID has started a parallel probe into the coal pilferage and made the first arrest — Randhir Singh — from West Burdwan district on March 13. Singh is said to have been involved in this case and is believed to have been working for Majhi, according to CID officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP and CPM accuse TMC of attacks in East Midnapore||Two BJP candidates — Dr Harekrishna Bera and Ashoke Dinda — and party supporters accompanying CPM’s Nandigram candidate Minakshi Mukherjee were injured in three separate attacks in East Midnapore since early Tuesday. The victims of all the attacks have pointed a finger at Trinamul, an allegation the ruling party has denied. In the first incident, Dr Harekrishna Bera, the BJP candidate from Tamluk, was allegedly attacked by Trinamul supporters outside Tamluk police station around 1.30am. Bera had gone to the police station to complain against a prior attack on BJP workers. When Bera and party supporters came out of the police station, a group of Trinamul workers allegedly led by Raghunathpur-I gram panchayat pradhan Atiar Rahaman beat them up. Bera and two other BJP supporters, were rushed to Tamluk district hospital where they are being treated. Speaking from the hospital, Bera said: “They tried to finish me off. It is alarming that a candidate was beaten up outside the police station. Imagine the security of our party supporters elsewhere.” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh who called on the injured Bera at the hospital, said: “Trinamul is scared of losing the polls and the attack  is an outcome of the fear.” In Moyna, BJP candidate and cricketer Ashoke Dinda’s car was attacked when he was returning home around 4pm. The former cricketer and the BJP’s Moyna nominee was attacked along with his party workers while he was participating in a road show. “We were taking part in a road show when Trinamul men with party flags attacked us with sticks. They badly beat up my party colleagues and pounced on me. Two of my party workers had to be hospitalised and I had to take primary treatment from a local hospital. My car was vandalised,” said Dinda. Minakshi, the CPM candidate from Nandigram, and her supporters were allegedly attacked by Trinamul-backed goons in Bhutamore area of her constituency. “Trinamul is wary because they know they will lose in Nandigram. All those who attacked us had Trinamul caps on,” Minakshi, who escaped unhurt, said. Trinamul’s Tamluk candidate and district president for the party Soumen Mahapatra denied his party’s involvement. “We are in no way involved in the attacks,” he said. In the district’s North Contai, the body of BJP supporter Janmenjar Doloi was found from a pond near his home on Tuesday morning. BJP district president Anup Chakraborty claimed that Doloi had been murdered. Senior CPM leader Rabin Deb, who was present when the attack on the CPM rally took place, said: “Trinamul feels that the minority votes are shifting towards the Left and this made their supporters attack our cadres accompanying our candidate Minakshi Mukherjee. But the question is how did Trinamul get permission to take out a rally on the route for which we had permission? The EC should reply.” The Election Commission has decided to deploy 22 companies of central forces in Nandigram to hold polls peacefully in 355 booths in the Assembly seat while 22 quick response teams will keep vigil on the constituency that saw a sudden rise in political temperature on the last day of campaign on Tuesday. This is so far the highest deployment of central forces in any Assembly seat in this year’s elections. Maximum number of quick response teams have also been deployed in the Assembly segment since the situation is tense and the poll panel does not want to take any chances, said a senior official. On Tuesday, top state government officials, including the chief secretary and the director general of police, held a video conference with the officials of East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Bankura and South 24-Parganas that would go for polls on April 1. Sources said the top brass of the government had instructed the district authorities to initiate all possible steps to ensure a free and fair poll. “The officials of East Midnapore have been asked to initiate all possible steps to ensure that polls are held peacefully. The entire country is keeping watch on Nandigram. If violence mars the elections in Nandigram, it will send a wrong message,” said a source. Senior officials said East Midnapore district officials were asked to increase the deployment of quick response teams if they deem it necessary, and set up additional sector offices in Nandigram so that security personnel can reach the spot at the earliest in case of any untoward incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya's Nepal remark stirs hills||BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya has stirred up a hornet’s nest in the Darjeeling hills by linking 11 local communities seeking tribal status with Nepal. While addressing the media in Kurseong on Monday, Vijayvargiya said: “Nepal’s 11 communities’ problem will be solved by the state and the Centre. We are confident that the BJP will form the government in the state.” He made the statement while accompanying Kurseong BJP candidate B.P. Bajgain to file his nomination. On Tuesday, there was widespread condemnation of Vijayvargiya linking the 11 communities — Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal — with Nepal. Indian Gorkhas do not like being tagged with Nepal and even the demand for a separate state is linked to establishing a distinct identity of Indian Gorkhas from Nepali-speaking citizens of the Himalayan country. That is why most hill parties demand abrogation of the Indo-Nepal friendship treaty 1950’s Clause VII which allows for free movement and other privileges in residence and conducting business in each other’s territory. Proponents of Gorkhaland believe that these privileges blur the distinct identity of Indian Gorkhas from citizens of Nepal. Against this background, Vijayvargiya’s statement, the BJP leader has clarified that it was a slip of tongue, has put the saffron party on the backfoot. Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang said: “The BJP has insulted the Gorkhas in their homeland by calling us those from Nepal. When will the BJP agree to call us Gorkhas as Indians?” Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Morcha, said Vijayvargiya’s statement reflected the BJP’s thinking about Gorkhas. “We had in the past repeatedly met senior BJP leaders, including Vijayvargiya, and submitted memoranda for conferring tribal status on the 11 communities. His statement makes it clear the BJP thinks we are from Nepal. We must defeat the BJP in this election,” said Giri. Not just political parties but individuals, too, have been flooding social media with messages of protest against the BJP. This is not the first time that the BJP has been caught napping in understanding hill sentiments. In the run up to the 2019 general election, then Darjeeling BJP MP, S.S. Ahluwalia, had said many demanding a son-of-the-soil candidate for the hill seat “were born in Nepal”. Following widespread protests, Ahluwalia had to issue a clarification in English and Nepali and many also believe that his remark was one of the reasons behind the denial of a BJP ticket for him in Darjeeling. He was fielded in the Burdwan-Durgapur Lok Sabha seat. There have been numerous instances of leaders who are from outside the Darjeeling hills coming up with statements which are not in sync with hill emotions and sentiments. Such statements have put their respective parties in uncomfortable positions and handed advantages to rivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: ‘Outsider’ tag clings to BJP||The ‘outsider’ tag has clung to the BJP this election season in Bengal, with Mamata Banerjee making it a poll plank and alleging that the party was bringing in leaders to manipulate the polls. The BJP has parachuted 18 leaders to Bengal to ‘conduct’ the Assembly elections for the party and take complete administrative control over its state unit. The Telegraph introduces the 18 lesser-known ‘outsiders’ — who came in two batches of 5 and 13. Five leaders arrived in Bengal last November. Each had been put in charge of an organisational zone of the party. They toured their respective zones for 3-4 days and spoke to local leaders and workers before returning to Delhi to report to Amit Shah and J.P. Nadda. On the basis of their findings, the BJP decided on its strategy for Bengal. Sunil Deodhar Designation: National secretary. Profile: Deodhar, who hails from Maharashtra, is a former RSS pracharak. He was Narendra Modi’s campaign manager in Varanasi in 2014. Deodhar was instrumental in helping the BJP assume power in Tripura, but later fell out with chief minister Biplab Deb. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the party’s Howrah-Hooghly-Midnapore organisational zone. Vinod Tawde Designation: National secretary. Profile: Tawde, from Maharashtra, had served as minister in the Devendra Fadnavis government. He handled the higher and technical education, sports and cultural affairs and Marathi language portfolios. Denied a ticket in 2019, Tawde rebelled against Fadnavis. Earlier, a row had erupted over his educational qualification as he had claimed to be an engineering graduate from a college that did not allegedly have affiliation. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the Nabadwip zone. Vinod Sonkar Designation: National secretary and MP from Kausambhi, UP. Profile: Sonkar was born in Sadiyapur, Allahabad. He is chairperson of the parliamentary committee on ethics. Sonkar’s election affidavit states he has four cases pending against him, where he has been charged with promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language, and bribery and illegal payments during elections. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the Durgapur zone. Harish Dwivedi Designation: National secretary and MP from Basti, UP. Profile: Born in Basti district, Dwivedi once led BJP youth wing Yuva Morcha’s UP unit. His election affidavit states there are five pending cases against him, where he has been accused of rioting, wrongful restraint and confinement, intentional assault to provoke breach of peace, obstruction of public way, and assault on a public servant. Dwivedi had infamously observed that Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wore jeans in Delhi but sported vermilion and sari in UP. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the north Bengal zone. Dushyant Gautam Designation: National general secretary and Rajya Sabha member. Profile: Gautam was born in Delhi and was elected from Haryana to the Upper House. He was associated with the BJP’s Scheduled Caste wing for long, and also with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). The Delhi University passout had unsuccessfully contested the Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Assembly polls. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the Calcutta zone. Five general secretaries from various states have been posted in Bengal since December to man the organisational zones. In addition, eight leaders, including ministers, have been air-dropped to hold rallies and other outreach programmes. Sunil Bansal Designation: General secretary (organisation), UP. Profile: Born in Rajasthan, Bansal was associated with the RSS and has been the national joint organising secretary of the ABVP. A close associate of Amit Shah, Bansal is credited with the BJP’s stellar performances in UP in the 2014 parliamentary polls and the 2017 Assembly elections. Role in Bengal: Coordinate and oversee the Bengal BJP’s Calcutta zone. Ravindra Raju Designation: General secretary (organisation), Haryana. Role in Bengal: Looking after the Burdwan zone. Bhikhubhai Dalsaniya Designation: General secretary (organisation), Gujarat. Profile: Dalsaniya acts as a bridge between the RSS and the BJP. Considered close to both Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, Dalsaniya’s name had done the rounds for the Gujarat chief minister’s post after the resignation of Anandiben Patel in 2016. Role in Bengal: In-charge of the Nabadwip zone. Ratnakar Designation: Joint general secretary (organisation), Bihar. Profile: A resident of Deoria in UP, Ratnakar was an RSS pracharak and an ABVP activist. Role in Bengal: Heads the north Bengal zone. Pavan Rana Designation: General secretary (organisation), Himachal Pradesh. Profile: An RSS pracharak, Rana enjoys considerable influence in the Himachal government. Jwalamukhi MLA Ramesh Dhawala had accused him of interfering in his constituency’s work. Role in Bengal: Handles the BJP’s Howrah-Hooghly-Midnapore zone. Sanjeev Balyan Designation: MP from Muzaffarnagar, UP, Union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries. Profile: An accused in the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. Although he was already in custody during the riots as a precautionary measure, he had taken part in the September 2013 mahapanchayat that is often held responsible for the riots. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat Designation: MP from Jodhpur, Rajasthan, Union minister for water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation. Profile: Born in Rajasthan’s Sikar district, Shekhawat was an ABVP activist. In his 2019 election affidavit, Shekhawat has declared that he is an accused under IPC Section 182, which charges him with spreading false information with an intent to cause a public servant to use his lawful force to the injury of another person. A Rajasthan court had ordered a probe into Shekhawat and his family’s purported complicity in a deposit collection scam. He is among the leaders accused by Congress chief minister Ashok Gehlot of trying to topple his government. Nityanand Rai Designation: MP from Ujiarpur, Bihar, Union minister of state for home. Profile: Born in Bihar’s Hajipur, he has represented the local Assembly constituency multiple times. In 2017, Rai had remarked that any finger or hand raised at Modi should be “broken or chopped off”. He later expressed regret. Charges against Rai include extortion, theft, promoting enmity between two groups, statements conducting public mischief, and assaulting public servants. Arjun Munda Designation: MP from Khunti, Jharkhand, and Union minister for tribal affairs. Profile: Born in Jamshedpur, Munda has been chief minister of Jharkhand in three phases. He was a part of the JMM’s Jharkhand movement and joined the BJP later. Munda had stated in his 2019 poll affidavit that a criminal case was pending against him. Dr Narottam Mishra Designation: Cabinet minister for home, law and legislative affairs, prisons and parliamentary affairs in Madhya Pradesh. Profile: Born in Gwalior, Mishra had contested the 2009 Lok Sabha polls and lost to Jyotiraditya Scindia. In June 2013, Mishra was disqualified by the Election Commission for three years on the charges of filing wrong election expenditure accounts in the 2008 Assembly polls and using paid news in his campaign. The order was later set aside. He had refused to wear a mask at public events during the pandemic and had accused the web serial Tandav of hurting religious sentiments. Keshav Prasad Maurya Designation: Deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Profile: Born at Sirathu in Uttar Pradesh, he was appointed the head of the state BJP in 2016 with an eye on Yadav OBC votes. He was an active member of the RSS and had been arrested during the Ram Janmabhoomi and Gau Raksha movements. Prahlad Singh Patel Designation: MP from Damoh, Madhya Pradesh, Union minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and culture. Profile: Patel was born in Narsinghpur, Madhya Pradesh. In June 2019, his son Prabal, nephew Monu and five others were arrested in Madhya Pradesh for attempted murder. Patel is a strong advocate of banning cow slaughter. Mansukh L. Mandaviya Designation: Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat and Union minister of state (independent charge) for port, shipping and waterways, chemicals and fertilisers. Profile: Born in a small village in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat, Mandavaiya was a state executive member of the Gujarat unit of the ABVP. He has also represented the BJP in the Gujarat Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
31-03-2021||North East||Congress fulfills its promises, we are not like BJP, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday visited the famed Kamakhya temple in Guwahati and offered puja. Speaking to reporters at the temple, Gandhi said that unlike the BJP his party keeps the promises made to the people during the elections. Replying to a question about what his party will do if it wins the state elections, Gandhi said, "We have promised five guarantees". Asked how the Congress will fulfil the 'five guarantees', Gandhi shot back, "Do you know what guarantee means? We are not like the BJP, we fulfill what we promise." The Congress leader said that in Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka his party had promised to waive farm loans and did it after assuming power. "In Assam, we have guaranteed to raise the tea garden workers' daily wage to Rs 365," he said, referring to one of the five promises. Gandhi offered prayers at the Shaktipeeth atop the Nilachal Hill prior to setting out for election rallies at Chaygaon and Barkhetri, which will go to the polls in the last phase on April 6. The Congress leader could not travel to his scheduled rallies at Silchar, Haflong and Bokajan on Tuesday due to heavy downpour and bad weather there. He instead posted his message on Twitter, asserting that his party will fulfill all its 'five guarantees' when it forms government in the state. The Congress has promised in its 'guarantees' that it will not allow the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to be implemented in Assam, provide employment to five lakh youths, provide 200 units of free electricity per month to all households, give monthly assistance of Rs 2,000 to every housewife, besides raising the minimum daily wages of tea garden workers. Elections to 39 constituencies will be held in the second phase on Thursday, and 40 seats in the final phase on April 6. An estimated 79.97 per cent of the total 81.09 lakh voters had exercised their franchise in 47 assembly constituencies during the first phase of polling in Assam on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
31-03-2021||North East||Manipur govt withdraws directive concerning refugees from coup-hit Myanmar||The BJP-led government in Manipur has withdrawn a directive to five districts bordering coup-hit Myanmar to “politely turn away” those seeking refuge. The rethink came after the “unconstitutional” approach in dealing with an unfolding humanitarian crisis drew widespread criticism. The order attributed to Manipur’s special secretary (home) H. Gyan Prakash said on Monday: “It appears that the contents of the letter have been misconstrued and interpreted differently. The state government has been taking all humanitarian steps and had recently taken all steps, including taking them to Imphal, to treat the injured Myanmarese nationals. The state government continues to provide all aid.…” “In order to avoid this misunderstanding, I am directed to convey the decision of the government that it has decided to withdraw the letter dated 26.03.2021.” The home department’s March 26 directive, also issued by Prakash, was addressed to the deputy commissioners of Chandel, Tengnoupal, Kamjong, Ukhrul and Churchandpur to prevent the “illegal entry” of Myanmar nationals to the state. It had asked the district administration not to open any camp to provide food and shelter and not to allow civil society organisations to set up camps to provide food and shelter. The directive had advised the deputy commissioners to provide medical attention on humanitarian considerations in case of grievous injuries, to politely turn away people trying to enter or seek refuge and immediately stop Aadhaar enrolment and to keep enrolment kits in safe custody. The home department had sought an action-taken report by Tuesday. Several attempts by this newspaper to contact Prakash and the chief secretary’s office to corroborate the authenticity of the fresh order did not elicit a response. But multiple sources said the order withdrawing the earlier one was indeed issued. Manipur shares a 398km border with Myanmar’s Sagaing and Chin regions. Mizoram shares a 510km border with the neighbouring country, Nagaland 215km and Arunachal Pradesh 520km. The international border is guarded by the Assam Rifles. Sources in Mizoram said over 1,000 Myanmarese nationals had entered the state while a similar number might have also come to Manipur fearing persecution at the hands of the junta that carried out the coup on February 1. The Mizo National Front-headed Mizoram government has urged the Centre to provide asylum to the refugees. Sources said the Centre should come out with a clear-cut policy on how to deal with the crisis. According to media reports, over 500 people have died in the protests against the junta after the coup. The Myanmar junta is said to share close ties with the ruling dispensation in India. Leading human rights activist Babloo Loitongbam, 51, told this newspaper that his organisation, the Human Rights Alert, on Tuesday moved the Manipur Human Rights Commission against the “unconstitutional” March 26 directive of the state government. “We have urged the commission to declare the directive as null and void because it violates Article 21 of the Constitution (right to life), and also Article 14 (1) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which says everyone has the right to seek and enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.” Loitongbam said he moved the MHRC after he could not get an official confirmation about the withdrawal of the directive from two deputy commissioners. “Our prayer has two parts — to declare the directives null and void and also direct the government to provide relief to the refugees who have entered. We still don’t know what has been the impact of the withdrawal on the ground.” Loitongbam said the best way to handle the crisis would have been to set up temporary camps, provide aid, maintain a database of those coming in and then facilitating their return to Myanmar after things normalised. The Manipur Congress’s chief spokesperson, three-time MLA Meghachandra Keisham, said the earlier directive was unfortunate. “My sources in the government have told me that the directive has been withdrawn. On humanitarian ground, after proper identification, aid should be provided to those entering the state. Clear-cut steps should be taken to provide humanitarian aid. We are a democratic country and we should support the democratic demand of the people of Myanmar,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
31-03-2021||Opinion||Answer this: BJP’s allergy with questions||An allergy is a perfectly human frailty. But not all allergies can be acceptable to a democracy. Consider the cases of the proverbial rash that leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party are known to break into when journalists — the handful that remain true to the spirit of their vocation — ask searching questions. When a scribe asked for the Union home minister’s reaction to the charge that the prime minister had indirectly canvassed for votes for the Bengal elections during his visit to Bangladesh, Amit Shah responded with a counter-question: while it is understandable for the Trinamul Congress, he said, to raise such a query, what business did the journalist have to ask such a question? Mr Shah’s sentiments were echoed in another poll-bound state, Kerala, where E. Sreedharan, the BJP’s chief ministerial candidate, left in a huff blaming the media for asking “negative questions”. Mr Sreedharan’s response had been sought on such matters as ‘beef ban’ and ‘love jihad’, issues that have attained greater resonance in New India. Searching questions evidently get the BJP’s goat. Perhaps the BJP’s allergy can be blamed on its penchant for dodging tricky territory. Engaging with difficult enquiries — be they on demonetization, encroachment on the border, India’s steep economic challenges and so on — runs the risk of letting the cat out of the bag. It makes prudent sense to shoot the messenger instead. Sedition or anti-nationalism is the preferred weapon of choice in this context. Thus dissenters, critics, academics, journalists — constituencies and citizens with an independent mind — have increasingly found themselves under fire. Little wonder then that Parliament scrapped question hour and the prime minister — a loquacious leader — thinks nothing of evading interviews. What is even more worrying is that large segments of the Indian media have doffed their hats to this grey culture of silence. That could explain the irritation of BJP leaders: unlike other democracies, politicians in India are no longer in the habit of confronting the intelligent, inquisitive journalist. The consequences are ominous: the quality of India’s democracy and the freedom of the press are declining. It seems India has forgotten that the true responsibility of the wise man is not to give the correct answers but to pose the right questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Opinion||Step forward: New Zealand's miscarriage leave||Sir — In a path-breaking step, New Zealand’s Parliament has decided to grant mothers and their partners three days of bereavement leave following a miscarriage. The Labour parliamentarian, Ginny Andersen, who drafted the bill, must be lauded. This is reportedly the first law of its kind. Last year, the country decriminalized abortion. Such focus on issues affecting women highlights the need to include more women in the law-making process. In many countries, including India, it is still a taboo to talk about miscarriages or abortions. These nations should emulate New Zealand. Ayesha Chatterjee,Calcutta Noble act Sir — It was heart-warming to learn about the honesty of the lottery vendor, Smija K. Mohan, from Kerala, who handed over a jackpot ticket worth six crore rupees to a buyer who was yet to pay for it or clear his past dues (“A lottery vendor whose word is worth more than Rs 6cr”, March 27). She is now being extolled for her honesty across the state. It is a fact that honest people do not always find success, but the world goes around because of people like Mohan. She should be sincerely respected for her deed. One must never forget those who help or support others during their hard times. P.K. Chandran, the elderly gardener who won the jackpot, has shared the plans that he has for his family and himself with the money he won. He should also offer a reward to Mohan. At the same time, attention must be paid to the fact that buying a lottery ticket is like an addiction; many people waste their hard-earned money, banking on fate. Kiran Agarwal,Calcutta Sir — People in modern society should take a lesson in honesty from Smija K. Mohan. Clearly, her word is more important to her than money. Even though she had the golden opportunity to alleviate her own distress and be rich by claiming the jackpot for herself, she decided to hand it over to the person for whom she had reserved the ticket. One must thank the reporter for shedding light on this noble deed in a society marred by corruption and violence. One also expects P.K. Chandra, the winner of the jackpot, to help Mohan and her family in her time of need. Shyamal Thakur,East Burdwan Sir — The best part about the report on Smija K. Mohan was her humble response to the accolades being showered upon her. The fact that she did not even think about claiming the prize money for herself, in spite of struggling financially, speaks volumes about her character. Reading her story, one was reminded of the fable about the woodcutter who had lost his wooden axe in the river but refused to claim the gold axe and the silver axe that the river god retrieved for him to test his character. At the end of the fable, the honest woodcutter was rewarded with all three. Although such poetic justice cannot be expected in the real world, it would be an inspiration to many others if Mohan were rewarded for her honesty. Adrita Guha Neogi,Howrah Sir — It was wonderful to learn about Smija K. Mohan’s honesty. In today’s world, a virtue like honesty in people is hard to come by. So one is surprised when one comes across such reports. The story of Mohan’s deed is exemplary. Such people make the world a better place to live in. One wishes Mohan the best for her future. Sourish Misra,Calcutta By force Sir — It was a major setback for the chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, that on Sunday the president, Ram Nath Kovind, gave his assent to the government of national capital territory of Delhi (amendment) bill, that says ‘government’ in the region would mean ‘lieutenant-governor’. According to the recently passed legislation, the Delhi government will now need to take the opinion of the lieutenant-governor before any executive action. The law also states that the legislative assembly shall not make any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the national capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. Any rule made in contravention of this proviso before the commencement of the Act shall be considered void. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress had opposed the bill — the latter even termed it retrograde, anti-democratic and an insult to the people of Delhi. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Opinion||Strictly equal: Women in armed forces||The appearance of equality is not enough. The Supreme Court reportedly expressed its displeasure at the defence ministry’s apparent evasion of the 2010 Delhi High Court directive and 2020 Supreme Court order that women in the armed forces should be given permanent service commissions at par with men if they met the required criteria. Eighty-six short service commission women officers had petitioned for equality in standards of evaluation for the granting of permanent commissions. The present practice of separate standards and selection boards violate gender parity. The government’s claim that women are allowed to serve the nation by joining the armed forces is, therefore, hollow; symbolic equality fails to meet the Constitutional requirement. This Supreme Court judgment saw this as a reflection of the patriarchal system. The three-judge bench went further and, for the first time, introduced the principle of ‘indirect discrimination’ to support the concepts of equality and discrimination. Although present in the jurisprudence of countries such as the United States of America, the United Kingdom and others, the criterion of indirect discrimination has seldom been applied in India. The judges expatiated on the concept in detail, presumably in order to ensure that the indirect discrimination test would be applied to relevant cases here as well. While direct discrimination can be perceived as a matter of intent irrespective of the circumstances, indirect discrimination is not so easily discernible. It can be uncovered through its effects, as in the denial of permanent commissions to women officers through differences in evaluation standards. Thus, indirect discrimination is structural, disguised by the dominant system of inbuilt beliefs and ways of doing things, so that what appears to be neutral — gender-neutral in this specific case — conceals the unjust effects of accepted provisions and practices. While direct discrimination is seldom, if ever, unintended, indirect discrimination may be unconscious and without malicious intent, arising from implicit biases that cannot recognize the unfairness in a given situation. The Supreme Court’s explanation underscored the importance of picking out indirect discrimination in cases concerned with equality, especially because it is neither obvious nor always intended. By prohibiting it even when it is unintended, the Supreme Court has given the legal and Constitutional principle of equality the breadth it desperately needs in a society constructed on implicit biases, and not of gender alone. Perhaps there is scope of further expansion of this criterion to test the principle of modernization of the armed forces. A truly modern army must have at its disposal not just cutting edge technology but also measures to ensure equality between serving men and women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Opinion||The time to fight is over: Pak Senate elections||The Senate elections took place in Pakistan earlier this month. As I wrote in these pages last month, the most interesting contest was going to be between the former prime minister, Yusuf Raza Gilani, and the ruling party’s now-former finance minister, Hafeez Sheikh, for a hotly contested seat. All eyes were on this one Senate seat in Islamabad on March 3. Gilani was the Opposition’s joint candidate. He did not have the numbers required to win the seat but he still managed to defeat Sheikh in the end. Gilani secured 169 votes while Sheikh got 164 votes. This surprising defeat created panic in the government ranks. As a result of this defeat, Prime Minister Imran Khan announced that he would take the vote of confidence. On March 6, Khan secured 178 votes; he required 172. Then came the elections for Senate chairman on March 12. Gilani was once again fielded as the joint Opposition candidate. On the morning of the Senate chairman polls, a comedy of sorts ensued. The Senator from the Pakistan Peoples Party, Mustafa Nawaz Khokhar, and the Senator from the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, Musadik Malik, found hidden cameras in and around the polling booth in the upper House, including a pinhole camera. Fawad Chaudhry from the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf joked with Senator Khokhar on Twitter that these were not spy cameras and shared a picture of a spy camera in a screw. Lo and behold, Senator Khokhar then went looking for it and a spy camera inside a screw was found! An investigation committee was then formed to look into the matter of hidden cameras. It seemed that the government was not very confident. But when the polling took place, the PTI-backed candidate, Sadiq Sanjrani, who was serving as Senate chairman already, defied the odds and managed to get 48 votes while Gilani got 42 votes. However, the catch was that seven of the votes that were rejected were all polled in favour of Gilani, which — if not rejected — would have made him win by one vote. All seven votes were rejected on the basis of a technicality by the presiding officer who said that the votes were stamped ‘on’ Gilani’s name instead of being stamped in the box ‘against’ his name. The Opposition, however, said the rules required that the stamp should be within the candidate’s name and it does not say where. These were the rules that were also written outside the polling booth in the upper House. But the presiding officer did not listen to these objections and declared Sanjrani the winner. Gilani challenged this decision in the Islamabad High Court but his petition was rejected. He may file another petition in the Supreme Court. From winning his Senate seat to almost winning the Senate chairman elections if those seven votes had been counted in his favour, the former prime minister has shaken the government to the core. Unfortunately, his win led to a falling out of the Opposition alliance as well later on. The Pakistan Democratic Movement, which had fielded Gilani as its joint candidate, had also decided that the post of Senate chairman would be contested by the PPP’s Gilani, the post of Senate deputy chairman would go to the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl and that of the leader of the Opposition in the Senate would go to the PML-N. When the Senate polls were lost, the PPP raised objections regarding the PML-N candidate, Azam Tarar, as he was representing two police officers accused in the Benazir Bhutto murder case. The PML-N, however, says that Tarar was just an excuse and the PPP wanted the slot for themselves. In the PDM meeting that took place on March 16, the former president, Asif Ali Zardari, asked the former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to return to Pakistan and be part of the ‘struggle together’. This led to a heated exchange in the meeting, which was also leaked to the media. The PDM’s long march, which was to take place on March 26, was postponed owing to the differences between the two largest parties in the Opposition alliance. The main bone of contention was the PML-N’s demand that they all resign from the assemblies while the PPP is against any such decision. The final decision by the PPP in this regard will be taken on April 4. As if embarrassing an ally were not enough, another war of words ensued indirectly between the PPP chairman, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, and the PML-N leader, Maryam Nawaz. The latter tweeted that the prime minister should be worried as his ‘substitute’ is being fostered, which some say was an obvious dig at the PPP. Not one to be left behind, Bhutto Zardari said that a family from Lahore has had a track record of being ‘selected’ and not the PPP. Another nail in the coffin was when most of the PDM signed in favour of the PML-N’s candidate but Gilani went on to become the Opposition leader in the Senate with the support of Sanjrani’s party, which is a government ally. Gilani was then called ‘selected’ by the PML-N. The PDM’s future now seems to be hanging in balance owing to all these acrobatics. Meanwhile, Khan has removed Sheikh as the finance minister. It seems that the month of March led to setbacks for both the government and the Opposition. The next few months will be interesting for sure, but many hope that instead of trying to get the government to fall, the Opposition will sit with it and work on reforms — election, accountability and judicial — and much more so as to strengthen the democratic system. Let us see if this could actually materialize. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Opinion||What lies beneath||There is a daily ugliness in our lives. We have grown accustomed to its face — its many faces — and to what lies beneath. How long, for example, did we linger over the image of a supine mahagathbandhan  legislator of the Bihar assembly being dragged by his arms over the ground by security personnel? Was there any shock or disbelief? The upending of norms implicit in the image could not have unsettled us too much either. We are bombarded every day by images of violence, criminal or administrative, to such a degree that such a small matter may slip our attention. The daily ugliness, therefore, is not limited to what we see or hear; it runs deep like a bubbling fissure in our minds, confusing perception, thought and judgment. The legislator was being pulled away from outside the Speaker’s chamber where he had been sitting with other Opposition members of the legislative assembly in protest against the passage of the Bihar special armed police bill, 2021. According to the government, the law would “develop the Bihar Military Police into a well-trained and fully equipped armed police force with multi-domain expertise to cater to the development needs and the larger interest of the state”. The Opposition was protesting against the powers of search and arrest without warrant that this force was being given; no court could take cognizance of offences under this law by any officer without government sanction. These immunities made the phrasing of the law seem threatening rather than reassuring. The Central Industrial Security Force, tasked with guarding assets and installations, has similar powers. But the Bihar Opposition found the tasks of the new force conveniently vague. They ranged from ensuring public order and fighting extremism to guarding installations and performing other such duties as notified. Going beyond the protests, we now have one more police force with the power to pick anyone up without accounting for it — whatever the process later. The spread of police forces immune to accountability suggests that governments like to make the people feel that they are criminals till proven innocent. The inversion of norms represented by the legislator’s picture lay, for one, in the reported refusal of Nitish Kumar’s government to engage with objections. But ramming through controversial laws has become a daily matter in the Lok Sabha, as though Parliament has vanished already. The protesting MLAs were marshalled out and, reportedly, beaten up by security personnel. Why not? Respect and decorum are foolish concepts in a political culture dominated by violence of word and deed. The police are free to drag an elected representative over the ground when the ‘site’ they are ‘securing’ has lost its sanctified status as a vessel of the people’s will. That is what the picture is saying. Or is it? In 2020, it was reported that 2,556 sitting members of parliament and MLAs had cases pending against them; 174 cases, if proven, would mean imprisonment for life. So maybe the legislator — about whom we may know nothing — is getting what he deserves? The confusion in the response — originating in a corruption of the system that long predates the present government — makes it easy for other, more dangerous, inversions to flow unresisted into our minds while offering us an excuse not to confront the life-altering changes taking place behind the daily ugliness. There is more. Can the Opposition complain about an empowered police force when one of its criticisms against Kumar’s governance is the rise in crime? Government data show that his earlier fame in establishing law and order had become rather tattered, although some crimes, murder and robbery for instance, had declined by 2019. But the overall situation is grave enough for the chief minister to have had three meetings with police chiefs after his return this time. Rising crime is an excellent ruse for a force with powers to arrest and search without warrant. The mischievous logic here has grown as familiar as our own skin in the last seven years through its varied application by Bharatiya Janata Party governments; all it demands is an overturning of democratic principles, processes, relationships and rights. The legislation in Bihar echoes the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force Act, 2020, which gives the same powers and immunities and has a similar declared purpose. The UPSSF protects not just installations but persons and residences as directed, and can, like the Bihar special armed police, arrest anyone whom it thinks is suspicious. That is truly convenient in a state where Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister, flourished by encouraging police ‘encounters’. That is outlawed, and a comment to this effect from the Centre could have clarified the rights and wrongs of extrajudicial killings by the State. Was it because most of the targets came from the poorer sections of the minority community, underprivileged classes and marginalized castes that these transgressions were flaunted, and accepted — by certain sections — as a chief minister’s success? This inversion was established some years ago; are we too confused to judge or just scared? Uttar Pradesh is one state that excels in crimes against Dalits. Can the UPSSF be expected to protect them? Women there are not just raped and frequently murdered, but survivors or members of the survivor’s family are also threatened or killed. Recently, a victim’s father was allegedly pushed under a bus, supposedly in front of policemen. Yet Mission Shakti came into operation last October to execute the chief minister’s promise of zero tolerance for crimes against women. Defining the relationship of laws, police and crime with one another has become difficult, for these have lost their familiar moorings in the last few years while we have been scrambling to pretend that they are in their usual places. Were we used to mob lynchings of people suspected of slaughtering cows, carrying or storing beef? We are now; we might even be mildly surprised that the accused in the 2015 killing of Mohammad Akhlaque are facing trial this year. Ugliness has entered our souls. Without our participation in the inversion of values it would not have been possible for UP and Madhya Pradesh to formulate laws against ‘love jihad’, a phenomenon acknowledged as non-existent by the police and even the ruling party in Parliament. Yet there is a law against it in two states; others may follow. The idea is to isolate the minority community and destroy inter-community amity, criminalize the relationship between men and women in particular circumstances, control women and attack the rights to autonomy and privacy. Will the law create the crime, or will it just pervert our understanding of a loving bond between two human beings? Perhaps, because Adityanath, the BJP’s star campaigner, reminded his audience in West Bengal with suitable condescension that the state needed this law in order to protect ‘our’ women. There is an unspeakable ugliness in the vortex of institutionalized lawlessness and hatred of freedom, diversity and democracy into which we are being — willingly? — drawn. We are living through changes that will alter in their totality what we knew to be our rights and wrongs when we were born in this country. Comparing this moment with similar phases in the history of other countries may be odious, so let us not do that. Instead we could reflect on the meanings of small, obvious things, such as the refusal to give an ill priest over 80 bail because he is supposed to be part of a banned group that is planning to overthrow democracy and even assassinate the prime minister. The priest is an activist for tribal rights, just as his alleged co-conspirators in prison are activists for Dalit or human rights. In its lightless heart, the vortex is not confusing at all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Priority vaccination in high-positivity localities||The state health department will run special vaccination programmes on priority in localities that have seen a surge in  Covid-19 cases recently, Health Secretary K..K Soan said on Wednesday while chairing a meeting with officials in Ranchi. “We cannot deny the fact that timely vaccination is the only way to beat Covid-19. I, therefore, suggest that we hold vaccination drives on priority basis in localities where several cases of infection have been reported,” said Soan, adding that timely vaccination of people living in high-positivity areas will prevent further spread of the virus. So far, the state has vaccinated over 14 lakh people. Even if special vaccination drives are run in high-positivity localities, only senior citizens and people above the age of 45 years will be eligible for jabs, health officials said. During Wednesday's meeting, Soan also directed the district administration to deploy Covid testing squads at railway stations and bus stands in the state capital. Following the directive, Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan organised Covid testing teams at ITI Bus Stand, Khadgada Bus Stand, Ranchi Railway Station and Hatia Railway Station. He also asked for loudspeakers to be installed for regular announcements related to Covid tests at these places. Jharkhand has reported a significant rise in Covid cases during the past couple of weeks. As per government data, the active case load jumped from 450 on March 1 to over 2,250 on Tuesday in the state. Ranchi alone accounts for more than 1,200 active cases in Jharkhand. Addressing the meeting, Soan directed officials to focus on contact tracing to ensure that asymptomatic carriers of the infection can be identified before they transmit the virus among people with weaker immune systems. “Timely contact tracing of all infected people is the key to identifying new patients before they spread the virus in other places. We also need to maintain all records related to the travel history of Covid patients,” said Soan. Ranchi deputy commssioner Ranjan, who attended the meeting, said that a report related to contact tracing of all Covid patients in the district will be submitted to the DSP City every day. Soan also asked all the districts to hold meetings with private hospitals and ensure sufficient availability of beds for Covid patients. Later in the day, Ranjan asked officials to seek details about the availability of Covid beds in private hospitals and Covid care centres across the district. Ranjan asked private labs to maintain records of people approaching them for Covid tests and ensure that they do not hide their identity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to intensify Covid testing ||Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday carried out inspection of Sadar Hospital,Dhanbad and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) to give necessary instructions to authorities to scale-up the Covid related facilities. The deputy commissioner also carried out inspection of Dhanbad railway station and supervised the covid test of passengers arriving from different sensitive areas including Madhya Pradesh, Mahrastra, Kerala, Gujraat, Rajasthan etc. “The district administration in view of increasing cases of Covid 19 has taken several steps including, testing of cent percent passengers arriving from Covid sensitive places,” said Singh. “We also carried out inspection of OPD, Covid treatment facilities at SNMMCH and found some shortcomings and instructed the hospital management to plug the lacunae at the earliest,” he said. Singh said the testing drive will be further intensified at the Dhanbad Railway station and interstate highway checkpoints. “Besides carrying the Covid test of OPD patients at SNMMCH we have also ensured covid tests of patients arriving at OPD Centres of Sadar Hospital all Community Health Centres of the district,” he further elaborated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum gets cracking with Covid tests ||The East Singhbhum health authorities carried out a special Covid-19 testing drive in various urban and rural areas on Wednesday. Camps were set up in various rural blocks and urban areas for the purpose. Officials of civic bodies like Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) and Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) with incident commanders assisted the health authorities during the special drive. All visitors at Sakchi market had to undergo the RT-PCR test at the Bazar Master's office. Similarly, visitors to other markets like Mango and Golmuri also had to undergo RT-PCR test. JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar said the special test drive was carried out  to gauge the extent of cases, which are on the rise for the last couple of weeks. A team led by JNAC special officer also inspected the Sidhgora-based Professional College which will be temporarily converted into a quarantine centre. "We inspected the newly built college campus to take stock of things. The college campus will be converted into a quarantine centre by the end of this week, " said Kumar, the JNAC special officer. The health department officials also carried out Covid-19 tests for those coming to Jharkhand from Bengal and Odisha by road. District health department apprehends a post-Holi surge in the Covid cases here. According to health department officials they had set a target of conducting 2,000 tests in urban areas and 400 tests in each of the nine blocks of East Singhbhum during the day-long special drive. Data available from the office of East Singhbhum civil surgeon suggests that till Tuesday, 269 active Covid cases were detected in the district and the total number of the cases since last year has gone up to 18,751.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma wildlife sanctuary fires under control||Fires are raging in some parts of the scenic Dalma wildlife sanctuary,  but foresters are working tirelessly to prevent the flames from spreading across the elephant abode. The authorities have formed two teams to douse the flames. While 24 fire watchers are deputed in the eastern range of the sanctuary, 21 are on duty in the western range. R.P. Singh, Assistant Conservator of Forest, said fire was under control but they were against taking any risk and were doing their best to prevent it from spreading. The fire was reported to have caught inside Bota (the largest jungle inside the sanctuary) on Monday night. "Fire has also caught in the jungles near Nutandih, Koira, Bota, Konkadasa and Pardih (along the NH 33). However, it is under control now," Singh informed. "We have deputed 24 fire watchers in the eastern range. Fire watchers are village youths who have been recruited for the job. They would be on duty till May. Depending on rains, their duty would be extended till mid-July," he added. "Large scale plantations have contributed to the fire. Villagers throw bidis inside the jungles and the embers cause fire. Moreover, it has also been observed that people who visit the sanctuary also throw cigarettes which may lead to fire. It is the dry season and takes seconds for fire to catch. We are very alert," Singh said. Dalma authorities have repeatedly tried to spread awareness among villagers about the dangers of throwing lit bidis inside the forests. An awareness campaign was carried out during the World Wildlife Day on March 3. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said fire was under control in the western range. "Twenty one fire watchers are on job. We don't want fire to spread in this dry season," he added. A fire was first spotted in the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur last month near Dimna lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents worried over lack of green cover||Dhanbad residents are concerned over the depleting green cover as over 30,000 trees have been felled in the last five years for broadening of major roads. The scorching summer temperatures have added to the woes of the residents. Procedural delay in deciding the agency to carry out plantation work, delay in transfer of funds and lack of free space are mainly responsible for the poor state of affairs. Only 10% seeds have been sown so far. Around 417 tress were cut down during broadening work of the 5.5km City Center to Barawaddah road carried out at a cost of Rs 34.67 crore by Road construction Department  in 2017-2019. Around 6000 trees were razed ahead of the eight-laning of 20 km Kako Math- Gol Building road since May 2019 carried out by the State Highway Authority of Jharkhand for Rs 416 crore. In 2017-18, 54 trees were chopped for four-laning of 25.71 km Bank More to Sindri road carried out for Rs 44.83 crore by road construction department. Apart from this, 3,142 trees were cleared for broadening of the Govindpur Mahuda road  being carried by the State Highway Authority of Jharkhand. Vimal Lakra, Divisional forest officer of Dhanbad, said, “We have already carried out plantation work plantation of 2,000 trees in lieu of 417 trees felled during the four laning of city centre Barwaddah and funds of other agency are in process of being transferred.” “We are facing difficulty in finding vacant land besides the broadened road for plantation work and are in process of identifying land for more plantation work,” explained Lakra. Mritunjay Banerjee headmaster of a government school in Aamtal said, “my school located around 18km from my place at Moonidih and returning back to home during summer was never so tiresome and difficult like own due to lack of tree shades.” Sanjay Kumar Mahto, manager of a pharmaceutical company told The Telegraph Online: “Our job entails long travels of 100 to 200 km a day on bike to different parts of the district for making doctors call, visiting to stockists and distributors for taking medicine orders etc.” “It was quite a usual practice for us taking rests under the shades of trees during the long journeys and solace but since most of the roads and have been denuded of trees our fatigue increases during the travel which in turn affects our efficiency,” said Sanjay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||National hockey meet postponed in view of rising Covid cases||The 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship 2021 scheduled to begin on April 3 in Jharkhand’s Simdega district was called off on Wednesday till further notice in light of the rising number of covid-19 cases. Hockey India made the formal announcement following an emergent meeting with district administration of Simdega and authorities of state government amid the emerging concerns of fresh infections. Sources said that organizers were forced to review the situation after about a dozen players from different state teams, which has already started arriving since Tuesday, tested positive for Covid-19 following mandatory testing upon arriving in the host venue. About 26 teams across the country were supposed to take part in the meet which was scheduled to be held till April 12. "In light of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and after the advice from the local state authorities, Hockey India in consultation with the host Hockey Jharkhand arrived at the decision to postpone the 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship 2021. Hockey Jharkhand received tremendous support from the state government to host the recently concluded 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Women National Championship 2021. However, with new protocols and guidelines in the state to combat the rapid rise of cases, it was in the best interest of the players that this decision was taken. For Hockey India, safety of the players is paramount," Hockey India President Gyanendro Ningombam said in a formal statement, adding that all the participating member units have been informed by Hockey India. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh said that many teams, who had already arrived, planned to hold day and night matches. “But the way virus is spreading once again, all were of the view that postponement was the best option in the interest of public health and safety,” he said, adding that they will definitely put up a bigger show whenever situation permits again. Sources said the Astroturf stadium in Simdega has now been declared as quarantine centre to tackle the possible surge in cases. “Meanwhile, six players each of Chandigarh and Jharkhand besides a coach of Chandigarh after having tested positive has been shifted to a Covid care centre,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Highest single-day spike takes active caseload above 2,000 in the state||The count of active Covid-19 cases crossed the 2,000 mark in Jharkhand on Tuesday as the state reported its highest single-day-spike in Covid cases this year, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least 418 people, including 262 from Ranchi alone, were found infected by the dreaded virus on Tuesday. The state reported only 129 Covid recoveries on the day and the active caseload reached 2,254, the bulletin further stated. The active caseload jumped to 1,263 in Ranchi alone as the district reported only 44 recoveries against over 250 fresh cases. The state capital also reported three Covid casualties on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1113 and that in Ranchi to 259, NHM stated in its bulletin. Government data highlights that the growth rate of Covid-19 infection has also increased in Jharkhand lately, while the doubling rate has dropped significantly. On Tuesday, the growth rate in Jharkhand was 0.21 per cent against the national average of 0.47 per cent. Earlier this month, the growth rate in Jharkhand was less than 0.10 per cent, while the doubling rate was over 2000 days. On Tuesday, the doubling rate had dropped to 328.10 days against the national average of 188.23 days, revealed government data. As per government data, over 1.23 lakh people have been infected by Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 97 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.90 per cent. Meanwhile, Jharkhand achieved 28 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and only 2 per cent of its target for administering the second dose of the vaccine on Tuesday, a report released by the NHM stated. As many as 8,598 beneficiaries, including 5747 senior citizens and 1902 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, got the first jab of Covishield vaccine in the state on the day, the NHM report stated. As per the report, as many as 1908 beneficiaries, including 247 senior citizens and 39 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, got the second jab on the day. As per government data, the state has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 14 lakh residents, and more than 7.5 lakh of them were senior citizens. The second dose has been administered to 2.35 lakh beneficiaries, mostly frontline and healthcare workers, so far, highlights government data. The state has achieved 83 per cent of its target for the first dose of vaccination and 70 per cent of the target for second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Mandatory Covid tests for restaurant, supermarket staff in Ranchi ||Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan ordered mandatory Covid tests for staff working in restaurants and supermarkets across the state capital by April 8 in a bid to identify asymptomatic Covid-19 patients working in crowded places and prevent transmission of the virus., These places, he said, attract huge crowds and the chances of transmission were higher if any of the staff working there was infected. Chairing a meeting of district officials, Ranjan also directed builder associations and auto-rickshaw associations to get workers and drivers tested at the earliest in a bid to avert further transmission among people who use public transport or visit construction sites. “All staff working in restaurants and supermarkets will have to be mandatorily tested for Covid-19 by April 8,” said Ranjan, adding that such establishments should follow all Covid-19 precautions and maintain a record of guests along with their contact details. The Deputy Commissioner also directed the District Education Officer (DEO) to ensure that students of all private and government schools across the district are tested for Covid-19. College students, he said, should also be duly tested for Covid-19 in order to prevent spread of the virus in educational institutions. Most private schools in Ranchi are likely to resume in-person classes from the first week of April. The students of classes 8, 9 and 11 may have to undergo Covid tests before resuming regular classes, sources present in the meeting on Tuesday said. The district administration has also tightened the noose around travelers visiting Ranchi from neighbouring Chhattisgarh, which has reported a huge spike in cases in the past week. The deputy commissioner on Tuesday directed mandatory Covid test for passengers coming to Ranchi by bus from Chhattisgarh. A special team, he said, will be deployed at the ITI Bus Stand near Piska More in Ranchi for testing travelers. Last week, the health department had made Covid tests mandatory for travelers from Kerala and Maharashtra. Besides, the state government is also conducting Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) on the go for symptomatic patients at airports and railway stations. Ranchi has reported a four-fold spike in the active caseload since March 1. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), there were 282 active cases of Covid-19 infection in the district on March 1, and the count of patients jumped to 1002 by Tuesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Holi: FIR demand against MLA for violating state govt guidelines||Opposition BJP has criticised Hemant Soren-led UPA government in Jharkhand over Congress MLA from Barkagaon Amba Prasad taking part in a Holi congregation at a village in Keradari block of Barkagaon Assembly constituency under Hazaribagh district on Monday in violation of the state government guidelines banning any kind of celebration and congregation at public places to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases. BJP state spokesperson Pratul Sahdeo has demanded from the Hazaribagh district administration to lodge an FIR against the MLA. “There cannot be one law for lawmakers and another for common masses. The state government had itself put a ban on celebrating Holi publicly due to increase in Covid-19 cases. Now an MLA of a party which is in the coalition government has celebrated Holi publicly in the presence of hundreds of people on Monday and till Tuesday no action has been taken. We would not let such double standards and would launch an agitation to force the deputy commissioner of Hazaribagh to lodge an FIR for violation of Covid-19 guidelines,” said Pratul Sahdeo. Amba Prasad, 31, who is the youngest lawmaker in Jharkhand Assembly at the moment, had taken part in a matka phod (bursting of a an earthen vessel) done usually in Holi at Pahra village on Monday evening. “The matka phod ritual is held every year and I was asked by the public to take burst the matka. I had followed all the precautions and there has not been a single Covid-19 case in the village where it happened. I would like to remind the BJP leaders that if FIR has to be lodged against me for violation of Covid-19 guidelines then I would also like FIR to be lodged against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for addressing huge rallies in states like Bengal and Assam which has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases,” said Amba Prasad. Hazaribagh deputy commissioner Aditya Anand assured to look into the issue. “I am not aware of any such incident for violation of Covid-19 guidelines and would check the facts and assure to take action if there is any violation of Covid-19 guidelines,” the deputy commissioner said. The Jharkhand government had on Friday banned any kind of celebration and congregation at public places during Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Easter and Ramnavami festivities to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. Significantly, on Monday, the state witnessed 155 Covid-19 positive cases taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 1,23,090.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Pension issues: First Nabard strike in decade||The officers and employees of the Ranchi regional office of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) struck work on Tuesday, for the first time in a decade, for pressing their pension related issues. “This is a part of the national programme chalked out by the joint forum of our associations,” informed Prashun Chandra, the secretary of the local unit of Nabard officers’ association, adding the call was given by the united forum of officers, employees and retirees of the organisation and observed at all offices of the bank across the country. While those serving struck work, the retirees who were present in the city came to the office gate for lending their support, he further informed. “Though the service conditions of Nabard employees were supposed to be the same of those of Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the revisions in pension regulations of RBI employees that were made over the past eight years were not effected in case of Nabard employees and that created discrepancies,” Chandra informed about the reason behind their going on a strike. Nabard was carved out of the RBI by an act of the Parliament in 1981 when three RBI departments — agriculture credit department, rural planning and credit department and agriculture refinance and development department — were taken out to form it so that focus could be given to agriculture and rural development. “In 1982, RBI management appealed to its employees to join the newly formed organisation, Nabard, with the assurance that their pay, allowances and retirement benefits would be protected then and even in subsequent revisions in case of RBI employees who would stay back in the parent organisation,” Chandra informed about the background, adding it was also guaranteed in section 50 of the Nabard Act 1981. The parity with RBI employees in all service conditions including pension was further cemented during all the seven subsequent bipartite wage settlements with the employees’ associations of Nabard, he further said, adding pension regulations of Nabard was also formed in the same line in 1993. “But the revisions made in pension regulations of RBI and approved by department of financial services of the Union finance ministry over the past eight years created disparities among the employees of RBI and Nabard,” Chandra further said, adding that created grievances among Nabard employees who demanded parity. They started agitating since January 29 when they wore black badges or staged demonstration and dharna in front of their office before striking work for the whole day on Tuesday, Chandra informed, adding their next course of action would be decided by their national leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
