03-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 more die of Covid, 148 new cases in Chandigarh||The death toll from COVID-19 mounted to 172 in Chandigarh with three more fatalities while 148 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 12,360 on Saturday, according to a bulletin.A 70-year-old coronavirus positive woman was among the new fatalities due to the contagion.There are 1,792 active COVID-19 cases in the city, as of now, the medical bulletin said.A total of 234 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 10,396, according to the bulletin.A total of 80,300 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far and of them, 67,453 tested negative while reports of 153 samples were awaited, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-die-of-covid-148-new-cases-in-chandigarh-150541
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Will reach pre-COVID levels by year-end: Civil aviation minister||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri Saturday said domestic passenger traffic could reach the pre-COVID level by the end of current year.He said the daily domestic traffic has reached 1.76 lakh passengers from 30,000 passengers when the civil aviation operations resumed on May 25 following a two-month gap due to the pandemic.“On May 25, we resumed civil aviation operations and at that time, there were around 30,000 passengers. Today, I received data as per which there were 1.76 lakh passengers yesterday. We are going to achieve almost the pre-COVID level during the period between Diwali and the end of this year,” said Puri.He also said a meeting of airlines, Airport Authority of India and other stakeholders would be called and to discuss how more flights can be introduced from Chandigarh city.“We will see to increase connectivity from Chandigarh within our existing system,” he said.The minister also inaugurated passenger boarding bridges at the Chandigarh International Airport at Mohali. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-reach-pre-covid-levels-by-year-end-civil-aviation-minister-150518
03-10-2020||Mohali||After 48 days, Mohali reports less than 100 COVID-19 cases; infection tally 10, 833||After 48 days Mohali witnessed less than 100 cases in a day. The district reported 88 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district's tally to 10,833.The city's death toll stands at 199. In the last 24 hours, 166 have recovered from the deadly disease.Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan said, that it was also a great relief for health officials as no COVID death was reported after a month in the district.Mohali has 1,687 active cases.COVID-19 cases:Also, on August 17, the daily COVID count had crossed the 100-mark for the first time in the tri-city area, as Mohali registered its steepest single-day spike of 102 infections.So, far 8,947 had been cured and discharged from hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-48-days-mohali-reports-less-than-100-covid-19-cases-infection-tally-10-833-150514
03-10-2020||Mohali||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri inaugurates Passenger Boarding Bridges at Chandigarh Airport||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday inaugurated two passenger boarding bridges (PBB) during his visit at Chandigarh International Airport.CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, Ajay Kumar, informed that the minister was also apprised about the ongoing work at the airport, which includes, construction of southern taxi track, apron, and cargo.He said, that PBBs has been provided at Rs. 10.5 crore approximately, and the tunnel of these passengers boarding bridges were manufactured at BEML, Bangalore. He continued, that the total tally of such bridges at the airport has gone up to 05. This spruced up the spree of the airport facility shall serve passengers by protecting them during the cold in winters, heat in summers, and also protection from rain during the monsoon season, he added.Now, PBBs are completely available for the use of passengers, and almost 90 per cent of the total passenger traffic should be making use of it, said Kumar.He added, that the passenger facilitation has always remained on the top of CHIAL's agenda list, and they are committed to make Chandigarh airport as one of the best airports in the world by providing world-class facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civil-aviation-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-inaugurates-passenger-boarding-bridges-at-chandigarh-airport-150483
03-10-2020||Sheetal||Food makes the world go round, says actress Taranjit Kaur||To get over the lockdown blues, Chandigarh girl Taranjit Kaur has a four-step advice, “Hug your pet for five minutes. Still feeling sad? Listen to your favourite songs for half-an-hour. If you still can’t get rid of what’s depressing you, watch a good movie. And if nothing works, food will help you get over it. I believe my strongest Punjabi trait would be my love for food. Not only I like to eat but I enjoy hosting people and making them eat. In Mumbai, my friends never come to my house with their stomach full and never leave with an empty belly.”Besides food, Taranjit turned to philanthropy and writing to fight the lockdown blues. An ardent believer of giving back to society, she says, “I was shooting with Anup Soni in Delhi for a movie in which I play the lead, and then the lockdown was announced. We rushed back to Mumbai. It started with helping those who lost their livelihood in my surroundings, starting from maids to security guards, and then it took a different turn when I met a few like-minded people and we started this initiative called Pads-Squad to help women living in the slums.”Today, there are many volunteers working in 24 cities of India. People have contributed in this initiative by ordering sanitary pads online to be given to those who cannot afford it. “When we started this, my house was full of sanitary napkins. Now, in order to combat the menstrual waste, our focus is on reusable cloth pads,” she adds.Coming from a family of artists and poets, she got to explore the writer in her during the lockdown. And as soon as the lockdown was lifted, she captured her poems on a camera. She plans to release one each month. About the subjects that interest her, Taranjit says, “My first poem was on terrorism, which I wrote at the age of 10. As I grew up, women empowerment and women-related issues caught my attention.” Punjabi writers Amrita Pritam and Shiv Kumar Batalvi are her favourite.Trained by theatre-person Neelam Mansingh Chowdhry, Taranjit has a master’s degree in clinical psychology from Panjab University. She started her career in 2012 with Oscar-winning German film Raju and her second film 'Mouth of Hell' was nominated for BAFTA. She was also seen in Airlift, Ankhon Dekhi, Poppy and Murder on the Road to Kathmandu.She praises Chandigarh for its clean roads but criticises the 'gedi' culture which has been accepted here. She says, “After staying in Mumbai where the streets are safe for women, it comes as a surprise how one still has to think twice to venture out at night in North India. Eve-teasing should not be accepted.”Her favourite place is Sukhna Lake, for it evokes memories of those family outings in her childhood. She adds, “I also miss the Rock Garden, where we used to rehearse and stage plays at the open-air theatre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-makes-the-world-go-round-says-actress-taranjit-kaur-150386
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Vandals go on rampage, smash vehicles||A group of 50 miscreants carrying sharp weapons and sticks went on the rampage and vandalised around 30 vehicles, including two-wheelers, parked on streets at Mauli Complex in Mauli Jagran here last night following an argument between a local resident and a meat shop owner.Councillor, cops argue over challansHigh drama was witnessed at Mauli Jagran when councillor Anil Dubey had arguments with cops over challaning of two-wheeler riders not wearing helmets. Dubey objected to it. A video regarding the incident went viral. The councillor and residents protested outside the Mauli Jagran police station. Dubey said two persons, who were coming with him to meet the SHO regarding the incident, were riding a motorcycle. They were not wearing a helmet as they were returning from a cleanliness drive and had dust all over them. “I told the police about it. However, they issued a challan,” he said.The miscreants threw stones and smashed windowpanes of houses, leaving residents terrified. Sources said persons from the opposite group also threw stones in retaliation. The police said the owner, Kunal, was at his shop when a person, Karan, arrived there along with his dog. Karan brought the dog inside the shop to which Kunal objected. The incident led to heated arguments after which Karan left the spot.Later at night, Karan, along with others, reached there with sharp weapons and sticks. The miscreants went on the rampage and threw stones and bricks at houses and vehicles parked on the streets. Residents witnessed the entire incident from their rooftops, while many preferred to stay indoors. The police reached the spot.Shankar Prasad, a local resident, said the miscreants were running around the streets brandishing swords.“This is a complete failure of the police as the miscreants went on the rampage without any fear of being caught,” he said.Salman of Mauli Complex, who owns an Alto car, said the miscreants smashed both the front and rear windscreens of his vehicle. “The incident took place around 11 pm. There was chaos,” he said.Ram Lalan, another resident, whose car was also vandalised, said the miscreants ran amok for almost two hours. “In the meantime, two police vehicles reached there. However, the cops were outnumbered,” he added.DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh said patrolling had been stepped up to ensure law and order in the area.A case under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 341, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station on a complaint of Kunal. The police have arrested four persons, while the others are being identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vandals-go-on-rampage-smash-vehicles-150274
03-10-2020||Panchkula||Charred body found in car at Morni||The partially charred body of a man was found inside his gutted car near Mandhana in Morni here around 2 pm today. The body, found on the driver’s seat, was identified as that of 42-year-old Rajesh Kumar from Housing Board Colony in Sector 26.He was a private professional. According to the police, Rajesh had left his house yesterday afternoon for getting his car serviced in Mani Majra.When his family tried to contact him in the evening, his number was switched off. The family, thereafter, alerted the police. The gutted car was spotted during patrolling in the area by a PCR vehicle.The police said they had no clue about why the victim went to Morni. The victim’s body was shifted to the mortuary at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, for a postmortem.Police officials have not ruled out the murder angle.“Prima facie, it seems the car ran off the road, hit a tree and caught fire. However, we are waiting for the postmortem report, which will clear the air,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charred-body-found-in-car-at-morni-150275
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virus kills 5 more in Chandigarh||The city today recorded 155 new Covid cases and five deaths. A 38-year old woman from Sector 27, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, died at Sohana Hospital, Mohali.A 61-year-old woman from Mani Majra, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the GMCH-32. An 85-year-old man from Sector 35, a case of acute lung injury, hypertension and SARI, died at Fortis Hospital. A 54-year-old man from Sarangpur, a case of diabetes and hypertension, died at the GMCH. A 74-year-old man from Sector 51, a case of diabetes and ARDS, died at the PGI. A total of 153 more patients have recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-kills-5-more-in-chandigarh-150276
03-10-2020||Panchkula||1 more death, 45 cases in Panchkula||The district today reported one more fatality due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 87.A 77-year-old man from Sector 11 succumbed to the disease. The district also witnessed 45 fresh cases. The Covid tally now stands at 6,119. The fresh patients include five from Pinjore, four each from Kalka, Sector 16 and Sector 9, three each from Naggal, Sector 11 and Sector 2, two each from Sector 10, Sector 15 and Sector 8, and one each from Amravati Enclave, Bhoj Koti, Kharak Mangoli, the MDC, Sector 4, Nanakpur, Ramgarh, Sector 12, Sector 19, Sector 20, Sector 21, Sector 25, Sector 4 and Tipra. While 786 cases are still active, 5,246 persons have been cured. — TNSAt 85.7%, P’kula recovery rate up 20% in monthPanchkula: The recovery rate of Panchkula district has gone up to 85.7 per cent. It has improved by over 20 per cent in a month. Till August 31, the recovery rate stood at 64.5 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-more-death-45-cases-in-panchkula-150277
03-10-2020||Mohali||2 more deaths take Mohali toll to 199||Two more Covid fatalities have been reported from the district, taking the toll to 199. As many as 210 fresh cases were reported from the district. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjeet Singh, said a 75-year-old woman from Mohali, who was suffering from diabetes, died at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. A 48-year-old man from Khanpur village died at Shalby Hospital in Mohali with no known comorbidity.The Civil Surgeon said of the 210 fresh cases, 186 were from Mohali (urban), three from Banur, seven from Kharar, six from Dera Bassi, one from Lalru and five from Dhakoli. He said 157 more persons had been cured of the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-deaths-take-mohali-toll-to-199-150278
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Youngsters taking to crime in a big way||A majority of those arrested by the UT police under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Special and Local Laws (SLLs) during 2019 were in the 18-30 age group.According to a report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), of the 4,500 persons arrested, 59.97 per cent were in this age group.Among the 4,500 arrests, 2,562 were arrested for crime under the IPC. Among them, 1,314 were in the 18-30 age group. As many as 1,938 persons were arrested for crime under various SLLs. Among them, 1,385 were in the 18-30 age group. A total of 2,699 arrested persons of the 4,500 were in this age group, which works out to 59.97 per cent.Only 32.6% missing children traced in 2019The NCRB report states that in 2019, 528 children — 226 boys and 302 girls — were missing. Of them, 326 — 159 boys and 167 girls — were missing since previous years, while 202 — 135 girls and 67 boys — went missing in 2019. By the end of the year, only 172 children — 113 girls and 59 boys — were recovered or traced. A total of 356 minors — 167 boys and 189 girls — could not be traced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youngsters-taking-to-crime-in-a-big-way-150279
03-10-2020||Panchkula||Khattar launches mobile water testing lab van||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched the “Swachhata Pakhwada” campaign from Sector 5 here on Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary.The campaign will be observed from October 2 to 17 across the state. Special focus would be given on the cleanliness of sewerage systems and de-silting of ponds by the civic bodies. The Haryana Chief Minister also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries.He urged the people to take a pledge to keep their surroundings clean and join hands with the government to achieve the objective of the Swachh Bharat Mission.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta was also present on the occasion.Khattar also launched a state-of-the-art mobile water testing laboratory van, which is equipped with a multi-parameter system containing analysers, sensors, probes and instruments based on colorimetric and electrochemistry.The mobile water testing laboratory will be an effective mode of surveillance of drinking water quality in the rural areas of the state.He also spoke about the contribution of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri to India’s freedom struggle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khattar-launches-mobile-water-testing-lab-van-150280
03-10-2020||Mohali||Dismantling of tiles in Phase 5 market raises eyebrows||Eyebrows are being raised over the changing of tiles and installation of grills in the Phase 5 market by the Mohali Municipal Corporation. Residents say the dismantled ones were in a good condition.According to the information, the Mohali Municipal Corporation has been dismantling the tiles on the footpath, besides iron railings, in the Phase 5 and 7 markets. The residents claim that it was a sheer wastage of public money.NS Kalsi, former executive engineer, Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA), said he had taken up the issue of unnecessary expenditure in the name of development with the MC Commissioner. He said the parking area in Phase 7 needed to be expanded to facilitate visitors as had been done five years ago in the Phase 2 market. He said the grills now being installed had sharp edges that could harm children. He said if the MC continued to spend the money ruthlessly, they would move court for a stay order on the work.Former Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said the MC had already passed the project under the Smart City Mission, but there was no unanimity over the design of the railings to be installed in the markets. He said the parking lots needed to be updated keeping in view the increasing number of vehicles.Kamal Kumar Garg, MC Commissioner, said the developmental works were being carried out under the Smart City Project.He said the parking areas in the city would be enhanced to facilitate the visitors to markets. He said iron railings had to be removed to install poles for lighting in the parking area. He said some people were unnecessarily trying to raise the objections on the works being carried out by the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dismantling-of-tiles-in-phase-5-market-raises-eyebrows-150281
03-10-2020||Mohali||Will upgrade sports infra, says Punjab Cabinet Minister||To channel the energy of the youth in constructive activities and to boost the sports culture in the state, the Punjab Government will upgrade the sports infrastructure, said Balbir Singh Sidhu, Cabinet Minister.He was presiding over the district-level online launch of the construction work for three sports grounds. Sidhu said 750 sports stadia and grounds were being constructed in rural areas of the state for Rs105 crore in the current financial year. He said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had launched the first phase of the project — a sports ground in every block.Balbir Singh Sidhu said in Mohali, three sports grounds were being constructed at Daun Majra in Kharar, Barsalpur Taprian in Majri and Chadiala in the Dera Bassi block. He said the Daun Majra ground would be developed over an acre for Rs12 lakh, over two acre in Barsalpur Taprian for Rs37 lakh and on four acre area in Chadiala village at a cost of Rs50 lakh. He said the grounds were being made keeping in view the acceptability of a particular discipline of sports.Sidhu said to create a soothing environment, thick plantation had been proposed along the periphery of each ground. Engagement in sports would keep the youth away from drugs and would build their stamina, said Balbir Singh Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-upgrade-sports-infra-says-punjab-cabinet-minister-150282
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitation literacy campaign||To mark Gandhi Jayanti, NABARD today launched a sanitation literacy campaign to create awareness on the importance of maintaining good hygiene and sanitation.The campaign was inaugurated here by Jaspreet Talwar, Principal Secretary, DWSS, Punjab, in the presence of Dr Rajiv Siwach, Chief General Manager, NABARD, Punjab. It will continue till January 26, 2021.NABARD has been supporting the Swachh Bharat Mission by providing financial assistance for the construction of household toilets. It has also been promoting literacy and awareness on water, sanitation and hygiene. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitation-literacy-campaign-150283
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Common entrance for PG courses at PGI||The admission to all postgraduate (PG) courses at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, will be conducted through a centralised entrance exam – Institute of National Importance Combined Entrance Test — that will be conducted by AlIMS, New Delhi.The common entrance test will be held for over 10 institutes of the country for admission to MD/MS courses. The examination will be held on November 20 for all medical and dental courses between 9 am and 12 pm.“AIIMS invites online applications for the Institute of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INI-CET) for admission to PG courses [MD/MS/MCh (6years)/ DM(6years)/ MDS at AIIMS, New Delhi, JIPMER, Puducherry, NIMHANS, Bengaluru, and PGIMER, Chandigarh, along with seven other AIIMS (Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur, Nagpur, Patna, Raipur and Rishikesh) for the January 2021 session,” reads an official notification.The INI-CET application form submission incorporates two stages — basic registration and final registration. The INI CET basic registration process began on September 29.“All those who have applied earlier and whose basic registrations have been accepted for January 2019, July 2019, January 2020 and July 2020 session for AIIMS are not required to complete the basic registration again. They will have to complete the final registration only after a code is generated and editing of basic registration,” the notification read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/common-entrance-for-pg-courses-at-pgi-150284
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Restrictions removed from 10 zones in Chandigarh||The UT Administration today removed restrictions from 10 micro-containment zones in the city.An official stated that restrictions had been removed from house number 475 to 480 in Sector 32; house number 4165 to 4174 in Sector 46; house number 4103 to 4107 in Sector 46; house number 1057 to 1066 in Sector 41-B; house number 3437 to 3443 in Sector 35-D; house number 2173 to 2178 and 2157, 2158 and 2172 in Sector 27; house number 1378 to 1389 in Indira Colony; house number 2359 to 2368 in Sector 20-B; house number 100 to 109 and 137 in Sector 21-B; and house number 1056 to 1063 in Sector 21-A.Man booked for moving out OF ZONEA resident of Sector 35 has been booked on the charge of moving out of a containment zone. According to the police, Naresh Dilawari, went out of the containment zone in Sector 35 on September 30. A case under Section 51B of the Disaster Management Act 2005 was registered.The official said as per the protocol, the restrictions in the micro-containment zones were continued for 14 days from the last Covid case reported.He, however, said regular screening and monitoring of the area by medical teams would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and the residents would be advised to maintain social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restrictions-removed-from-10-zones-in-chandigarh-150285
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘Gandhi’s ideas still relevant’||Former Mayor and councillor Davesh Moudgil was the chief guest during an event to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri at the Gandhi Memorial Building in Sector 16 today.Moudgil said what Mahatma Gandhi said 100 years ago was still relevant. He said several universities across the world are carrying out research work on the Gandhian philosophy.He said Bharat Ratna Lal Bahadur Shastri was an inspiration for politicians. “Shastri ji always maintained transparency and honesty in politics. He worried about the nation and the people more than family and money,” he said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gandhis-ideas-still-relevant-150286
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Railways holds cleanliness drive to observe Gandhi Jayanti||A cleanliness drive was carried out by the Ambala Division of Northern Railways to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.The division, on the directions of Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh, has been observing Swachhta Pakhwada since September 16, which culminated today with paying tributes to the Father of the Nation.During the drive, emphasis was laid on collecting plastic waste on the Railways premises. An awareness campaign was also organised at all stations to educate the passengers about the importance of cleanliness.Members of some prominent NGOs also participated in the drive by conducting cleanliness activities on the premises of a station.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan said they were committed to fulfil Bapu’s dream of clean and hygienic India. Various volunteer groups always keep coming forward to join hands with the Railways to create awareness among public and railwaymen. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-holds-cleanliness-drive-to-observe-gandhi-jayanti-150287
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU's Department of Gandhian Studies organises online prayer meet||The Department of Gandhian Studies, Panjab University, in collaboration with the Bodhicitta Centre, organised an interfaith and inter-religious online prayer meet here today.An online special lecture by Panjab University Alumni Association member Suresh Misra on ‘Sustainable Lifestyle in a Pandemic World: A Gandhian Approach’ was organised.Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar highlighted the importance of the day by explaining the history of the Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bhadur Shastri and their contribution to the freedom struggle.In his address, Prof Nawal Kishore Ambasht, who started the pioneering work on ‘Tribal Education’ in the early 1966, said he was fortunate enough to see Gandhi ji in person while he was on move for a peace mission in Noakhali.In his special lecture, Prof Misra said Covid-19 was the greatest humanitarian challenge to the world since World War II and it had been observed that this disease was spread by the rich but the poor were the most affected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pus-department-of-gandhian-studies-organises-online-prayer-meet-150288
03-10-2020||Mohali||Plastic waste collected||The Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) today launched a plastic-gathering and cleanliness drive to mark Gandhi Jayanti.MC Commissioner Kamal Garg said the drive was launched after paying tributes to the Father of the Nation at Bougainvillea Park in Phase 4. He said 5.5-quintal plastic waste was picked up from various parts of the city.Garg said the waste was thereafter handed over to an NGO which will make useful items of it. Swachhta Warriors were also honoured on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plastic-waste-collected-150289
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Swachh ward contest begins||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation flagged off ‘Swachh Sawari’, a promotional vehicle to create awareness among the city residents for participating in the Swachh ward contest, at the Shanti Kunj parking lot in Sector 16 here today.Citizens can contribute clothes, shoes, stationery and books to the Swachh Sawari, which will go about the city and the schedule for each sector will be shared with citizens.The Swachh ward competition, an inter-ward contest, was launched today. Major indicators of the contest are segregation, citizen engagement, 3Rs principle.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said: ‘’An independent committee will be accessing the wards on these parameters and ward-wise ranking will be declared on a monthly basis till January 2021. The MC has appointed ward-wise nodal officers whom the citizens can approach for timely resolution of their grievances.’’He appealed to the citizens of Chandigarh to participate in the contest and motivate others.The civic body also organised intensive cleanliness drives throughout city, along with various NGOs and organizations, to mark Gandhi Jayanti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swachh-ward-contest-begins-150290
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets 8% more revenue in gross GST collected in September||With improvement in tax collection, the UT got nearly 8 per cent more revenue in the gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) collected in September in comparison to the tax received in August.An official of the Excise and Taxation Department said the UT would get Rs102 crore of the gross GST revenue collected in September, whereas, the department had received Rs94 crore in August 2020.The gross GST revenue collected in September stood at Rs141 crore, including collection of Rs26 crore under the Central GST, Rs34 crore under the UTGST, and Rs81 crore under the Integrated GST.However, the revenue for September was nearly 10 per cent less of the GST collected in the same month last year, which was Rs157 crore.The gross GST collection in August this year was Rs138 crore, which was nearly 13 per cent less as compared to Rs160 crore tax collected in August 2019. Of the gross collection, Central GST was Rs26.34 crore, UTGST Rs36.61 crore and Integrated GST Rs74.88 crore.The official said the GST collection in July was Rs108 crore. Due to imposition of the lockdown, the UT got meager revenue of Rs13 crore in April, which increased to Rs41 crore in May, the official added.However, with selective opening of various business establishments in Unlock 1, the revenue collection witnessed a sharp increase and the UT collected Rs71 crore tax in June, the officials said.The increase in revenue collection was a clear indication that businesses and other allied activities were gradually returning back to pre-Covid era, the official added.The Excise and Taxation Department created a history by achieving 100 per cent compliance in filing of monthly tax returns in the country under the GST regime for the year 2017-18 and 2018-19 and 99.25 per cent in the financial year 2019-20. Due to lockdown, it was nearly 90 per cent in the financial year 2020-21.The department had launched “Mission 100%” in January this year to accomplish 100 per cent compliance in filing of monthly tax returns (GSTR-3B).The department took number of initiatives to achieve the target like regular interaction with trade and industry, setting up of helpdesk in the office to assist taxpayers in filing returns, sending regular SMSes on mobile phones and messages on e-mails of taxpayers, besides telephonic contacts and these initiatives yielded good results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-8-more-revenue-in-gross-gst-collected-in-september-150291
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Busy day for Sector 22 market vendors||Roadside vendors in Sector 22-D market had a busy day as the Municipal Corporation’s enforcement team and the UT police looked the other way on Gandhi Jayanti today.Rows and rows of street vendors encroached upon pavements and corridors of the Sector 22-D market as shops remained closed. Being a public holiday, there was a rush at the market in the evening hours.Some shopkeepers alleged that people, who were entrusted the job to check encroachments and illegal trade, deliberately looked the other way.“Shop owners have to keep their shops closed, but street vendors can carry on their business on a public holiday. Why this selective treatment?”’ said a shop owner in the Sector 22-D market.Crowded corridors of the market meant that social distancing went for a toss. “No point talking about containing the virus. The Administration is busy somewhere else. Social distancing and virus can clearly wait for one more day,” said Alka Mahajan, a visitor at the market.It was a common to see people taking a stroll in the market without wearing masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/busy-day-for-sector-22-market-vendors-150292
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Congress protests in Sector 34, police use water cannons||Congress workers, led by Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra, held a protest to demand justice for the Hathras rape victim. The police resorted to water cannon to stop Congress workers marching from Sector 34 towards the BJP office in Sector 33.The police had barricaded the road to stop protesters from marching forward.Chhabra said first the victim was not given security and police assistance, then there was unduly long delay in registration of an FIR and action. Even after the death of the victim Dalit girl, her family was denied the right to cremation of their daughter when her body was hastily burnt on funeral pyre in the middle of night by Uttar Pradesh cops, Chhabra added.The Chandigarh Congress also questioned the manner in which the village of victim was sealed and turned into a fortress. During the protest water canon was used on protesters. Chhabra along with Vishal Attri, Prempal Chauhan, Love Kumar and Mahila Congress workers, including Premlata and Pammi, were left injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-protests-in-sector-34-police-use-water-cannons-150293
03-10-2020||Panchkula||Congress submits memorandum to President||The local unit of the Congress today submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind through Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, seeking justice for the alleged gang rape and murder of Hathras Dalit girl and dismissal of the Uttar Pradesh Government on the account of the failure of state machinery.“Respected sir, we Congressmen of the Panchkula district strongly condemn the gang rape and murder of Dalit girl of Hathras and at the same time also disapprove behaviour and attitude of the Uttar Pradesh police for manhandling Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi,” the memorandum read.Former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, Ranjeeta Mehta, Ravinder Rawal, and other Congress leaders were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-submits-memorandum-to-president-150294
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Committee formed to give relief to victims of human-wildlife conflict||The UT Administration has constituted a five-member committee for payment of compensation in case of human-wildlife conflict and issued guidelines in this regard.However, no ex gratia or compensation will be paid in case incident occurred due to snakebite within the boundary limit of a forest area or the wildlife sanctuary.Amount to be paid According to the notification, the Administration will give Rs5 lakh for death or permanent incapacitation, Rs2 lakh for grievous injury and up to Rs25,000 per person for the treatment of minor injury.A notification issued by Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Forests and Wildlife), states: “UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore is pleased to constitute a committee along with the guidelines in order to process cases of such claim for payment of ex-gratia to victims of human-wildlife conflict.”The committee will comprise Range Forest Officer (RFO), representative of the office of the Deputy Commissioner, health specialist from the office of the Director, Health, a veterinary doctor, and a wildlife inspector.As per the new guidelines, the RFO will receive complaint either from public, government functionary, field staff or any other source etc and make entry in the wildlife complaint register in the office.On receiving complaint, the RFO shall make necessary enquiry to examine the matter and to ascertain facts.On confirmation of the incident of the human-wildlife conflict, the RFO will arrange for the site visit by the committee to assess the extent of injury or death as the case may be, at the earliest within 24 hours of the receipt of the complaint.After the site inspection, the committee will prepare a joint report to be signed by not less than four members duly assessing the fact and recommending the ex-gratia to be paid.On receipt of report, the Deputy Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) will immediately process the file for payment of the ex-gratia to the victim, expeditiously.The Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, will be the approving authority for payment of such as ex-gratia from funds available with the Forest Department.In August this year, the UT Administration had notified compensation of Rs 5 lakh for the victim’s family.According to the notification, the Administration will give Rs5 lakh for death or permanent incapacitation, Rs2 lakh for grievous injury and the cost treatment up to Rs25,000 per person for minor injury.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/committee-formed-to-give-relief-to-victims-of-human-wildlife-conflict-150295
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Decongestion panel extends special parole,  interim bail of inmates||The high-powered committee constituted for decongestion of jails has decided to extend the period of special parole and special interim bail of all prisoners, who have been released due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The extension granted by the high-powered committee is till November 10, 2020.A special meeting of the committee was held under the chairmanship of Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, UT.Ombir Singh, IG Prisons, Chandigarh, and Ashok Kumar Mann, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, UT, briefed the committee regarding the action taken in compliance of directions/recommendations issued/made vide previous meetings of the panel.Considering the present Covid situation, the jail authorities had requested that the period of return be extended for reasonable time. In the meantime, the jail authorities would come up with a detailed plan for facilitating smooth readmission of prisoners into jail premises and avoid spreading Covid-19 therein.Justice Jaswant Singh agreed to their request and directed that detailed re-admission plan of convicted and undertrial prisoners be submitted in the office of State Legal Services Authority, UT, within 10 days and to be placed before the high-powered committee.The committee further specified that in order to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19, rapid antigen test of all arrested persons for the virus be conducted before admission into jail premises.“The UT health authorities are directed to do the necessary test (s) and only those with negative report be sent to jail premises,” the committee added. “In case any arrestee is found Covid positive, he/she shall be admitted for treatment in the prisoners’ ward of the government hospital (dedicated Covid Hospital). On full recovery, he/she should be admitted to jail,” the panel stated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decongestion-panel-extends-special-parole-interim-bail-of-inmates-150296
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bar Council to launch agitation for physical hearings in courts||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has decided to launch an agitation in case physical hearing in courts is not started by October 12. This was announced by Karanjit Singh, chairman, Bar Council, today.He said, “The Bar Council has sent representation to the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the administrative committee of judges of the High Court with earnest hope that the Chief Justice will heed to the request of legal fraternity and start physical functioning of 50 per cent courts by October 12. Otherwise, the Bar Council will have no other option except to resort to peaceful agitation in order to provide some comfort to advocates, who are keenly waiting for the re-opening of courts.”“The Bar Council will hand over a memorandum to the Governors of Punjab and Haryana on October 12 before resorting to agitation in anticipation of some tangible solution to problems faced by the legal fraternity and common man,” he added.“Peaceful and democratic methods will be adopted to press for our demands. In case demands are not met then chain hunger strike will start from October 13 in which five advocates will sit in the High Court as well as in Districts Courts premises every day,” he said. “Despite this, if the physical functioning of courts is not started in a phased manner, advocates will restrain attending virtual courts from October 26,” he added.Ajay Chaudhary, honorary secretary, Harish Rai Dhanda and Jai Vir Yadav, members of the Bar Council said, “The Bar Council is sending this representation on behalf of all advocates of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.”Lockdown was imposed by the government on March 25, which brought the entire functioning of courts to standstill, said Bar Council chairman. Now, relaxation in lockdown was given by the government in different phases lifting restrictions basically to revive the economy of the nation, he added. Under the recently issued Unlock-5 guidelines even theaters and education institutes were allowed to re-open and almost all commercial and other institutions had been allowed to start functioning, he said.“High Courts of different states have started physical hearing. Due to financial problems over 1,000 advocates practicing in the High Court left for their native places. Some advocates even applied for surrendering their licences to start new businesses,” he added.“On various occasions the council conveyed sentiments and problems of its members to the Chief Justice and the administrative committee of judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to start physical hearing in all courts of the two states and the UT,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-council-to-launch-agitation-for-physical-hearings-in-courts-150297
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 3,000 snatched at Mauli Jagran||Victim’s wife held in murder caseChandigarh: The UT police have arrested 25-year-old painter’s wife in the murder case. Victim Sonu, a resident of Palsora, who worked as a painter, was hit with some heavy object on his head and stabbed on the back. His body was found in the forest area of Sector 54 on September 30. The police on Thursday arrested victim’s cousin Rajiv, who was also a painter. Sources said his interrogation revealed that the victim’s wife was also involved in the murder. “The victim’s wife had illicit relation with Rajiv following which they hatched a conspiracy to eliminate him,” the sources added. TNSAward for CHBChandigarh: The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has won HUDCO Award for 2019-20 for practices to improve the living environment under the theme “Housing, urban poverty and infrastructure”. The award was given to the CHB for practices adopted in slum rehabilitation project at Maloya-I. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-3-000-snatched-at-mauli-jagran-150298
