05-10-2020||---||63 fresh COVID-19 cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, October 5Mohali on Monday recorded 63 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the caseload in the district to 10,963.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said no deaths reported in the district in the past 24 hours.Dr Singh said of the 63 fresh cases, 48 were reported from Mohali (Urban), six from Dera Bassi, three each from Kharar and Lalru, two from Banuri and one from Gharuan.He added that 163 persons were cured and discharged from various hospitals across the district.As of now, there are 1,431 active cases in Mohali while 9,332 have been cured and discharged to date. The district has reported 200 deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/63-fresh-covid-19-cases-surface-in-mohali-151422
05-10-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 deaths, 43 fresh Covid-19 cases||Panchkula on Monday reported two Covid-19 deaths, pushing the district toll to 95.A 62-year-old woman from Bitna who was suffering from diabetes, and a 48-year-old man from Sector 15 who had no comorbidities, succumbed to the virus.The district also witnessed 43 fresh coronavirus cases. The district’s COVID-19 tally stands at 6,264.Among the fresh cases, six were from Kalka, four each from Pinjore, Sector 15 and Sector 20, three each from Amravati Enclave, Sector 19, Sector 7, and Sector 9, 2 from Naggal, one each from Bitna, Chowki, Devinagar, Mauli, Nada Sahib, Police Line, Sector 10, Sector 12, Sector 18, Sector 21 and Sultanpur.While 628 cases are still active, 5541 have been discharged or cured. The recovery rate stands at 88.4 percent.Panchkula has so far conducted 69,944 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-2-deaths-43-fresh-covid-19-cases-151414
05-10-2020||Panchkula||Morni village gets mobile tower||Actor Sonu Sood, along with his friend Karan Gilhotra, helped students who were struggling to access online classes at Morni here.With the help of Indus Towers and AirTel, the duo got a mobile tower installed in the village to enable uninterrupted connectivity.The matter came to light after a video on the social media showed a child from Dapana village, Morni, sitting on a tree branch to catch mobile signals to help other children complete their homework. Sonu Sood and Karan were tagged in the post. Following this, the actor took an initiative with the help of his friend to come to the rescue of these children.The actor had tweeted: “No more climbing of trees for your online classes. Your village will have its own mobile tower this week.”“Children are the future of our nation and they deserve an equal chance to a better future. We believe such challenges should never stop anyone from reaching their full potential. It is our honour to help set up a mobile tower in the remote village to help these children access online classes. They no longer have to climb trees to catch mobile signals,” the duo said.Students expressed gratitude to the actor and his friend for helping them.Sonu Sood was recently honoured with the Special Humanitarian Action Award by the UNDP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/morni-village-gets-mobile-tower-151238
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Trains cancelled, diverted  due to farmers’ agitation||The Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has announced cancellation, diversion and short termination of passenger trains due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The routes of mail, express and parcel trains will also be diverted on Monday.CancelledAmritsar-Haridwar Express, Haridwar-Amritsar Express, New Delhi-Jammu Tawi Rajdhani Express, Jammu Tawi-New Delhi Rajdhani Express, Kalka-Ambala Express and Ambala- Kalka Express commencing on Monday will remain cancelled.DivertedDibrugarh-Lalgarh Express that commenced its journey on October 3 will be diverted to run via Rohtak-Bhiwani-Hisar-Hanumangarh.Bandra-Amritsar Express commencing its journey on Sunday will be short terminated at Ambala. Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express commencing on Tuesday will short originate from Ambala and it will remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala. Mumbai Central-Amritsar Express that commenced its journey on Saturday will be short terminated at Ambala. Amritsar-Mumbai Central Express commencing on Monday will short originate from Ambala and will remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala.New Delhi-Una Himachal Express commencing on Monday will short terminate at Ambala. On Tuesday, it will short originate from Ambala and will remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Una-Himachal-Ambala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trains-cancelled-diverted-due-to-farmers-agitation-151237
05-10-2020||---||Administration to conduct raids on pubs, discotheques||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4Following reports of social distancing norms being flouted in pubs anddiscotheques, the UT Administration will conduct surprise raids on these places.A video was doing the rounds on a WhatsApp group today showing a large number of people dancing on the dance floor in a discotheque without wearing masks and following social distancing. A senior UT official said they would conduct surprise raids.However, some youngsters found it strange. “When people are drinking and dancing simultaneously, how can they wear masks? How social distancing can be maintained on the dance floor? questioned a youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-to-conduct-raids-on-pubs-discotheques-151241
05-10-2020||---||DHS visits patients in home isolation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4To assess the situation on ground and see the quality of care being provided to patients in home isolation, Director Health Services Dr Amandeep Kang visited a few patients in home isolation in rural and urban locations here today.The Health Department has formed teams in five zones for effective and timely management of infected patients.Health workers in the field were specially asked to take a detailed history of patients on their first visit and record blood pressure and spo2 levels. They should also inform the patients of the signs that would require them to call for help and, if need be, shifting to the hospital for assessment.She asked them to build confidence in patients and explain to them that when they are shifted to the hospital for assessment they will be monitored, investigated and shifted back home when their condition improves.Dr Kang stressed upon the use of pulse oximeter for self-monitoring at home. It was noticed that home isolation patients in the rural and cluster areas don’t have pulse oximeters. Health care workers were asked to increase their visits to such patients to keep record of their oxygen levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhs-visits-patients-in-home-isolation-151242
05-10-2020||Mohali||Shyam-Shaminder in tennis doubles final||Shyam Jagat and Shaminder Singh defeated Gaurav Kumar and Charan Phogat in straight sets to storm into the men’s 35+ doubles final in the ongoing UTR-Roots Tennis Championship in Zirakpur today.Jagat and Singh registered a 6-4 6-1 victory to face Shashi Bhushan and KJ Singh, who defeated Jagpal Singh and Gulbir Singh 6-1 6-4, in the title clash.Meanwhile, in the league matches of the open category, Rajat Bangur defeated TS Veera 4-0 4-1. Aditya Chauhan ousted Shashank Singh 4-2 4-1, while Aditya Chauhan defeated Shivam Grover 4-1 4-0.Shashank Singh outplayed Navish Verma without conceding a single game, whereas Sarthak Gandhi outplayed Aryan Thakur 4-1 4-3(4). Konika Dhull defeated Mitesh Verma 4-1 4-1, Mitesh Verma defeated Ruchit 4-0 4-1 and Saurav Yadav ousted Harsh Goyal 4-1 4-2.Konika Dhull also moved into the next round by defeating Ruchit Patel 4-0 4-0, Rishi Dhaiya outplayed Ruchit 4-1 4-2 and Aditya Chauhan defeated Navish 4-1 4-0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shyam-shaminder-in-tennis-doubles-final-151243
05-10-2020||---||Roller Basketball World Cup to be organised in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The Federation International Roller Basketball will organise the 2021 World Cup in Chandigarh. This was stated by its office-bearers during a media interaction here.The event will be organised as soon as the Covid-19 pandemic ends. In other major announcements, the association will organise a roller basketball national championship here in the last week of December 2020. The open national will be conducted at Kerala and the Asian Championship will be organised in Sri Lanka in 2021. The tournament calendar for 2021 was also released today, followed by the launching of an international rule book.It was also announced that the sport will be promoted in a big way and 18 states have already got affiliation from the Indian federation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roller-basketball-world-cup-to-be-organised-in-chandigarh-151239
05-10-2020||---||Nigerian held with heroin||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 4The CIA staff of the Ambala police arrested a Nigerian and recovered 10 gm of heroin from him in Barara here last evening.The suspect has been identified as Kingsley Chinonso, a native of City Eziagu Nigeria. At present, he is living in Uttam Nagar, New Delhi.According to information, the police got a tip-off that Kingsley supplies heroin and he will be on his way towards Siwan Majra village on a two-wheeler. The police laid a naka when Kingsley was nabbed.A case was registered against him at the Barara police station. He was today produced before a court, which sent him to four-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nigerian-held-with-heroin-151240
05-10-2020||---||Woman crushed under tractor reaper, 3 held||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, October 4A man, along with his brother and son, has been arrested for allegedly killing a 42-year-old migrant woman, who came under a tractor-mounted reaper in fields on the rear side of the Truck Union office here yesterday.How the murder came to lightThe suspects, Harwinder Saini, his brother Parveen Saini and son Rohit Saini, were produced in a local court, which sent them to two-day police remand.The victim, Mitlesh of Bhagat Singh Nagar on the Barwala road, was picking up leftover paddy grains from fields. Harwinder Saini, the owner of one of the fields, objected to it and told her to go away. The woman did not leave following which the two had a heated argument. Later, her foot came under the reaper being driven by Harwinder. She was crushed under the vehicle and died on the spot.The police said they had arrested Harwinder, his brother Parveen and son Rohit for the murder.The suspects claimed that she was crushed under the vehicle accidently, but the police said it seemed to be a deliberate attempt.The incident came to light when the victim’s two children came to the field to ask her to have lunch together and did not find her. They asked the field owner, who said he had no information about the woman.The children then called their family members and relatives to the spot. They informed the police on noticing a piece of her suit and her lunch box at the site.The police questioned the owner, who informed them that he, along with the two other suspects, had thrown the body at a nearby place.Enraged over the incident, the victim’s family members blocked the Barwala road for nearly an hour by keeping the body on the road. They were later pacified by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-crushed-under-tractor-reaper-3-held-151213
05-10-2020||Panchkula||Two deaths, 32 fresh cases in Panchkula||The district today reported two Covid deaths, pushing the toll to 93. A 34-year-old man from Rattewali, who was suffering from diabetes, and a 61-year-old man from Sector 12, who was suffering from hypertension, succumbed to the virus.The district also witnessed 32 fresh coronavirus cases. The case tally now stands at 6,221. The fresh cases include six from Sector 20, four each from Raipur Rani and Sector 26, three from Sector 7, two each from Bir Ghaggar, Morni and Sector 8, and one each from Bhainsa Tibba, Khatouli, Rattewali, Sector 12, Sector 12-A, Sector 14, Sector 16, Sector 21 and Sector 9.While 661 cases are still active, 5,467 persons have been cured. The recovery rate stands at 87.8 per cent.Panchkula has so far conducted 69,669 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-32-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-151214
05-10-2020||Mohali||66-yr-old man dies in Mohali, 67 new cases||A 66-year-old man died of Covid today, taking the Mohali toll to 200. The district also saw 67 fresh cases, raising the tally to 10,900.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the 66-year old victim hailed from Sialba Majri village. He died at Grecian Hospital, Mohali.The health official said 45 of the 67 fresh cases reported today were from Mohali (urban), seven were from Kharar, two from Dera Bassi and 13 from Dhakoli. He said 216 persons were cured of the disease and discharged from various hospitals in the district. As of now, 9,163 patients had beaten the virus in the district. There are 1,537 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/66-yr-old-man-dies-in-mohali-67-new-cases-151215
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two patients with comorbidities die in Chandigarh||The city today recorded 85 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, taking the case tally to 12,445 and toll to 174.An 87-year-old woman from Sector 19, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the GMCH, Sector 32. A 67-year-old man from Mani Majra, a case of coronary artery disease and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), also died at the GMCH.Curbs removed from Mauli Jagran housesChandigarh: The UT Administration on Sunday removed the containment zone tag from several houses in Charan Singh Colony, Mauli Jagran. House number 473 to 477 and 500 to 511 got respite. The last positive case from here was reported on September 20. The last date of containment was October 3. TNSAs many as 202 patients were discharged from health centres and home isolation. The tally of cured patients has now reached 10,598, while 1,673 cases are still active in the city. The recovery rate has now crossed 84 per cent.In the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 1.2 per cent every day. Chandigarh has conducted over 81,066 tests so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-patients-with-comorbidities-die-in-chandigarh-151216
05-10-2020||---||Illicit liquor unit unearthed at Raipur Rani, 10 arrested||Panchkula, October 4A team of the Chief Minister’s flying squad, along with the crime branch of the Panchkula police, today unearthed an illegal liquor manufacturing unit in Raipur Rani here and arrested 10 persons.The seizureThe police also recovered 400 gm of opium, 33 boxes of illegal liquor, Rs80,000 and material being used to manufacture illicit liquor from them. Those arrested have been identified as Krishan, Ranbeer, Jaibeer, Rajesh Kumar, Ram Lakhan, Prem Singh, Bhim Singh, Sagun, Surender Pal and Gautam.They have been booked under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act and Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc) and 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).According to the police, the squad received a tip-off that illicit liquor was being manufactured in Sarakpur Mauja village of Raipur Rani. Acting on the information, the joint team raided the unit and arrested the suspects.The team also seized labels of different brands of liquor and empty bottles.The police said fake seals, plastic bottles and other material needed for producing liquor were being transported from Panipat.Around 50 boxes of illegal liquor were being supplied each day to areas, including Saha, Shahzadpur, Naraingarh and Shahbad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-unit-unearthed-at-raipur-rani-10-arrested-151218
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||6-yr-old girl dies as truck hits bike||A six-year-old girl died while her parents were injured after the motorcycle they were riding was hit by a truck at the Dhanas light point today. According to the police, Mani Ram (39), his wife Munni Devi and their daughter Pari were riding the motorcycle when the mishap occurred.All three were injured and rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where the girl was declared brought dead. The police have registered a case against the truck driver, Bhuwan Sahni, at the Sarangpur police station. He was arrested and later released on bail. The police have impounded the truck. — TNSLabourer dies in mishapmohali: A 42-year-old labourer was killed when a car hit his bike on Airport Road in Aerocity on Sunday. Biru Khan of a Dera Bassi village was going for some work when the mishap took place. He was taken to the GMCH-32, where he died. The car driver, Sundar Das of Delhi, has been booked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-yr-old-girl-dies-as-truck-hits-bike-151219
05-10-2020||Amit Sharma||2019 saw 72.08% cases pending in local courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4Local courts in Chandigarh had 72.08 per cent cases pending at the end of 2019 as per a report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Of the 10,476 cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Special and Local Laws (SLLs) under trial in the District Courts, only 2,924 could be disposed of by the end of the year.Among the 10,476 cases for trial, 7,240 were under the IPC and 3,236 under the SLLs. The report states that of the 7,240 IPC cases which were under trial, only 1,307 were disposed of and 81.9 per cent cases were pending at the end of 2019.Of the 1,307 IPC cases, the trial was completed in 1,257 and 50 were disposed of without trial. Similarly, of the 3,236 cases under SLLs, 1,617 were disposed of and 50 per cent cases were still pending at the end of the year. The SLLs include the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the Excise Act, Prevention of Corruption Act and Information Technology (IT) Act among others.Duration of completion of trials for IPC and SLL crimes during 2019In 1,134 cases, the trial was completed within one month, the trial in 125 cases was completed in one to three months, in 189 cases, it was completed in three to six months and in 369 cases, in six to 12 months. Meanwhile, in 748 cases, which were decided in 2019, the trial was completed between one and three years, in 194 cases, in three to five years, in 100 cases, in five to 10 years and in 15 cases, in more than 10 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2019-saw-72-08-cases-pending-in-local-courts-151220
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Miscreants set vehicles ablaze in Chandigarh||Three vehicles were set on fire by unidentified miscreants in different parts of the city last night.Mani, a resident of Mauli Jagran, said an unknown person set his brother’s Beat car on fire. “We came to know about the incident from a neighbour around 6 am. Someone had called up the Fire Department and by the time I came to know, a fire engine had already left after dousing the fire,” he said.A Mahindra pick-up, owned by Rajesh Sharma, that was parked near the Beat car, also caught fire. The incident has exposed the tall claims of stepped up patrolling in the area. Two days ago, miscreants had vandalised around 30 vehicles at Mauli Complex in Mauli Jagran.A similar incident was reported from Ram Darbar where a Nissan Kicks car parked on the roadside was set afire. Kishore Kumar said the incident was reported around 2.30 am. “A police team noticed the vehicle burning following which they called up the Fire Department,” he said.Another car parked in front of the Nissan car also suffered damage due to the fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/miscreants-set-vehicles-ablaze-in-chandigarh-151221
05-10-2020||In view of covid-19||Why not wait till Oct-end, review situation & open schools||Formulate policy for online educationSchools reopened for Classes IX to XII, but students response is poor as the attendance remains thin. Most schools are not equipped to impart online education. Full opening of schools doesn’t seem practical keeping in view the rising number of Covid cases. So, the Centre and state governments must formulate a policy for online education with provision to ensure availability of all requisite infrastructure required by schools, teachers and students. The government should provide funds for this purpose.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliOpening of schools not recommendedSchools for any classes should open up at this juncture when Covid is spreading like anything in the City Beautiful. The government should not be in a haste to open schools as the attendance is negligible. Private schools are not opening due to this reason. Learn from them.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhOpen schools for senior studentsHuman life is precious, but so is education. Certainly, importance of life overcomes that of education. So, the government should open schools only for Classes IX to XII. Due care must be taken while admitting students to classes. Students must undergo thermal checking, wear masks and use sanitisers regularly. Doing yoga along with administering vitamin A, D and zinc etc in schools to increase students’ immunity will do no harm.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhParents skeptical about admn moveMany parents are skeptical about sending their children to schools even as coronavirus cases continue to surge in the country. Meanwhile, the authorities have another point that education in government schools is suffering. Countries like Israel reopened schools in May, but ultimately closed them as many teachers and students contracted Covid-19. Keeping in view the spike in virus cases, the decision to open schools must be deferred at least till October end.Gopal Mittal, ChandigarhFamilies of students, faculty at riskSchools should not open. Kids go to schools far away from their homes. Travelling to and from residences and schools can spread virus among students. Besides, grandparents and young siblings at home can contract virus. Most people can’t maintain physical distance as they don’t have big houses. So, it’s not advisable to put students’ lives at risk for education.Sargam, ChandigarhSenior students need attentionAmid corona, only senior students should be called to schools as they need more attention. As a matter of choice of career and admission to good colleges, they need to understand and clear educational concepts in a better way. Students’ upto Class VIII can be taught virtually by making the curriculum practical, innovative and interesting as danger of coronavirus still persists.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliDon’t override students’ safetyDespite school managements haste to open schools for Class IX to XI to justify their fee demand, cautious parents thought otherwise and did not consider the prevailing pandemic conducive to send their wards to schools. For them online classes is the only option. Schools should wait for starting junior classes. It is not possible to stop small kids from mingling with each other in and outside classes. Commercial angle must not be the deciding factor in opening schools. It should not override students’ safety.SC Luthra, ChandigarhWritten consent of parents requiredAs per the guidelines students of Classes IX to XII may be permitted to attend schools in areas outside containment zones on a voluntary basis. Assemblies, sport and events, which can lead to overcrowding, should be prohibited in schools, which open. Studies have shown that children are less susceptible to severe Covid-19 as compared to adults. It depends on parents whether they want to send their wards to schools or not. This will be subject to written consent of parents/guardians.Akshar Kumar Singla, ChandigarhA welcome change for senior studentsThe children are stuck in their homes since the last six months or so. They are getting dull. Allowing them to attend their classes will not only be a welcome change for them, but also beneficial from the academic point of view. Only students from Classes IX to XII should be allowed to attend schools. We and our children have to learn to live with this pandemic.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhProlonged Lockdown not right approachWhy we think that schools are the only places from where virus can spread? At the end, we have to make our people aware how to adjust the new normal. Parents and school authorities have to understand that lockdown is not the right approach for longer period. How to keep away from infection is the main aim for all of us. This style of living can be learnt only through practice. Schools are best places to inculcate this among our coming generations.PK Patpatia, AmbalaMake parents feel confident about safetyApparently, one of the reasons for thin attendance after reopening of schools is that parents are not confident enough about safety of their wards from the Covid-19 pandemic. To overcome this problem, managements of schools should keep in touch with parents. They should be informed about safety measures taken by schools. Steps taken by schools in accordance with the UT Administration guidelines should be visible on ground.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliSchools must open for allEducation is one of the major requisites of employment in the market. If students don’t have good education, country will not develop. Therefore, the government should make honest efforts to provide quality education to students even during the pandemic. For this, schools will have to function for all with proper safety measures in place.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhOnline studies convenient modeSchools in the UT reopened partially on September 21. However, due to rising number of Covid-19 cases, limited number of students showed up. Parents may not be sure regarding safety arrangements in schools and whether their kids will be able to take all required precautions or not. Further, students may find it convenient to continue online mode of studies till the pandemic subsides.Dr Gulshan Goyal, PanchkulaOpen courts, not schoolsWhy is our government and the Education Department in hurry to open schools? If our government is so worried about country’s future, it should open High Courts and Supreme Court and not schools. After all, future of our country depends on judgments of these courts. How can we permit these courts to keep their shutters down for so long?Gurpreet S Malhotra, ChandigarhNot a laudable moveCovid cases are increasing rapidly in the tricity. Reopening of schools for senior classes is not a laudable move as online programmes are going on for students. Though parents agreed to send their wards to schools, only four per cent attended classes. There is old dictum health is wealth. Once this pandemic is over life will return to normalcy.Tarunjot Kaur, Greater MohaliBetter to wait for a few more monthsSchools opened in Chandigarh for senior students. The time is not ripe for junior students to attend classes during the pandemic. Children below 10 years have weak immunity and can fall prey to virus. Besides, they will not understand and follow the Covid guidelines. Better wait for a few months to open schools for junior students till Covid subsides. Safety of young ones is foremost.MR Bhateja, NayagaonFollow all Covid SOPsStudents can no longer be deprived of studies to avoid the Covid-19 pandemic. Online teaching is no substitute for classrooms. The virus is not leaving us anytime soon. It’s time students take precautionary measures as new normal. Nonetheless, schooling hours should vary for primary, middle and high classes while attendance should be at parents’ discretion. Schools need to supply face masks and sanitisers free on demand, make spot thermal screening compulsory and arrange testing for Covid when required. Details of Covid SOPs should be circulated widely and implemented in toto while allowing school activities.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaWait till vaccine is availableThe opening of schools for students of Class XI to XII during peak of coronavirus infection cannot be justified. The government and the Administration must wait till the availability of vaccine. The winter season may increase spread of virus. It would be better to continue online classes. Doubts of students can be cleared on phone. Immaturity and enthusiasm among students can spike infection.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliAdmn should not risk students’ lifeStudents do not understand harms of coronavirus. They would play with their friends when schools reopen. Children are future of the nation. It’s duty of the government to save their lives. The Chandigarh Administration should know that it’s wrong to reopen schools. Students cannot follow Covid guidelines like wearing face masks and maintain social distance etc. The Administration should continue online teaching. Syllabus of all classes should be reduced.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliParents concerned about kids’ safetyOpening of schools for students of Classes IX to XII did not yield good response due the Covid-19 scare. This clearly indicates that starting classes for junior students may also not bring desirable results. Moreover, parents of junior classes’ students may not have enough courage to send their wards to schools. They would be more concerned about safety of their children than their studies. As such, it may not be advisable to open schools for junior students for the time being.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliDistribute pen drives with course materialKeeping in mind the rising coronavirus cases in the UT, parents find it difficult to send their kids to schools. Obviously, students are our biggest treasure and future of the country. Safety of students and teachers is of utmost importance. In order to save students from academic loss, schools must continue online classes through computers, TVs and radio. Pen drives with course material can be distributed among students.Anita Tandon, KhararBetter to take online classes, examsSchools are opening for students of some classes, but this move is not favourable. May be some students have good immunity, but others, who contract virus infection, may not able to recover from it. So, the Administration’s decision is to open schools is not good. Online classes and exam are better option. The UT Administration should not force students to venture out of their homes during the pandemic.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhDon’t hurry to open schoolsThe latest guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs suggest that the attendance in schools should be on involuntary basis and that too after the consent of guardians or parents. Coronavirus pandemic is scary. Children below 10 years are most vulnerable. Students are innocent and don’t know gravity of the pandemic. If a student gets infected with virus he/she can spread infection among his/her classmates. So, the UT Administration should not be in a hurry to open schools.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhLet students accept the challengeMany students face problems during online classes as the Internet connectivity is not reliable. Schoolchildren are more disciplined and follow rules strictly. They are future of the country. Let them accept the challenge and live with the virus by taking precautions. The UT Administration should allow schools to reopen for all classes while following SOPs strictly.Col Balbir Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhInvolve stakeholders while taking decisionWith the sudden surge of Covid-19 cases principals, teachers and parents want the authorities to review the decision of reopening schools. Some teachers say it is not possible to teach while wearing face mask. Others are of the view that working hours should be fixed. The authorities should review and take action after consulting the people concerned.Vidya Sagar Garg, ChandigarhOpen schools in a phased mannerThe decision to open schools partially is correct. Schools must strictly enforce norms of social distancing and wearing masks. After opening for senior classes, students of junior classes too should be called to schools. The number of students in each class can be decided as per the norms set by the authorities concerned and ease of teaching. Students should not lose year. But, we cannot play with young lives. This notion should be kept in mind before taking any decision.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhRisky to send kids to schoolsDue to rise in Covid cases, schools should be remain functional only for senior students because little ones are not mature and will not follow social distancing and other guidelines. It would be risky to send them to schools. Besides, kids don’t have strong immunity and can easily contract virus. Online teaching is beneficial for young ones, as they don’t have much syllabus. Also, they are safe at home.Nakhpreet Kaur, SangholWait till festival season gets overIn the given scenario, where the pandemic is reaching new heights with each passing day opening of schools is an exercise in futility. It will serve no purpose as the attendance will remain low and increase mental agony. Online teaching should continue till the festival season gets over. The government needs to reconsider its decision of opening schools.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurTime to send kids to schoolsStudies from across the world have already shown that the rate of transmission from kids in classrooms is very low. It’s high time to regain the eroding trust among parents to send their wards to schools while following Covid guidelines. As children have already spent six months out of school, many of them will lag in academics. Their well-being and social skills will also be affected if kept out of classrooms.Dr Manjinder Kaur, Manali QUESTIONA downward trend in Covid cases has been witnessed during the past two weeks in Chandigarh. The average testing has also gone down to 800 per day from 1,200. Experts say residents are no more keen on going to health centres for testing for various reasons, including social stigma. In view of this, should there be a large-scale sero survey in the UT to measure the exposure to Covid-19 in the community and frame proper policies to handle the pandemic?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/why-not-wait-till-oct-end-review-situation-open-schools-151228
05-10-2020||---||Parties contesting Panjab University teachers’ assn poll trade charges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The Mritunjay–Naura team, contesting the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections, has alleged that their rival group, Khalid-Sidhu team, is working at the behest of the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor (VC), who does not have the competence to face democratically elected bodies of the institution.PUTA elections, which are proposed to be held on October 9 and 10, are to yet to get approval of the Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner. “Prof Mohammed Khalid along with his team members is making an all-out counter-effort to create one obstacle after another. Their intentions are clear. They do not want to face elections and are inventing excuses to deny us a democratically elected PUTA 2020,” said Mritunjay Kumar, who is contesting for the president’s post.“The worst – in tandem with the authorities, they have even gone to the extent of claiming the non-existence of PUTA – with absolutely no consideration for long-term repercussions of such a move for the whole teaching community,” Mritunjay added.“The recent letter written to the UT Deputy Commissioner by Prof Mohammed Khalid and his team members is a clear attempt to mislead the Administration in all possible ways, affirming their intentions to sabotage PUTA elections at the cost of teachers’ welfare. The letter is full of lies and is aimed at misguiding the Administration against holding elections,” Mritunjay said.“The allegations are baseless. We are ready to discuss at any platform. Twice they denied our invitation of an open debate. They are saying we are afraid of elections. I appeal to them to organise an open debate anytime or on any given day. Let’s have a dialogue,” said MC Sidhu, who is contesting for the post of secretary from the Khalid-Sidhu group.“Never in the history of PUTA, since 2008, elections were held in September. Then why now? The situation was same in August as of September. Why didn’t they take advance permission from the UT Deputy Commissioner. Letters written to the Deputy Commissioner should be made public by both parties. Some teachers approached the Vice-Chancellor and a letter was passed on to the PUTA Secretary, but the official was not even aware about it. They are not even following the PUTA constitution. How can they blame us?” Sidhu added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parties-contesting-panjab-university-teachers-assn-poll-trade-charges-151229
05-10-2020||Karam Prakash||Every fourth Covid patient admitted to  Patiala hospital died||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 4Every fourth Covid patient, who took treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital, died due to the disease. So far, 599 of the total 2,225 patients admitted to the hospital have fallen prey to the virus, reveal the Health Department records.The health facility is among the only few tertiary healthcare institutes, which are providing Covid treatment, in the state.The authorities claimed there was improvement in services at the hospital. They blamed delay in admission to the hospital for high fatality rate. Most patients were referrals, the authorities added.Majority of patients had died within the first 48 hours of admission, which meant they came at a time when their health had already deteriorated, the authorities said. Another factor, which contributed to high case fatality rate, was patients had co-morbid conditions.Last month, the government had replaced the entire administration at the Government Medical College (GMC) and Rajindra Hospital over high casualty ratio and poor administration. However, the average daily deaths dropped from 12 to five in the past one week. The hospital had reported nearly 25 Covid deaths per day in August.GMC Principal Dr Rajan Singla said, “High case fatality ratio was due to late arrival of patients. Moreover, around 60 per cent patients at the Covid ward are really sick. Therefore, the ratio is higher. However, the situation has improved a lot. The decline in the average daily deaths is a testimony to it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/every-fourth-covid-patient-admitted-to-patiala-hospital-died-151230
05-10-2020||---||Over 10K appear for Civil Services prelims||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4Over 10,000 candidates appeared for Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) Civil Services prelims here today.The examination was held in two phases. Paper I was held from 9.30 am to 11.30 am and paper II was held from 2.30 pm to 4.30 pm.Markandey singh, who appeared for the exam, said: “I found general studies paper quite brainstorming and difficult. Only polity and some static questions were moderate. A majority of the questions were beyond textbooks, which need voracious reading of newspapers and journals.”Civil Services exam mentor Kunal Singh said: “The UPSC tried to paint a wide canvas of comprehensive and exhaustive questions majorly from agriculture, environment, economics, application of science technology followed by moderate polity and history questions. A majority of the questions were dynamic in nature, which needed in-depth understanding and interpretation, along with elimination technique rather cramming up the facts only.”“Paper-II (CSAT) was rather scoring with normal mathematical and reasoning questions. I think cut-off will be slightly on the lower side this year with such aromatic and intricate questions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-10k-appear-for-civil-services-prelims-151231
05-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Shop, Sony India fined for unfair trade practice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4In a unique order, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed Modern AKM Electronics Private Limited and Sony India Limited to pay Rs5,000 compensation to a consumer for causing mental agony and harassment and compelling him to purchase their new product by offering 20 per cent discount in exchange with an old and damaged one. The firms have also been directed to pay Rs3,000 as costs of litigation.Parminder Singh Sekhon, a resident of Nayagaon, approached the commission alleging that the opposite parties - Modern AKM Electronics Private Limited and Sony India - had failed to fix the problem in a play station 4 500GB.Parminder said he purchased the product from Modern AKM Electronics Private Limited after paying a sum of Rs29,000. It carried a warranty of one year from the date of purchase.In April 2019, he noticed that there was some issue with the product. He visited the shop to get it fixed, but they could not rectify the problem. He was informed that the product had some dents on the corner. Therefore, it was the complainant-induced damage, thus not covered under the warranty. Instead of getting it repaired, the shop owner offered the complainant to purchase a new product with 20 per cent discount on the MRP.The complainant claimed that the defect was covered under the warranty and the dents were caused due to its frequent use.Terming the acts of deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, the complainant prayed for direction to the OPs to provide him a new generation latest play station, pay compensation of Rs1 lakh along with interest and litigation expenses.The opposite parties, however, denied the allegations. They claimed that the dent was caused due to mishandling of the product by the complainant. They gave him an offer to replace the said play station with a new one at a discounted price of 20 per cent on the MRP, which was not acceptable to the complainant.After hearings the arguments, the court observed that compelling the complainant to purchase a new product by offering 20 per cent discount on exchange with the damaged one definitely constitutes unfair trade practice on part of the opposite parties. They should have straightaway assessed the value of the damage and then, after taking the consent of the complainant, ought to have repaired it on a chargeable basis as the damage was not covered under the warranty.If the complainant wishes to get it repaired, he should handover the damaged play station to the opposite parties, who will quantify the estimate for repair and apprise him of it. If the complainant opts for such repair, the opposite parties should do the needful within a fortnight and pay a compensation of Rs5,000 to the complainant for mental agony and harassment for compelling him to purchase their new product by offering 20 per cent discount in exchange with the old and damaged product.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shop-sony-india-fined-for-unfair-trade-practice-151232
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||45 widows get ration kits on the doorstep||The 10th monthly ration distribution programme was organised by Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation. One-month ration kits were distributed among 45 widows on the doorstep during the programme.This monthly ration distribution initiative was started by Sanjay Tandon, president of Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation. It is held on first Sunday of every month. The first three programmes were organised at Khuda Ali Sher village, where ration kits were distributed among the families of widows.The one-month ration kit includes 10-kg flour, 1.5-kg rice, 1.5-kg sugar, 2-kg pulses, one bottle mustard oil, 250-gm tea leaves, 1-kg salt, 100-gm turmeric, 100-gm spices, 100-gm coriander, 100-gm cumin, 500-gm oatmeal, 500-gm flour, 400-gm soyabean, four bathing soaps, one shampoo, one tooth paste, two tooth brush, six biscuit packets, one bottle pickle, 500-ml milk powder, five-kg potatoes and two-kg onion.The number of widow families has increased to 45. The ration kits for the month of October were delivered on the doorstep today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-widows-get-ration-kits-on-the-doorstep-151233
05-10-2020||---||New subject to help students cope with real-life situations||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 4From now on, students of government schools in the state will be given moral education to make them good citizens.The Punjab Education Department has introduced a new subject, ‘Welcome Life’, which will be taught to the students of pre-Primary to Class 12.‘Welcome Life’This is the first time that the Education Department has introduced the subject to cope with real-life situations.Faculty is said to have already started teaching the subject during online classes. Officials said textbooks of the new subject had also been prepared and would be distributed among the students in the coming days.The officials said the new subject, which would be taught once a week, was introduced after repeated requests by educationists, school heads and teachers. It has been learnt that students will be taught ‘How to handle life problems in their day-to-day life’ by sharing with them real-life experiences.They said the subject would be taught by the existing staff and therefore, no fresh recruitment would be made for the same.School heads have already been directed by the Health Department to add the new subject in the timetable. A government schoolteacher said the subject would cover all possible life skills, including mental health, to make education a holistic experience.District Education Officer Harinder Kaur said they had started teaching the subject and were waiting for the textbooks. She said, “Teachers have already been briefed about the subject. The subject will help inculcate moral values among the students. It will help them lead a better life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-subject-to-help-students-cope-with-real-life-situations-151234
05-10-2020||---||17,488 beneficiaries availed of benefits in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 4As many as 17,488 beneficiaries in the district took health benefits worth Rs38.12 crore in government hospitals in a year under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.Patiala is followed by Hoshiarpur with 12, 762 beneficiaries and Bathinda with 10,747 beneficiaries. Nearly 1.61 lakh beneficiaries in the state have benefited from the scheme in a year.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, said 13,330 dialysis; 1,552 eye surgeries and 3,270 deliveries has been covered under the scheme. Besides, 213 life-saving heart surgeries were also performed under the scheme.Dr Malhotra said 237 medical packages had been added in the phase II of the scheme, taking the total medical packages covered under the scheme to 1,579.He said, “The scheme has helped poor people to get treatment of major illnesses such as cancer, cardiac ailments, orthopaedic and neo-natal problems.”District nodal officer Dr MS Dhaliwal said there were 15 government hospitals in the district where beneficiaries could avail of the benefits under the scheme and 39 private hospitals had been impaneled for the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-488-beneficiaries-availed-of-benefits-in-patiala-district-151235
05-10-2020||---||Contests mark RBU webinar||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 4A webinar on “Transforming Global Health” was organised by the University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Rayat Bahra University (RBU), to mark World Pharmacists Day.Chancellor Gurvinder Singh Bahra and Pro-Vice-Chancellor AC Vaid participated in the proceedings. Expert speakers included Prof Anil Kumar, Department of Pharmacology, University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences (USPS), Panjab University, Chandigarh, Ashish Garg, Regional Head, Asia Pacific Region and Manager, QA and Compliance-APAC Abbott Vascular, Abbott Laboratories, Limited, New Delhi, and Prof Geeta Aggarwal, Dean Academics, Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University, New Delhi.Jatinder Sharma, Manager Production Operation and Operation Excellence, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited, and Amrik Singh, Registered Pharmacist, BC College of Pharmacists, owner of Prime Care Pharmacy, Surrey, BC, Canada, were invited as special speaker for the webinar.Over 150 participants took part in various competitions such as e-slogan, e-pharma collage and declamation contests on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contests-mark-rbu-webinar-151236
