06-10-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 3 more deaths, 129 new cases in Chandigarh||Three more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Chandigarh on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 180, while 129 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 12,707.There are 1,492 active cases in the city, according to the state health department’s medical bulletin.It said 238 more patients were discharged Tuesday after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 11,035, it said.A total of 82,586 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 69,370 tested negative, while reports of 132 samples were awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-3-more-deaths-129-new-cases-in-chandigarh-151915
06-10-2020||Mohali||Closure of Covid Care Centres commences in Mohali||Keeping in view the decline in number of COVID-19 cases, the district administration has started closing the Covid Care Centres in the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that in compliance with the directions of the state government, the district administration has commenced closure of the Covid Care Centres as the number of coronavirus positive patients has begun to decline in the district.He said the patients in the Covid Care Centres are being shifted to Level-2 hospitals.Divulging further, Girish Dayalan said that 63 positive cases were reported in the district on Monday with 176 recoveries and one death.The fresh Covid positive cases include seven cases from Boothgarh, three from Dera Bassi, nine from Kharar, 42 from Mohali Urban and one each from Dhakoli and Lalru.As of now the total number of positive cases reported in the district is 11,026 out of which 9,508 have recovered and 1,317 cases are active with 201 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/closure-of-covid-care-centres-commences-in-mohali-151901
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Major fire at Dadumajra dumping ground||A major fire erupted at the Dadu Majra dumping ground around 2:30 pm leading to a scare among the nearby localities here on Tuesday.Residents said the fire erupted in the afternoon as flames and a plume of orange-yellow smoke rose from the middle and spread in all directions of the garbage mound with wind.Dadumajra resident Dyal Krishan said, “The road joining Dadu Majra and New Chandigarh was engulfed with smoke and commuters on the two wheelers complained of burning sensation in their eyes.”Firemen at the site said the flames in the middle of the garbage mound are being doused by water canons but they are facing difficulty in depositing sand and earth even though JCB machines and tippers have been pressed into action.Fire officials said they are trying to control the fire and it will take a nightlong operation before they assess the situation in the morning.No loss of life and property was reported till the filing of the report. But some of the residents living in the Housing Board colony in Dadu Majra experienced a burning sensation in their eyes and complained of breathing problems.As the situation worsened, fire tenders from across the city took turns to douse the fire. Officials of the fire department also reached the site to monitor the situation.Sector 38 fire station incharge Surjit Singh said, “A call was received at 3:50 pm and immediately two fire tenders were rushed.”Though the exact cause of the fire could not be ascertained, fire officials apprehend that the build up of gases under the garbage and combustible substances may be the cause of fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/major-fire-at-dadumajra-dumping-ground-151881
06-10-2020||New Delhi||ED files chargesheet against Pawan Bansal’s nephew, others in railway bribery case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against Mahesh Kumar, then Member Staff of the Railway Board and Vijay Singla, nephew of then Railway Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal, besides several railway officials in the railway bribery case, officials said on Tuesday.An ED official said the agency has filed a chargesheet against Kumar, Singla, N. Manjunath, Sandeep Goyal, Ajay Garg, Rahul Yadav, Sameer Sandhir, Sushil Daga, C.V. Venugopal, M.V. Murali Krishna and Venketeshwara Rail Nirman Pvt Ltd under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The chargesheet was filed in a Special PMLA court in Chandigarh, a release said on Tuesday. The ED has also demanded punishment for those named in the chargesheet and confiscation of their assets.The ED case is based on the FIR and chargesheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Kumar, Singla, Goyal and seven other accused persons.The CBI had arrested Bansal’s nephew Singla red handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 89.68 lakh for favourable posting of Kumar, a 1975 batch officer of the Indian Railway Service of Signal Engineers (IRSSE) as Member (Electrical), Railway Board.“During the investigation it was revealed that Manjunath on behalf of Kumar had persuaded various Railway vendors/S&T manufactures/contractors for making arrangement of bribe amount for promotion of Kumar as Member (Electrical) by alluring them that all the contributors will be taken care of/benefited from the desired posting of Kumar,” the official said.It was also found that for the favourable posting of Kumar, the first instalment of the bribe amount of Rs 89.68 lakh was contributed by Manjunath, Krishna, Daga and Venketeshwara Rail Nirman Pvt. Ltd.The officer said Rs 50 lakh was contributed by Manjunath himself, Rs 25 lakh by Krishna, Rs 5 lakh by Daga and Rs 10 lakh from the account of Venketeshwara Rail Nirman Pvt. Ltd. by Rahul Yadav and Daga.“The said amount was routed through the account of various companies or individuals and with assistance of hawala agents,” the officer said, adding: “The amount Rs 89.68 lakh was finally made available at Delhi in the form of cash which was delivered to Singla at his office in Sector 28, Chandigarh by the employees of Daga and Yadav of Delhi.” The ED in July this year questioned Bansal for several hours in Chandigarh in connection with the case.In May last year, the ED had attached the Rs 89 lakh amount which the CBI seized from the office of Bansal’s nephew Singla in 2013 in the corruption case related to appointments at top positions in the railways, when the Congress leader was the Union Railway Minister in the United Progressive Alliance-2 regime.Bansal had to step down from the post after the controversy.“Singla demanded Rs 10 crore through Sandeep Goyal from N Manjunath to get Mahesh Kumar posted as Member (Electrical),” the ED had said, quoting the CBI probe. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ed-files-chargesheet-against-pawan-bansals-nephew-others-in-railway-bribery-case-151871
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||CHB to offer houses on lower rates||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-offer-houses-on-lower-rates-151822
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Apply for PU's 3-yr LLB till Oct 9||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apply-for-pus-3-yr-llb-till-oct-9-151821
06-10-2020||Panchkula||Two held in Vita booth robbery||Those arrested have been identified as Gulam Rasool and Dileep Kumar, who were currently residing in Mani Majra. Kuldeep Singh, owner of the Vita booth, was robbed of Rs 20,000 at gunpoint by two bike-borne miscreants. The incident had also left the victim injured. A case in this regard was registered at the Chandimandir police station under relevant sections of the Arms Act and the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-in-vita-booth-robbery-151820
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula lad does tricity proud, bags AIR 10||Dhvanit Beniwal (17), an alumnus of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, made the tricity proud by securing all-India rank 10 (AIR 10) scoring 321 out of 396 in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced-2020. The results were declared today.Sharing his success mantra, Dhvanit, a resident of Panchkula, said: “Practice, continuous guidance from teachers and support from parents are required to crack any examination.” Dhvanit feels consistency is the key to success. He said, “I gave weekly tests on a regular basis during the lockdown, which helped me do a self-analysis and improve my performance.”Bhavan steals showAll five toppers from the tricity are from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula. Gulshan Kaur, Principal of the school, said: “We are happy for our students who have excelled this year, be it the board or engineering entrance examinations. The relationship we share with our children is what makes the difference. We are always there for our students in any circumstances.”Dhvanit, who scored 97.6 per cent in the Class XII examinations, used to study for eight to 10 hours daily. Dhvanit is a scholar of Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY) and National Talent Search Examination (NTSE).Rejoicing over Dhvanit’s success, his father Dharampal Singh Beniwal, who retired as Chief Engineer from the Public Health Engineering Department, Haryana, said: “My son has made me proud again. His hard work has finally paid off and we are happy now.”Dhvanit’s brother is an alumnus of the IIT, Roorkee.Gurpreet Singh Wadhwa, who secured AIR 23 with a score of 310 out of 396, is also an alumnus of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula. He had secured 97.8 per cent marks in the CBSE Class XII examinations. He is a resident of Ludhiana. On his success mantra, Gurpreet said: “Discipline is important in life. One should have faith on the teachers and mentors and hard work should be complimented with smart work.”On how the pandemic impacted him, Gurpreet said: “I first thought that the pandemic will end soon. When it stretched for so long, I did my preparations slowly and steadily, but consistently. Discipline and guidance from my mentors were important factors in my preparations.” Gurpreet’s father, who owns a garment export house, always supported his son in studies. He said: “As parents, we are elated and proud of our son. He has fulfilled our dreams by giving his best and with the blessings of his grandparents and teachers.”“I was sure that my son’s hard work will help him succeed one day. May God fulfil all his desires,” said his mother, a chemistry teacher. Gurpreet is also an NTSE and KVPY scholar. He had also qualified for the Indian National Physics and Indian National Chemistry Olympiads.Hemank Bajaj, a Mohali resident, secured AIR 71 with a score of 288 out of 396. He is also an alumnus of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula.Asked about his performance, Hemank said: “If you focus well, your study hours don’t matter. So just stay focused, maintain balance and be calm. I always had faith in my teachers and their guidance and I feel that was my key to success. I used to study and play table tennis with my friends so that my stress should not hurt my result. Now, my goal is the IIT, Delhi, and I am working hard for it.”Kartik Sharma (AIR 87) and Tanish Tuteja (AIR 96) are also students of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-lad-does-tricity-proud-bags-air-10-151576
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Reopening: School heads to seek parents’ views||The District Education Officer, UT, has asked the school heads to conduct an online parent-teacher meeting (PTM) of all classes and seek the views of parents for reopening of schools after October 15.What the guidelines sayUnder the latest unlock guidelines, schools, colleges and other educational institutions can reopen outside the containment zones after October 15. The decision on whether or not to reopen educational institutions has been left to the states and union territories.As per the initial discussion, the schools will open in a graded manner. The school heads have been asked to have a discussion with both teachers and parents regarding the reopening of schools. The school heads will have to supply class-wise information on the number of parents contacted by the teachers and those interested or not interested in reopening of schools. Besides, the school heads will also compile information pertaining to the number of teachers contacted on reopening of schools and how many of them are interested. The school heads are required to send the final report on the views of parents and teachers to the DEO office on October 6.Meanwhile, a letter, dated October 5, has also been sent to the heads of private schools by the DEO stating, “As per an MHA order, dated September 30, the states and UTs have to take a decision in respect of reopening of schools after October 15 in a graded manner. The decision is to be taken in consultation with the respective school/institution based on their assessment of the situation and subject to other conditions as mentioned in the order.”“As you are aware that in compliance with the MHA order, dated August 29, some activities were allowed in schools from September 21 for partial reopening of schools for students of classes IX to XII for taking guidance from teachers. To decide the issue as per the guidelines of the MHA, all recognised private schools are requested to supply the information on the following points,” read the letter.The schools have been asked to supply information whether students were attending classes in the school from September 21 to October 5 and, if yes, what was the average attendance of students during this period.The schools have also been asked to give an assessment of the situation regarding the opening of schools and the viewpoint of parents regarding sending children to school. The school heads have been asked to supply the requisite information by October 8 up to 2 pm.The previous online survey carried in government schools for partial reopening of schools for Class IX to XII on a voluntarily basis had received a bleak response. Parents of around 25,000 students (50 per cent of the total strength) agreed to send their children to schools. However, only 1,600 students are attending classes so far on a voluntarily basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reopening-school-heads-to-seek-parents-views-151596
06-10-2020||Zirakpur||Behlana resident succumbs to injuries||Two days after a biker suffered injuries in a road mishap, he breathed his last at a hospital today.According to the police, the victim, Varinder Kumar (25), a resident of Behlana, was working with a private firm. The incident took place when he was coming from the Panchkula side to Dhakoli on his bike. He was hit him from the rear by a car.The car driver sped away from the spot. The victim was shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where he died today. The body has been kept in a mortuary at the hospital. His Covid test report is also awaited.Meanwhile, a case has been registered against the driver of the car bearing a Haryana registration number.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/behlana-resident-succumbs-to-injuries-151623
06-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Chandigarh cycle tracks to see lights, soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Street lights on poorly lit cycle tracks in the city is soon going to be a reality as the engineering wing of the UT Administration is working overtime to complete the task.The UT Administration is spending a sum of Rs12 crore on erecting 6,500 street light poles alongside cycle tracks in the city. The stretch leading up to the Sector 42 lake has already been covered. Now, poles are being erected alongside a cycle track near Sector 19.6,500 street light polesThe UT Administration is spending a sum of Rs12 crore on erecting 6,500 street light poles alongside cycle tracks in the city. The stretch leading up to the Sector 42 lake has already been covered. Now, street light poles are being erected alongside a cycle track near Sector 19 in Chandigarh.According to the latest figures from the road crash analysis cell, nine per cent of the total road fatalities (10 out of 104 deaths) are that of cyclists on city roads. Unlit tracks and incidents of crime are major deterrent for city residents to take up cycle tracks after the sun sets.“Most of the cyclists dying in road accidents are those who commute on main roads. Lack of awareness about reflectors and speeding contribute to the overall fatalities,” said Hitesh Puri, president, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation.Bhupesh Vardhan, a city resident and cycling enthusiast, said: “The cycle safety squad of the UT traffic police also sensitises people to follow rules and helps them with first aid in case of an injury.” The unit is also entrusted with conducting a road safety audit of cycle tracks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cycle-tracks-to-see-lights-soon-151646
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 more deaths in Chandigarh, 133 cases||The city today recorded 133 cases of coronavirus and three fatalities. A 56-year-old man from Sector 19, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease and stroke, died at the GMCH, Sector 32.A 34-year-old man from Sector 47, a case of acute febrile illness and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, died at the PGI. A 54-year-old man from Sector 25, a case of liver abscess with septicemia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, died at the PGI. A total of 199 patients were discharged after being cured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-deaths-in-chandigarh-133-cases-151647
06-10-2020||Panchkula||2 fatalities, 43 fresh infections in Panchkula||The district today reported two deaths due to Covid-19. A 62-year-old woman from Bitna, who was suffering from diabetes, and a 48-year-old man from Sector 15, who had no comorbidities, succumbed to the virus. The district also witnessed 43 fresh cases.Among the fresh cases, six were from Kalka, four each from Pinjore, Sector 15 and Sector 20, three each from Amravati Enclave, Sector 19, Sector 7 and Sector 9, two from Naggal, one each from Bitna, Chowki, Devinagar, Mauli, Nada Sahib, Police Lines, Sector 10, Sector 12, Sector 18, Sector 21 and Sultanpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-fatalities-43-fresh-infections-in-panchkula-151648
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Cured patients coming back with lung fibrosis||Tricity doctors have detected a worrying trend of cured Covid-19 patients returning after a few weeks with lung fibrosis — scarring of lung tissues, breathlessness and muscle ache.It has been two months since a Covid patient in his 70s was sent home from hospital as per the guidelines of the government. However, the path to recovery has been slightly longer for him. “Whenever I am at rest, I face no problem at all. However, as soon as I get up to start any physical activity, I don’t find enough strength in my body. I cannot walk beyond 3 km as I get tired easily. I often feel breathlessness,” said the 72-year-old man. A 33-year-old man, who contracted the infection on August 25, said he felt drowsiness most of the time along with muscle pain.Dr Sahajal Dhooria from the Department of Pulmonary Medicine, PGI, said, “Breathlessness, fatigue, muscle pain and cough are the residual symptoms post-Covid. Internal swelling in lungs during acute Covid illness heals with scarring and shrinkage, resulting in a reduction in the lung capacity, which leads to breathlessness and cough.”Post-Covid lung fibrosis stiffens lung tissues and makes it harder for the patient to breathe properly, sometimes requiring oxygen support.Dr Dhooria added, “An increasing number of patients with the PGI is reporting symptoms of breathlessness and fatigue after Covid. Some of them have also reported lung fibrosis and we are providing them care through consultation. Patients who develop lung fibrosis may develop shortness of breath for a long time. Hence, it is important to identify such patients and treat early. Around two in 10 hospitalised patients on oxygen may develop this complication.”“Correct management during acute Covid illness is important. The exact factors are unknown. Patients who show signs of post-Covid diffuse lung disease (lung fibrosis) might need prolonged treatment with certain drugs such as steroids and antifibrotic medicines,” said Dr Dhooria.Dr Amit Mandal, Director, Pulmonology, Sleep and Critical Care, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said, “We have seen patients complaining of body aches, lethargy, breathlessness and inability to perform a certain task at the same level at which the body used to perform. These are the most common post-Covid symptoms. Any viral illness triggers some weakness in which patients experience a lack of energy. If someone is used to working an entire day, the person may not be able to work after an hour post-Covid.”Dr Mandal said, “Some of our patients who had severe lung involvement during the Covid-19 illness are now dealing with lung fibrosis. Such patients are going with additional oxygen support to their homes. Patients who are diabetic are facing fluctuating blood sugar levels after discharge. This is so because Covid-19 patients are required to be treated with steroids. These medications are stepped down gradually over a period of time. With stepping down of steroids, blood sugar levels also fluctuate. “We have been so overworked with the pandemic that managing post-Covid care has been a challenge across the country. We are trying to call our patients after three weeks for a follow-up,” added Dr Mandal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-cured-patients-coming-back-with-lung-fibrosis-151649
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dog sterilisation drive kicks off in Sector 7 Chandigarh||After a gap of one year, the dog sterilisation drive began in Sector 7 here today. As many as 15 dogs were picked up for sterilisation on Day 1. The drive is likely to pick up pace in the coming days as the exercise gets streamlined.Healing processThe picked up dogs get a resting period of 24 hours during which they are scanned for fever and other symptoms. After the sterilisation, dogs are discharged after three days if the healing process is complete.Dogs in the age group of one to two years were caught with the help of a specialised agency and transported in a Municipal Corporation vehicle to the Animal Birth Control Programme centre in Sector 38 (West).National meet tipsCity-wise census of stray dogsEmphasis on sterilisation of female caninesEffective waste management to curb stray dog populationEmployment of skilled dog catchers and paramedical staffUse of tranquilisers to catch dogThe MC veterinary officer, Dr Gaurav Lakhanpal, under whose supervision the exercise is being carried out, said: “Things were a bit slow as it was the first day. Sector 7 is a spacious area, so workers took time to catch canines. As the process eases out, we are likely to get more dogs.” On the second day of the drive, the MC team will visit the CRPF camp and the 3BRD area to pick up dogs.Generally, dogs in the age group of six to eight months (male) and one year (female) are identified and picked up for sterilisation. The contract of an agency, which was earlier doing the job, had expired last year. As a result, officials tweaked the criteria a bit to identify the dogs.Officials said the drive would continue for the next one year till all dogs in the specified age group were sterilised. The picked up dogs get a resting period of 24 hours during which they are scanned for fever and other symptoms. After the sterilisation, dogs are discharged after three days if the healing process is complete.“They are dropped back at the same place from where they were picked up. If the healing is not complete, a dog may be kept for five to seven days, depending on the health,” said an official. In September 2019, Chandigarh hosted a first-of-its-kind national conference on stray dog management. One of the main points in the conclusion was to sterilise all identified dogs of an area at the same time so that the population comes down automatically.“It is not realistic to catch all dogs at the same time,” said a delegate who attended the conference last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dog-sterilisation-drive-kicks-off-in-sector-7-chandigarh-151652
06-10-2020||Mohali||No death in Mohali, 63 new cases||The district today witnessed 63 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 10,963, while 163 more patients were cured of the disease.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said no death was reported from the district during the past 24 hours. He said of the 63 fresh cases, 48 were from Mohali (urban), six from Dera Bassi, three from Kharar, three from Lalru, two from Banuri and one from Gharuan.The district has so far reported 10,963 positive cases. While 9,332 have been cured, there are 1,431 active cases. The district has seen 200 deaths due to the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-in-mohali-63-new-cases-151654
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Land acquisition for road: Year on, High Court orders status quo||More than a year after the acquisition of land in Dhanas and Dadu Majra to connect Dakshin Marg to “PR-4” in Punjab came under judicial scanner, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered the maintenance of status quo.The directions by the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj came on a petition alleging that value of the land belonging to politicians and bureaucrats there would increase by several crores.The new roadThe new bypass or PR-4 will start from the high-level bridge at Dadu Majra to the UT boundary on the Mullanpur side. The proposed road will come up on 18.13 acres to be acquired in Dadu Majra village and Dhanas. The new road will connect Highway No 21 and Sector 39, Chandigarh.The petitioners, Jaspal Singh and others, contended that the Dhanas-Mullanpur-Siswan road connecting Punjab to Dakashin Marg in Chandigarh was just two kms from the proposed connecting road.The petitioner’s counsel, Charanpal Singh Bagri and Gurjit Kaur Bagri, also contended that numerous residential and commercial projects were being set up by “famous private companies and builders” in Punjab abutting the PR-4 road.Charanpal Singh Bagri added the “appropriate government” was trying to project the acquisition of land for the construction of 200-feet connectivity road to serve public purpose just to deprive the landowners of their legal rights enshrined under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.Bagri added the intention was to especially deprive 20 per cent reservation of land for landowners in the case of urbanisation. “Actually, it would serve the ulterior motives of builders, developers and politician who have already started their development projects as such amounting to urbanisation,” he submitted.Bagri added the UT Administrator, just prior to the acquisition of land in Dhanas and Dadu Majra, also notified the “Policy for Land acquisition through Negotiation”, which was in contravention of the mandatory procedure and provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation And Resettlement Act.Bagri also told the court that this was the first of its kind acquisition process initiated without updating the revenue record or the record of rights of the land concerned. He added the same had not been updated for the past many decades.Bagri sought directions for considering the rate of land in question on a par with the rate of commercial and residential area, which was part and parcel of the same village. Elaborating, he submitted half area was part of Milk Colony in Dhanas and remaining part was subject matter of acquisition, where collector rate was more than Rs19 crore per acre.The Bench referred the matter to another Bench hearing petitions filed in public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/land-acquisition-for-road-year-on-high-court-orders-status-quo-151657
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA poll: Khalid-Sidhu group alleges threat calls to members||One of the contesting groups for the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections stated that their members have been asked to withdraw the nominations by other groups.Members of the Khalid-Sidhu group claimed to have received threat calls and texts from other group members.Elections on Oct 8, 9The Panjab University Returning Officer said the UT Deputy Commissioner had given them the approval to hold the elections on October 8 and 9.“A senior colleague contesting the elections from another group called a candidate from our group. He said the promotion of our candidate will be in danger if he contested the elections,” said Mohammed Khalid, who claims to have all recordings and texts support his allegations.“One of our candidates was called by a senior teacher (who is a Senate member) of the opponent group, who told our candidate that he was coming to her house to get the withdrawal signature. However, our group candidate refused to withdraw,” alleged MC Sidhu, who is fighting for the post of the PUTA general secretary.“Another professor from a science department contesting on our panel was told to withdraw and that he should have contested from another side,” said Khalid.“Because of such unfair tactics, teachers avoid coming forward to contest the Panjab University Teachers Association elections,” said Khalid.Opening of research laboratoriesThe Khalid-Sidhu group demanded that research laboratories should be sanitised before they are opened to scholars and faculty members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-poll-khalid-sidhu-group-alleges-threat-calls-to-members-151658
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Championships make a comeback, players happy||Competitive events are back after six-month break due to Covid-19 and they are garnering an amazing response by local sportspersons.Over 30 participated in a local tennis championship being held in Zirakpur, while around six teams — 14 players each — are parting in a cricket championship that started today.SB Sharma wins tennis c'shipSB Sharma defeated Shyam Jagat in a neck-to-neck fight to win the men's (35+) final on the concluding day of the UTR-Roots Tennis Championship here on Monday. Aditi Singh won the girls' U-18 title by defeating Vanshita Malhotra 4-1 4-3(1). Deepinder Singh and Naveen Verma defeated Dhairya Chadha and Rishi Dhaiya 6-4 6-4 to win the men's doubles title.Notably, the tournaments are not only witnessing a good response in the senior category, but also in junior categories. “We have been receiving a good response from all age groups. Every match is played with a new ball, courts gets sanitised in every water break, no spectator is allowed on the premises, participants have been asked to submit a self-declaration form and many other precautions are being taken,” said one of the tennis tournament organisers.Abhinav, Abhiraj shine in cricketThe unbeaten partnership between Abhinav (82) and Abhiraj (71) helped Sunrise Cricket Academy, Zirakpur, to register 10-wicket win over Youngster Cricket Academy, Mohali, in the 1st Ashok Kumar Vij Memorial U-16 Cricket Tournament on Monday. Laksh, Yuvraj Singh, Manjeet Singh and Krish claimed two wickets each for the bowling side.To ensure players’ comfort, league matches are being organised instead of knock-out matches. “League matches are more important at this stage. This way, a sportsperson gets to play more matches to gain momentum after such a long break. Technical training suffered due to the lockdown restriction and the players underwent only physical strength training. Life has to go on and so do sports,” said Amanjot, a participant of the tennis tournament.On precautions and fear, several players said the only way to fight Covid was to avoid any kind of body contact and sharing things. “In the pre-Covid times, we used to share kits, shake hands, sometimes even use same equipment, but now, everything has been stopped. Now even when we want to talk to our coach or manager, we have to stay at a distance. Yes, there is fear, but we have to have the strength to fight the pandemic,” said Aanchal, another contestant.Meanwhile, cricket tourney organisers said players were not allowed to interact on the premises and are asked to constantly sanitise their kits, accessories and other important equipment. “Since cricket is a team game, we have to take extra precautions. The players have been asked not to gather in groups or use common things. The batsmen will be made to put their kits separately near boundary rope, so that in case of emergency they themselves come and take whatever they want instead of coming in contact with a team’s player,” said one of the organisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/championships-make-a-comeback-players-happy-151660
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Lawyers threaten strike from October 13||Supporting an ultimatum given by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, the District Bar Association (DBA) has decided to begin a chain hunger strike from October 13 if their demand to start hearings in person is not fulfilled by October 12.NK Nanda, president, Chandigarh District Bar Association (DBA), said the lawyers of the district court had given their support to the resolution passed by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana that in if 50 per cent of courts were not opened till October 12, the bar council would begin a hunger strike.He said the association would also participate in the agitation in the larger interest of the Bar members and to express solidarity with the Bar Council. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lawyers-threaten-strike-from-october-13-151661
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Scholars' stay in hostels: PU Panel yet to take a call||The process to allow Panjab University research scholars to stay in hostels may get delayed, said sources.Sources in the standing committee, constituted to resolve the matter, reviewed that four hostels have been already turned into isolation centres, while rooms at other facilities are occupied by students. “Under such circumstances, the permission to open the hostels immediately for research scholars is not possible; however decision will be taken in a phased manner,” said sources.“We do not have many options. Four of our hostels are already functioning as isolation wards. We can’t have rooms occupied by students vacated as it will create trouble for them. So, we are keeping the discussion open,” said a source in the committee.As per the new MHA Unlock guidelines, the universities can allow research scholars to carry their projects in the lab. “Everything has to be opened in a phased manner. Even the government is following the same,” he added.“Sooner or later, we have to provide the facility to the research scholars but things may get delayed. SOPs will be also discussed in the next meeting,” said he.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scholars-stay-in-hostels-pu-panel-yet-to-take-a-call-151662
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Yoga championship||The Chandigarh Yoga Association and Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 23, will organise the 36th Chandigarh State Yogasana Sports Championship (online) on October 17,18, 24 and 25.All those interested in participating may fill up an entry form. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yoga-championship-151663
06-10-2020||Panchkula||Illicit liquor: Investigation points at prominent liquor group||The bottle caps seized from an SUV, which was recovered from an illegal liquor manufacturing unit busted in Raipur Rani yesterday, have an apparent reference to a prominent liquor group that has its distilleries in Punjab and Haryana.Panipat connectionAccording to the FIR filed at the Raipur Rani police station, the Chief Minister’s flying squad seized an Innova bearing registration number HR 70V 3056 from which they recovered a sack of bottle caps bearing NV branding on them.The name of NV Distilleries had cropped up during investigation into liquor smuggling in Haryana.Siddharth Dhanda, DSP, CM’s flying squad, Ambala range, said prima facie, it seems they were manufacturing illegal liquor in NV’s name. However, things would get clear during further investigation.During the initial interrogation, the suspects had told the police that they used to bring all manufacturing items from Panipat. Officials said they could not share the exact location from where the suspects were transporting material to manufacture illegal liquor as it would hamper the investigation.They said it would be revealed during the course of the investigation whether raw material was being manufactured in Panipat or somewhere else.Nothing to do withcase: NV DistillersShiv Kumar Sinha, executive vice-president, sales and marketing, NV Distilleries, said their brands were very popular and many fake liquor manufacturers were usingtheir name.“NV Distillers has nothing to do with the liquor recovered from the illegal manufacturing unit in Raipur Rani,” he said.According to the information available on the official website of NV group (nvgroup.co.in), NV’s Ambala unit has a capacity to manufacture 75,000 litres of extra neural alcohol per day and a bottling facility, which is capable of bottling 30,000 cases per day. Apart from having several own brands, the company has association with popular brands such as 100 Pipers Scotch, Passport Scotch, Royal Stag, Imperial Blue and Blenders Pride Whiskey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-investigation-points-at-prominent-liquor-group-151665
06-10-2020||Panchkula||Hathras rape: Cong holds silent protest in Panchkula||The “satyagraha” was held under the leadership of former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan and Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary between 11 am and 12 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hathras-rape-cong-holds-silent-protest-in-panchkula-151666
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Concentrate on 3 Ts, UT Administrator tells officials||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today directed all officials concerned to focus on 3 Ts: Testing, tracking and treatment.While speaking at the war-room meeting, the Administrator directed the Director (Health Services) to ensure that the oxygen level of patients under home quarantine was regularly checked.He also directed that the health administration should focus on economically weaker sections so that there was no Covid outbreak in the areas that were generally congested and crowded. He directed the doctors’ committees to review the situation on a daily basis and recommend remedial measures accordingly.The PGI Director said they had tested 939 Covid samples, of which 72 were found positive. Dr Kohli of the PGI said arrangements for regular dialysis of Covid patients had been streamlined. Maintenance dialysis patients were picked and dropped in ambulances, he said.The Director-Principal, GMCH, said they had tested 1,168 Covid samples, of which 143 were found positive. He said they had 212 Covid patients in various hospitals, who were being supervised.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director (Health Services), said she had carried out field inspections and talked to home-quarantined patients. Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said 18,990 challans had been issued for violation of Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/concentrate-on-3-ts-ut-administrator-tells-officials-151668
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||MC elections: Won’t impose new taxes if voted to power: AAP||Criticising the ruling BJP for imposing taxes on residents, the city’s AAP unit today said no new taxes would be imposed in the city for five years if they were elected to power in the local Municipal Corporation elections.It also claimed to reduce water and power rates. Addressing a press conference, Prem Garg, convener of the city’s AAP unit, alleged that on the one hand, the MC was facing acute paucity of funds, while on the other, the wasteful and exaggerated expenditure was continuing under the nose of the ruling party.Garg said if AAP came to power, it would work on making the MC financially strong and profitable without imposing any new tax. Rather the current taxes would be rationalised without compromising on the quality of services and development of the city. He said the party would do so by cutting down on wasteful expenditure, controlling corruption and generate revenue from unutilised resources of the corporation, he added.Garg welcomed former senior Congress leader Chander Mukhi Sharma in the party fold and nominated him as in-charge for the upcoming MC elections.Chander Mukhi Sharma said he had served on various positions in the Congress for 40 years, but his contribution towards the party and towards the development of the city was ignored because he opposed Pawan Kumar Bansal when a land was allotted for opening a private school to Bansal and the BJP started holding protests against it.He said since then, his relations deteriorated with Bansal and he was always sidelined by local leaders patronised by Bansal. He said he felt his DNA matched with that of AAP. Hence, he decided to join the party.Chitranjan Chanchal also joined AAP along with Ashok Kumar Danny, Ashwani Kumar Pandu, Girish Kapoor and Raj Chadha.Garg said AAP would contest all seats in the upcoming MC elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-elections-wont-impose-new-taxes-if-voted-to-power-aap-151669
06-10-2020||Ambala||Commission agent ends life in Ambala||A commission agent allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his shop in the Ambala City grain market here. He has blamed the Hafed DM for taking the extreme step in his suicide note.The deceased has been identified as Madan Lal Jindal, a resident of Sector 8, Ambala City. In his complaint to the police, Shubham Jindal, victim’s son, said they had a commission agent shop at the Ambala City Grain Market and also a rice mill at Sullar village. “His father was upset for the past three-four days and told us that Hafed DM Vikas Deshwal hasn’t been allowing him to run the rice mill due to some enmity,” he alleged. Ram Kumar, SHO, Ambala City, said “A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-agent-ends-life-in-ambala-151671
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Typing test: Chandigarh asks official to discuss matter with Panjab University||Bringing some relief for those who have been waiting for the typing test after clearing the UT’s examination for posts of clerk and steno-typist, the Administrator has asked the Secretary (Personnel) to look into the matter.The duty to conduct the typing test was outsourced to PU. However, the process was halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The matter was highlighted in these columns on September 30.“The UT Administrator directed the Secretary (Personnel) to discuss with Panjab University if they could conduct the typing test by following the Covid protocol issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs,” said a press note. The recommendation was made during the war room meeting headed by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.The PU was ready to conduct the test at any given day, but was awaiting the Administration’s approval, sources said. The written examination was conducted on December 22 last year and the results were announced in February this year. The candidates, who cleared the first phase, have been waiting for the test since then. “It’s a good news. Over 500 candidates are waiting for the typing test. It has already been six months that the process is put on hold,” said a candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/typing-test-chandigarh-asks-official-to-discuss-matter-with-panjab-university-151673
06-10-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Man held for stealing ‘golak’ money in Fatehgarh Sahib||The police claimed to have nabbed a man, who was stealing money from a ‘golak’ installed by Bhagat Puran Singh Pingla Ashram, Amritsar, outside Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib here.Rajneesh Sood, SHO at the Fatehgarh Sahib police station, said Spinder Singh, a resident of Morinda, told the police that when he stopped his truck outside the gurdwara to pay obeisance, he noticed a person stealing money from the ashram ‘golak’ and putting it in a bag.He said he was fleeing from the spot after seeing the police, but the latter managed to catch hold of him and recovered Rs34,964 from his possession. The suspect, Dilbag Singh, was presented before the court, which sent him to three-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-stealing-golak-money-in-fatehgarh-sahib-151674
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bid to break open ATM in Sector 39||Complainant Charanjeet Grover, Manager, PNB, Maloya, said the caretaker of the ATM, Narain Dass Verma, had gone to open the shutter of the ATM (booth No. 220) at the Sector 39 market on October 4 when he found that someone had opened the shutter of the booth and attempted a theft. A case was registered.The footage of a CCTV camera installed at the ATM is being scrutinised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-to-break-open-atm-in-sector-39-151675
06-10-2020||Mohali||7 youths create ruckus at Phase 3B2 market, held||City lad bags 2nd rank in NLU testChandigarh: Digvijay Singh, a former student of Bhavan Vidyalaya Chandigarh, secured the second rank in the All-India Law Entrance Test for National Law University, Delhi. The exam was held on September 26 and the results were announced on Monday. He had scored 92 per cent in Class XII. He want to pursue LLM from the world’s best university. TNSWebinar on human rightsChandigarh: The Centre for Human Rights and Duties hosted a webinar on ‘Human rights, gender equality and sustainable development: interventions made by Ammachi’s lab’. The webinar was led by Dr Bhavani Rao R who serves as the UNESCO Chair in Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Amritapuri, Kerala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-youths-create-ruckus-at-phase-3b2-market-held-151676
