07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 2 more Covid deaths, 127 new cases||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported two more fatalities due to COVID-19 taking the toll to 182, while 127 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 12,820 in the union territory.There are 1,448 active cases in the city as of now, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 155 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 11,190, it said.A total of 83,413 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 70,078 tested negative while reports of 123 samples were awaited, according to the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-2-more-covid-deaths-127-new-cases-152383
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration caps COVID tests at Rs 1,200||Chandigarh Administration has ordered a cap on price for coronavirus tests by private laboratories in the union territory.The administration’s order on Wednesday says private laboratories cannot charge more than Rs 1,200 for RTPCR tests and Rs 600 for rapid antigen tests.“After due deliberations on the matter and the advice of experts taking into account the cost of kits and consumables and consent of leading private laboratories, Chandigarh Administration in exercise of powers bestowed under the Epidemic Disease Act 1897 directs no private laboratory should charge more than mentioned in the table below for COVlD-19 test inclusive of GST Taxes, if any cost involved in pickup, PPE packaging, transportation samples, documentation and reporting in the city of Chandigarh,” the order said on Wednesday.It is further directed that all laboratories involved in COVID-19 testing adhere to guidelines and SOPs mentioned in the previous orders and shall follow all guidelines laid down by ICMR and MoHFW, government of India, from time to time,” it said.The order said that the price limit will come into immediate effect and that any violation will be penalised under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code  (disobeying order of a public servant).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-caps-covid-tests-at-rs-1-200-152358
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Smoke, foul smell engulfs Dadu Majra after fire||Twenty fours hours after a major fire erupted at Dadu Majra dumping ground there has been no respite from the thick smoke and foul smell for the residents of the nearby areas.Residents of Dadu Majra, Sector 38 (West), Sector 25 and New Chandigarh are facing difficulties due to the fire and smoke.Residents complained of breathing problems and a burning sensation in their eyes even as thick smoke continued to engulf the surrounding areas. The visibility on the road has reduced considerably and commuters are finding it difficult to cross the stretch of road between Dadu Majra and New Chandigarh.Fire tenders are still trying to control the situation. Three fire tenders are present at the site at any given time with others replacing them from time to time.At 11 am, the AQI was measured at 102 (unhealthy for sensitive groups) at Sector 25.Joint Action Committee of Dadumajra dumping site has invited heads of various resident welfare associations Baljinder Singh Bittoo (FOSWAC), Vinod Vashisht (CFORWO) and Hitesh Puri (CRAWFED) today for a visit at the site."Residents are facing a tough time here but the administration is unmoved. What is the reason for fire incidents here every year? They need to answer," said Dyal Krishan. Residents fear that the fire is still simmering beneath the garbage and could flare up anytime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smoke-foul-smell-engulfs-dadu-majra-after-fire-152288
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held for eve-teasing||Cop suspended for graftMohali: The SHO of the Lalru police station has been suspended for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs3.28 lakh. In a complaint to the police, a man stated that he ran a business of money garlands and got new currency from Delhi through government bus drivers. On Monday, the SHO, Gurcharan Singh, stopped the bus and allegedly detained its driver and conductor. They showed him all receipts, but he sought Rs3.28 lakh as bribe, the complainant alleged. The SSP ordered the cop’s suspension and a departmental probe against him. TNSMan booked in cheating caseChandigarh: The police have booked a Zirakpur resident in a cheating case. Pardeep Singh Kapoor took a used car refinance loan of Rs18.76 lakh in 2016 against a vehicle from HDFC Bank Ltd. Complainant Amitabh Sharma, area manager, Risk Intelligence and Control, HDFC, Industrial Area, alleged that Kapoor transferred the vehicle to a third party on the basis of a fake NOC of HDFC bank and also availed of another auto loan. Investigation has been initiated into the case. TNSBiker injured in hit-&-run mishapChandigarh: The police have registered a case against an unknown driver for hitting a motorcyclist, Ilyas Khan of Kishangarh village, near CRPF campus in Hallo Majra. Khan received multiple injuries and was admitted to the GMCH-32 on October 4. The car driver fled the spot after the accident. TNSTwo motorcycles stolen from cityChandigarh: The police registered a case of motorcycle theft on the complaint of a Hallo Majra resident, Ankit Kumar. The complainant alleged that an unknown person stole his bike from the parking lot of Japanese Garden in Sector 31 on September 25. A case has been registered under Section 379 of IPC at the Sector 31 police station. In a separate incident, the Sector 39 police have booked unknown persons on the complaint of a Mohali resident, Jaspal Singh. The complainant alleged that his bike parked near FCI Office, Sector 40, was stolen on October 5. TNSOne booked for bicycle theftChandigarh: The Sector 39 police have registered a case of bicycle theft on the complaint of a Sector 37 resident, Navjeet Singh Sandhu. The complainant alleged that an unknown person stole his bicycle parked near his house on October 4. A case has been registered. TNSFarm stir: Two trains cancelledChandigarh: As farmers continue to agitate on railway tracks, two passenger trains coming to the Chandigarh railway station will not move beyond Ambala and return from there. Paschim Express, which plies between Kalka and Mumbai, has been cancelled till Wednesday, according to a notification issued by the Railways. Delhi-Chandigarh-Una Jan Shatabdi (02057) will not reach the city station or Una till Wednesday. It will halt in Ambala. TNSTwo nabbed on theft chargeKharar: Two persons have been arrested for theft in Kurali. The suspects have been identified as Narender Singh and Ranjit Singh. According to information, the duo had been involved in breaking open shutters and stealing goods from shops. During a special drive, the Kurali police caught them with electrical items on October 3. The duo had stolen these items from a local shop. A local court on Tuesday sent them to judicial custody. TNSPU reopens web page for testChandigarh: Panjab University has decided to re-open the web page for PU-CET (PG)-2020 for extending the last date of registration till October 9. The last date for submission of online fee through net banking is October 10 and the completion of form is October 12. The registered candidates for PU-CET (PG) have to fill the admission form on onlineadmissions.puchd.ac.in by October 15 for getting considered under the admission process. The candidates should visit cetpg.puchd.ac.in for more information and further schedule. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-eve-teasing-152191
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||YJR Cricket Academy win||YJR Cricket Trainers Academy defeated Champions Cricket Academy, Kharar, by 88 runs in the ongoing 1st Ashok Kumar Vij Memorial U-16 Cricket Tournament on Tuesday.Batting first, YJR Cricket Academy posted 209/8 in the allotted 35 overs. Shoumik Dhandey scored an unbeaten 48, while Kartik Rana (43), Paras (26), Ansh Khosla (26) and Saksham Thakur (24) were other main scorers. Paras Parihar claimed two wickets, while Harshdeep, Ikjot Singh and Taranveer Singh took one wicket each for the bowling side.In reply, Champions Cricket Academy scored 121/9 in the allotted overs. Parihar (28) and Gurtaj Singh (26) shined with bat. Girish (3/21) and Ivraj Singh (2/21) shared the maximum wickets, while Paras, Jayant Vashisht and Arnav Bhardwaj claimed one each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yjr-cricket-academy-win-152183
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with heroin tests +ve||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-heroin-tests-ve-152178
07-10-2020||---||Mohali resident arrested with heroin, pistol||Mohali, October 6The Special Task Force of the Mohali police arrested a man with 260 gms of heroin from Phase 2 here yesterday. A 9-mm pistol and nine live cartridges were also recovered from his possession.The suspect has been identified as Dheeraj Sharma, alias Sunny, a resident of Phase 2 in Mohali.The police had set up a naka near the T-point of Gurdwara Sahibzada Ajit Singh, Phase 2, to check vehicles. Cops at the naka stopped the suspect, who was coming from the gurdwara side in a Mahindra Bolero. On checking, Sub-Inspector Avtar Singh and his team found 260 gms of heroin, a 9-mm pistol and nine live cartridges in the vehicle following which Sunny was arrested.A case has been registered against him under Sections 21A, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Section 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the STF police station in Phase 4 here.The suspect was produced in a local court today, which sent him to two-day police remand.During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he used to purchase the drug from Delhi at a lower price and sell it in the areas of Mohali at a higher price, said the police.The police said the suspect was yet to reveal from where he had purchased the weapon. The police added that four cases had already been registered against the suspect in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-resident-arrested-with-heroin-pistol-152175
07-10-2020||Panchkula||Goods worth lakhs destroyed in Panchkula||Goods worth several lakhs were destroyed in a fire that broke out in the basement of a warehouse in Sector 9 here this morning.Akash Goyal, owner of Goyal Electric, said he informed the Fire Department at 9.35 am, follwoing which two fire tenders reached the spot. The basement was filled with plastic items and a large number of cable-lighting system, resulting in flames engulfing the entire warehouse. The fire was controlled in half an hour, but the smoke continued to billow out of the warehouse for five hours. Short circuit is stated to be the main cause behind the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/goods-worth-lakhs-destroyed-in-panchkula-152174
07-10-2020||---||Powercom staff protest||Mohali, October 6Members of the Powercom and Transco Contract Employees Union, Punjab, protested against the state government in front of the Labour Commissioner’s office for the second consecutive day today.Balihar Singh, state president of the union, Chaudhary Singh, senior vice-president, Rajesh Kumar, vice-president, Ajay Kumar and Shiv Sankar, joint secretaries, said Powercom chairman A Venu Prasad had invited them for the meeting, but nothing came concrete out of it. The meeting of VK Janjua, Principal Secretary, Department of Contract Workers, on Monday also remained fruitless.The union leaders said so far, eight meetings had been held with top officials of Powercom management and Labour Department, including Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. They alleged that the Labour Minister had assured the higher authorities to accept all legitimate demands of the contract employees, but officials of the departments were deliberately dilly-dallying the issue.They said their main demands included revocation of retrenchment policy, adequate compensation to the families of accident victims and jobs to the dependents of the deceased workers.Mohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal reached the protest site late and appealed to the contract workers to call off the protest. He assured them to hold a panel meeting with top Punjab Government officials on Wednesday, but the contract workers did not relent and continued their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/powercom-staff-protest-152173
07-10-2020||---||Kharga Corps celebrates 50th Raising Day||Chandigarh, October 6The Kharga Corps celebrated its 50th Raising Day with a wreath-laying ceremony at the Vijay Smarak War Memorial in Ambala Cantonment today.The Corps Commander, Lt Gen SS Mahal, paid floral tributes at the memorial on behalf of all ranks of the Corps. He also conveyed his felicitations and best wishes to all ranks, veterans, civil employees and families of the Corps on the occasion.Kharga Corps was raised on October 6, 1971, at Krishna Nagar in then East Pakistan in the prelude to the Bangladesh campaign and displayed unparalleled bravery in the operations for liberation of Bangladesh. The Corps has always lived up to its emblem of Kharga, the mythical weapon of Goddess Kali, symbolising destruction of enemy in battlefield.One of the post potent strike formations of the Army, the formation has evolved into a battle hardened outfit over the years and has not only contributed immensely in enhancing the security of the next, but also assisted the civil administration in times of need.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharga-corps-celebrates-50th-raising-day-152171
07-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Fake currency case: Weak eyesight no grounds to grant bail: Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6Rejecting the contention of an accused arrested with fake currency that he is having weak eyesight so he could not verify the genuineness of the alleged fake currency, Additional Sessions Judge Sanjiv Joshi denied him bail.The accused, Parshant Gautam, was arrested with fake currency near the Maloya bus stand on September 11 this year.While seeking bail, Parshant’s counsel Sumit Saddi claimed that the accused was innocent. Saddi claimed that an eye of the accused was completely damaged, while another one was weak. So, he could not verify the genuineness of the alleged fake currency.The police arrested the accused on a tip-off at a naka and recovered six fake currency notes of Rs100 denominations from him. The police registered an FIR under Sections 489-B and 489-C of the IPC against him.According to the police, Parshant allegedly disclosed that the fake currency was supplied to him by a person, who met him at a marriage function. He paid him original currency notes worth Rs9,000 against fake currency notes of Rs18,000.While opposing the bail, the public prosecutor said 16 more fake currency notes of Rs100 denominations were recovered from the residence of the accused. The offence under Section 489-B of the IPC was punishable with life imprisonment.After hearing the contentions, the court said the offences under Sections 489-B and 489-C were serious and grievous one.“The contention of the counsel that the accused was not aware or having reason to believe the same to be counterfeit as he was having weak eyesight cannot be accepted at this stage of the case. In view of the gravity and seriousness of the offence, under which the accused was implicated, I do not find this case fit to enlarge the accused on bail,” the Judge said in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-currency-case-weak-eyesight-no-grounds-to-grant-bail-court-152169
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Mayor calls engineers’ meeting at residence||Mayor Raj Bala Malik called a meeting of senior engineers at her residence to review various ongoing projects of the Municipal Corporation.Her first meet after recovery from CovidThis was the first meeting of the Mayor after recovering from Covid-19. Councillors have been demanding a House meeting to take up stalled development projects in the city.The engineers told the Mayor that road recarpeting work was in progress, including on a V6 road in Sector 38, a road separating Sector 38 and 40 and a V5 road in Sector 37. Besides, carpeting work at a parking lot in Sector 30 along a V4 road, on a V5 road in Sector 36 and the truck parking in Sector 26 was in the process and would be completed by the month-end.Several other works were discussed, including progress on lights at parks, plantation of trees under funds provided by the Chandigarh Pollution Control Board, augmentation of water supply at storage tanks in Sector 39, completion of the water and sewer line project in old villages of the city. The officials said a green belt at Kajheri village and a gaushala at Raipur Kalan would be completed before December. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-calls-engineers-meeting-at-residence-152165
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panel to assess ground water of Chandigarh||UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has constituted an 11-member committee to assess ground water resources of the city.The state-level committee will assess ground water recharge in accordance with the Ground Water Resources Estimation Methodology-2015 and estimate the status of utilisation of the annual extractable ground water resource. The committee will submit its report by February 28 next year.The committee is headed by the Principal Secretary, Local Government, UT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-to-assess-ground-water-of-chandigarh-152162
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGI plans large-scale serosurvey to check exposure of people to virus||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has planned to conduct a serosurvey on a large-scale to check the exposure of population to Covid.PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram said, “We are at a very preliminary stage of the study, which is aimed at identifying seroprevalence of Covid at the community level and monitoring the transmission trends. It is too early to say anything. The study is ongoing to collate more evidence to reach a definite result on the subject.”The preliminary data of the serosurvey conducted by the PGI to detect the prevalence of Covid-19 in Chandigarh has shown that 7.6 per cent of the tested samples had antibodies against the virus. However, the samples were collected from healthy volunteers who had expressed interest in Covishield vaccine trials going on at the institute and IgG seropositivity to SARS-CoV-2 was one of the exclusion criterions for the ongoing trial.Prof Mini Singh from the Department of Virology, PGI, said, “It is important to carry out serosurvey to see what proportion of population has contracted the infection. Among the healthy population, the seropositivity was found to be only 7.6 per cent implying that most of the tricity population is still not exposed to the virus. However, it’s a preliminary data and larger systematic studies are on the way.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-plans-large-scale-serosurvey-to-check-exposure-of-people-to-virus-152161
07-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Covid-affected not to cast vote in PUTA elections, says returning officer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6Covid patients would not be allowed to cast their vote in the upcoming Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections, said the PU returning officer.According to the returning officer, the same assurance has been given to the UT Deputy Commissioner for getting a green nod to conduct the elections. The elections are scheduled to be held on October 8 and 9.“No faculty, who is Covid infected, will be allowed to vote in the elections. I urge those, who would have even the mildest of symptoms, not to come to cast their votes. It’s for the betterment of all,” said returning officer Vijay Nagpal.When asked about number of active cases, Nagpal said, “As per the data available with the Panjab University dispensary, there are only three active cases. However, we will take all necessary precautions by following SOPs.”He denied of having any kind of provision wherein some special arrangements could be made to let such (Covid-19 positive) faculty members to cast their vote. As many as 627 individuals are registered to cast their votes.Faculty raise concern over decisionSome faculty members have raised concern over the decision. “Those contesting for PUTA elections were comparing it with the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections. The contesting candidates should understand that in these tough times, they have to standby us and not just disown us,” said a faculty member. He stressed on the need for having proper arrangements. “The campus has many open places and big halls, which can be shut for two days after voting. If there are only three cases, then why don’t PUTA make some arrangements? To not allow voters is something never happened earlier in these elections,” he added.Why are elections importantMany believe that organising PUTA elections are important as it may be the first step to conduct pending Senate elections, which were postponed at the eleventh hour by the PU Vice-Chancellor. “The elections usually take place at Law Auditorium for which permission has been taken from the DSW. We have gymnasium hall where counting of votes for student elections (which is around 10,000) is conducted. But evening departments were chosen as it’s easy to get permission. Fearing that the PU authorities may not be in favour of conducting elections, this step was taken, a source said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-affected-not-to-cast-vote-in-puta-elections-says-returning-officer-152160
07-10-2020||Naina Mishra||4,985 students shifted to government schools from private ones in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6The Covid-19 pandemic has forced many parents to reconsider their penchant for private schools and opt for affordable government ones in the city. Out of 9,233 students of Classes I to VIII, who took admission to government schools this year, 4,985 (53 per cent) are those who have shifted from private schools.Pay fee till 5 pm todayThe Education Department has extended the fee submission date for Class XI in second counselling. The official notice reads, “This is for information of all that the students, who have still not paid fee for Class XI in the second counselling, can do so by logging in with their ID and make the payment by October 7 up to 5 pm.”This was the first time that the UT Education Department decided to hold admissions through an online centralised system. Around 17,000 seats have been made available for admission to elementary-level classes in 114 government schools. Rubinderjit Brar, Director (School Education), UT, said, “It shows that the general public has reassured and reposed their faith in government schools. Our infrastructure, quality of teaching and teachers are the best in the country. We provide free education, along with nutritional mid-day meal and scholarships, to our students.” “Another factor behind this paradigm shift to government schools is the economic pressure of the pandemic,” Brar said.This year, the UT Administration had taken a number of measures, including rescheduling of dates for fee submission, no fee hike in the ongoing academic session and collection of only tuition fee from parents. The parents had been demanding a full fee waiver from private schools. Scores of working parents had also staged protests outside private schools and demanded fee waiver after facing lay-offs and salary cuts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-985-students-shifted-to-government-schools-from-private-ones-in-chandigarh-152159
07-10-2020||Panchkula||2 fatalities, 54 infected in Panchkula||The district witnessed two fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 97, while 54 fresh Covid cases were reported today, taking the case tally to 6,318.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said a 63-year-old woman from Sector 20 and a 60-year-old woman, a resident of Raipur Rani, succumbed to the virus. She said both women were suffering from comorbidities.The fresh cases include one each from Alipur, Bir Ghaggar, Fatehpur, Kalka, Mansa Devi, Raipur Rani, Sector 3, 4, 7, 11, 12, 15, 18, 27, 28 and the MDC, Sector 6, two each from Bagwali, Saketri, Sector 2, Sector 21 and the MDC, Sector 5, three each from Lohgarh and Sector 20, six each from Pinjore and Sector 6, and 10 from Sector 8.The district has so far reported 6,318 positive cases and 5,696 patients have been cured. There are 525 active cases, while 97 persons have fallen prey to the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-fatalities-54-infected-in-panchkula-152158
07-10-2020||Mohali||Cases dip, Mohali starts closing Covid care centres||In view of the decline in the number of cases, the district administration has started closing the Covid care centres. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in compliance with the directions of the state government, the district administration had started closing Covid care centres as the number of patients suffering from the disease had begun to decline in the district. He said the patients in the centres were being shifted to level-2 hospitals.Dayalan said 63 new cases were reported in the district on Tuesday with 176 recoveries and one death.Among the fresh Covid cases, seven were reported from Boothgarh, three from Dera Bassi, nine from Kharar, 42 from Mohali Urban and one each from Dhakoli and Lalru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-dip-mohali-starts-closing-covid-care-centres-152157
07-10-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Over 30% of victims in 60-70 age group in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 6About 30.5 per cent of the Covid victims in the district were in the 60-70 age group till October 4.As per information, 61 patients who died of Covid were in the 60-70 age group while 48 (24 per cent) were in the 51-60 age group. Besides, 46 persons (23 per cent) were in the 31-50 age group. Twenty-four patients (12 per cent) were in the 71-80 age group and 12 victims were above the age of 80. Four children below the age of 10 also succumbed to the virus while five patients in the 11-30 age group were among the victims.Sources in the Health Department said all 200 victims had comorbidities. The sources said a majority of the victims (62) were suffering from diabetes while 54 were patients of hypertension. Fifteen patients were suffering from some kidney disease while 10 were afflicted by heart ailments. Four patients were suffering for cancer while 20 deaths occurred due to chronic diseases.The sources said more deaths had occurred in the urban areas than the rural areas.Civil Surgeon Manjeet Singh said people suffering from fever should immediately get tested for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-30-of-victims-in-60-70-age-group-in-mohali-district-152156
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs go from Sectors 19, 20, 38 of Chandigarh||The UT Administration today removed restrictions from three micro-containment zones in the city.An official stated that the restrictions had been removed from house number 3020 to 3023 in Sector 20, house number 3362 to 3369 in Sector 19 and house number 3456 to 3463 in Sector 38-D.The official said as per the protocol, the restrictions in the micro-containment zones were continued for 14 days from the last positive case reported from the respective areas.He added that regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas by the municipal authorities would be conducted and the residents would be advised to maintain social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-go-from-sectors-19-20-38-of-chandigarh-152155
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 3 deaths, 129 cases||The city today recorded three deaths due to Covid and 129 fresh cases. The UT tally stands at 12,707 and toll 180.A 61-year-old man from Sector 44, who was suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the GMCH-32. A 76-year-old man from Sector 21 breathed his last at the GMSH-16 and a 31-year-old man from Ram Darbar, who was suffering from type 2 respiratory failure, succumbed to the virus at the GMCH 32. A total of 238 patients were discharged today, taking the recovery count past the 11,000 mark.55 given vaccine dose at PGIA total of 92 candidates have been screened for the Covishield vaccine and 55 of them have been administered the first dose at the PGI so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-3-deaths-129-cases-152153
07-10-2020||---||Impasse over design of flats may end today||Chandigarh, October 6The impasse created over the design of flats in the new UT Employees’ Housing Scheme is likely to end as senior officials of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will hold a meeting in this regard with officials of the Urban Planning Department tomorrow.To reduce the prices of the flats under the scheme, the CHB had prepared new designs and hired a consultant. However, the new designs were not accepted by the Urban Planning Department, said an official of the CHB.The official said the Board was working mainly on two options - a seven-storey and a 10-storey housing project. The 10-storey project would reduce the land required for the scheme and it would ultimately reduce the cost of the flats.Deliberations to resolve the issue regarding the rates of flats of the scheme was held during a meeting between senior UT officials, representatives of the employees and Union Home Secretary last month.It was decided that the calculation of rates be made for different categories again by applying various factors such as floor area ratio (FAR), collector rate, plot area, etc., in consultation with representatives of the employees.The CHB had floated the special housing scheme for employees in 2008. The draw of lots was held on November 4, 2010, and over 3,900 employees were successful. Under the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/impasse-over-design-of-flats-may-end-today-152152
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Start segregation of waste by month-end, green panel tells Chandigarh MC||A committee, headed by Justice Pritam Pal (retd), has directed the MC to start segregation of waste at source in the city by October 31.The committee had been set up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for the management of solid waste in the city. The committee has also directed the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) to submit a compliance report in the first week of next month.On August 31, KK Yadav, Commissioner, MC, had issued a notification for segregation of waste at source and its door-to-door collection system.As per the notification, it is mandatory for all waste generators (households, commercial establishments and organisations) to engage door-to-door waste collectors. Rates for door-to-door waste collection have been notified by the MC. The amount is to be paid by the waste generators to the collectors. In case the waste generator is not taking the services of the door-to-door waste collector, the notified rates shall be collected by the MC as arrears of water bills.Every waste generator shall keep waste in a segregated manner — wet and bio-degradable waste in green bin and dry and non-biodegradable waste in blue bin. In case of non-segregation of waste by the waste generator, the door-to-door waste collector should refuse to take the waste and inform the nominated team leader, who will further inform the sanitary inspector of the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/start-segregation-of-waste-by-month-end-green-panel-tells-chandigarh-mc-152151
07-10-2020||---||Fire breaks out at Dadu Majra||Chandigarh, October 6A major fire broke out at the Dadu Majra dumping ground around 2:30 pm leading to a scare among the nearby localities here today.Residents said flames and a plume of orange-yellow smoke rose from the middle of the garbage mound and spread in all directions due to wind.A Dadu Majra resident, Dyal Krishan, said, “A road connecting Dadu Majra and New Chandigarh was full of smoke and two-wheeler riders complained of a burning sensation in their eyes.”Firemen at the site said the flames in the middle of the garbage mound were being doused by using water cannons but they were facing difficulty in depositing sand and earth even though JCB machines and tippers were pressed into action.As the situation worsened, fire tenders from across the city took turns to douse the fire. Officials of the fire department also reached the site to monitor the situation.Sector 38 fire station incharge Surjit Singh said, “A call about the fire was received at 3:50 pm and two fire tenders were rushed to the site.” Though the exact cause of the blaze could not be ascertained, fire officials apprehend that the build-up of gases under the garbage and combustible substances could be the reason.Fire officials said they were trying to control the fire and it would take a nightlong operation to extinguish it. No loss of life and property was reported till the filing of the report. Some residents living in the Housing Board Colony in Dadu Majra, however, suffered a burning sensation in their eyes and complained of breathing problems.The Municipal Corporation’s ineptness to manage the dumping ground has once again come to the fore as almost every year, fire incidents are reported from the site. The hazardous smoke billowing from the garbage mound also belied the civic body claim of being a Smart City by processing maximum municipal waste with minimum environmental pollution.Past incidents||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-dadu-majra-152150
07-10-2020||A rare invitation card reads||Happy birthday, Chandigarh||The execution of any project successfully requires strong will, understanding of the intricacies of assignment and a dedicated team at the execution level. On every parameter, these three essentials were intrinsic at the time of planning, designing and construction of this city. ‘City Beautiful’ was the dream vision of our first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru. Undoubtedly, the indispensable and valuable contribution of architects, engineers, bureaucrats and workers, up to the lowest rung, can’t be underestimated. Unbelievable but true, for moving malba, no dumpers or JCB machines were there. The task was undertaken very meticulously by herds of donkeys.Over a period of time, the importance of the role of Dr Mohinder Singh Randhawa in shaping present-day Chandigarh has almost been eclipsed. Dr Randhawa, a rare blend of a scientist, bureaucrat and art lover, was the chairman of the committee to plan Chandigarh in 1955, and was instrumental in its landscaping. The fragrance in the city air is the net contribution of this great botanist. A true Punjabi, Dr Randhawa had the most successful stint as the first Chief Commissioner of Chandigarh (1966-68). His tenure was marked by his love for the Punjabi language. At times, he would refuse to entertain Punjabi visitors who tried to impress him by communicating in English!Professional expertise coupled with his personal interest resulted in the green Chandigarh we see today — fit to be qualified as a ‘garden city’. It was only due to his initiative and personal indulgence that different varieties of flowering and foliage trees were planted, dotting Chandigarh roads. Keeping in view the ambience and utility, ‘which variety where’ was decided by Dr Randhawa. What better compliment could be bestowed to the Madhya Marg than planting of Simbal trees! Plantation of ornamental and medicinal trees like Gulmohar, Amaltas, Kachnar, etc., augmented the aesthetic value of the roads.On the city’s birth anniversary, there can’t be a more meaningful tribute than what the great cricketer, Kapil Dev, said during a walkathon at the Lake Club: ‘I was born, educated, played and groomed in Chandigarh. I have travelled the world several times. Due to domestic circumstances, my family had to settle in Delhi. Believe it, in the entire world, the best city to live in is only one — and that is Chandigarh!’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/happy-birthday-chandigarh-152026
