12-10-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: One more death, 98 new cases in Chandigarh||One more death due to COVID-19 in Chandigarh took the toll to 192 while 98 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 13,260 in union territory on Monday.There are 1,170 active cases in the city as of now, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 111 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 11,898, it said.A total of 88,819 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 75,016 tested negative while reports of 138 samples were awaited, the bulletin said. PTI CHS VSD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-more-death-98-new-cases-in-chandigarh-154771
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Shots fired when two groups scuffle outside a club in Chandigarh's Sector 9||Three shots were fired outside a night club in Sector 9 following a fight between two groups who had come to the club last night. A 22-year-old youth, who is popular on TikTok and Instagram for making short videos, suffered a gunshot wound.According to the police, the complainant, Akash, a resident of Zirakpur, reported that he, along with his friends Sourav Gujjar and Kunal, reached the EskoBar club around 9.30 pm. The trio was sitting on a table while the suspect, Mouvis Bains, along with four others, was sitting on the other table.After sometime, members of both groups started dancing on the dance floor. While dancing, Sourav and Mouvis exchanged heated words when the latter threw money before him apparently as a reward for his dance moves. When Sourav asked a worker of the club to pick up the money, Mouvis slapped him.The bouncers intervened and both groups came out of the club where they again quarrelled.According to the complainant, one of Mouvis’ friends opened fire at Sourav and his friends. Three gun shots were fired. One hit Sourav near the waist.The suspects fled the spot after the incident. The police were informed about the incident around 11.40 pm, following which a team rushed to the spot. Meanwhile, Sourav was rushed to the PGI.The police scrutinised the footage of the CCTV cameras installed outside the club.A case under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC and 25/27/54/59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. The police said raids were being conducted to nab the suspects.“Two teams have been sent to Ludhiana and Kharar to nab the accused,” said a police official.Sourav (22) is famous on TikTok and with background music.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shots-fired-when-two-groups-scuffle-outside-a-club-in-chandigarhs-sector-9-154757
12-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 58 new cases||Mohali reported 58 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, district officials said on Monday.The district also reported 144 new recoveries over the same period, the officials said.Mohali urban reported the most cases at 42.  Dera Bassi (6), Kharar (7), and Kurali (3) also reported new cases. The development takes district’s tally to 11,473, of which 931 are active. The district has so far reported 208 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-58-new-cases-154726
12-10-2020||Zirakpur||Farmers shut toll plaza on Zirakpur-Patiala road||Driver held with 318 cases of liquorChandigarh: The police have arrested a truck driver with 318 boxes of liquor. According to information, the suspect Rohit, a resident of Panipat, was arrested at a joint naka laid in Zirakpur. The police recovered 318 boxes of liquor of the Imperial Blue brand from his truck (bearing registration No. BR-02-GA-4947). The liquor was meant for sale in Chandigarh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-shut-toll-plaza-on-zirakpur-patiala-road-154606
12-10-2020||---||Programme dwells on Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao||Chandigarh, October 11The Chandigarh Police today organized a programme on the occasion of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign. Around 46 schoolchildren participated in the painting competition held on the occasion. The event was organised at Government Model High School RC1 at Dhanas.Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, Chandigarh, presided over the programme as the chief guest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/programme-dwells-on-beti-bachao-beti-padhao-154602
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU Syndics demand elections||Within few days of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections, as many as 25 Syndics have written the Vice-Chancellor for conducting Senate polls, which were postponed due to the panademic. In a letter, the Syndics submitted, “We feel that delay in elections to the Panjab University Senate would hamper the process of making crucial decisions.”“We impress upon you that elections must be held before the term of the present Senate is completed on October 31,” they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-syndics-demand-elections-154601
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU Director (Sports) passes away||Dr Parminder Singh Ahluwalia (58), Director (Sports), Panjab University, died due to a cardiac arrest today.He was reportedly recovering from Covid-19. Ahluwalia was appointed as an assistant professor at Arya College in Ludhiana in 1991. Besides completing degree courses from the NIS, Patiala, and writing journals, he was attached as the head of the National College of Physical Education, Chupki, Patiala, for three years.He took the charge of the Director (Sports) in March 2015. Under his supervision, the PU won the prestigious Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy consecutively for two years. Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU, offered condolences to the family. The PU also won the recent first-ever Khleo India University Games. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-director-sports-passes-away-154598
12-10-2020||---||2 friends held on murder charge||Ambala, October 11The Ambala police have arrested two youths in connection with the death of Sajan, alias Mogli, who died under mysterious circumstances in Ambala City yesterday.The suspects have been identified as Rahul and Manish, friends of Sajan. They were today produced before a court, which sent them to two-day police remand.Sajan (21), a resident of Kabir Nagar in Ambala City, had died yesterday. His family members had accused his friends of killing him. A case has been registered against the duo under Sections 302, 328 and 34 of the IPC at the Baldev Nagar police station.Satya Narayan, SHO of the Baldev Nagar police station, said: “Rahul and Manish have been arrested. They have disclosed that they used to consume drugs. While Sajan had injected himself, the others had inhaled some drugs on Friday night. Later, they left Sajan outside his house. Rahul and Manish were produced before a court, which sent them to two-day police remand. The matter is being further investigated.”Rani, mother of the deceased, had alleged that Sajan’s friends took him along on Friday evening, but he didn’t return at night. His friends left him outside their house in an unconscious condition early on Saturday morning. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where he was declared dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-friends-held-on-murder-charge-154595
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||AAP protests poor roads in Kajheri||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today took out a protest march against poor condition of roads in Kajheri village.Nitin Goyal, chief spokesperson for the AAP, said roads of Kajheri village had been lying in a dug-up condition since long. Around four years ago, the Municipal Corporation had started some digging work before re-carpeting the roads, which were already dotted with potholes, but the work was left midway. It made the situation even worse and there has been no one to take care of these roads.“Due to the constant neglect by the MC and the area Councillor, lives of people here have become difficult,” he said.Goyal said the protest march at Kajheri was organised under the leadership of Vikram Pundir and PP Ghai.While addressing the residents, AAP leader Chandermukhi Sharma said the city MP and municipal councillors had no interest in providing basic facilities to the public. The MC only keeps looking for ways to levy new taxes. Goyal said the party would highlight the failures of the administration and the MC and get the problems resolved. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-protests-poor-roads-in-kajheri-154592
12-10-2020||---||5 villagers get property cards||Panchkula, October 11Vidhan Sabha Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta handed over ‘property cards’ to five persons of Khedi village of Raipur Rani block of the district, under the ‘Svamitva Scheme’ of the Centre, at the district secretariat here today.Gupta said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a visionary who understood the needs of the poor. He said land ownership planning would actually provide great strength to the poor. He said people living in the Lal Dora area did not have any ownership papers. “Now, with the help of drone-mapping, people have been given land ownership papers,” he added.Gupta said the Centre had taken steps to empower the Panchayati Raj institutions. Zila Parishad Chairman Ritu Singla, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, District Development and Panchayat Officer Kanwar Daman Singh were present.After receiving the property cards, Khedi residents — Dalbir, Balbir, Ajay Rana, Kharaitikhan, Sitaram — praised the Centre and thanked Gian Chand Gupta.Gupta said the scheme had been inaugurated in 763 villages in six states of the country. He said the campaign was commendable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-villagers-get-property-cards-154591
12-10-2020||Ambala||Man lands in police net for smuggling of liquor||The police have arrested a man in connection with a case of huge stock of IMFL brands recovered from Mandour village in Ambala. The suspect has been identified as Ravinder Pal Singh, a resident of Delhi.A police spokesperson said: “Ravinder had supplied fake labels and caps for liquor bottles. He was produced before a court, which sent him to four-day police remand. As many as 18 suspects have already been arrested in connection with this case earlier.”They were running illicit trade under the garb of aloe vera juice. The suspects used to smuggle liquor in the boxes of aloe vera juice to Gujarat and Rajasthan. A case was registered at the Panjokhra police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-lands-in-police-net-for-smuggling-of-liquor-154589
12-10-2020||---||Paschim Express cancelled till October 15||Chandigarh, October 11Keeping in view the Kisan agitation in Punjab, the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has cancelled, diverted and short-terminated some of its trains.As per the notification issued by the Railways, Paschim Express, which passes through Chandigarh station, has been cancelled till October 15.The New Delhi-Una Himachal Jan Shatabdi commencing on October 12 to October 14 will short terminate in Ambala and Una-Himachal New Delhi Express commencing on October 12 to October 14 will short originate from Ambala. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala- Una Himachal-Ambala.Bandra Terminus Amritsar Clone Special Express that commences on October 12 will short terminate at Ambala Cantonment and Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express commencing on October 14 will short originate from Ambala Cantonment. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paschim-express-cancelled-till-october-15-154588
12-10-2020||---||Nine arrested for drinking in public, creating ruckus in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 11The police have arrested nine persons for drinking liquor and allegedly creating ruckus at public places in the city.The suspects have been identified as Asghar, a resident of Chandimandir, Ravinder Singh, a resident of Bhanu, Amit, a resident of Sector 26, Chandigarh, Rajiv Kumar, a resident of Shiv Nagar, Kalka, Vikas and Kuldeep, both residents of Indira Colony, and Vicky, Rohit Kumar and Shashi Kumar, all residents of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula.The police said five persons had been arrested by the Sector 14 police, while four others had been arrested by the Sector 5 police.1 held for gamblingMeanwhile, the police also arrested a person for gambling at a public place and recovered Rs2,500 from him. The suspect has been identified as Mahesh, a resident of Indira Colony. A case has been registered against the suspect under the Gambling Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-arrested-for-drinking-in-public-creating-ruckus-in-panchkula-154586
12-10-2020||---||Man stabbed at Raipur Rani, one arrested||Panchkula, October 11The Raipur Rani police have arrested a person in a case of stabbing.The suspect has been identified as Shish Pal of Raipur Rani. Gurmeet Singh, also of Raipur Rani, was attacked with a knife on Friday night. The victim suffered serious injuries in the attack.In his complaint to the police, Gurmeet Singh stated that he, along with his brother Rajiv Kumar and friends Amrik and Sanjeev Kumar, was playing volleyball at a school around 8.30 pm on Friday. He added that they had installed a volleyball net and lights in the school ground. He said Shish Pal, his brother Rishi Pal, Pardeep and two to three unidentified boys, who were under the influence of liquor, came there and started abusing them. They attacked them and broke the net and lights.The complainant alleged that Shish Pal held his arms and Pardeep drew a knife from his rear pocket and stabbed him on the right side of the stomach. Gurmeet stated that he fell on the ground while the suspects escaped from the spot threatening to eliminate him. He said his friends took him to a government hospital from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital in Panchkula.A case was registered at the Raipur Rani police station and one of the suspects, Shish Pal, was arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-stabbed-at-raipur-rani-one-arrested-154583
12-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh girl Kashvee to play for Trailblazers in T20 Challenge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Right-arm pacer Kashvee Gautam (17), who had a dream run earlier this February when she claimed all 10 wickets against Andhra Pradesh in a match of Women’s U-19 One-day Trophy Plate Group, has been called by the BCCI to play for Trailblazers in the Women’s T20 Challenge.Kashvee will be the first teenager from the city to play in this championship. International wicketkeeper and local girl Taniya Bhatia (22) will be playing with Supernovas and Mohali’s Harleen Deol (22) will be representing Trailblazers in the championship. Taniya and Harleen, both international players, are already part of the BCCI’s contractual system.The Indian cricket board has decided to host the third edition of the Women’s T20 Challenge in the United Arab Emirates from November 4 to 9. The women cricketers will assemble in Mumbai on October 13 and will be under quarantine for more than a week before flying out to the UAE for the championship.The players are likely to leave for the UAE on October 22 and they will be tested multiple times during their quarantine period.Her 10-wicket haulIn February, Kashvee picked up a hat-trick as well as she became the first Indian cricketer, as per available records, to pick all 10 wickets in a limited-overs match.In the match played at KSRM College Ground in Kadapa (Andhra Pradesh), she claimed 10 wickets for 12 runs off 29 balls, wrapping up the Arunachal Pradesh innings at 25 runs. Chandigarh won the match by 161 runs.“Playing in the Women’s T20 Challenge will be a moment to gain vast experience for me. It’s been almost two weeks that I have started reworking on my bowling attack. During the lockdown period, I was concentrating more on gaining physical fitness. I am looking ahead to get a chance for featuring in the playing squad and showcasing my talent,” said Kashvee.She will be sharing the pitch with the likes of Jhulan Goswami and Smriti Mandhana. In the U-23 One-day Trophy, she picked up 31 wickets in the league stage while in the T20 format, she claimed 14 wickets and scored 160 runs for Chandigarh. “She is a natural talent and if she performs well in this trophy, it will be a big breakthrough for her.She is training hard and this news has come as a morale booster for her,” said coach Nagesh Gupta.Wonderful TaniyaTaniya, who is already on BCCI’s roster, says she is happy that cricket is back again. “The most important thing is that cricket is back again. This event is important considering the ODI World Cup to be held in February-March (2021),” she says. “We had a few Challenger matches under lights in 2018, and it was exciting to play amid an audience of 15,000. The fans have started recognising cricketers and I am happy that the board has finally decided to conduct the T20 Challenge,” said Taniya. “As I said, the only things matter is the return of cricket. In these tough times when everything has almost come to a standstill, the board has tried to give us a ray of hope. I focussed on improving physical fitness during the lockdown period, but now eyeing for solo practice hours — especially nets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-girl-kashvee-to-play-for-trailblazers-in-t20-challenge-154580
12-10-2020||---||Betting racket: Suspects were also involved in drug peddling||Mohali, October 11The Mohali police have busted an online betting gang by arresting two persons from Homeland Society in Sector 70 here. The suspects were indulging in betting on the ongoing IPL matches.The suspects have been identified as Vipan Kumar, a resident of Patel Nagar in Hisar, and Rakesh Manchanda, alias Rinku, a resident of Faridabad. Two more suspects are yet to be arrested. They have been identified as Tarush Dhawan, a resident of Gandhi Nagar in Kaithal, and Malkit Singh alias Aman resident of Batala in Gurdaspur.The police also recovered four laptops, 14 mobile phones, a phone landing machine and 570 grams of heroin worth Rs2.85 crore from their possession.Divulging details, Harwinder Singh Virk, SP (City), Mohali, said the police had received a tip-off that online betting was going on at a flat in Homeland Society, Sector 70, here. A team led by Gursher Singh Sandhu, DSP (City1), and Rajiv Kumar, SHO of the Mataur police station, conducted a raid on the flat and nabbed the suspects betting on an IPL match.SP Virk said the suspects were duping innocent people by offering them money. They were also involved in large-scale drug smuggling. During preliminary interrogations, it was discovered that the suspects were staying at a flat in Homeland Society for the past two months. They were indulged in betting on around 35 IPL matches, including previous leagues. Efforts were on to trace the absconding suspects. They would be nabbed soon.A case under Sections 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act and Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspects at the Mataur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/betting-racket-suspects-were-also-involved-in-drug-peddling-154576
12-10-2020|| Integrated Command and Control Centre||Heritage committee gives approval to building plans||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11The Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee (CHCC) has given its approval to the building plans of the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC).About the centreThe Integrated Command and Control Centre will monitor smart field elements like CCTV surveillance wherein more than 1,000 cameras will be installed for real-time surveillance of traffic junctions and other important buildings of the city such as waterworks, parks, government hospitals, community centres, parking locations and schools on around 285 locations.In June this year, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) had signed a Rs295-crore contract with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) for the implementation of the centre in the city. The agreement includes civil construction of the Integrated Command and Control Centre complex, including buildings for the ICCC, supervisory control and data acquisition system of all utility services and a police command centre.These command centres will act as the brain of the city with an on-premise data centre hosting all relevant solutions for all following field systems and data analytics tools for informative decision-making, better disaster management and smarter governance.The Integrated Command and Control Centre will monitor smart field elements like CCTV surveillance wherein more than 1,000 cameras will be installed for real-time surveillance of traffic junctions and other important buildings of the city such as waterworks, parks, government hospitals, community centres, parking locations and schools on around 285 locations.This system will include advanced video analytics system and will generate automatic event alerts. It will help in real-time surveillance of the city and generate alarms for specific incidents. The BEL will implement the system in 18 months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heritage-committee-gives-approval-to-building-plans-154574
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents pedal to promote cycling||To promote cycling in the city, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) organised a cycle rally here this morning.KK Yadav, MC Commissioner-cum-CEO of the CSCL, flagged off the rally from the Sector 42 lake at 7 am.The rally was organised to promote Cycle4Change Challenge in the city. The initiative is to implement quick interventions to create a safe and cycling-friendly city.Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation volunteers provided the technical support to the event.Yadav honoured the participants with certificates issued by the UT Administration.The CEO said it was an attempt to create awareness on cycles among residents. They would intensify the campaign in collaboration with NGOs, RWAs and other organisations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-pedal-to-promote-cycling-154573
12-10-2020||Open house||Sero survey a must for finding infected persons||Good option if resources adequateDecreasing the testing rate is nowhere close to effectively handling the pandemic. If residents are not keen to come to health centres, then changing policies is must. If resources are adequate in terms of healthcare providers and enough testing kits are available, then sero survey and door-to-door testing in micro-containment zones seem to be a good option. Also, we can devise our own model of testing using high throughput techniques like pooled RT-PCR. Smart steps have to be taken. The Chandigarh Administration is much capable for them.Vaibhav Garg, ChandigarhDispel fears of residentsVirus has spread to almost every part of the city. There could be thousands of undiagnosed/asymptomatic cases. If testing has decreased because people are not ready to go to healthcare centres, the UT Administration should dispel their fears and encourage them to give samples. Many cities have conducted sero surveys. In some parts, results have been surprising. Sero survey should be conducted in Chandigarh too, especially in densely populated areas, so that policy makers have a fair idea of the spread of pandemic.Sikander Singh, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe rising number of shooting incidents in Chandigarh involving gangsters and assailants from the neighbouring states has instilled fear among residents. What steps should be taken by the police to control deteriorating law and order situation in the city ?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comTest reports not accurateMost people are of the view that health centres harass patients and do not guide and treat them properly. They believe that accurate test reports are not given and many are declared Covid positive just to make money. Sero survey must be conducted to measure the extent of exposure to Covid-19 in the UT. The authorities should correct mistakes made in the past to handle the pandemic.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliProcure special kits for surveyThough the government is making efforts to bend the curve of Covid-19 pandemic, these are still insufficient. Special kits should be procured to carry out tests for the sero survey as it will help policy makers tackle the virus by getting an idea about herd immunity in Chandigarh. The Indian Council of Medical Research has already issued guidelines to states and UTs to conduct such surveys.Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaPeople forced to give samplesPeople who are suffering from minor breathing problem or diabetes or any other sickness fear going to hospitals because they are forced to give samples for the Covid test and declared positive for minting money. This is the main reason why the average testing rate has fallen. All dealing persons, including government and private are involved.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhConduct tests on large scaleChandigarh happens to be capital of two states. Many visit city for official work. Others stop for brief period while going to Himachal Pradesh. So, there are many chances of locals contracting the dreaded virus. In the face of increasing Covid-19 cases, there is certainly an urgent need for conducting tests. Residents should themselves come forward for giving samples for coronavirus test. The UT Administration should seek the assistance of elected area counsellors to motivate residents to get tested for the virus.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhEncourage people to give samplesA large scale sero survey is the need of the hour as people have stopped getting themselves tested for the virus on their own for reasons best known to each one of us. The virus keeps changing. So, we all need to be vigilant to control the spread of pandemic. If proper action is not taken now, then pandemic can play havoc with precious lives. People need to be encouraged to get themselves tested for the Covid-19 or else a large scale sero-survey is the only solution to the problem.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhSurvey sans accuracy is mere eyewashThere are enough myths and fake news about Covid-19 to make society discriminate persons suffering from the disease. People have to choose between facing stigma in society and workplace or skip the Covid test. There have been door-to-door surveys earlier also, but their accuracy is questionable. Unless people are willing to give accurate details, a survey is just an eyewash. The amount spent on surveys can be used on running campaigns that can help remove stigma in society. There are many platforms, including newspapers, TV channels and official social media pages, that can bring awareness among masses about Covid testing.Shashank, ChandigarhIt’ll be easier to conduct survey in UTDelhi always had plans to combat Covid-19, but with little initial support from the Central Government, these were never implemented earnestly. Sero survey led to a new revised plan of action, which showed positive results in controlling the pandemic. Sero survey will be easier and quicker in Chandigarh, which is smaller than Delhi. Residents also need to be proactive and do their part in the war against the virus by taking initiatives for self-protection. The Administration and residents have to fight the Covid-19 together.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurSurvey can portray a real pictureIf we venture out in the city it appears that Covid is history. People have let off their guard against the deadly virus especially in market places, public parks and malls. Even the numbers Covid cases reported are coming down gradually. A fatigue has set in towards testing. The reality is that the virus is still all over the place. We need to be cautious, adhere to precautionary norms and act responsibly. A large scale sero survey should be conducted to get a real picture of the Covid-19 infection in Chandigarh. Who knows a second wave of virus infection is coming? So, let’s not play with fire.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhCooperate with health departmentCovid-19 cases have decreased in UT. But, it is a matter of concern that less number of residents are showing up at Covid test centres. Policies should be framed for conducting large-scale tests so that city residents can be assessed for exposure to the virus. The co-operation of the residents with the Health Department will be appreciable. People should also take safety measures to keep the virus at bay.MR Bhateja, NayagaonWill help contain spread of virusThere has been continuous increase of Covid-19 cases barring the last two weeks in the UT. The ICMR has already advised states and UTs to conduct sero survey, which involves testing of blood serum of individuals for the presence of antibodies against infection to know who has contracted virus in the past and recovered. Periodic sero surveys are useful to guide policy makers and help contain the virus. Antibodies appear after two weeks of the onset of infection once an individual has recovered and last for several months. The RT-PCR test is considered gold standard frontline test for clinical diagnosis of Covid-19.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliStart mobile testing centresIn the UT almost one per cent of the population is infected with the coronavirus and 90 per cent are asymptomatic, but can result in the spike of Covid-19 cases. So, random testing should be increased. This can be done through mobile testing.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhGo door to door, check symptomsIt’s negligence on the part of healthcare centres that a person tests positive in one such facility and negative in other leaving people in a limbo. Lack of proper care and hygienic conditions in hospitals for Covid patients can also be one of the reasons behind residents not turning up for Covid test. The Administration should definitely go for large-scale sero survey by dividing the city into zones and setting Covid test centres. Door-to-door checking of Covid symptoms can be done to detect positive cases and stop the spread of virus. The Administration has to improve facilities in hospitals and spread awareness among masses through interviews and videos of admitted patients so that people are satisfied that better and hygienic conditions are being provided in hospitals and they will be properly taken care of.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliStart area-wise survey in UTMost people opine that there are no proper arrangements to treat Covid patients in government hospitals due to poor facilities. On the other hand, private hospitals are inflating bills. The Administration should start area wise sero survey. People testing positive for the disease should be home quarantined and provided oxygen.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhCan help monitor infectionNow is the time for sero survey because people will tend to get more complacent with the drop in number of Covid-19 cases. Conducting population-based sero survey for coronavirus will estimate and monitor the trend of infection in the population, determine the socio-demographic risk factors and delineate the geographical spread of the virus.Dr PS Bhatti, ZirakpurLet PGIMER conduct surveyThe PGIMER should conduct sero survey in containment zones in the UT. There is need for holistic approach and embrace innovations to manage the disease burden in our area. Focus should be on providing adequate facilities in hospitals to treat Covid patients. Health experts must be given free hand to manage the pandemic.Anita Tandon, KhararMany vulnerable to infectionIt is a good news that the UT has seen dip in active Covid-19 cases. Still many residents are vulnerable to virus infection. In the given scenario, sero survey is needed to assess the situation on the ground. Besides, residents should come forward for Covid testing if they have any symptoms.Vidya Sagar Garg, ChandigarhPolicies have failed to bear fruitIn a sero survey, blood samples are randomly collected from high-risk population groups to check antibodies for Covid-19. It is doubtful whether the Chandigarh Administration is capable of framing policies to handle the pandemic. So far, the UT Administration has only failed in tackling the pandemic. Its policies have failed to bear any fruit.Gurpreet Malhotra, MohaliCovid not a social stigmaIt is good that Covid-19 cases are witnessing a downward trend, but the question is what is factual reason behind it? Is it due to reduced testing or actually such cases have started decreasing. If the reason is second one, then it is good. But if it is less testing, then the situation has to be tackled and the best way to do so would be survey and counselling residents about the good outcomes of getting tested for the Covid-19. They should not take coronavirus as social stigma. Rather it is a communicable, but curable disease if detected on time. It’s responsibility of the UT Administration to ensure safety of residents.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliFocus on places with maximum footfallThough a small-scale sero survey was conducted by the PGIMER while enrolling volunteers for the clinical trial of the vaccine, the immunoglobulin-G (IgG) sero positivity to SARS-CoV-2 virus, which is an exclusion criterion indicative of its presence, bear testimony to the fact that some asymptomatic patients too could have been infected and even false positive or negative testing was also detected. The sero survey should be broad based to gauge the exposure to the contagion to collate conclusive evidence. Survey and testing at places of maximum footfall can yield optimal results. Luckily, the virus does not develop on its own, but is sourced and only a fraction of the population is infected so far. To avoid community spread, need of the hour is a six-month clampdown to deal firmly with violations of preventive measures.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaUndertake sero epidemiology studyThe findings of the first sero survey in different states had doubtful results, which eroded the trust of health experts as well as the general public towards such surveys. The need of the hour is a reliable serial sero epidemiology study that can help track the epidemic, monitor the trend of infection in specific population and geographic locations and any socio-demographic factors influencing the epidemic. The recent announcement of the Chandigarh Administration to conduct a new sero survey is an encouraging step for formulating a comprehensive policy to combat Covid-19 pandemic.Dr Manjinder Kaur, ManaliSocial stigma cannot affect testing in UTDownward trend in Covid-19 cases cannot be taken as positive sign as the rate of testing has reduced by 33 per cent. Social stigma cannot affect testing in Chandigarh as it is a city of educated people. Other reasons might be the waiting time and fear of catching infection at the health centre. So, more drive in testing booths should be provided. If such arrangements fail then only sero survey should be conducted for framing policies to combat the pandemic.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhMost fear outcome of Covid testIt is a matter of great relief that Covid-19 cases are showing a downward trend. There is no denying the fact that those undergoing treatment for Covid-19 are considered social outcast without any fault of theirs. Even those, who recover after treatment, carry this stigma in society. As a result, people avoid Covid testing voluntarily. Secondly, most don’t give samples fearing what would happen if the result is positive? It would be advisable to conduct a door to door sero survey to expose Covid-19 in the community.Dr Gurdev Singh, Mohali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sero-survey-a-must-for-finding-infected-persons-154558
12-10-2020||Mohali||97 new cases in Mohali||The district on Sunday saw one more fatality due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 208, and 97 fresh cases. Among the new cases, 82 were reported from Mohali (Urban), seven from Dhakoli, three each from Dera Bassi and Lalru and one each from Kharar and Kurali. Meanwhile, 124 persons defeated the virus and were discharged from the hospital. So far, 11,415 persons have tested positive in the district and 10,190 of them have been cured. There are 1,017 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/97-new-cases-in-mohali-154555
12-10-2020||Panchkula||37 more test +ve in Panchkula||The district today recorded one more fatality due to Covid, taking the toll to 101. Besides, 37 fresh cases were reported today, taking the tally to 6,593.Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said a 69-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 7, had succumbed to the virus. She said the woman was suffering from comorbidities.The fresh cases include six from Kalka, five from Sector 16, four each from Barwala and Sector 19 and three each from Sector 7, 15 and 21. — TNSRecovery rate 92%Panchkula has achieved 92 per cent recovery rate as 6,068 of the total 6,593 patients have recovered from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-more-test-ve-in-panchkula-154553
12-10-2020||---||Three succumb in tricity||Chandigarh, October 11With 85 new cases of Covid-19, the UT tally today reached 13,162. The city also reported one death due to the infection.A 34-year-old man from Sector 50, who was also suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 here.With 125 single-day recoveries, the number of cured patients in the city has reached 11,787, thus increasing the recovery rate to 89.5 per cent. A total of 1,184 patients are still infected with Covid-19, while 191 have succumbed to the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-succumb-in-tricity-154552
12-10-2020||Naina Mishra||At 15%, Chandigarh's positivity rate second-highest in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Even though the UT is witnessing decline in cases for the past two weeks, its test positivity rate (TPR) of is still higher at 15 per cent and the second-highest in the country after Maharashtra, which has the TPR of 20 per cent.It was 30.21% on September 1The test positivity rate of Chandigarh has dipped from 30.21 per cent on September 1 to 15 per cent on October 10, but it is still above the national average of 8.1 per cent.On May 12, the World Health Organization advised governments that before reopening, positivity rate should remain at 5 per cent or lower for at least 14 days.Punjab, on the other hand, has stemmed the TPR to 5.8 per cent with increased testing.Dr KK Talwar, Health Adviser to Punjab Government and former head of PGI, said, “We are conducting around 30,000 tests every day. The testing capacity has been increased by adding more manpower and machinery. We started on-demand testing in government hospitals. We are effectively carrying out testing in micro-containment zones.”He said it would be a good indication if the number of tests had been constant over a period of time but the positivity rate had come down. At least 10 contacts of each Covid positive person should be traced and tested.According to experts, the testing strategy should move beyond close contacts. The epidemic control requires detecting even minor symptoms and testing the immediate contacts of those found infected or catching anyone who may have been exposed, including asymptomatic.Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, Vice-President (research and policy) and Director, Centre for Control of Chronic Conditions at Public Health Foundation of India, said, “A TPR of 5 per cent indicate that the disease occurrence is coming down. As epidemic starts declining, the number of people coming for the Covid test will also decline due to stigma attached to the disease. We must try to test every suspected patient, even those with minor symptoms..”In epidemiology, a high positivity rate indicate that the state is only testing the sickest patients, who seek medical attention, and is not casting a wide enough net to know how much the virus is spreading in the community. A low positivity rate is a sign that a state has sufficient testing capacity for the size of their outbreak and is testing enough of its population.Voluntary testing encouraged in UT: DHSFor Chandigarh, stepping up testing will be a real challenge in the wake of declining number of new cases as residents have stopped coming forward to get tested for Covid. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director Health Services, UT, said, “We have stepped up testing again. For the past three days, we have been conducting 1,000 tests a day. We are encouraging voluntary testing in clusters where the density of population is high. Our mobile teams are ready for it as the infection load in hospitals has reduced. The only way to keep the minimum tests to 1,000 per day is to urge residents to come forward so that we are able to track asymptomatic people and trace their contacts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-15-chandigarhs-positivity-rate-second-highest-in-country-154551
12-10-2020||---||Zirakpur road rage: Day after Himachal native's murder, key suspect’s aide held||Zirakpur, October 11A day after a native of Himachal Pradesh was shot dead on VIP Road here following an altercation over the issue of overtaking, the CIA wing of the Mohali police arrested a close aide of the key suspect.The arrested suspect has been identified as Ramesh Kumar, who hails from Chamba district in Himachal Pradesh, and lives at a flat in Zirakpur. He is an associate of Happy Brar, who allegedly fired at the victim, Anil Thakur.Ramesh ran a car accessory shop in Phase VII. He was produced in a local court, which sent him to police remand. The police said the search was on to arrest the other six suspects in the case, adding that they hoped to arrest them soon. The incident took place on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday when a Faridkot native, Happy Brar, shot dead Anil Thakur (35), a native of Mandi. The victim was living at Kharar and is survived by his wife and a 10-month-old son.The police said they had some leads and were trying to trace the suspects. Meanwhile, the police are also questioning the victim’s friends to know more about the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-road-rage-day-after-himachal-natives-murder-key-suspects-aide-held-154549
12-10-2020||Amit Sharma||11 firing incidents in 18 months in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11The City Beautiful has witnessed a sudden rise in shooting incidents during the past 18 months. Eleven shooting incidents, including six killings, have been reported exposing the deteriorating law and order situation in the city.Gangsters from adjoining states have been fearlessly targeting their rivals in Chandigarh. Shooters have been found moving around the city with no fear of the UT police.The murder of Gurlal Brar, who was an acquaintance of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, is a grim reminder of the city turning into a safe place for carrying out attack on rivals.In May this year, five assailants had fired shots at hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33. The assailants had come looking for Rakesh’s brother Arvind Singla, a liquor baron. The attack was allegedly a handiwork of the Bishnoi gang.Two days later, assailants of the Bishnoi gang opened fire at a liquor vend in Sector 9.Earlier in March, Surjit Singh, a bouncer-turned-financier, was shot dead in his car by miscreants in Sector 38 (West). In December last year, two students were shot at their rented accommodation in Sector 15. Members of the Bishnoi gang were allegedly behind the double murder. Rajbir Singh, alias Sonu Shah, a financier who had a criminal past, was shot by inside his office at Burail in September last year. The murder was allegedly committed at the behest of Bishnoi. Criminals shoot at will20202019||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-firing-incidents-in-18-months-in-chandigarh-154546
12-10-2020||---||Ex-SOPU chief Gurlal Brar shot dead in Industrial Area||Chandigarh, October 11A 26-year-old former state president of the Student Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU) was shot dead by three unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants outside City Emporium Mall, Industrial Area, Phase I, here last night.The victim, identified as Gurlal Brar, was an acquaintance of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.Gurlal and his friends had come to Playboy, a nightclub at Emporium Mall, for a party on Saturday night. After sometime, Gurlal left for Paara, another night club, at Centra Mall to celebrate a woman friend’s birthday.The police said Gurlal left Paara around 12.15 am after telling his friends that he would leave his SUV near City Emporium Mall for his friends who were partying at Playboy. “While leaving, Gurlal told his friends at Paara to pick him up from outside the mall after 10 minutes,” the police said.Gurlal reached the mall. While he was parking his SUV on the roadside, a security guard of the mall asked him to park the vehicle somewhere else.Gurlal then drove the SUV on to the pavement opposite the mall. While he was sitting in the SUV waiting for his friends, two motorcycle-borne assailants opened fire at him around 12.20 am. While two assailants walked up to the SUV to shoot Gurlal, the third one waited on the motorcycle. Police sources said at least six shots were fired apparently from a .32-bore pistol, of which three hit the victim. He was shot in the neck, shoulder and hand.The assailants escaped from the spot on the motorcycle. The security guard, who was present at the mall entrance, didn’t hear the gunshots.The police said when the victim’s friends arrived at the spot to pick him up they saw him lying in a pool of blood. His head was resting on the steering wheel. They thought that Gurlal might have met with an accident as the SUV was parked on the pavement.One of Gurlal’s friends called a bouncer who works at a club. He reached there and they all rushed Gurlal to the PGI where the doctors declared him brought dead. “On reaching the hospital, the victim’s friends came to know that he was shot,” said a police official.The police came to know about the incident after a police patrol party saw the SUV with the pieces of the driver side windowpane scattered on the road. Police teams then started an investigation.The footage of CCTV cameras installed outside the mall as well as at the showrooms nearby is being scrutinised by the police.Police officials said personal rivalry angle in the case was being probed.A murder case has been registered at the Industrial Area police station on a complaint by Vikas Tiwari, a valet parking driver of the mall.Gurlal, who was a native of Kotkapura in Faridkot, was residing in Mohali.On Facebook, Group claims responsibilityLater in the evening, members of the Davinder Bambiha group took the responsibility of Gurlal’s murder through a Facebook post. The post read that Gurlal was killed at the behest of Lucky to avenge Lavi Deora’s murder. Deora was killed in July 2017 at Kotkapura, allegedly by members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.Victim’s connect with Lawrence BishnoiAlthough Gurlal was not a student of PU, he actively participated in the party’s activities on the campus. He had support from gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s group. Gurlal had also shared Bishnoi’s pictures on his FB profile.Was booked by UT police in SeptThe police said two girls known to Gurlal had an argument with other girls outside a mall. The two girls called Gurlal to the spot. Gurlal and his friend reached there and had a heated argument following which a girl was slapped. A case under Section 354 (assault or criminal force against woman with intent to outrage her modesty) was registered against Gurlal and his friend at the Industrial Area police station. While Gurlal was absconding in the case, his friend was arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-sopu-chief-gurlal-brar-shot-dead-in-industrial-area-154544
