14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 72 fresh virus cases in Chandigarh||Two more deaths were reported in Chandigarh due to COVID-19 on Wednesday as 72 fresh cases took the union territory's infection tally to 13,403. So far, 199 people have died from the infection in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, according to a medical bulletin.There are 1,085 active cases in the city as of now, it said.A total of 112 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection on Wednesday, taking the number of cured people to 12,119, the bulletin said.So far, 91,177 samples have been taken for testing, of which 77,220 tested negative while reports of 127 were awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-72-fresh-virus-cases-in-chandigarh-155731
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Forest officials rescue 10-ft python from Chandigarh Lake Club||A team of the Forest Department, UT, rescued a nearly 10-foot-long python from the Lake Club here on Wednesday. Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests, UT, said they received a call on their helpline number about the presence of a huge python at the Lake Club.A team of experts was immediately dispatched to the spot, he said and added that the python was rescued within half an hour and released in the nearby Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary. The girth of the python was around two feet, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/forest-officials-rescue-10-ft-python-from-chandigarh-lake-club-155716
14-10-2020||Amit Sharma||Alarm: Illegal arms finding way into Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Illegal weapons are finding their way into the city, which is evident from the fact that 52 persons were arrested in the past two years and 46 country-made pistols six other weapons were seized.In 2018, 18 country-made pistols, one .32 bore revolver, one rifle, 124 live cartridges and an empty cartridge were recovered with the arrest of 22 persons.Similarly, last year, 28 country-made pistols, a US-made pistol, a single-barrelled gun, a double-barrelled breech-loading gun, a dunali and 109 live cartridges and 39 empty cartridges were recovered with the arrest of 32 persons.The recovery of weapons has also been made this year by the UT police, especially from members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, who were arrested following the incident of firing at a hotelier’s house in Sector 33 and at a liquor vend in Sector 9. The arrest of Bishnoi’s gang members had led to recovery of pistols and live cartridges.Several murder cases reported in the recent past have also seen the use of country-made weapons.On December 18 last year, two youths, Vineet Kumar and Ajay, alias Ajju, were shot dead at their rented accommodation in Sector 15. Country-made weapons were used to kill the students. The arrest of the murder accused had led to the recovery of country-made pistols.Similarly, a country-made pistol and a US-made pistol were used in the murder of Sonu Shah, who was gunned down by four assailants inside his office at Burail village, Sector 45, on September 28 last year. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body.A county-made weapon was also used in the murder of Vishal Chhillar, a former student of DAV College, Sector 10, who was shot dead at a rented flat in Sector 49 on March 6, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alarm-illegal-arms-finding-way-into-chandigarh-155383
14-10-2020||---||Lawrence Bishnoi: The making of a gangster||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Once a student leader, Lawrence Bishnoi has emerged as one of the notorious gangsters in the region during the past decade.Facebook profilesBishnoi has several Facebook profiles where selfies taken in jail have been uploaded. Bishnoi’s interrogation in the Sonu Shah murder case revealed that he had a mobile phone in jail which he used to communicate with his gang members.Bishnoi, a former student of DAV College, Sector 10, entered student politics years ago. This marked the beginning of the formation of a gang that comprised sportspersons, wards of police personnel and local students. In no time, Bishnoi had built a huge network in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan.Bishnoi, a native of Abohar in Ferozepur district, is at present facing trials in cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and robbery in several states, including Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The gangster and his aides have been keeping the UT police on their toes for the past few years. Bishnoi, who is now lodged at a jail in Rajasthan, had been operating his gang from within the jail.The UT police had recently brought Bishnoi on a production warrant for his alleged role in the murder of a man, Sonu Shah, at Burail. Bishnoi had confessed to hatching a murder conspiracy from the jail. Shah, a property dealer with a criminal past, was a rival of the Bishnoi gang. He was shot dead at his office in Burail, Sector 45, in broad daylight on September 28 last year.Earlier this year, shots were fired at a businessman’s house in Sector 33 and at a liquor store in Sector 9 at the behest of Bishnoi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lawrence-bishnoi-the-making-of-a-gangster-155387
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||No arrests yet in 3 shooting incidents in Chandigarh||So far, the Chandigarh Police have not arrested any suspect in three shooting incidents, including a murder, reported in the city last weekend.Gurlal Brar (26), state president of the Student Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), was allegedly shot dead by three motorcycle-borne miscreants outside Emporium Mall while he was waiting for his friends in his SUV.Sources said some police teams went to Punjab to look for the suspects. The members of the Davinder Bambiha gang, which was active in Punjab, were being traced for establishing a link with Brar’s murder, sources added.Meanwhile, a police official said they had many clues and were trying to connect the dots.The suspects in the Sector 9 firing incident are also at large. Three shots were fired outside EskoBar club following a fight between two groups on Sunday night. A 22-year-old youth, Sourav Gujjar, who is popular on TikTok and Instagram for making short videos, suffered injuries in the incident.Police officials said raids were being conducted in Ludhiana to nab the accused.The third firing incident was reported in Sector 45 on Sunday night. Gangster Lawerence Bishnoi’s aide Monty Shah had fired a gunshot to threaten deceased Sonu Shah’s brother Parveen and his associate Tirath.Last year, Sonu Shah was murdered at his office at the behest of Bishnoi. Parveen and Tirath are witnesses in the Sonu Shah murder case. No arrests have been made by the police in the case so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-arrests-yet-in-3-shooting-incidents-in-chandigarh-155406
14-10-2020||---||Chandigarh bans hookah bars to contain coronavirus||Chandigarh, October 13To prevent the spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration has imposed a ban on hookah bars in the city with immediate effect.For 60 daysAn order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar states that hookah bars are operational in Chandigarh in a clandestine way, which are serving flavoured hookahs, including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, which is highly injurious to health and at times there is a suspicion that apart from tobacco, other harmful narcotic chemicals are also mixed with tobacco molasses served in these hookah bars.“Hookah in many of these bars is being smoked or consumed by people or customers through a common bowl, pipe and hose having mouth piece, which is susceptible to physical mouth-to-mouth touch of many persons, thus posing danger to human life, health and safety by becoming a cause of as well as leading to the transmission and spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in Chandigarh,” the order read.He said the practice needed to checked immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bans-hookah-bars-to-contain-coronavirus-155441
14-10-2020||---||It’s a bumpy ride in Kharar||Kharar, October 13Roads in Kharar are dotted with potholes, giving a harrowing time to commuters.Roads in Sante Majra Colony and Sunny Enclave, besides Mata Gujri Road and the Kharar-Landran stretch, are dilapidated.“The roads are causing accidents. They have been in a bad condition for a long time. The authorities are paying no heed to the matter and residents are inconvenienced,” said Ravinder Singh, who lives in Sante Majra Colony.“It is regretful that almost all road stretches inside Sunny Enclave are in a bad condition. Due to the potholes, commuters drive at a slow speed and the vehicles are also damaged. The authorities have failed to do the needful,” added Harpreet Singh, a resident of Sector 125, Sunny Enclave.Himanshu Jain, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Kharar, told Chandigarh Tribune: “We have started the road works in different areas. As far as Sunny Enclave is concerned, the problem does prevail, but we have been passing directions to Bajwa Developers to get it resolved.”Varinder Kumar, a resident, said: “At most places, only patch work is being carried out. No proper recarpeting is being done. There are doubts about the material being used.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-a-bumpy-ride-in-kharar-155442
14-10-2020||---||Labourer buried alive in Dadu Majra, cops book site manager||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13A labourer was buried alive under a heap of soil while carrying out digging work of a pipeline at Dadu Majra Colony yesterday. The site manager has been booked by the police.The victim has been identified as Manish Yadav. He was carrying out digging work near a park at the colony. He was rescued and rushed to the PGI, where doctors declared him brought dead.According to the police, complainant Daroga Yadav alleged that the incident took place due to the negligence of site manager Piyush, a Sector 40 resident.A case has been registered under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of IPC against the site manager at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labourer-buried-alive-in-dadu-majra-cops-book-site-manager-155444
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools unlikely to open this month||Despite the decrease in the number of Covid-19 cases, city schools are unlikely to open this month.A senior official said the schools were unlikely to open in the UT after October 15 as most of the private schools and parents were not in the favour of reopening of the schools.In the Unlock.5 guidelines, the UT was given the flexibility to take a decision regarding the reopening of schools after October 15 in a graded manner. The decision was to be taken in consultation with the respective school management and parents.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had recently directed the Education Secretary to hold talks with parents regarding physical attendance of students of higher classes in the schools. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-unlikely-to-open-this-month-155445
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh, five more lose battle against virus||With five more deaths due to Covid-19 in the city, the virus toll has reached 197. The city also reported 71 new cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 13,331.A 76-year-old woman from Sector 56, who was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and chronic kidney disease, died at the GMCH, Sector 32. A 96-year-old man from Sector 43, who was suffering from SARI and hypertension, also died at the GMCH. A 61-year-old woman from Sector 8, a case of diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the PGI. A 55-year-old man from Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, a case of diabetes mellitus and acute respiratory distress syndrome, died at the PGI. An 81-year-old man from Sector 45, who was suffering from coronary artery disease and arrhythmia, died at the PGI. The city also reported 109 recoveries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-chandigarh-five-more-lose-battle-against-virus-155447
14-10-2020||Panchkula||17 new cases in Panchkula, no death||The district reported 17 fresh Covid cases during the past 24 hours, while 60 more patients were cured of the disease. Among the fresh cases, two each were reported from Sector 10, 14, 19, 20 and 25, and one each from Raipur Rani, Pinjore, Sector 4, 9, 11, 15 and 16. No Covid death was reported from the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-new-cases-in-panchkula-no-death-155455
14-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali records 1 death, 44 cases||The district today witnessed one more Covid fatality, while 44 fresh cases were reported. Among the fresh cases, two each were from Dera Bassi, Kharar and Lalru, and 35 from Mohali (urban). As many as 60 patients were cured today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-records-1-death-44-cases-155459
14-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Fear of Covid, dengue co-infection looms large||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13As dengue cases have started increasing in the UT for the past one month, especially when the city is battling with the pandemic, the fear of co-infection of Covid-19 and dengue looms large.The city had witnessed only 13 dengue cases till August 30. There has been an increase in the number of cases since then as the figure stands at 64. A total of 208 cases were reported in 2019, preceded by 301 cases in 2018.According to Health Department officials, the cases of dengue peak between September and November.City hospitals have witnessed five cases of Covid-19 and dengue co-infection so far.Dr Ravi Gupta, Medical Superintendent of the GMCH, Sector 32, said: “A woman in her 30s was admitted to the hospital with dengue symptoms. Initially, the patient’s Covid report from a laboratory was negative. She had low platelet count. So, we admitted the patient as a dengue case. Later, she was found positive for Covid when she was tested again at the hospital. She had mild symptoms of Covid-19. Therefore, there was no requirement of oxygen support. Usually, in such cases, a high index of suspicion is required as symptoms of both Covid-19 and dengue overlap.”The PGI has also witnessed four cases of co-infection.Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) & Head, Department of Anaesthesia & Intensive Care, said: “There is a respiratory failure in both dengue and Covid-19 cases. Patients, who contract both infections, develop complications as the disease progress. A patient had also died due to co-infection.”The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare today asked all secondary and tertiary level hospitals of all states and union territories to prepare management of severe dengue and Covid cases.“Mild to moderate dengue and Covid co-infected patient should be monitored closely, preferably at hospital, as they may rapidly progress to severe stage. Therefore, they should be referred to a higher centre at the early stage by recognising warning signs,” said the Ministry.“The clinical features of both infections (Covid and dengue) are overlapping. Both present as acute febrile illness of short duration and may have thrombocytopenia (low level of platelets) and shortness of breath. Respiratory symptoms are more common in Covid-19 and bleeding manifestations are more common in dengue. Decrease in platelet count, which is a defining feature of dengue infection, can also be seen in significant number of Covid cases. There are now enough evidences to support that severe dengue is associated with cytokine storm,” stated the Ministry in detailed document.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fear-of-covid-dengue-co-infection-looms-large-155479
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||CTU to resume service to Himachal Pradesh||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will resume the inter-state bus service to Himachal Pradesh this week. The HP Government has decided to resume the inter-state bus service, including to and from Chandigarh, from tomorrow.Uma Shankar Gupta, Director, Transport Department, said they would first resume the bus service to Shimla in a few days and then to other stations in the state. The CTU had resumed the inter-state bus services to Punjab and Haryana from September 16.The tickets can be purchased online at http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in or via the mobile app, “CTU Musafir”, or from the bus conductor on the spot.The buses will be operated with 50 per cent occupancy to adhere to the social distancing guidelines issued by the UT Administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-to-resume-service-to-himachal-pradesh-155480
14-10-2020||Mohali||More flights from Chandigarh International Airport||Even as the airport authorities are yet to announce the winter schedule, airlines have started taking bookings for flights to be operated from Chandigarh International Airport beginning October 15.According to the information, six domestic flights by GoAir will be operational from October 26.GoAir’s Chandigarh-Hyderabad flight will be operational from October 27. It will take off from Hyderabad at 9.05 am and reach Chandigarh at 11.30 am. The same aircraft will take off from Chandigarh at 12.05 and reach Hyderabad at 14.30 pm. Indigo will start its Goa flight from November 3.The spokesperson for the airport said they would soon issue the winter schedule. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-flights-from-chandigarh-international-airport-155481
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to allot govt houses through online bidding||To ensure fairness and transparency, the UT Administration will now allot government houses through online bidding process.TransparencyThe entire online procedure ensures transparency and fairness. The UT Administration does not entertain any written request or recommendation for the allotment of particular house in this bidding process.An official spokesperson said in allotment of government houses in the General Pool to eligible employees of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, UT Administration and the Punjab and Haryana governments, the Administration has adopted online bidding process from 1st to 8th of every month on the basis of vacant houses list uploaded on its website www.eawas.chd.gov.in.The allotment of government houses will be made to the senior-most applicant from the total bids received against that house on the basis of their eligibility and priority.Intimation regarding the allotment of government house to the successful applicant through online bidding process will be given through SMS. They can also check their status on the website.The entire online procedure ensures transparency and fairness. The UT Administration does not entertain any written request or recommendation for the allotment of particular house in this bidding process.For October, a total of 262 government houses of different categories in the General Pool have been allotted through online bidding process. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-allot-govt-houses-through-online-bidding-155482
14-10-2020||---||20 committees get nod to stage Ramlila in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13The UT Administration today gave permission to hold Ramlila in the city, but under strict conditions and in compliance with the guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs).To be staged from 8 pm to midnightIn an order, District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar gave in-principle approval to 20 committees for holding Ramlila from tomorrow onwards on receipt of no-objection reports from the police.He said detailed SOPs and conditions regarding the number of people in consonance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the UT Administration would be issued later.As per the order, the timings of staging Ramlila will be from 8 pm to midnight. The sound system is to be played as per the instructions of the Environment Department. The organisers will submit a list of 25 able-bodied volunteers for each Ramlila.The organisers will have to strictly comply with the SOPs, preventive measures and guidelines issued by the UT Administration from time to time with regard to the festival season failing which action will be initiated against the violators. No Ramlila will be staged in containment zones.The applications of certain other committees are still pending before the authorities. Last year, the Administration gave permission to 47 committees to stage Ramlila.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-committees-get-nod-to-stage-ramlila-in-chandigarh-155483
14-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Help pours in for hockey striker facing odds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Young ace hockey player Harpreet Singh, the 18-year-old who has been working as a labourer in double shifts to earn a living, was seen smiling ear to ear after he started received assurances of help from various known and unknown figures of the nation.Nirmal Milkha Singh, wife of former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh and mother of international golfer Jeev Milkha Singh, decided to meet Harpreet and help him achieve his dream of representing the country at a sports event. International shooter Anjum Moudgil also showed interest in helping the ace hockey player, who was among the top scorers of the U-21 Khelo India Games. “I will meet Harpreet and offer him some assistance in achieving his dream. He is undergoing a lot of struggle and we just can’t let him suffer,” said Nirmal Milha Singh.Later in the afternoon today, Indian film actor Sonu Sood and his associate Karan Gilhotra assured every possible help to Harpreet. “He is our country’s pride and it’s our duty to do the best for him. We will make sure that he is nurtured into a great hockey player. We will have Harpreet meet the Punjab Sports Minister in a few days,” said Gilhotra.Meanwhile, local businessman Amit Singla offered a private job to Harpreet.Anjum, who is the India’s hope for a medal in Tokyo Olympics, said: “Such talent should not be wasted. I will try to help him as much as I can.”On Monday, The Tribune highlighted the plight of Hapreet, a former trainee of Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA) and a student of Sector 37 government school, who is working day and night to earn a living.“The response from people is overwhelming. I just want to play for the nation. I know hockey will change my life and I only needed a chance to prove it,” said Harpreet, who is a resident of Mangarh village in Amloh, Fatehgarh Sahib.Harpreet practises hockey from 4 am to 6 am before attending his first job of the day as a paving and surfacing labourer from 8 am to 5 pm. Later, he works as an unloading labourer from 8 pm to 2 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/help-pours-in-for-hockey-striker-facing-odds-155485
14-10-2020||---||PU to allow research scholars to use labs, stay in hostels||Chandigarh, October 13Panjab University (PU) has decided to allow research scholars, who have been enrolled for more than three years, to attend laboratory activities from October 15 and stay in hostels from November 1, in a phased manner.What the authorities have to sayThe research scholars of the science and social sciences streams will be allowed to attend labs. According to sources, around 350 students will be allowed to attend labs. The SOPs for staying in hostels and carrying out research work in labs will be issued soon. A meeting between Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) and the PU authorities was held today.“The hostels and labs will be opened in a phased manner. There has been high risk, however, we cannot help now. Scholars are very eager to carry out their respective researches. The labs will be opened from October 15 whereas the hostels will be opened in a phased manner from November 1,” said a member of the standing committee. “The decision on opening of libraries will be taken soon. Meanwhile, the SOPs for staying in hostels will also be issued soon. We have made it very clear that if any loopholes emerged at the students’ end, then we will stop all the research work. We have to be extra cautious. The time table, duty chart, research hours and other details will also be decided soon,” added the member.Earlier, PURSA had threatened to occupy hostels if the PU authorities did not allow them to carry out research in labs.The research scholars will also have to submit a self-declaration form. “Research scholars have to submit a self-declaration form as well as consent of their parents. As per the Unlock 5 guidelines, higher educational institutes have to take such measures,” said another member of the committee. When asked about providing food to the hostellers, the member added: “Most likely, a contractor will be hired or packaged food will be provided. We are yet to decide on that. Facilities will be provided as per the best available resources.”Sources also maintained that two sub-committees had been constituted to formulate the SOPs, separately for labs and hostels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-to-allow-research-scholars-to-use-labs-stay-in-hostels-155486
14-10-2020||---||House sparrow revisits PU campus after decade||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Once found in abundance around human habitation, house sparrows have been missing for the past many years in several areas of Chandigarh and around.Spotter a young birding enthusiast“The coveted bird was spotted by Dishant Bansal (9), a young birding enthusiast. He immediately called me to check and identify the bird. I couldn’t believe what he’d seen and clicked the photographs from far and under much difficult settings,” recalled Dr Arun Bansal, Senior Programmer at PU.Dishant Bansal (9), who is a member of ‘Natural Biodiversity’, a group of birding and nature enthusiasts on Facebook, spotted a house sparrow (female) on the PU campus.“This bird has not been spotted on the PU campus for 15 years, but earlier they were found in abundance. They can still be found at Golden Temple in Amritsar, Hamirpur, Daddu Majra, but not on the PU campus. So, it’s a rare find,” said Dr Arun Bansal, Senior Programmer in Panjab University’s accounts department, who created the group on Facebook with the aim of bringing all birding and nature enthusiasts on one platform.The group members go to different places in the region to record various species of flora and fauna. They hold discussions on various topics and house sparrows have often taken the centre stage.In order to verify the bird, Bansal then shared the pictures with his group members Dr Gurpartap Singh, Sanjiv Khanna, Navtej Singh and Sarabjeet Kaur.Reacting to the find, senior birder from Panjab University Navtej Singh said he hadn’t seen a house sparrow on the campus for the past 15 years and asked for conservation measures needed to be taken immediately by providing appropriate nesting and care. He urged that people of the area should take it as an opportunity to call these birds back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/house-sparrow-revisits-pu-campus-after-decade-155487
14-10-2020||---||Survey records high attendance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13The attendance of students taking online tests in government schools ranged between 70 per cent and 98 per cent, reveals Chandigarh Assessment Survey (CAS) that was conducted in two phases in September by the Education Department, Chandigarh, to know the outcome of online teaching.Amid Covid, online classes were started by the Education Department in April to ensure uniformity of content at all academic levels. The first phase of Chandigarh Assessment Survey (CAS) was conducted on September 12 and 13 for classes V, Class X and Class XII. The second phase was held on September 26 and 27 for classes VI to IX. Survey findings. For classes IX-XII, CAS was taken in the mode of Google forms, whereas it was taken through WhatsApp mode for classes V-VIII.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/survey-records-high-attendance-155488
14-10-2020||---||‘Need for check on excessive availability of intoxicants’||Chandigarh, October 13In view of deteriorating law and order situation in the city, a former member of the Consumer Protection Council has said consumer protection from excessive availability of intoxicant substances such as liquor and beer is the need of the hour.2016-17: City consumed 1 cr bottles of liquorIn 2016-17, over 1 crore bottles of liquor were consumed in Chandigarh, apart from beer. And now the number of micro breweries and liquor/beer serving restaurants is risinig in the city, especially in Sector 26, says a representation.In a representation to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Ajay Jagga, former member, Consumer Protection Council, UT, has stated that the recent firing incidents in and around restaurant-cum-bars had compelled the residents to think over it seriously. Owing to fights or firing incidents, the happiness and cheerfulness of the city residents could be a thing of past if required changes were not made in the Excise Policy.The law has kept enough checks and the same needs to be implemented strictly, he said, adding that Sector 26 is having a maximum number of schools apart from other educational institutions, but the number of liquor or beer bars are increasing day by day. Now, this needs a check as provided under the Punjab Restaurant (consumption of liquor) Rules, 1955.The unrestricted number of liquor or beer bars is resulting in cheaper and attractive sales policies attracting youth, but as per the Constitution, the state shall regard the raising of the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties.He requests the UT to restrict the number of liquor consumption places in Chandigarh, especially in Sector 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-for-check-on-excessive-availability-of-intoxicants-155492
14-10-2020||---||7th Pay Commission PUTA’s top priority||Chandigarh, October 13The first meeting of the newly elected PUTA Executive was held to discuss various issues. The body took the resolution for implementation of the 7th Pay Commission as top priority.The executive members expressed their deep concern over the delay in holding of interviews for CAS promotions. The executive also discussed concern over the Vice Chancellor’s approach towards the teachers, whose interviews for CAS promotions have not been held despite the repeated requests by PUTA, both in writing as well as in person.“The way our senior teachers have been harassed due to non-payment of retirement benefits despite their repeated requests for months, is deeply regretted. The executive will urge the Vice-Chancellor to hold CAS interviews within the next 15 days, in absence of which the PUTA Executive would stage a dharna,” said Kumar.Professor raises concernsMeanwhile, MC Sidhu, who lost PUTA election for the post of general secretary, has raised concern over calling teachers to supervise laboratories. “If the PU allows opening of labs, the teachers will be called to work also. PUTA has ensured work from home for all teachers and it should be followed,” said Sidhu in a press note.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7th-pay-commission-putas-top-priority-155493
14-10-2020||---||Gharuan varsity files 336 patents||Chandigarh, October 13Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has emerged as top stand-alone university in India for filing the highest number of 336 patents in a year, claimed the authorities. The annual rankings for the year 2018-19 was recently released by Office of Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trademarks which comprises of academic institutions and multinational companies.As per the Intellectual Property India annual report released by the Centre, in the overall patents filing category, 27 IITs have collectively filed 557 patents and are leading the table but with 336 patents filed in a year, Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has emerged as the leading stand-alone institution to file the highest number of patents which is followed by Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) with 239 patent applications, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) with 202 applications and Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd (BHEL) with 173 applications.“In the academic institutions category, Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has emerged as the leading stand-alone institution while the university has been placed at second position in overall patent rankings," said Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gharuan-varsity-files-336-patents-155494
14-10-2020||---||MC House meet on Oct 20||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13The Municipal Corporation will hold its General House meeting through a digital platform on October 20.Three former mayors, Davesh Moudgil, Rajesh Kalia and Asha Jaswal, and Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh met Mayor Raj Bala Malik today and apprised her of councillors’ wish to hold the meeting physically.However, it was decided that this month’s meeting would be held via digital platform. From the next month, the monthly meetings would be held in House itself.“The last meeting of House was held in February. After that digital meetings are being held. Last month, the digital meeting, too, was given the go-by. The Mayor does not trusts her own party Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor. This is how the BJP is running the corporation,’’ said Davinder Babla, Congress councillor from Ward No. 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-house-meet-on-oct-20-155496
14-10-2020||---||School guard  sodomises  six-year-old||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 13A security guard of a private school in Patiala has been arrested for allegedly sodomising a six-year-old kid here on Tuesday.The incident occurred before the lockdown when the victim used to attend school regularly.According to the FIR, the kid stated that security guard would take him to the washroom after school hours and sodomised him.The Patiala police have booked the accused under sections 377, 506 of the IPC and sections 4, 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.A relative of the family said “The kid had fallen ill for several days after the incident. The exact reason behind his illness has come to the fore now. Apart from the accused, the police should take action against the school authorities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-guard-sodomises-six-year-old-155497
14-10-2020||---||Contractual workers hold protest||Patiala, October 13Contractual workers of various government departments accompanied by their children and wives today held a protest march from PUDA grounds near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran till YPS Chowk demanding regularisation of their jobs.The protesters gathered at YPS Chowk said the previous SAD-BJP government brought The Punjab Ad hoc, Contractual, Daily wages, Temporary, Outsourced and Employees Welfare Act, 2016 but the current government was not implementing it.They said the government should regularise their services and provide them salaries on full scale. They said the workers released from contract should be re-hired while the families of those who die on duty should be provided a government job and Rs50 lakh as compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contractual-workers-hold-protest-155498
14-10-2020||Mohali||MP Manish Tewari lays stone of community centre at Nayagaon||Living conditions of residents of Nayagaon will improve remarkably with a slew of development projects envisaged for the region, said MP Manish Tewari while laying the foundation stone of the Community Centre at Nayagaon, to be built at a cost of Rs 1.41 crore.Tewari said the issue of garbage disposal was being looked into and hopefully, it would be solved soon with the allotment of a space for dumping garbage. He said the installation of electricity meters in the area outside the red line would be restarted.The MP said 24x7 ambulance services for the residents had been made available at Nayagaon Gurdwara Sahib. Besides, PCR vans would be deployed in the area soon.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-manish-tewari-lays-stone-of-community-centre-at-nayagaon-155499
14-10-2020||---||Punjab Police cell arrests gangster Baljit Chaudhary, 2 accomplices||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 13The State Special Operation Cell of the Punjab Police arrested gangster Baljit Chaudhary and his two accomplices, Gurpreet Singh, alias Pamma, and Vikas Kumar on Monday.The police also recovered two illegal .32 bore revolvers and 20 cartridges from their possession.Disclosing this here today, Varinderpal Singh, AIG, Counter Intelligence Wing, said the police had received a tip-off that gangster Baljit Chaudhary, a resident of Mundia Kalan in Ludhiana, was seen roaming in the Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib areas. On the basis of the information, various teams were formed under the leadership of Counter Intelligence Wing DSP Gurcharan Singh to track down the gangster.According to the police, Chaudhary was arrested at a barricade on the Sirhind-Delhi highway. A .32 revolver and 15 cartridges were recovered from him. He was going to visit Gurpreet Singh, alias Pamma, and Vikas in Rajpura to collect ammunition from them. From there, he had a plan to go Delhi.Following his arrest, Pamma, a resident of Mastgarh village in Mohali, and Vikas Kumar, a resident of Dadu Majra, Sector 38-West in Chandigarh, were also nabbed from the Rajpura-Delhi highway. A.32 bore revolver and five cartridges were recovered from them, said the police.DSP Gurcharan Singh said the trio was produced before a Mohali court, which sent them to three-day police remand.According to the police, Chaudhary was wanted in more than 16 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder and dacoity. In the past, he has been an active leader of PUSU, a student organisation. Chaudhary was involved in several crimes that took place in the tricity in the recent past, including murder of a chartered accountant, Arun Sharma, in Kharar, firing in the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, and rape of a model in Sector 11, Chandigarh.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the State Special Operation Cell police station in Phase 1, Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-cell-arrests-gangster-baljit-chaudhary-2-accomplices-155501
14-10-2020||---||Apply online for installation of free rooftop solar panels in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13The UT Administration has asked residents to apply online for the installation of rooftop solar panels free of cost. Benefits to the consumerThe Administration has already approved the scheme to implement rooftop solar project on private residential buildings under the Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model.Based on the petition filed by the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), the nodal agency for installation of solar photovoltaic (SPV) power plants on rooftops, a hearing was held by the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for the approval of RESCO with a build-operate-transfer (BOT) model.During the hearing, the JERC directed CREST to first conduct a demand survey for the installation of solar plants on rooftops.Debendra Dalai, Chief Executive Officer, CREST, said nearly 2,400 SPV power plants were proposed to be installed on a first-come-first-served basis under the scheme.“The detailed information of the scheme is available on the web portal. Interested consumers can apply on www.solarchandigarh.com. The capacity of plants will be 5kWp to 10kWp for residential sectors and it will be allocated on a first-come-first-served basis,” he said.Under the scheme, a private company will install solar panels without taking any money from house owners. The owners will have to give only space on the rooftop to the firm and they will get electricity at Rs2 per unit less than the existing rates for the next 15 years even if the electricity rate increases. After the completion of the fixed period, the company will hand over the solar plant to the owner. The firm will recover the cost by selling the energy produced from the plant.With the implementation of the scheme, the UT Administration could achieve a target of generating 69 MW of solar energy by 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apply-online-for-installation-of-free-rooftop-solar-panels-in-chandigarh-155502
14-10-2020||---||Harvester operating sans super straw management system impounded in Gharuan village||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 13The District Administration today impounded a combine harvester operating without super straw management system attached to it and imposed a penalty of Rs 50,000 on the violator as an environmental compensation. About super straw management systemSuper straw management system (SMS) attached with the combine chops the paddy straw into minute pieces, which makes it easier for other machines to operate in the fields. The Super SMS alone holds the potential to do away with stubble burning trends as other machines can directly sow wheat seedlings while ploughing the existing residue in the field.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said checking by joint teams of the Agriculture Department and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) found the combine harvester bearing registration number PB12J1168 operating without attachment and use of super straw management system (Super SMS) at Gharuan village in the Kharar block.Dayalan said the combine was seized and the violator, Balwinder Singh, had been asked to deposit the environmental compensation within the stipulated time period.The Deputy Commissioner said it was necessary to curtail stubble burning to prevent environmental pollution. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, it becomes all more important as polluting air quality may put people with co-morbidity at higher risk.He called upon farmers and combine operators to resort to stubble management practices by adopting new hi-tech technologies to shun stubble burning.The Deputy Commissioner has issued prohibitory orders upon the use of combine harvesters sans super straw management system in the district. The Punjab Pollution Control Board under the Prevention and Control of Pollution Act,1981, has also issued directions that no harvester combine will be allowed to harvest paddy in Punjab without functional super straw management system. Environmental compensation of Rs 50,000, Rs 75,000 and Rs 1 lakh is imposed upon the owners of harvester combines found operating without the attachment and use of super straw management system on the first, second, third and subsequent violation of the orders, respectively.Super straw management system (SMS) attached with the combine chops the paddy straw into minute pieces, which makes it easier for other machines to operate in the fields. The Super SMS alone holds the potential to do away with stubble burning trends as other machines can directly sow wheat seedlings while ploughing the existing residue in the field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harvester-operating-sans-super-straw-management-system-impounded-in-gharuan-village-155504
14-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Council sets aside HC Bar Assn poll schedule||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has decided to set aside the election schedule of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association issued by Kuljit Singh Sidhu, senior advocate and chairman, election committee of the Punjab and Haryana High court Bar Association.As per the schedule, the elections for the HC Bar Association have been fixed for October 24.A day before the nomination for the election process of the HC Bar Association, an emergency meeting of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana was held today under the chairmanship of Karanjit Singh, chairman of the council.Karanjit said since Kuljit had issued the election schedule in violation of The Bar Associations (Constitution and Registration) Rules, 2015, it had been decided to set aside the election programme.He said as per the rules, the elections for all Bar Associations had to be held simultaneously on one day in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, including the High Court Bar Association. It has been further decided to hold the elections for all Bar Associations on November 6 in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. For this, a separate election programme would be issued in due course.Karanjit said members of the High Court Bar Association were requested to abide by the decision of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. As per the schedule announced by the election committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association, the nomination process for the election of the Bar Association would begin on October 14.Earlier, the Bar Council was in the favour of holding elections for bar associations online, but it was opposed by many, including HC Bar Association. Subsequently, the matter reached the High Court and the election notification was quashed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/council-sets-aside-hc-bar-assn-poll-schedule-155506
14-10-2020||---||Sweets shops, dairies raided||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 13Sleuths of the Food and Drug Administration Department, along with the CM flying squad, today raided sweets shops, dairies and shops selling similar items in the Barwala and Raipur Rani areas.Food Safety Officer Dr Gaurav Sharma said inspection of various sweets, ghee, shops, dairies, cheese makers and other places located in Barwala was done. During the inspection, 324-kg paneer worth Rs58,320 was seized.He said samples of food items were taken and sent to the Food Laboratory, Karnal, for analysis under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.Dr Gaurav said similar raids were also conducted in Raipur Rani. If any shopkeeper was found selling food items in the open, chopped fruits and rotten and malicious food items, all their food items would be destroyed and strict action would be taken against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sweets-shops-dairies-raided-155507
14-10-2020||Chandigarh||Domestic help found hanging||Varsity institute holds WebinarChandigarh: The University Institute of Applied Management Sciences, Panjab University, organised a webinar, "Nayi Sikhshaniti Ke Sandarb Mein Sikhsha Mein Bhartiyata".The distinguished speaker of the webinar was Prof Mohan Lal Chhipa, former vice-chancellor of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hindi University, Bhopal. Prof Upasna Joshi Sethi, Director UIAMS, extended a formal welcome to the speaker and the participants. She highlighted that NEP 2020 was promoting a multidisciplinary approach and was the comprehensive framework for elementary to higher education. TNS‘Wildlife Week' observedChandigarh: Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, in collaboration with the NSS unit and the Environment Club of the college observed "Wildlife Week". It was conceptualised in 1952 with the aim of raising awareness to serve the long-term goal of safeguarding the lives of wildlife through critical action. TNS318 boxes of illegal liquor recoveredZirakpur: The Dhakoli police on Tuesday recovered 318 boxes of illegal liquor. According to information, the police and Excise Department officials conducted a joint operation on a tip-off. The liquor was to be used during the Bihar elections. The liquor, meant for sale in Chandigarh, was being taken in a truck. Officials arrested the truck driver, Rohit, who hails from Panipat. He told the police that truck owner Anil was from Rewari. Officials were trying to trace the owner. TNSMan assaulted in sec 31 marketChandigarh: A Sector 46 resident was assaulted by unknown persons at the Sector 31 market on Monday. Complainant Ramesh Kalyan alleged that unknown persons assaulted him and snatched his mobile phone. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/domestic-help-found-hanging-155514
