15-10-2020||Mohali||Two fatalities in Mohali due to COVID-19||Two more fatalities were witnessed in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the total count to 211 while 59 fresh COVID-19 positive cases surfaced in the district.Out of the total 59 Covid cases, 37 were from Mohali urban, eight from Dera Bassi, four from Dhakoli, two from Gharuan and eight from Lalru. Meanwhile, 66 Covid patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals.As of now there are 11,619 positive cases and out of these 10,547 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 860 active cases with 211 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-fatalities-in-mohali-due-to-covid-19-156265
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two more COVID-19 deaths in Chandigarh, toll crosses 200-mark||Two more deaths due to COVID-19 in Chandigarh took the toll to 201 while 83 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 13,477 in the Union territory on Thursday, a health bulletin stated.There are 1,044 active cases in the city as of now, as per the medical bulletin.A total of 113 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 12,232, as per the bulletin.A total of 92,198 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 78,160 tested negative while reports of 139 samples were awaited, the bulletin stated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-chandigarh-toll-crosses-200-mark-156262
15-10-2020||New Delhi||I-T dept raids Chandigarh advocate who took Rs 217-crore cash from client||The Income Tax Department has raided a “leading” Chandigarh-based advocate on charges of alleged tax evasion and receiving at least Rs 217 crore “in cash”, tax officials said on Thursday.They said the department raided 38 premises linked to the lawyer in Haryana, Delhi and the national capital region on Wednesday, they said.Cash amounting to Rs 5.5 crore has been seized during the searches carried out against the advocate practising in the field of commercial arbitration and alternate dispute resolution, the CBDT said in a statement.The Board did not identify the advocate.Ten bank lockers have been put under restraint, it said.“He was suspected to be receiving substantial amounts in cash from his clients to settle their disputes. Incriminating documents of unaccounted cash transactions and investments made by the assessee over several years have been found,” the department said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), that frames policy for the tax department, alleged that the lawyer in one case “had received Rs 117 crore from a client in cash, whereas he had shown only Rs 21 crore in his records, which was received through cheque”.In another case, he received more than Rs 100 crore in cash from an infrastructure and engineering company for its arbitration proceedings with a public sector company, the CBDT claimed.“The unaccounted cash received has been invested by the assessee in purchase of residential and commercial properties and in taking over of trusts engaged in running of schools. Evidences recovered indicate investment of more than Rs 100 crore in cash in several properties in posh areas in the last two years,” it said.The assessee and his associates have also purchased several schools and properties, for which more than Rs 100 crore was “paid in cash”, it said.He has also taken accommodation entries (hawala funds) worth several crores, it said.The Board said the search teams have also recovered “substantial digital data reflecting unaccounted transactions of the assessee and his associates who are financiers and builders”.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-t-dept-raids-chandigarh-advocate-who-took-rs-217-crore-cash-from-client-156254
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Army's EME commemorates its 78th year of raising||The Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) of the Indian Army commemorated its 78th year of raising at the Western Command headquarters at Chandimandir near here on Thursday.Major General V R Deshmukh, the senior-most EME officer and other EME personnel in Chandimandir military station paid homage to brave martyrs of the Corps in a solemn wreath laying ceremony, a defence release said here.The Corps of EME, also known as 'Eagles' have carved a niche for themselves in providing dedicated engineering support to the myriad equipment held with Indian Army, it said.         “Since inception in 1943, the Corps has transformed itself to meet the technological challenges in the modern day battlefield and has shown tremendous resilience in adapting to the need of the hour, the release said.“The personnel of the Corps have excelled in developing innovative solutions and also have a major role in the push for indigenisation efforts. The Eagles have proved their mettle in all fields and lived upto their motto 'Karam-hi- Dharm',” it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-armys-eme-commemorates-its-78th-year-of-raising-156153
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||The show must go on||The UT Administration has given its approval for reopening of cinema halls and multiplexes as per the instructions of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) from October 15, but these are expected to resume services from October 16 onwards with strict Covid-19 guidelines.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT Administration had ordered the closure of all cinema halls and multiplexes in March this year.Safety measuresPackaged food and beverage: Only packaged food and beverages will be available as per the guidelinesAs per the guidelines issued by the MHA for Unlock 5, cinema halls or multiplexes can reopen from October 15 with 50 per cent occupancy with adequate physical distancing while seating. Seats that are not to be occupied will have to be marked as such. The show timings shall be staggered and digital payment modes will be encouraged.Also, sufficient ticket counters will be opened and advance booking allowed to prevent crowding. Only packaged food and beverages will be allowed in the halls.The Multiplex Association of India (MAI) has issued standard protocols, including staggered show timings, a minimum gap of 15 minutes between two shows, entry to lounge/waiting area half an hour before the show among others.Meanwhile, PVR Cinemas today announced its reopening plans from October 15. However, movies will be available from October 16. The screening schedule will include some of the new releases.Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas, said, “We are pleased to be back for our customers, and as we reopen slowly and steadily, ensuring the safety and security of our customers and employees is our highest aim. Currently, the focus is on building consumer confidence and following the guidelines laid down by the MHA. We are optimistic that we will emerge stronger. The screening pipeline looks promising and we are working hard to bring the most exciting content to our patrons in the following weeks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-show-must-go-on-155883
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 of ‘Bishnoi gang’ held, four booked||Seven alleged members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang have been booked by the Chandigarh Police in two cases on the charge of making extortion threats to businessmen, club and hotel owners.One of the suspects, identified as Javed Jinjha (26), an alleged close aide of Bishnoi, was arrested and a country-made pistol seized from his possession.According to the police, they had received a tip-off that members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang — Rajesh Paswan of Sector 56, Rinku of Dadu Majra, Javed Jinjha residing in Sector 37, Deepak Kundu, alias Billa, a resident of Sector 26, Vikramjeet Singh Kular, a resident of Sector 71, Mohali, and Jackie, a Panchkula resident — are active in the tricity and had been demanding extortion money from businessmen, liquor contractors and hotel owners. Rajesh Paswan was an Independent candidate in one of the MC elections.“We had a tip-off that gang members were intimidating the victims by having them speak with Bishnoi, who is lodged in a jail at Rajasthan, through a WhatsApp video call,” said a police official.The police said the suspects were also involved in other criminal activities in the region and possessed automatic, semi-automatic and country-made weapons, besides drugs.Javed Jinjha was nabbed on the road separating Sector 55 and 56. A country-made pistol and a cartridge was seized from Jinjha.A case under Sections 384 (punishment for extortion) and 386 (extortion by putting any person in fear of death or grievous hurt) of the IPC, Section 22 and 29, NDPS Act, and Sections 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act, has been against suspects at the Sector 39 police station. Meanwhile, a case of extortion has also been registered against Rinku and another suspect, Chetan Munjal, at the Sector 36 police station for allegedly demanding Rs20,000 from a man who operates a hotel in Kajheri. Both of them have been arrested.Three booked in F Bar firingThree from among the suspects — Rajesh Paswan, Rinku and Chetan Munjal — were also booked in the case of firing at F Bar, a night club in Sector 26, during the birthday bash of Sahdev Salaria, an aide of MP Kirron Kher, in 2018.School connectionOne of the suspects, Javed Jinjha, was Bishnoi’s junior at a school in Abohar. Jinjha was earlier arrested by the UT crime branch in 2018 while possessing a country-made pistol.On listThe UT police have prepared a list of 25 persons, who are alleged members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-of-bishnoi-gang-held-four-booked-155887
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 27 roads in dire need of repairs||Potholes, bald patches and damaged stretch welcome people to almost every corner of Sector 27.All V-4 to V-6 roads in the sectors need immediate repair and recarpeting, but the Municipal Corporation has turned a blind eye to the sector.“The roads in our sector are in a bad state. Parking lots also need immediate recarpeting. We hope the Municipal Corporation wakes up from its slumber and pays heed to see the condition of roads,” said Raman Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 27.The stretch near the Sector 27-28 light point is dotted with potholes and is a risky spot as vehicles try to overtake each other. In January this year, a 52-year-old ASI of the UT police was killed on the road separating Sector 27 and 28. He had crossed the light point on his two-wheeler when a vehicle hit his vehicle from behind and the driver had fled the spot.“Main roads of the sector are broken. Drivers tend to veer to the other side to avoid potholes,” said Harvinder Singh, a bank employee in Sector 27.Davinder Babla, Ward No. 18 councillor, said: “The Mayor does not respond to my phone calls. The MC Commissioner has no answer to my queries. The MC staff has been shifted to the BJP-ruled wards. All roads are in a bad condition, but officials remain apathetic.”Sanjay Arora, SE (B&R), said all roads in the city would be repaired one at a time. “We have resumed recarpeting and repair work of roads,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-27-roads-in-dire-need-of-repairs-155888
15-10-2020||Panchkula||Man nailed with cocaine, revolver in Panchkula||The local police arrested a man, who was inside a stolen car, with a loaded revolver and cocaine in the Mansa Devi Complex area late last evening.The suspect was arrested by the local crime branch on a tip-off about his presence in the parking area of the Mansa Devi bus stand.The suspect has been identified as Gautam Goyal, a native of Tohana in Fatehabad. He lives in Zirakpur.According to the FIR, the police seized a .22 bore revolver with seven rounds, a silver Honda Amaze and 1.10 gm of cocaine from him, besides an electronic weighing machine, a small table spoon and 35 small empty pouches. According to the police, the suspect, after seeing a police vehicle approaching him, tried to flee with the car from the spot. However, the police managed to nab him.The police have registered a case against him under Sections 21and 61, NDPS Act, Sections 25 and 54, Arms Act, and Sections 379 and 411, IPC, at the Mansa Devi Complex police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-nailed-with-cocaine-revolver-in-panchkula-155891
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Tricity cops to keep tabs on gangsters||An inter-state coordination meeting of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula was held today during which the issue of movement of gangsters in the tricity was discussed.The meeting was called following three firing incidents, including a murder, in Chandigarh, besides growing activities of gangsters across the tricity.Shooting incidents DGP to submit reportChandigarh: Concerned over the deteriorating law and order situation, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has asked DGP Sanjay Beniwal to submit a report on the recent shooting incidents in the city. The Administrator ordered the DGP to investigate the murder of 26-year-old Gurlal Brar and another shooting incident in Sector 9. Badnore sought a time-bound report on all such incidents in the past three years.It was decided that information on the movement of gangsters should be shared. Deliberations on preparing a strategy to curb crime in the tricity, besides strategies to check the proliferation of illicit firearms, were also held during the meeting.The meeting was attended by the UT DIG and the SSP, the IGP, Ropar Range, and the SSP, Mohali, and the DCP and the ACP, Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-cops-to-keep-tabs-on-gangsters-155893
15-10-2020||Ambala||Car rams into divider, two killed, 4 injured in Ambala||Two men were killed while four suffered injuries when the car they were travelling in rammed into a divider and overturned near the Dhillon petrol pump on the national highway in Ambala in the wee hours of today.The deceased have been identified as Deepak Sharma and Hunny Cheema, while the injured have been identified as Gurdev, Parul, Shiv and Nimit, all residents of Kurukshetra.Around 3.30 am, the victims were on their way from Ambala to Kurukshetra when a tyre of their vehicle burst and the vehicle rammed into a divider before overturning on the national highway.The SHO of the Parao police station, Devender Singh, said “Two men died while four suffered injuries in the accident. Three of the injured are still in the ICU. The bodies have been handed over to the family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-rams-into-divider-two-killed-4-injured-in-ambala-155894
15-10-2020||Panchkula||‘You may not forgive me’ — Panchkula girl’s heart-wrenching suicide note||The 16-year-old girl, who reportedly committed suicide on Monday, was allegedly harassed by her boyfriend and wrote a three-page note before she decided to take the extreme step.The girl reportedly hanged herself to death from a cupboard latch at her house in Sector 14 around 3 pm. She had blamed 19-year-old boyfriend Deshraj, who lives in Rally village in Sector 12-A, for her death.Post-mortem reportA senior official of the Civil Hospital said: “According the post-mortem report, we can’t say if the girl was pregnant or an attempt was made to terminate the pregnancy.”A case under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and 306 of the IPC (abetment to suicide) was registered.According to the victim’s mother, the suspect was their neighbour when they used to live in Rally village in Sector 12-A before moving to Sector 14.“I know whatever I have done is wrong. You may not ever forgive me. I had no option but to believe him (Deshraj). He swore by his parents that he won’t ever leave me. I made the biggest mistake of my life by falling for him and believing him,” reads the note left by the victim for her parents.It added: “I was scared if I leave him, he would tell everything about us to everyone. I wish I had told you everything at the right time. I don’t want Deshraj to spoil any other girl’s life like mine. I couldn’t concentrate on my studies or sleep due to the betrayal.”In the note, the victim had also mentioned that her boyfriend had given her five abortion pills of which she had consumed three.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/you-may-not-forgive-me-%E2%80%94-panchkula-girls-heart-wrenching-suicide-note-155897
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virus kills 2 more in Chandigarh||Two more Covid-19 deaths were reported from the city, taking the toll to 199, while the number of infections reached 13,403 with 72 more people testing positive.Two men, aged 65 and 54, both from Ram Darbar, died after contracting the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-kills-2-more-in-chandigarh-155898
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||10-foot-long python rescued from Chandigarh's Lake Club||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-foot-long-python-rescued-from-chandigarhs-lake-club-155899
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virtual foundation day celebrations at Panjab University||Panjab University celebrated its foundation day today through the virtual mode. The PU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, expressed gratitude to leaders for making the university an institution of excellence.“The journey of the PU from Lahore in 1882 to present day in India has been commendable. The PU has emerged as beacon of light for excellence in higher education. It’s a moment of pride for me to lead the university, which has an excellent faculty and hard working students,” said Kumar.He gave detailed account of various achievements of the Panjab University (PU). He urged all to join together in taking the Panjab University to greater heights.The Dean (Research) and officiating Dean (University Instructions), Prof VR Sinha, thanked the faculty and students for taking the PU to its present height. He also remembered challenging days of the Panjab University during the Partition.While presenting a vote of thanks finance and development officer and officiating Registrar Vikram Nayyar said, “The foundation day is the day to remember and pay tribute to legends, who contributed in building this institution and putting it on the global map.”Dr Gurmeet Singh was the keynote speaker of the seminar. A two-minute silence was observed in the memory of the former PU director (Sports), Dr Parminder Singh Ahluwalia, who died due to a massive cardiac arrest recently.Last date for postgraduate courses extendedPanjab University has extended the last date for applying online for admission to various postgraduate courses in its teaching departments/institutes and regional centres through its portal — http://onlineadmissions.puchd.ac.in. Now, students can apply online for various courses till October 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virtual-foundation-day-celebrations-at-panjab-university-155900
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||PEC to reschedule dates of practical examinations||The Punjab Engineering College (PEC) management held discussions with students’ representatives on rescheduling dates of conducting practical examinations and to evaluate even semester marks on the basis of past performance, said Director Dheeaj Sanghi.“The management has approved recommendations, however, the final decision will be taken by the PEC Senate, which is scheduled to meet on October 21,” said Sanghi“Today’s meeting was fruitful. We have decided to reschedule practical examinations. It has been proposed to conduct examinations after Diwali, likely in November-December. Examinations will be conducted with less number of students in small batches and for longer duration,” added Sanghi.“Examinations will be conducted twice. No one will be forced to appear in examinations or come to campus. If one fails to appear in the first attempt, he/she has to appear and pass the examination in the next scheduled lot. Recommendations have been made for the benefit of students,” said Sanghi.“It has also been recommended to evaluate students of second and fourth semesters on the basis of their past performance. For some even semesters, too, students will be evaluated on the basis of their past performance. The top 95 per cent will get through to next semester while five per cent have to appear for physical examination. The semester has already been delayed. So, it has been decided to promote students on pass/fail criteria,” added Sanghi.“These are only recommendations and will be implemented only after the approval of PEC Senate, which is scheduled to meet next Wednesday,” said Sanghi.Meanwhile, the SOPs will be released later according to the situation.Earlier, the PEC management had decided to call students to the campus in small batches in different time slots for practical examinations.For BTech (fifth semester), practical exams have been scheduled from November 2 to 6, end-semester exams from November 7 and pending exams of the previous semester from December 11.Practical exams of BTech (third semester) are expected to be held from November 17, followed by their end-semester exams from November 22 and pending exams from December 21.For seventh semester, exams have been scheduled from December 5 to 9. And for MTech (third semester), pending exams will be conducted from January 4 while dissertation evaluation will be from January 11 to 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-to-reschedule-dates-of-practical-examinations-155901
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||All scholars must have access to labs: PURSA||After accepting conditions of the Panjab University (PU) authorities on allowing research scholars to attend labs and live in hostels, the Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) has now came up with new objections.In a statement here today, PURSA said, “Although PURSA has reluctantly agreed to their demands, we are of the opinion that the university authorities should not have taken two weeks time and put any bar on years of research of scholars, who would be allowed access to hostels and library from November 1.”PURSA is of the view that the Panjab University authorities should allow all research scholars irrespective of years of study and degrees whether MPhil or PhD to go to labs and live in hostels.“For us all research scholars’ research is equally important. Therefore, they should also have access to labs and live in hostels. Besides, library must be opened immediately,” PURSA added.“In view of decision taken in the meeting, we defer our proposed protest. However, if the PU authorities don’t keep their words, we would be forced to occupy hostels and library immediately,” PURSA said.Issues related to allowing research scholars from the science background, who have completed three years of their studies, and fourth and fifth year PhD social sciences students to attend labs, opening of hostels, department libraries and central instrumentation laboratory and waving synopsis extension fee till December 31 have already been resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-scholars-must-have-access-to-labs-pursa-155902
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University announces result of examinations||Panjab University announced result of various examinations today.Results for the four year bachelor of physical education (Eighth semester), BSc (General, sixth semester, colleges only), BSc (Fashion designing, sixth semester), MA (Indian Theatre, fourth semester), PG diploma in disaster management and security (Second semester), B Pharmacy (Eighth semester), MPhil (Clinical psychology, first year), MPhil (Psychiatric social work, Part I), MPharmacy (Fourth semester), bachelor of tourism and travel management (Eighth semester), MA Women Studies (Second semester), MA (Russian, second semester), BEd (Yoga, second semester), BEd (Special education, intellectual disability, second semester) and BEd (Special education, learning disability, second semester) were announced today.Students can check their results at their respective departments/colleges or on the Panjab University website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-announces-result-of-examinations-155905
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Amid pandemic, CII’s agrotech goes virtual||Amid Pandemic, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) biennial agri technology event “Agro Tech” is going virtual. Being organised from October 16 to 22, this will be the first-ever virtual agro and food tech by the CII.Over the past years, the industry body has been organising the event, which it claims to be Asia’s biggest, at Parade Ground in the city.With the outbreak of pandemic, physical exposition, conference, ‘kisan goshthees’ and other related activities are not possible. However, to ensure that the farming fraternity and agri industry stakeholders are not deprived of the critical information and knowledge of latest advancements in the field of agri and related technologies, the 14th edition of the Agro Tech India is now rechristened as “Agro and Food Tech” - the India International Food and Agri Week and is being organised on CII’s virtual platform – HIVE, stated a release by the CII.Given the current prevailing situation, this will be the largest virtual event on agri and food technology. The event is supported by six ministries of the Government of India, five plus partner countries, 10 plus partner states, 300+ exhibitors, 100+ FPOs, 10+ universities.Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Food Processing Industries, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Government of India, will be the chief guest during the inaugural session of the Agro Tech.Canada will participate at the Virtual Agro and Food Tech 2020, to explore collaboration opportunities with Indian businesses.Members of the Canadian Trade Commissioner Service will be present online at the virtual Canada booth to facilitate business interactions between leading Canadian and Indian companies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-pandemic-ciis-agrotech-goes-virtual-155906
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Pandemic posed a challenge to North India: PGI Director||The PGI today announced that it has established 50 Covid-19 molecular labs in North India. Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, congratulated Dr Mini P Singh, Professor, Department of Virology, PGI, who was the principal coordinator for establishing the labs.Prof Jagat Ram said: “The pandemic posed a big challenge to North India as during the initial phase, few labs were trained in molecular virology testing. But we successfully upgraded labs of surrounding and far-flung areas.”“The Department of Virology established around 50 RT PCR test labs,” he added.Prof Mini P Singh extended her thanks to the faculty and staff of the department of for providing hands-on training to 170 faculties and technical staff from other states. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pandemic-posed-a-challenge-to-north-india-pgi-director-155907
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||ABVP demands inquiry into scholarship scam||The Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) Punjab called for an immediate and impartial enquiry against Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who was given a clean chit in the multi-crore SC post-Matric scholarship scam in the state recently.The ABVP submitted a memorandum to the Punjab Governor and demanded resignation of Dharamsot. The ABVP state joint secretary, Diksha, said, “An additional chief secretary of the department concerned exposes the whole trail of corruption in this particular scholarship scheme, which is around Rs64 crore.”“The scheme is a platform to provide quality education to students. Anti-Dalit and anti-education face of this government has been exposed by this scam as they don’t want students to get good education and have a better future,” Diksha added.The ABVP Chandigarh secretary, Ajay Sood, said, “The government should conduct an open investigation under the supervision of a sitting High Court judge. Until then Dharamsot should resign.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abvp-demands-inquiry-into-scholarship-scam-155908
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Water chestnut pond a centre of attraction||A village located along the Landran-Banur road has become a centre of attraction for the commercial harvesting of water chestnuts (popularly called singhara) in its five-acre community pond.If a worker Wasim’s statement is anything to go by, Mote Majra is the only village in the area where water chestnuts are being grown. He says, “Every year, we get more than 65 quintals of water chestnuts from the village pond and it is supplied to Mohali, Chandigarh, Kharar, Morinda, Ropar and Panchkula.”“The pond, which attracts many migratory birds every year and is also used by the village livestock, earns a handsome amount of profit for the village panchayat, which leases the water body for producing water chestnuts to farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-chestnut-pond-a-centre-of-attraction-155912
15-10-2020||Mohali||Seven farmers honoured for not burning stubble||Seven farmers of Badanpur village, who did not indulge in stubble burning, were today honoured by the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Association. An awareness camp was organised by the department at Badanpur in Kharar block to curb the trend of burning straw in fields.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Rajiv Kumar Gupta handed over certificates of appreciation to seven farmers of Badanpur village, who managed the straw with machinery for the last five years and did not indulge in burning the crop residue.Addressing farmers, Gupta said , “The district administration is providing machinery to farmers on subsidised rates for stubble management.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-farmers-honoured-for-not-burning-stubble-155913
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Congress to protest virtual House meeting on October 20||Congress councillors Devinder Singh Babla, Gurbax Rawat, Sheela Phool Singh, Satish Kainth and Ravinder Kaur Gujral will stage a protest outside Mayor Raj Bala Malik’s office on October 20 when a meeting of General House will be held via a digital platform.The councillors are protesting that no MC meeting has been held for the past month with the excuse of Covid.“The meeting could have been held by the Senior Deputy Mayor or the Deputy Mayor. You seem to not trust even your own party men and your own party councillors have criticised you for the same,” Babla said.Babla accused the Mayor of fudging Swachh Bharat Mission survey by mentioning that the city has achieved complete door-to-door collection and segregation of garbage. “Dadu Majra is in a shambles and never before has there been such a huge accumulation of garbage. You have wrongly reported that 479 metric ton of garbage is collected, of which 450 tonne is processed,” he added.The Congress also opposes the decision to hike the rent of shopkeepers from Rs 14,000 to Rs 23,000 without the approval of MC House. Water tariff has also been increased considerably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-to-protest-virtual-house-meeting-on-october-20-155914
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Beds vacant at care centres as cases dip||With a decline in active cases and positivity rate reaching 90 per cent, occupancy of Covid care centres has decreased as a majority of patients are under home isolation.The city has consistently been reporting a decline in active cases since September 16. Of 1,100 active patients in the city, around 800 patients are under home isolation while 150 patients each are in hospitals and Covid care centres.The civil hospitals at Sector 22 and Mani Majra have no Covid patient while the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital at Sector 16 has a total of 21 patients.The PGI has only 30 patients from Chandigarh, and the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, is taking care of 100 patients of Covid. Only two Covid care centres, Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, and Dhanwantry Hospital, Sector 46, are partially occupied.In April, the Health Department had created around 2,000 beds for patients in the Covid care centres under a contingency plan.A doctor from the GMCH 32 said: “As Covid care centres in Panjab University have been closed down, Sood Dharamshala has started receiving more patients recently. The current occupancy is 112 patients at this centre.”The Health Department has kept Panjab University three hostels, No. 9, 10 and International, as standby centres for Covid care, although their occupancy is nil at present.The UT Director Health Services, Amandeep Kaur Kang, said: “Our Covid care centres at Panjab University are lying empty but we have reserved them for future as cases are expected to rise in winter and the festival season. The staff at the centres have been withdrawn for now. Our focus is now on testing and bringing down the daily positivity rate to at least 5 per cent.”Centre appreciates UT effortsMeanwhile, the Central Government today reviewed the Covid-19 situation of Chandigarh. The official spokesperson said the Union Home Secretary appreciated the arrangements by the Chandigarh Administration for tackling the pandemic.During a video conference, Adviser Manoj Parida briefed that the recovery rate of Chandigarh was 90% and every 12th citizen had been tested as per the population concerned. He emphasised that arrangements such as beds, oxygen supply to hospitals as well as to Covid care centres are up-to-date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beds-vacant-at-care-centres-as-cases-dip-155916
15-10-2020||Panchkula||3 deaths in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-in-panchkula-155917
15-10-2020||Mohali||Recoveries exceed cases in Mohali||Health Minister dischargedPunjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was discharged from Fortis Hospital, Mohali, on Wednesday. The minister had tested positive on October 6. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/recoveries-exceed-cases-in-mohali-155918
15-10-2020||Panchkula||Special cover on Covid warriors released||As part of the National Postal Week celebrations, the Postal Department today celebrated Business Development Day. Haryana Postal Circle Chief Post Master General Ranju Prasad released a special postal cover on Covid warriors. A customer meet or grahak sabha was also organised in which 80 customers of Book Now Pay Later Speed Post and Business Parcel from Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar took part. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-cover-on-covid-warriors-released-155919
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||High Court directs probe by EOW||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed investigation by the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Chandigarh Police into an alleged vehicle loan scam involving “huge public money” after observing that the probe carried out so far was “wanting to some extent”.“It appears that there is a scam coined by the unscrupulous persons in connivance with the bank officials,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted, while asking the UT Senior Superintendent of Police to entrust the investigation of the cases to the EOW.Justice Raj Mohan Singh also made it clear that the investigation would be carried out by an officer not below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police, while dismissing the bail pleas of two accused, including the “Branch Manager” of State Bank of Patiala Rattan Singh.Justice Raj Mohan Singh added four “such cases” had been brought to the Court’s notice, in which involvement of two other persons, Vivek and Karanbir, had come to the fore. Those cases were subject to lawful investigation by the investigating officers of the cases. But the fact remained that it was a scam, where huge public money was involved.“To unearth this scam and involvement of all persons, custodial interrogation of the petitioners is necessary,” the Bench added. The case has its genesis in two petitions filed by Jatinder Pal Singh and Rattan Singh for anticipatory bail in a cheating and forgery case registered on February 1 under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 19 police station.The Bench was told that Jatinder Pal Singh had taken Rs 20-lakh loan for purchasing a vehicle, which he booked, but later cancelled. It was also alleged the loan of Rs 20 lakh was sanctioned and credited to an account in the dealer’s name on the basis of forged invoice. UT counsel JS Toor submitted the account was fraudulently opened to usurp the loan amount. Out of the total amount, Rs 13 lakh was transferred to Jatinder Pal Singh’s account.Rattan Singh, stated to be the Branch Manager, had conducted pre-sanction survey and verified the documents, it was alleged. Jatinder Pal Singh’s counsel, on the other hand, submitted a fraud was committed with the petitioner by Vivek and Karanbir, who projected themselves as the bank’s ‘direct marketing agents’.Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted Vivek and Karanbir were not found to be appointed ‘Direct Marketing Agents’. It was hard to fathom how loan could have been disbursed without the car being actually delivered and its physical verification. “It could only be possible with the connivance of the bank officials. The names of Vivek and Karanbir under the alleged plea of ‘Direct Marketing Agents’ have appeared in number of cases in and around Chandigarh,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-directs-probe-by-eow-155920
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Welfare bodies oppose water tariff hike||The Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), an umbrella organisation of 60 resident welfare associations, today protested the hike in water tariff by the Municipal Corporation.All RWAs have termed it as unilateral and unjustified action by the civic body. They had urged the UT Administrator, through a letter on February 9, to review the decision. The water supply was inadequate and needs improvement before any hike in water tariff. Leakage in supply lines and illegal non-metered supply to the colonies need to be plugged, they said.“The water pipes are more than 50 years old and of less carrying capacity which is not enough to meet the increasing water requirement of the city,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, FOSWAC president. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/welfare-bodies-oppose-water-tariff-hike-155921
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||BBMB staff take Jan Andolan pledge||The “Jan Andolan Campaign On Covid-19” pledge was taken by staff of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) on its premises here today as part of the Jan Andolan Campaign of the Prime Minister that lays emphasis on maintaining physical distancing, hand hygiene and use of face mask.On the occasion, Harminder Singh Chugh, Member Power, highlighted efforts made by the BBMB during the pandemic by way of helping poor people by providing them groceries, cooked food packets and water bottles at all its stations.He also lauded the efforts of doctors and other paramedical staff of all BBMB hospitals for providing their services to the general masses. He also felicitated engineers and employees for their remarkable efforts in surpassing all generation targets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bbmb-staff-take-jan-andolan-pledge-155923
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gurlal Brar murder case: Gangster Dilpreet Baba’s role to be probed||The UT police are probing the role of gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, in the murder of Gurlal Brar. Police officials said Baba would be brought on production warrant for interrogation.Baba is at present lodged in a jail of Punjab.Baba came to the limelight in the city after he, along with his accomplices, shot dead a sarpanch in broad daylight outside a gurdwara in Sector 38 in 2017. Dilpreet was again in news after he shot at Punjabi singer Parmish Verma in Mohali in 2018.He was nabbed by a joint team of personnel from the Punjab and Chandigarh police in July 2018 outside the ISBT, Sector 43.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurlal-brar-murder-case-gangster-dilpreet-babas-role-to-be-probed-155924
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Garbage lifting to be hit today in Chandigarh||The collection of garbage from public places will be affected tomorrow, announced the Safai Karamchari Union today. However, the door-to-door collection from homes will take place as usual.The Safai Karamchari Union will go on a strike outside the Municipal Corporation office tomorrow to protest the “selective tagging of safai karamcharis through GPS-enabled watches to keep a tab on the movement of the field staff and irregularities in their attendance”.Union leader KK Chadha said: “Why this selective tagging? If it has to be implemented, do it for all 4,000 employees of the MC. Where is the place to charge these watches? What if it is lost during charging? If the watch shows incorrect location, how do we prove our innocence?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-lifting-to-be-hit-today-in-chandigarh-155952
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Milkha family boosts hockey player’s hopes||Tears rolled down the eyes of 18-year-old hockey striker Harpreet Singh after receiving a pat on the back by former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh at his residence today.Harpreet, who has played 11 nationals and was among the top scorers of the U-21 Khelo India Games, was spotted by this correspondent doing work as labourer to make a living for his family. Though disheartened after not being selected by national selectors, he aims to play for the nation.Milkha’s wife Nirmal Milkha Singh and his son, international golfer Jeev Milkha Singh, also met Harpreet. The Milkha family handed over a cheque for Rs 50,000 to Harpreet and also ensured him of facilities under the Milkha’s Charitable Trust. “No dream is small. If you wanted to play for India, you should be ready to give your best for achieving it. I have faced such kind of situations. But once you fight against the odds, you achieve what you desire,” said Milkha Singh to Harpreet.His wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, who has been Joint Director Sports (UT), said kids like Harpreet needed attention and support to grow. “He will now focus on playing hockey and studying. May God give him the strength to fight against all odds and emerge as a winner,” said Nirmal.“I am very happy... I have no words to explain my feelings. I have never expected to meet Milkha sir and his family like this. I won’t let them down. They have given me a new hope,” said Harpreet, while talking to this correspondent.Meanwhile, the Hockey Chandigarh also announced that they would approach Hockey India for helping Harpreet to attend the national camp. “He is a natural talent. We are talking to Hockey India for giving him a chance, which he deserved after leading the goal scorers’ chart in U-21 Khelo India Games held in January,” said Anil Vohra, secretary, Hockey Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-family-boosts-hockey-players-hopes-155966
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Court tells matrimonial service company to refund half fee||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a matrimonial service firm, Wedding Wish Pvt. Ltd, to refund half the fee to a man and his son after it failed to find a suitable bride as per the choice of the son.In a complaint filed through advocate Gagandeep Goel before the commission, Manmohan Singh, a resident of Sector 38 C, said he, along with his son, visited the office of Wedding Wish and enrolled with an elite membership fee of Rs 30,000 and paid pre-registration amount of Rs 10,000.The remaining payment of Rs 20,000 was made on March 24, 2018. He said his son was given a checklist of the preferences through which the selection was to be carried out for an appropriate match. However, the said preference chart is within the possession of the opposite party (Wedding Wish) and not even a copy thereof was given to the complainants.He alleged that the opposite party (Wedding Wish) uploaded profiles of incorrect matches/non-preferential matches. He said a number of emails were exchanged between them regarding the deficiency in service but the firm did not pay any heed. When nothing worked out in favour of the complainants, they requested the opposite party to refund the amount deposited by them, but to no avail. Alleging the act as deficiency in service, the father-son duo sought the refund the complete amount of Rs 30,000 along with interest; compensation of Rs 1,00,000 and Rs.22,000 as litigation expenses.On the other hand, the opposite party denied the allegations. The court found that though the opposite party made efforts for the fulfilment of the promises, yet there seems to be some grouse of the complainants. In view of this, the court directs the firm to refund 50 per cent of the amount to the complainants and to pay an Rs 5,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment to them. The firm was also told to pay Rs 5,000 to the complainants as costs of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-tells-matrimonial-service-company-to-refund-half-fee-155968
15-10-2020||Panchkula||Ex-councillor's SUV vandalised||Nursery sites auctionedChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation held an open auction of two nursery sites at Mauli Jagran, including site No. 4 & 5, on Wednesday. Both sites were auctioned for Rs 50,000 each against the reserve price of Rs 25,000 per month. TNSGuv to open MC petrol stationChandigarh: Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore will inaugurate online a fuel station of the MC at Sector 51-A at 11am on Thursday. The officers of MC will be present at the petrol station during the inauguration. TNSMinor fire at dumping groundChandigarh: Eight days after a major fire erupted at the Dadu Majra dumping ground, a minor fire was reported from the site around 4.30 pm on Wednesday. However, it was doused by firemen within an hour. A fire engine was rushed to the spot to put out the flames. On October 6, a major fire created panic in the area as flames and a plume of orange-yellow smoke rose from the middle and spread in all directions of the garbage mound with wind. A Dadu Majra resident said, “We are living in fear as recurrent fires in the dumping ground have become a major concern.’’ TNSShatabdi EXPRESS cancelledChandigarh: The Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express, which was all set to hit the tracks from October 15, has been cancelled in view of the ongoing farmers' protests. The special Shatabdi Express (train number 02011) was to depart from the New Delhi railway station at 7.40 am and arrive at the Chandigarh station at 11.05 am and the Kalka railway station at 11:45 am. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-councillors-suv-vandalised-155970
