18-10-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: One death, 64 fresh cases in Chandigarh||One more person died from coronavirus in Chandigarh on Sunday as 64 fresh cases took the infection count to 13,646 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana.So far, the virus has claimed 208 lives in the union territory, according to a medical bulletin.There are 884 active cases in the city as of now, the bulletin said.A total of 94 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection on Sunday, taking the number of cured persons to 12,554, it said.A total of 95,022 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them 80,799 tested negative while reports of 114 samples are awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-death-64-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-157677
18-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports four coronavirus deaths, 40 new cases||Mohali reported four deaths and 40 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, officials from the district administration said on Sunday.Mohali Urban reported 27 of the 40 new cases. Banur (1), Dera Bassi  (5), Gharuan (3) and Kharar (4) made up the rest of Sunday’s numbers.The development takes the district tally to 11,753, with 222 deaths.  Mohali now has 748 active cases.Ninety-eight people were released after recovery, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-four-coronavirus-deaths-40-new-cases-157661
18-10-2020||Naina Mishra||GMSH-16 all set to open more OPDs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17The Government Multi-Specialty Hospital at Sector 16 is all set to resume more Out Patient Department (OPD) services from Monday. Patients in batches of 10 each will be allowed at each OPD in order to avoid crowding near the doctors’ rooms.Steps to prevent Covid spreadSituation to be reviewed after weekMedical Superintendent of GMSH-16 VK Nagpal said: “Only one attendant will be allowed along with a patient. Instead of the patient’s attendant, our staff will take care of him and drag the trolley as well, if needed. We will strictly enforce social distancing at the hospital. However, the institute will be forced to reconsider the decision if the public refuses to pay heed to our requests.”The OPD timings will be from 9 am to 3 pm and registration will take place between 8 am and 11 am. The hospital authorities have decided to open OPDs of skin, orthopaedics and surgery. The OPDs of medicine and gynaecology are already functional.According to the standard operating procedure, no patient will enter an OPD block without mask. The visitors coming without mask will be given a triple-layered mask as well as hand sanitiser before entering the OPD. There will be separate entry and exit points for patients to prevent intermingling. They will be encouraged to use the ramp instead of lifts in view of small elevator compartments. Only those patients who have a difficulty in using the ramp will be allowed to take elevators.At any given time, there will be 10 patients only and the next lot will be called only when the earlier one leaves. The patients will be seated on alternate seats so that there is some distance between two patients. A security guard will always keep a strict vigil to ensure that no two persons stand in proximity with each other.The hospital authorities have also decided to open Surgical Theatre to perform pending surgeries. Medical Superintendent of GMSH-16 VK Nagpal said: “We will carry out four or five surgeries a day of those patients whose surgeries are pending due to the lockdown. These patients will be given priority along with emergency cases.”Dr Amandeep Kang, Director of Health Services, said: “Initially, 50 patients will be allowed to register at each OPD to maintain social distancing. An appointment will be given for follow-up visit. We will encourage telemedicine for sharing laboratory reports, and online appointment registration. Security guards will regulate flow of patients and ensure social distancing. They will also ensure visitors wear masks. We will allow companions in case of elderly persons and sick patients.”Meanwhile, the Government Medical College Hospital, Sector 32, and the PGI are yet to take a decision on opening their OPDs. Both are currently relying on tele-consultation and calling patients through appointment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmsh-16-all-set-to-open-more-opds-157442
18-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Respite: Case doubling time increases in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17With the number of new Covid cases per day seeing a sharp fall in recent days, the city’s case doubling time has increased to 130 days from 17 days in mid-August. This has been revealed by the UT Health Department.On September 16, the case doubling time was 19 days. Last week, the number of new infections grew by an average of 0.6 per cent a day, which is the lowest since the start of the pandemic.At the national level, the case doubling time has sharply increased to 70.4 days from 25.5 days in mid-August.In epidemiology, the doubling time is the number of days required for the number of cases in an epidemic to double. It is based on the rate of the cumulative increase in the case count. The doubling time is a crude estimate of the current rate of spread of the virus.Dadu Majra man diesChandigarh: A 63-year-old man from Dadu Majra died of Covid on Saturday, taking the toll to 207. The patient, who was suffering from a chronic kidney disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the PGI. The city also recorded 54 fresh cases of Covid-19, raising the tally to 13,582. A total of 108 patients were reported to have recovered from the disease. Among them were patients who completed 10 days in home isolation and were asymptomatic. TNSOne death, 37 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 37 new cases of Covid and a fatality. While the infection count rose to 6,809, toll reached 106. A 77-year-old man from Pinjore, who was suffering from hypertension, diabetes and a chronic kidney disease, succumbed to the virus. Among the fresh cases, four each were from Pinjore, Sector 21 and Sector 9 and three each from Alipur, Kalka, Sector 16 and Sector 20. TNS4 succumb in MohaliMohali: Four persons died of Covid in the district on Saturday. Besides, 43 new cases were reported and 81 patients recovered from the virus. As many as 38 fresh cases were reported from Mohali (Urban), three surfaced in Dera Bassi and one case each was reported from Kharar and Gharuan. The district has so far reported 11,713 cases. Of these, 810 are active. A total of 218 persons have lost their lives due to Covid. TNSA higher doubling time means it is taking longer for the cases to double and indicates that the infection is spreading slower. Conversely, a lower doubling time suggests a faster spread of infection.Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT, said, “Doubling rate is inversely proportional to the number of positive cases detected in the last one week. It is also a function of total cases so far. The doubling rate has increased many times than what was last month. This is the trend in the whole country, though more pronounced in case of Chandigarh. The decline in the number of cases is sharper in the UT. We hope it increases further.”The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had projected that Chandigarh will witness 14,376 cases by October 13, of which 4,200 will be active. The projection proved wrong as the city had been witnessing a dip in the number of cases reported in a day. Chandigarh has a fatality rate of 1.5 per cent, while the recovery rate has gone past 90 per cent.Gupta said, “Covid fatality is still an area of concern. We expect the fatality trend to subside in the next week or so due to the impact of the decreased number of cases and increased focus on providing timely medical care to Covid patients.”From October 9 to 16, the city recorded 18 fatalities as compared to 19 reported in the preceding week. It recorded 24 Covid deaths a week before.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/respite-case-doubling-time-increases-in-chandigarh-157443
18-10-2020||Panchkula||Positivity rate dips in Panchkula||With a consistent decline in daily Covid count, the positivity rate remained below 5 per cent for the past one week. The district’s positivity rate was above 11 per cent in September.Barring October 10 when 64 cases were reported, the number of cases reported from the district in a day remained below 50 between October 9 and 15. With an average of around 800, the district conducted 5,539 tests during the period. As many as 261 samples tested positive, registering a positivity rate of 4.71 per cent.The overall positivity rate on October 17 was 8.5 per cent. The daily infections have come down even as the government allowed more economic activities.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “Though the infection seems to be getting contained, we will know the exact situation only after the festive season.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/positivity-rate-dips-in-panchkula-157444
18-10-2020||---||16K throng Mansa Devi against 11K limit||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 17Under the shadow of Covid-19, as many as 16,106 devotees thronged the Mansa Devi temple here on the first day of the Navratri fest today, said MS Yadav, CEO of Mansa Devi Trust. It was much above the limit of 11,000 per day pilgrimage fixed by the temple administration in view of the pandemic. The Kali Mata temple in Kalka saw a footfall of 4,490 on the first day of Ashwin Navratra.Covid precautionsOfficials, including police personnel, had a tough time making people maintain social distancing. Tight security arrangements in and around the temple have been made by the police.Even both temples saw a significant rise in the first day donations of cash, gold and silver during Ashwin Navratri compared to last year.The Mansa Devi shrine received Rs 18.5 lakh as cash donations while Rs 5.25 lakh was offered at the Kali Mata temple. It is Rs 11.45 lakh more than what both temples had received in 2019 on the first day of Navratri.A gold piece (weighing 10.572 gm) and 17 silver items (weighing 638.397 gm) were also offered at the Mansa Devi shrine. The shrine, however, received no foreign currency on the first day of festival.The nine-day fest began amid Covid-19 precautions.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, who visited the temple around 9.15 am, participated in the ‘Corona mukti hawan’ to ward off the pandemic.Marginal rise inonline donationsEven though the footfall came down drastically compared to the previous years, the temple witnessed a marginal rise in online donations.175 tests conductedA team of the Heath Department conducted rapid antigen tests on 175 devotees on the first day of Navratri. All of them came out negative. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said of 1,060 samples taken at the Mansa Devi temple to date, only two persons had tested positive.Ban on prasad, vendors bear the bruntShopkeepers and prasad vendors, who would eagerly wait for Navratri fest in normal circumstances, are still praying for their ‘achhe din’ (better days) due to a blanket ban on offering of flowers and prasad at the temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16k-throng-mansa-devi-against-11k-limit-157445
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Woman jumps to death at GMCH-32||A 27-year-old woman, Anu, reportedly committed suicide by jumping from the seventh floor of C-Block, GMCH-32, here today.The woman jumped from the building and fell on two attendants in a waiting area on the second floor. Ashok Kumar (35), a resident of Ambala, and Narinder (20), a resident of Rajpura, suffered injuries. Both are undergoing treatment in Emergency Ward.Eyewitnesses said both attendants were having food when the woman fell on them. She was rushed to Emergency Ward by the security staff where the doctors declared her dead. One of the attendants has suffered a fractured leg.According to the documents recovered from the deceased, she has been identified as Anu, a resident of Kaithal. She was taking IELTS coaching in Pehowa, Kurukshetra. The police have informed the kin of the deceased through her mobile phone who confirmed that Anu was neither a patient nor an attendant at the GMCH-32. The purpose of the woman’s visit to the hospital is not yet clear. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-jumps-to-death-at-gmch-32-157446
18-10-2020||---||Open space at 33 schools to be used for parking||Chandigarh, October 17The UT police have designated the open space at 33 government schools in 18 sectors as additional parking in order to avoid traffic congestion during the festival season.Manoj Kumar Meena, SSP, Security and Traffic, has written a letter to the Chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, to take up the matter with all market associations for better traffic management. The shopkeepers have been advised to park their cars on the rear side of their shops and not encroach upon the parking area.Shopkeepers may be advised not to park their vehicles on pedestrian pathways/cycle tracks, reads the advisory.The open spaces in the government schools of Sector 8, 15, 18, 19, 20, 22, 29, 30, 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41, 44, 46 and Mani Majra will double as parking space for vehicles during the festive season.Chandigarh Beopar Mandal chairman Charanjiv Singh said, “Some congested markets, including Sector 21, 22, 23, 27, 28, 45 and 46, have been left out. We will approach the SSP (Traffic) to provide additional parking space in these sectors too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-space-at-33-schools-to-be-used-for-parking-157447
18-10-2020||Panchkula||No smooth ride in Industrial Area of Panchkula||With heavy vehicles plying on the roads in the Industrial Area here, a permanent solution to broken stretches in the area has remained elusive for a very long time.Vishnu Goel, president, Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industries (HCCI), said, “Even as nearly 2,000 industrial units are operating in the Industrial Area, it is deprived of even basic facilities like proper sanitation, smooth roads and street lights.”Basics missing: HCCI chiefEven as nearly 2,000 units are operating in the Industrial Area, it is deprived of even basic facilities such as proper sanitation, smooth roads and street lights. - Vishnu Goel, President, Haryana Chamber of Commerce & Industries“We had convened a special meeting with the MLA. He (Gupta) and the Director of the Industries Department had assured to change the overall scenario of the Industrial Area. However, the first step towards fulfilling the assurance is yet to be taken,” said Goel, who is also on the 32-member advisory committee for development works in Panchkula.Goel said they had sent a proposal to build cemented roads as heavy vehicles, including fuel tankers, ply there and such roads lasted long. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-smooth-ride-in-industrial-area-of-panchkula-157448
18-10-2020||Mohali||Water supply to be hit in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-mohali-157449
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Pro-Khalistan posters in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Police went into a tizzy after six pro-Khalistan pamphlets were found pasted in Sector 16 last night. One such poster was pasted on the wall of a bus queue shelter.When informed, the police hurriedly removed the posters. This is for the third time in the past one month in Chandigarh and Mohali when pro-Khalistan pamphlets have been found.On September 19, a pro-Khalistan poster was found pasted on a signage in Sector 44. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pro-khalistan-posters-in-chandigarh-157450
18-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh official gets justice 3 yrs after retirement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh, has directed the UT Administration to release death-cum-retirement gratuity (DCRG) to Amin Chand, former executive engineer of the Public Heath Engineering Department, after three years of his retirement with interest within one month.Amin Chand had approached the CAT after the Engineering Department denied the benefit of gratuity after his retirement in 2017 citing the charges framed against him in an alleged corruption case.In a petition filed before the CAT, Amin denied the allegations and stated that he had nothing to do with the case. Investigating agencies also gave him a clean chit, but the charges were framed just to harass him without the approval of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC).The CAT pronounced the order after the applicant’s counsel informed it that the Central Vigilance Commission, in a letter dated October 7, 2020, has recommended dropping of charges levelled against the applicant. He demanded that the Administration might be directed to release the withheld DCRG in favour of the applicant in view of the letter.KK Thakur, counsel appearing for the Central Vigilance Commission, also stated that he had no objection if this application was allowed with a direction to the respondents to release the DCRG amount to the applicant.After hearing the arguments, the CAT in its order said in case the charges framed against the applicant had been dropped by the respondent department, they should release the DCRG amount to the applicant within a period of one month from the date of receipt of the certified copy of this order. The Administration had also been directed to pay interest on the amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-official-gets-justice-3-yrs-after-retirement-157451
18-10-2020||Karam Prakash||Rural grain markets sans basic facilities||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Amid the procurement of paddy, grain markets in the rural areas are deprived of basic facilities.Hundreds of labourers working 24x7 at grain markets for lifting paddy are doing so without drinking water and toilets.A visit to one of the rural grain markets — Daun Kalan, Seal, Bahadurgarh — by The Tribune laid bare the apathy of the government. Labourers are defecating in open because the permanent toilets at the market are lying defunct and the drains of the makeshift toilet are choked.Besides, there is no arrangement for clean drinking water at the grain markets. Bhushan Kumar, a labourer at Duan Kalan grain market, said, “Every year, we face the same problems. In fact, in the absence of walled bathrooms, we have to take baths in the open.”Labourers said the farmers spent only a few hours at the grain market and they were were the ones spending weeks at the site.Ram Mohit of Uttar Pradesh said they were threatened of serious consequences by local farmers if they defecated in paddy fields. “Where should we go? Why can’t we have access to basic amenities? Are we animals?,” said Ram Mohit.Meanwhile, Hari Singh, member, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha Punjab, said he had already written to the market committee, district administration and the Punjab Mandi Board in this regard. He said: “Despite repeated requests for basic facilities to labourers, nothing has been done so far. No one has even bothered to visit the rural markets.”Laal Singh, chairman, Punjab Mandi Board, said he would ask the officer concerned to look into the matter. “All facilities are being provided at the grain markets in the state. However, I will ask the officer concerned to look into the matter and an action will be taken if there are shortcomings.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rural-grain-markets-sans-basic-facilities-157453
18-10-2020||---||Congress leaders, workers join AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17Nearly 50 Congress leaders and volunteers joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) at a function held in Mani Majra here today.Nitin Goyal, chief spokesperson for AAP, said those who joined the party included Mahipal Sharma, former block president, Dataram Dainik, former district vice-president, Avtar Singh, former Youth Congress leader, Kamal Kishore, Mani, Puneet Sindhi, Lucky, Madan Singh Madda, Pappa and several women leaders.Former Congress Councillor Chandermukhi Sharma had recently joined the party.Prem Garg, convener of the Aam Aadmi Party, Chandermukhi Sharma, Vijay Pal Singh and PP Ghai welcomed the former Congress leaders into the party fold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leaders-workers-join-aap-157454
18-10-2020||---||Maintain status quo, orders HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered the maintenance of status quo regarding installation/affixing of poles and overhead telecom cables. The directions came after the Bench was told that Jio Digital Fibre Private Limited had been granted permission to lay overhead telecom cables in Sectors 24 and 25, Panchkula.The direction by Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition filed against the Panchkula Municipal Corporation and other respondents by the Citizen Committee House Owner’s Welfare Association through counsel Prashant Gupta. The petitioner had challenged an order dated January 3, whereby respondents-MC had given permission to respondent-Jio to lay overhead telecom cables running into 14,250 meters in Sectors 24 and 25.Gupta submitted the permission was granted to respondent company against the “Communication and Connectivity Infrastructure Policy of the Government of Haryana” framed in 2017. He further submitted that laying of overhead cables on poles specifically erected for the purpose was to be discouraged as per the policy.Issuing notice of motion for November 26, Justice Karamjit Singh asserted: “In the meantime, status quo regarding installation/affixing of poles and overhead telecom cables be maintained, as on today”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maintain-status-quo-orders-hc-157455
18-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Chandigarh MC to discuss user charges for waste collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17User charges for the door-to-door collection of garbage, permission for displaying advertisement on 55 toilet blocks for five years and operation of public toilets blocks in villages and colonies are some of the prominent items on the agenda for the Municipal Corporation House meeting scheduled for October 20.A tender for 390 vehicles to collect segregated waste for Rs29 crore has already been allottedand the Municipal Corporation will start the door-to-door collection in the coming months. Missing from the agenda is reviewing enhanced water tariffs in the UT.“Missing from the agenda is the review of the enhanced water tariff in the UT and the issue of Sector 23 booths’ rent, which is being promised by BJP councillors for the past one month,” said Congress councillor Satish Kumar from Ward No. 11.Councillors and MC officials will also discuss the proposed amendments to the Chandigarh Rural Rehabilitation Construction and Reconstruction Building Bylaws, 2017. The agenda list also mentions compensation in the licence fee to licensees of paid parking areas due to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-discuss-user-charges-for-waste-collection-157456
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Young Progressive Sikh Forum honours 23 children||The Young Progressive Sikh Forum (YPSF) honoured 23 children for creative and innovative work during the lockdown.Punjab minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Rajinder Singh, Chairman, Wave Group of Companies and Jasbir Singh Dimpa, MP, attended the event.Sodhi advised the YPSF to start such a programme for finding sports talent in the state and also announced a prize of Rs 1 lakh, Rs 50,000 and Rs 31,000 for the top three winners, respectively. Prabhleen Singh, president, YPSF said more than 400 entries were received out of which, 23 winners were declared. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/young-progressive-sikh-forum-honours-23-children-157457
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Remove containment tag: Sec 20-D residents||Residents of Sector 20-D here have demanded the removal of containment zone tag from their area as no fresh Covid-19 case has been reported from the area since October 8.In an email to UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Rakesh Bajaj, on behalf of residents of a lane from house number 3036 to 3047, Sector 20-D, stated that only one person was found affected from coronavirus in their lane on October 8. The patient was admitted to a hospital the same day. However, the remaining family members of the patient tested negative for Covid-19, he said.He said the Health Department had tested each and every member of 12 houses and their reports were also negative. Despite this, the Administration had declared the entire lane as a containment zone.As no fresh case had been reported from the area, he requested the Adviser to remove the restrictions from their area.Meanwhile, the UT today removed restrictions from a containment zone in Sector 47.An official said the restrictions were removed from house number 3898 to 3905, Sector 47, with immediate effect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remove-containment-tag-sec-20-d-residents-157458
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Congress launches ‘Speak Up for Chandigarh’ campaign||In a virtual meeting organised by the Chandigarh Congress, a decision was made to organise meetings, protests and dharnas to raise the important issues of the city. The meeting was headed by Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra where it has been decided to start an online social media campaign, “Speak Up for Chandigarh”, said a party spokesperson.“Congress leaders will regularly raise issues plaguing the city such as imposition of a large number of taxes, threefold increase in water tariffs, exorbitant parking rates, issue of dumping ground, stray cattle menace, potholed roads among others,” said Chhabra.He said, “City residents are disappointed with the BJP-ruled Municipal Corporation and nowhere-to-be-found MP Kirron Kher. We appealed residents to raise their voice against the inept Administration under the BJP rule on the social media”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-launches-speak-up-for-chandigarh-campaign-157460
18-10-2020||Zirakpur||Three rescued from kidnappers||MC employees hold protestChandigarh: Municipal Corporation employees and workers held a protest near the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking workshop against the privatisation of the CTU workshop at Depot No 2. They also protested no revision in the salary of outsourced workers. TNSYogasana Sports C’ship beginsChandigarh: The four-day 36th Chandigarh State Yogasana Sports Championship (online) began on Saturday with over 100 participants taking part in various age group categories. The championship is scheduled for October 17, 18, 24 and 25. The results will be declared on October 25. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-rescued-from-kidnappers-157462
