25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports two coronavirus deaths; 61 new cases||The death of two more people due to coronavirus pushed Chandigarh’s fatality count to 218 while 61 new cases took the infection tally to 14,038 in the Union Territory on Sunday, according to a medical bulletin.There are 653 active cases in the city as of now, it said.A total of 80 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,167, as per the bulletin.A total of 1,01,219 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 86,568 tested negative while reports of 109 samples are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-two-coronavirus-deaths-61-new-cases-161017
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man shot by unidentified assailant in Chandigarh's Sector 22||A 48-year-old man, who was returning home after paying obeisance at a gurdwara, was shot by an unidentified assailant in Sector 22 on Sunday.The victim has been identified as Amrik Singh, an employee of the Health Department, Kharar. The victim received a bullet injury on his leg. The assailant allegedly fled by foot after the attack. Residents gathered at the spot on hearing the gunshot. Police were informed and the injured was rushed to PGI, where he is under treatment.Meanwhile, police have initiated an investigation into the matter. The footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area is being scrutinised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-shot-by-unidentified-assailant-in-chandigarhs-sector-22-160926
25-10-2020||---||Talks fail, waste collectors prepare for next move||Chandigarh, October 24Door-to-door garbage collectors today went on indefinite strike against the MC move to take over collection and segregation of waste in the city. Sanitation staff too continued their strike against GPS-enabled wrist watches, which track their location and have to be used to mark attendance online.The strike by door-to-door garbage collectors and sanitation workers will continue at least till Monday as no consensus could be reached during a meeting between MC Commissioner KK Yadav and a delegation of workers.While Yadav claimed that the meeting was fruitful, Safai Karamchari Union president Krishan Kumar Chadha said their demands were not agreed to. Chadha said, “We will continue the strike and will decide our next course of action on Monday.”Door-to-door Garbage Collectors’ Union chairman OP Saini said, “We will not lift waste from households. Those who lifted garbage today have also been informed not to do so from tomorrow. We told MC officials to consider our demands, but they told us both decisions were implemented after being approved by the MC House. We have told them to bring the agendas again.”Due to the strike, waste lifting from houses and sanitation in city were partially affected today. During a random check, it was found that garbage was not collected from houses in Sectors 33, 34, 37-C, 45-C, 38, Indira Colony, Mani Majra and other areas of the city. Waste was, however, lifted from Sectors 38-C, 49, 61 and 21.“In some sectors, RWAs are managing the lifting of waste. Some collectors who did not know about the strike will now stop collected waste from tomorrow,” added Saini.Hitesh Puri of CRAWFED said, “Residents are suffering due to the strike.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/talks-fail-waste-collectors-prepare-for-next-move-160728
25-10-2020||Sandeep Rana||Of watches, 2-bin vehicles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24It seems without preparing any blueprint, the local Municipal Corporation ordered 390 two-bin waste-collection vehicles at a cost of about Rs29 crore as also 4,000 smart watches at about Rs2.16-crore rent per annum, to keep a check on the field staff, mainly sanitation workers.Why not phones instead of watchesOn some residents’ suggestion that why cannot the MC make use of mobile phones of the staff for keeping a check on them as these too are GPS-enabled, a senior officials said: “Phones are their personal property. Not all of them carry phones to work and not everyone uses a smart-phone. With the help of watches, the staff can mark attendance online and we can also randomly send messages to 100 users at a time.”Union cites quality, health issuesPresident of Safai Karamchari Union Krishan Kumar Chadha claimed: “These watches are faulty and show wrong location of workers. Those wearing them also feel giddy and sick.”We all wear them, says commissionerMC chief KK Yadav said: “All employees, including me, are wearing these watches and have faced no problem.” A senior MC official said, “It is just their excuse to shirk work. If so is the case, they can show us their medical report.”The garbage collectors and workers have been opposing the MC move since the process to acquire the vehicles and watches started. Now, they are on an indefinite strike, bringing cleaning of roads and lifting of garbage to a halt in most areas.Officials of the MC said both agendas were duly passed by the House before their implementation.The GPS-enabled wrist watches were introduced in February for marking online attendance of the field staff, preventing the misuse of manual attendance system, maintaining transparency and weeding out dummy workers. It was claimed that the salaries would be prepared on the basis of GPS data of watches.The civic body has started paying Rs18 lakh per month rent to a private firm that maintains the system. According to the MC Commissioner, last month around 30 employees were found wanting in duty, but their salaries were released after a warning.“We want to do segregation and collect monthly payment from households by ourselves. But the corporation is trying to impose its plan on us by bringing in the two-bin garbage-collection vehicles,” said chairman of Garbage Collectors’ Society OP Saini.Chairman of Chandigarh Residents Associations Welfare Federation Hitesh Puri said: “The MC has no blueprint of the project. It should involve these poor garbage collectors while planning such projects. Running e-rickshaws instead of vehicles will be economical.”Chairman of Federation of Sectors Welfare Associations of Chandigarh Baljinder Singh Bittu said: “Buying vehicles is only a waste of money. They will have to hire drivers and helpers, and spend on diesel and maintenance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/of-watches-2-bin-vehicles-160742
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two succumb, 57 more contract virus in Chandigarh||Covid claimed two more lives in the city, taking the toll to 216. Besides, 57 fresh infections were reported today, taking the UT case tally to 13,977.One death, 49 fresh cases in MohaliMohali: One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 232. The district also reported 49 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 60 patients were cured of the disease. There are 525 active cases. — TNSTwo men, aged 57 and 78, from Sector 25 and Sector 48, respectively, died due to the infection and underlying diseases. As many as 78 more patients have recovered. The number of Covid recoveries now stands at 13,087. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-succumb-57-more-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-160743
25-10-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees 34 new cases||For the third consecutive day, the district reported no Covid death. The toll remained 109 today. Meanwhile, 34 fresh cases surfaced in the district today, taking the tally to 6,971.Among the fresh cases, seven were from Kalka, three each from Mankiyan, MDC, Sector 4, MDC, Sector 5, Sector 14, Sector 20 and Sector 26 and two each from Sector 8. The district now has just 190 active cases. Fifteen more patients have been cured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-34-new-cases-160744
25-10-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Wait for Mohali medical college gets longer||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 24In a big blow to MBBS aspirants of Punjab, the state government has failed to start the Government Medical College in Mohali this year also. The college, named after Dr BR Ambedkar, couldn’t get the Letter of Permission (LOP) from the National Medical Commission (NMC), evidently, owing to the non-fulfilment of the conditions.The college was announced in 2012. The state has been able to start three government medical colleges — the GMC, Patiala; the GMC, Amritsar; and the GGS, Faridkot. No new government medical college has been set up in the state since 1973 when the Faridkot college came into existence.The government has not been able to fulfil the faculty requirements. Besides, the college is said to have been bereft of proper infrastructure.Dr Manjit Kaur Mohi, Director Principal, BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, said 29 faculty members had been recruited for the college, including faculty on deputation. She said: “We have started the recruitment process and 29 faculty members have already joined. The process will continue until we get the faculty required.”As per the NMC, the minimum faculty required to run a medical college of 100 MBBS seats is 62.Sources said the process to start the college was launched at the eleventh hour, and the reason thereof was obviously lack of political will.A senior officer of the Medical Education Department said: “The college doesn’t have its own building. On the one hand new medical colleges are being announced, but on the other, the government is not able to start a medical college that was announced six years ago.”Confirming the development, DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said the college would not offer MBBS seats in NEET counselling for the session 2020-21 because they had not got LOP. He said: “We will try to get permission for the next year. I am hopeful that we will be able to start the college next year.”This year, the state will have 1,135 MBBS seats, including 510 government quota seats, said DK Tiwari.Meanwhile, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who laid the foundation stone of a community health centre in Sector 60, said the Mohali medical college project was started by him in 2013 with the help of the then Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni. As soon as he became the Health Minister, he started working on the project.He thanked the villages for donating 20 acres for the college to whichthe government added another 14 acres. A 500-bed hospital is also to be set up at a cost of Rs 375 crore, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wait-for-mohali-medical-college-gets-longer-160745
25-10-2020||---||Cops exchange blows near club||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24High drama was witnessed when two officials of the police crime branch and the Sector 26 police station reportedly exchanged blows near a night club in Sector 26, after both teams reached there on getting information about suspects carrying illegal weapons last night.Sources said an Inspector from the crime branch suffered an injury on the nose and an ASI on the hand.However, the police officials didn’t confirm the incident. Sources said both police teams had information that suspects with a criminal past would be visiting a nightclub in Sector 26.The sources said the ASI and the Inspector (crime branch) entered into an argument as to who will verify the suspects. The UT police spokesperson, DSP Charanjit Singh Virk, said the matter was not in his knowledge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-exchange-blows-near-club-160746
25-10-2020||---||Zirakpur's Singhpura chowk slip road accident-prone||Zirakpur, October 24A stretch of a slip road near McDonald’s, an eatery situated close to the Singhpura chowk here, provides a rough ride to commuters and is accident-prone too.Broken surface and potholes pose a serious threat to the life and property of thousands of people using the stretch every day. Heavy vehicles, including construction material-laden trucks and tippers, ply on the road day and night.The intersection has seen several road accidents, in which two-wheeler riders lost their lives but the authorities concerned are unmoved. Neither the NHAI nor the Zirakpur civic body did anything to repair the road. Officials said the condition of the road was back to square one a month after recarpeting.“The entire stretch of the slip road is in a shambles. There is chaos during peak traffic hours,” said Jagdeep Virk, a resident of Escon, a housing society nearby.Residents said the problem was compounded during rainy season as puddles of rainwater make the potholes and damaged stretch invisible. “Many a times, those unfamiliar with the bad condition of the road met with an accident,” said Vikas Kamboj, a sales executive working in D-Mart.Street lighting too is insufficient on this stretch, creating blind spots where the road is damaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpurs-singhpura-chowk-slip-road-accident-prone-160747
25-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Only 15 students allowed in classroom at one time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24Only 15 students will be allowed in a classroom in order to maintain social distancing as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) recommended by the UT Education Department for reopening of regular teaching for Classes 9 to 12 from November 2 onwards.Checklist for Officials The department has decided to reopen schools for regular teaching in a graded manner for which detailed instructions will be issued on Monday. Until now, students from Classes 9 to 12 were being called for remedial teaching on a voluntary basis.Rubinderjit Brar, Director, school education, UT, said, “Students will be called in two shifts and in a graded manner. Not more than 15 students will be allowed in one classroom. We will encourage parents to drop and pick up their wards at school and avoid the use of local transport. If the progress is good then we may consider reopening classes below 9th standard as well.”Despite reopening of regular teaching, online or distance learning will continue as per previous practice. Students will attend schools only with the written consent of parents. However, this may pose an additional burden for teachers, who will take lessons twice in a day – in physical and online classes.Inspection teamsto visit schoolsMeanwhile, officials of the Education Department have been asked to revisit schools already allotted to them to check whether SOP guidelines issued by the Central Government are being followed or not. Officials will visit all schools under their respective jurisdiction during the last week of October and the first week of November for a smooth transition from remedial to regular classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-15-students-allowed-in-classroom-at-one-time-160748
25-10-2020||Karam Prakash||Asked to buy sanitiser, Patiala hospital patient complains to CM||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 24Doctors at the Government Rajindra Hospital have allegedly misbehaved with a patient and asked him to buy sanitiser and gloves from outside the hospital before an ultrasound test.Alleging harassment, a 47-year-old city resident has already filed a complaint with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh requesting him to conduct an inquiry into the matter.In his complaint, Didar Singh, who visited the hospital on Monday, stated that a woman doctor at the X-Ray Department prescribed in her writing to buy a sanitiser and gloves before an ultrasound test.A bottle of sanitiser and gloves cost him around Rs 150, added Didar. He claimed that doctors at the X-Ray Department were asking every patient to purchase the items before the test.“I was harassed by doctors at the X-Ray Department. They behaved rudely. It is a matter of serious concern if doctors are asking each patient to deposit a bottle of sanitiser and gloves,” alleged Didar.Notably, it was not for the first time when doctors at Rajidnra Hospital had asked to purchase medical items from outside the hospital. Earlier, a doctor had asked a poor patient to buy an anti-rabies serum despite its availability at the hospital.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said he had already asked the Medical Superintendent to look into the matter.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Rajindra Hospital, said, “I have already asked doctors concerned to refrain such acts. We have sufficient stock of sanitisers and gloves at the hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asked-to-buy-sanitiser-patiala-hospital-patient-complains-to-cm-160749
25-10-2020||---||Dengue cases rise in Patiala, count 153||Patiala, October 24Amid coronavirus, the vector-borne disease, dengue, is spreading in the district. So far, 153 people have contracted dengue in the district. The rising dengue cases have already set alarm bells ringing for both residents and health officials.Of 153 positive cases, 75 have been reported from Patiala, 34 from Rajpura, 15 Samana, four from Nabha and 25 from villages.Concerned over the rising cases, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, himself went door-to-door to check mosquito larvae as part of the anti-dengue drive on Friday.He was accompanied by the district epidemiologist, Dr Gurmeet Singh.Dr Malhotra said 21, 443 households were inspected by health workers during the drive. Dengue larvae were found in 121 households, Dr Malhotra added.House owners were issued ‘warning notices’ after dengue larvae were found on their premises, Dr Malhotra said. Urban areas were more strained than the rural, Dr Malhotra added.“The situation may turn serious if people show a lackadaisical attitude towards dengue. Larvae have been found regularly during the drive. Therefore, people should play an active role in controlling the spread of the vector-borne disease,” Dr Malhotra said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-cases-rise-in-patiala-count-153-160750
25-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Sports Department to introduce better facilities in Mohali under PPP mode||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 24If all goes well, sports complexes in Mohali will be run under the private public partnership (PPP) mode as the Punjab Sports Department is planning to improve the infrastructure and provide better facilities to its players.International Hockey Stadium, multipurpose halls of Sector 63 and 78 are among the ones, which might see major changes in the upcoming months.The arenas have various facilities, but also huge chunk of land lying unused. The department is planning to modify the same areas with the help of PPP. Professional/amateur players will be able to use facilities round the clock in the coming years.“The planning is still in the pipeline. It’s a win-win situation for us. Our land will be used in a proper manner and we will be able to provide our athletes latest facilities. Revenue generation is another aspect, which will help us upgrade our infrastructure,” said DPS Kharbanda, director, sports and youth services, Punjab.He ensured that, if plan is approved, facilities at these complexes will be upgraded and players can use these anytime. “I have visited Abhinav Bindra Targeting Performance Centre and saw some amazing equipment. I think our athletes from rural area deserve to get such stuff for adopting sport in a young age. The government is doing its best for making a sports hub in every district of Punjab,” he added.“Players will be able to use such facilities free-of-cost while those coming for leisure activities have to pay a fee. It will be just like the already existing swimming pool centres fee structure,” he said.“To start with we have chosen Mohali as its approachable to all professional athletes, airport is near, and we have adjoining rural areas where we can promote sport among youth. Our main is aim to provide our athletes best facilities, equipment and proper environment,” he added. “Sports Department’s Mohali International Hockey Stadium is its only facility located in a prime location. The stadium is spread across 11.8 acres. Most of its land is lying unused. There’s no harm in introducing such ventures,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-department-to-introduce-better-facilities-in-mohali-under-ppp-mode-160751
25-10-2020||Panchkula||Haphazard parking  plagues Panchkula||The issue of haphazard parking in the city has remained unsolved despite authorities taking an unprecedented step to regularise parking at main commercial hubs in Sectors 8, 9 and 10 by introducing fee in February this year.The town witnesses disorderly parking even on key roads and in commercial areas. The situation is no better in internal stretches of sectors.Even though the traffic police had recently installed no-parking signages, motorists still don’t obey rules. This eventually leads to traffic chaos.For instance, in Sector 8, 9 and 10 markets, commuters park their vehicles on main road and footpaths despite sufficient parking spaces to avoid parking fee, which is Rs 5 for two-wheeler and Rs 10 for four-wheeler.An employee working at Sector 8 paid parking facility said, “It’s not my duty to tell people where to park their vehicles. It comes under the jurisdiction of traffic police personnel, who can take action against those violating rules.”A resident of the market area said, “Heavy fines should be imposed on those violating traffic rules. The traffic police need to run regular campaigns against illegal parking to address the issue.”Sukhdev Singh, Station House Officer, traffic police, said, “We issue challans to people, who park their vehicles along road sides.” He cited heavy shopping rush during the festival season for traffic woes these days.Multi-storey parking areasThe city has witnessed an increase in vehicular traffic during the past decade. The district authorities have yet to come up with a proper traffic plan to address the issue.While presiding over a meeting of Panchkula Advisory Committee recently Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had instructed officials to explore possibilities of multi-storey parking areas in every sector of the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haphazard-parking-plagues-panchkula-160752
25-10-2020||---||Rowers wait for govt SOPs to start practice at Sukhna Lake||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24After the UT Administration allowed commencement of boating at the Sukhna Lake, local rowers are now eagerly waiting for government’s SOPs to restart their practice. Sports complexes have opened for players and the general public in the city, but rowers are still waiting for the government’s clearance to use boats and equipment.From the last five months, rowers are working on physical strength and boats are lying unused at the Sukhna Lake rowing coaching centre.“We have yet to receive any guidelines for using our equipment in water. For single scull, it’s easy to practice in comparison to double and coxless pairs. Even in single scull, we have to sanitise our equipment —from paddle to boat — before landing it in water. So, we are yet to get clearance from the Sports Authority of India (SAI),” said Rakul, a rower.“I think, it will take some time. We are expecting issuance of SOPs next month. Our rowers are eagerly waiting to practice,” said Rajiv Sharma, general secretary, Chandigarh Rowing Association (CRA). The UT Sports Department also is waiting for government’s clearance for allowing rowers to come back to lake for practicing.“The sooner they (government) release guidelines, the better it would be for rowers. As winters are approaching, it won’t be feasible to practice regular. Professional rowers should be allowed to practice like swimmers are permitted to use swimming facilities,” said a coach. The only Sukhna Lake rowing centre has over 80 rowing trainees. “I don’t know if any tournament will be held this year or not. But, we have to practice to gain back stamina. It will take over two months to come back in shape. It’s not easy to gain momentum in winters,” said Parul, another rower.“We are in touch with experts and also considering updates from other states. If SOPs are issued it will help us start the centre as soon as possible. Otherwise, we are expecting to start at the end of this month,” said a sports department official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rowers-wait-for-govt-sops-to-start-practice-at-sukhna-lake-160753
25-10-2020||---||NSUI activists protest at Panjab University||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24The National Students' Union of India (NSUI) today protested against the announcement of distribution of free Covid-19 vaccine by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in its manifesto for the upcoming Bihar elections.The protest was held at the market in Panjab University. The NSUI national social media chairman and senior leader, Manoj Lubana, Sukhjeet Singh, former vice-president Rahul Kumar, Attinder Singh Robby, Rajkaran Baidwan, Shubhkaran Sekhon and Sarottam Rana were present during the protest.The protest highlighted all issues, including the passage of farm Bills and privatisation of state run institutions. “The government is selling strategic institutions to please a few private players. It will widen the gap between haves and have nots,” said Rahul Kumar.Activists were seen selling train models and airplanes during the protest. “Our Prime Minister has stooped to a new low. Have you ever seen anyone using a pandemic to benefit for election purposes? Is this how a PM of the largest democracy conducts himself?” questioned Lubana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-activists-protest-at-panjab-university-160754
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar dwells on NEP 2020||Discussion on innovations in NDDSChandigarh: The MHRD Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC) and placement cell of the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) organised a webinar on “Innovations in NDDS: Challenges and opportunities” by Dr Rakesh Kumar Bhasin, vice-president and head, R&D, Biocon Pharma Ltd, Bengaluru, under the UIPS expert talk series. Prof Indu Pal Kaur, chairperson and head, placement cell, UIPS, welcomed everyone and introduced chief guest and speaker Prof VR Sinha, Dean (Research). Prof Sinha stressed upon the importance of novel drug delivery system (NDDS) as an excellent tool to address the limitations of the traditional drug delivery systems like patient compliance, bioavailability, side effects and toxicity. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-dwells-on-nep-2020-160755
25-10-2020||---||Punjab minister lays stone of community health centre||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 24Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone of a community health centre in Sector 60 here today.Addressing the gathering, Balbir Singh Sidhu said the community health centre to be built at a cost of Rs13.40 crore in 40,000 sq ft area would have 24x7 emergency services, an OPD, a diagnostic centre, a blood storage room, a training hall for 150 persons, a state-of-the-art operation theatre, a mother-child care ward, men and women wards, private rooms, a three-storey hospital, a treatment plant and parking facility. The hospital would benefit the people of the area and facilitate them in obtaining high-quality healthcare services.Speaking on the occasion, Lok Sabha member and Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari lauded the efforts of Sidhu for his perseverance in establishing this facility for the people of the area. Praising the minister, Tewari said Sidhu was a grassroots leader, who had earned the respect and love of people due to his hard work. He did not stay at home even during the pandemic and did his best to improve government hospitals in Punjab by visiting various health institutions.Tewari stated that he would also provide an ambulance equipped with modern facilities to the Health Department.Dr Manjeet Singh, Director, Health Services, Punjab, said the Health Department was making consistent efforts to improve healthcare services in the state. A community health centre was also being set up in Mohali by upgrading the dispensary.Tanu Kashyap, Managing Director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, Civil Surgeon GB Singh and councillors Kuljit Singh Bedi and Taranjit Kaur Gill were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-minister-lays-stone-of-community-health-centre-160756
25-10-2020||---||Body found in tank at Ambala beverage unit||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 24A 22-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances in a water treatment tank of a beverage unit in the Industrial Area at Saha here today.The deceased has been identified as Rohit, a resident of Rajoli village of Barara. He was working as a caretaker of the treatment plant. His duty was from 6 am to 2 pm.It is being suspectedthat Rohit might have fallen into the water treatment tank around 7:30 am and his body was noticed around noon. Rohit is survived by his wife and a two-year-old son.Balkar Singh, Station House Officer (SHO) of the Saha police station, said: “We got information that a worker was missing. Later, workers at the unit found his shoe in the tank. They lowered the water level and recovered his body from the tank, which is around 15-feet deep”.“A case under Section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (causing death by negligence) has been registered on the complaint of the victim’s father. The matter is being investigated,” said the Station House Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/body-found-in-tank-at-ambala-beverage-unit-160757
25-10-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Road widening work commences in Industrial Area||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24To decongest traffic at Tribune Chowk, the UT Administration has started work on widening of a road from the Poultry Farm chowk to the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) workshop in the Industrial Area, Phase I, here.DimensionsParallel to Purv Marg, the road will ease traffic on Dakshin Marg and Madhya Marg. It will also improve connectivity between the UT and Panchkula. The work to widen the road, undertaken at a cost of nearly Rs10 crore, is likely to be completed by early next year.The road will connect the Poultry Farm chowk (Junction 39 on Dakshin Marg) with a road connecting Purv Marg with the Railway Station road at the T-point near the SDM (East) office in the Industrial Area. This road will run parallel to Madhya Marg.A senior officer of the UT Engineering Department said the work on widening of the road from the Poultry Farm chowk had been started. Work on the other side of the road, which is parallel to Madhya Marg, would start soon.After the completion of the work, people coming from the Zirakpur side would be able to reach Madhya Marg directly by avoiding the Tribune Chowk. They could take a right turn towards the Industrial Area from the Poultry Farm chowk, he said.The widening of these roads would reduce the pressure of traffic on Purv Marg. A cycle track would also be constructed from the Poultry Farm chowk to the CTU workshop, he said.The process for the shifting of overhead electricity cables to an underground system was also undertaken, he said.Meanwhile, the Railway authorities would construct an underpass near the railway station to improve connectivity between the UT and Panchkula. The underpass, which will connect the Industrial Area with Panchkula, will be 258-metre long, 5.5-metre high and 15-metre wide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-widening-work-commences-in-industrial-area-160758
25-10-2020||---||Over 20,000 visit Mansa Devi temple on Ashtami||Panchkula, October 24Over 20,000 devotees visited Mansa Devi temple on Ashtami here today. This was the second-most crowded day at the temple during this Navratras.According to officials, devotees offered cash donation of aroundRs11 lakh today, besides a large number of gold and silver articles.MS Yadav, CEO of the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, said: “The devotees donated around Rs1.18 crore at Mansa Devi temple and Kali Mata temple during the eight days of the Navratri fest”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-20-000-visit-mansa-devi-temple-on-ashtami-160759
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man duped of Rs2.09 lakh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-duped-of-rs2-09-lakh-160760
25-10-2020||---||Pre-fab shelter occupants  to be relocated from Nov 15||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24The UT Administration has decided to relocate the residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats constructed by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) in Maloya-I from November 15.Camp in sector 9 from tomorrowYashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said a camp would be organised on the CHB premises in Sector 9-D from Monday for the occupants of pre-fab shelters. Six counters would be set up from 9.30 am to 5.30 pm with lunch break from 1.30 pm to 2.30 pm.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said a public notice was issued on October 15, inviting objections with regard to the list of occupants uploaded on the official website of the CHB. A total of 508 objections had been received till last date for the submission of objections on October 22.He said 405 objections had been accepted. Claims and objections in the nature of error in data entry had been accepted and corrections had been made in the list. Remaining 103 objections were placed before a committee of senior officers for consideration. The committee had rejected nine objections and the remaining are under consideration for early and appropriate decision.He said a camp would be organised on the CHB premises in Sector 9-D from Monday for the occupants of pre-fab shelters. Six counters would be set up from 9.30 am to 5.30 pm with lunch break from 1.30 pm to 2.30 pm. For better compliance of Covid-related protocol, the applicants would be called in a staggered manner.The CEO said three notary public and three stamp vendors would be available during the camp so that applicants get the facility of documentation and attestation at one place.He said payment of Rs4,000 (Rs500+Rs500+Rs3,000) against part security for water and electricity connections and one month rent for flats at Maloya-I would be collected at the camp.Garg said the computerised draw for allotment on a rental basis would be made in such a way that pre-fab shelters were vacated from one side and after handing over the possession of flats, pre-fab shelter were demolished simultaneously.The result of the draw will be pasted at the particular group of pre-fab shelter at least three days before the actual shifting so that occupants have sufficient time for packing their belongings.He said officers from the Municipal Corporation and the Electricity Department would join for releasing water and electricity connections on the day of possession itself.The residents would be shifted under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes scheme of the Centre. The allottees will be required to pay a monthly rent of Rs3,000, which will be increased biennially by 8 per cent. The total rental period will be for a maximum of 25 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pre-fab-shelter-occupants-to-be-relocated-from-nov-15-160761
25-10-2020||---||Man held in Zirakpur for posing as OSD to Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, October 24The Zirakpur police have arrested a man for impersonating as the Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh from the Lohgarh area.The suspect has been identified as Akash Bidla, a resident of Lohgarh. He was trying to influence the Executive Officer of the Zirakpur Municipal Council for stalling development works in the area.The police inquiry has revealed the names of two local councillors who were in regular touch with the suspect, said sources. The role of the two councillors is being probed further.On the complaint of Sandeep Tewari, Executive Officer (EO), Zirakpur Municipal Council, the police have registered a case of verbal abuse and impersonation.Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said the suspect had called the Executive Officer on October 8 and directed him to stop some of the civic works in the area.A Municipal Council official said: “One person had been making calls repeatedly to officials and using abusive language, which raised the suspicion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-in-zirakpur-for-posing-as-osd-to-punjab-chief-minister-captain-amarinder-singh-160762
25-10-2020||---||Rs25-crore booster dose for civic amenities in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 24Civic amenities in Mohali are set to undergo a radical transformation with a booster dose of Rs25 crore given to the district under the Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme (PUEIP), Phase II. This was stated by Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu after attending the digital launch of the programme by Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amrinder Singh.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said for the comprehensive development of the state, rural and urban development should go hand in hand. The Smart Village Campaign-II was launched in the district around a week ago, which brought over Rs100 crore for rural development. Now, catering to the needs of urban population, development works under the PUEIP, Phase II, would also be taken up simultaneously.Sidhu said the Mohali Municipal Corporation would undertake 15 works worth Rs10 crore. LED lights would also be installed at basketball, volleyball, badminton and lawn tennis grounds in various places of the district. An ultra-modern fully air-conditioned community centre would also come up at Phase 3B1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs25-crore-booster-dose-for-civic-amenities-in-mohali-160763
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gurdev Singh Brar is president of Sikh Educational Society||Gurdev Singh Brar, IAS (retd), was unanimously elected as the president of Sikh Educational Society, Chandigarh, at a general body meeting of the society held at Guru Gobind Singh College for Women in Sector 26 here.He has been elected for a period of five years. The members also conferred him the authority to nominate the vice-president, secretary and joint secretary of the society for the ensuing term.Er Kulbir Singh was nominated as the vice-president, Col (retd) Jasmer Singh Bala as the secretary and advocate Karandeep Singh Cheema as the joint secretary of the society.The society runs eight educational institutions in Punjab and Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurdev-singh-brar-is-president-of-sikh-educational-society-160764
25-10-2020||Panchkula||Scolded for not studying, boy hangs self||Traffic advisory for DasehraChandigarh: The UT traffic police have issued an advisory for Dasehra festival. To avoid heavy traffic movement on the city roads on the day, people have been advised to walk to nearby markets and nearby destinations rather than using a vehicle. People have been advised to travel during non-peak hours, whenever possible. The UT police also emphasised the importance of using face mask and maintaining social distancing. The advisory also asks people not to park a vehicle in ‘No Parking’ zones, on the roadside, on a cycle track or footpath. The illegally parked vehicle will be either towed away or clamped. In case a vehicle is towed away/clamped, the owner can contact the traffic helpline 1073. TNSCar stolen from near sec 34 bankChandigarh: A car parked near Punjab and Sind Bank branch in Sector 34 here was reportedly stolen. In his complaint to the police, a Kharar resident stated that the incident took place on October 14. A case has been registered against an unknown person under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 34 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scolded-for-not-studying-boy-hangs-self-160765
