01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Anyone can try to resolve farmers’ issue, says Khattar on Amarinder’s efforts||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said there is no harm if any individual plays a role in finding a solution to farmers’ issue, in a reference to former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s reported efforts.                         Khattar said this when asked that Amarinder Singh had earlier said he would be meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss possible solutions to the ongoing farmers’ stir against the Centre’s three farm laws. “Not only Amarinder Singh, any individual who negotiates for a solution, we will welcome it,” Khattar said.“We are doing our bit but if anyone plays a role to bring about a solution, there is no harm in it,” said Khattar addressing a press conference on Haryana Day here.Khattar said the government is making constant efforts to open the Delhi’s border points of Singhu and Tikri.“The issue can be solved only through dialogue. The Haryana government has constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the home secretary. Discussions are on,” he said, adding that due to closure of roads, common people are facing inconvenience.Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi’s border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur against the Centre’s farm laws.November 26 will mark one year of their stir. After resigning as the Punjab CM following a bitter power tussle with state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Amarinder Singh had announced to launch his own party ahead of the Assembly polls early next year.The veteran leader had said he was hopeful of a seat adjustment with the BJP provided the ongoing farmers’ stir against farm laws was resolved in their interest.The Supreme Court on October 21 had said farmers protesting at the Delhi borders have the right to agitate but they cannot block roads indefinitely.The protest is being led by farmers’ collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM).The Centre, which held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with farmers, has maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protesters claim they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislations. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anyone-can-try-to-resolve-farmers-issue-says-khattar-on-amarinders-efforts-332921
01-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Department gets notice over paid jab to workers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 31The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice to the Labour Department on a petition against spending welfare money of the construction workers on Covid vaccination.The petitioners, construction workers, had challenged the government’s decision for paid vaccination of the workers, who had prayed that the amount for vaccination of workers should be refunded to the Labour Welfare Board.Transferred Rs7 crIn its notice, the court said workers, through their learned counsels, contended that as they were registered under Section 12 of the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Act, the amount, therefore, collected for the benefit of the construction workers could not be siphoned off towards any other head of expenditure. The court has also referred to the Supreme Court’s decision in this regard.The decision to bear the cost of vaccination from the Labour Welfare Fund was taken on May 7 under the Chairmanship of then Chief Secretary.Vijay Walia, an activist fighting for the rights of construction workers, said: “When the entire population was getting free vaccination, the state government charged the poor workers for the Covid jab. An inquiry should be conducted into the matter.” Vikas Garg, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said: “When the construction workers were vaccinated, the Centre was not providing vaccine to the state for free.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/department-gets-notice-over-paid-jab-to-workers-332554
01-11-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda: Reports gather dust as patients fail to turn up||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 31In what doctors and other staff members of the Civil Hospital call irresponsible attitude, several patients after giving samples at the diagnostic laboratory here do not turn up to collect their reports later.Officials not only call it wastage of resources, money and time as they are already reeling under staff shortage, but also express inability to contain the problem. Sources said it was the typical approach of people that when something was done for free, they would act irresponsibly. As per the government’s policy, 50 types of medical tests are conducted free of cost at government hospitals.Wasting resourcesThe government provides free tests, but many of them have started wasting the resources. We will discuss the issue with the lab staff and try to find out a workable solution. —Dr Maninder Pal Singh, Senior medical officerSources said on an average, 250-300 patients gave samples, but 80-100 of them never turned up to collect reports. “Not only it is wastage of money, but also time of the hospital staff and that of patients who have to wait in long queues to get tests done and collect reports. Thousands of reports are gathering dust in the drawers of the hospital for years,” a source said.As per reports, over 8,000 patients have given samples at the laboratory in past one month alone. “It is wastage of money and time as the hospital bears the cost of medical kits, equipment and storage of samples among other things,” the source added.A doctor said diagnosis was most important before starting the treatment of a patient, but the latter seemed to have taken it lightly. “Patients coming from remote villages, often citing long distance, which they say they cannot travel frequently, ask us directly for medicine instead of giving samples for diagnosis. When we refuse, they agree to give samples, take medicines for a few days till the report is readied and then they simply do not turn up,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-reports-gather-dust-as-patients-fail-to-turn-up-332556
01-11-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Govt's search underway for new A-G||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 31Under pressure from various Sikh groups objecting to the appointment of Advocate General (A-G) APS Deol and Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Singh Sahota, the Channi-led Congress government is learnt to have made up its mind on replacing the former.Sources in the government said search for finding his replacement had already begun. Regarding replacing DGP Sahota, who is holding the additional charge, the state government has already sent the panel of officers to the Union Public Service Commission for the appointment of a regular DGP.CM announces ‘Mission Clean’Party sources said given the unease between Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu over the appointments, the party leadership while discussing the replacement of theA-G wants the credit to go to the party and not any individual. The top leadership wants Sidhu to get going on the party’s campaign for the Assembly elections.The issue of appointments has been thrashed out at a series of meetings between former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and the Chief Minister. With Assembly elections in mind, the Congress government wants to set the narrative right regarding its given stand on taking to task those involved in the sacrilege and subsequent police firing cases.The A-G’s appointment has already snowballed into a political controversy as Deol was the counsel for former top cop Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended Inspector General of Police Paramraj Singh Umranangal, both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case. The incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015 have always been considered politically sensitive.Recently, the Alliance of Sikh Organisations, a conglomerate of various Sikh groups, had demanded withdrawal of appointments of the DGP and A-G while criticising the Chief Minister on the emotive issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govts-search-underway-for-new-a-g-332558
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tariff cut for domestic power users in Punjab on cards||After announcing free water supply to smaller homes as part of Congress’ poll agenda, the Channi government may now move ahead with reducing power tariff for domestic consumers across the board.The agenda item, which had been kept under the wraps, is likely to be taken up at the Cabinet meeting on Monday. The CM had been hinting at a decision on November 1.The moves comes a day after the government decided to terminate the power purchase agreement with GVK Goindwal Sahib (2x270 MW).With polls round the corner, the government has already decided to waive arrears of rural water supply schemes, besides water supply and sewerage charges for domestic connections, worth Rs 1,868 crore. Sources said after consultations by a Cabinet sub-committee, the government is likely to substantially reduce the power tariff for all slabs for domestic consumers.“As the base tariff, sans other levies, varies between Rs 3.40 and Rs7.50/unit, the reduction in tariff will benefit all categories of domestic consumers. Initial discussions were to reduce tariff by Rs3 per unit, but the final call will be taken at the Cabinet meeting,” said a source. With reports of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu staying away from work, the Channi government is pushing forward with addressing various issues. On Sunday, state affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary held a Zoom meeting with ministers to prepare the roadmap for projection of various decisions taken by the government so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tariff-cut-for-domestic-power-users-in-punjab-on-cards-332559
01-11-2021||Archit Watts||Proposal to alter design, Muktsar RoB set  to be delayed again||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 31Already running behind the schedule, the maiden railway overbridge (RoB) of Muktsar town is again set to miss its deadline as there is a proposal to change its design.Notably, the foundation stone of the RoB was laid by then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal in February 2014 and the groundbreaking ceremony was performed by PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla in January 2019. Singla had claimed the Congress government would construct it in next 15 months i.e. by April 2020.To cost Rs1.5 cr moreThe length and width of the carriageway of the RoB will remain unchanged. However, the alteration in the existing design will increase the cost by nearly Rs1.5 crore. technical expertLater, it was said the RoB would be completed by the end of 2021. However, a lot of work is still pending and now PWD (B&R) officials have made a report recommending a change in design, which would be submitted to senior officers in a day or two.A technical expert associated with the project said some shopkeepers in the old grain market had demanded a passage connecting Tibbi Sahib Road. “We have conducted a survey and prepared a report. The length and width of the carriageway of the RoB will remain unchanged. However, the alteration in the existing design will increase the cost by nearly Rs 1.5 crore. As per the pre-finalised design, the RoB had 17 columns. Now, there is a need to build four more columns for its strength, which will increase the cost. Besides, there are sewage pipes which are creating trouble,” said the expert.On this, Kulbir Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD (B&R), Muktsar, said, “Some shopkeepers have raised the demand of a passage under the RoB to connect the old grain market with Tibbi Sahib Road. We have prepared a report, which is, however, yet to be submitted to the high-ups.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/proposal-to-alter-design-muktsar-rob-set-to-be-delayed-again-332560
01-11-2021||---||Rs 50L ex gratia, government job for kin of Hoshiarpur sepoy Manjit Singh killed in Rajouri||Chandigarh/Hoshiarpur, Oct 31Chief Minister Charanjit Channi today announced ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh and a government job to a member of the family of Sepoy Manjit Singh, who was killed in a landmine explosion during patrolling near the Line of Control in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir yesterday.Extending his sympathies, the CM said Manjit’s utmost dedication to defend the country’s unity and integrity by sacrificing his life would ever inspire his fellow soldiers to perform their duties with far more devotion and commitment. Manjit of 17 Sikh Light Infantry hailed from Khera Kotli village in Dasuya tehsil of Hoshiarpur district. He was unmarried and is survived by his parents, four sisters and a brother.Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended on his native village. His brother Avtar Singh said Majit, 25, was the youngest of the six siblings. “He had joined the Army six years ago. Though I am saddened by his sudden demise, I am proud that he died while serving the country. I spoke to him two days ago and he had said that he would come home for Diwali. He was to attend a friend’s wedding on November 10, but who knew he would come home draped in the Tricolour,” Avtar said.Former village sarpanch Jagmohan Singh Babbu Ghumman said: “We want the government to rename the village school after Manjit.”Dasuya SDM Ramandeep Singh Heer said the mortal remains of the martyr had reached Jammu from Rajouri in the evening and would be brought to the village tomorrow morning. “His last rites will be performed with full military honours,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-50l-ex-gratia-government-job-for-kin-of-hoshiarpur-sepoy-manjit-singh-killed-in-rajouri-332561
01-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda: Conducive weather conditions led to bollworm attack: Survey||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 31A committee of experts constituted by the government to ascertain reasons for the pink bollworm attack on cotton has reported that a combination of weather conditions favourable for pests and inadequate control measures led to a sudden infestation in the final stages, rendering the losses unrecoverable through any crop-based intervention.A committee comprising Dr Navtej Singh Bains, Director of Research, PAU, Ludhiana, Dr Baldev Singh, Joint Director, Agricultural Inputs, and other experts has made a survey report. It has stated that re-emergence of pink bollworm can be traced back to new strains of the pest in central and south India which caused epidemics in those areas during 2016-17. This strain of pink bollworm is likely to have moved to northern states as indicated by pest incidence around ginneries.Aid inadequate, stir on: growersCriteria questionedFurther, it states that high infestation of the pest in 2021 has occurred probably due to the initial dry spell during this season causing stress flowering, providing the initial foothold to pink bollworm adults for laying eggs.Moreover, profuse flowering and boll bearing in August, provided ample targets for infestation in the fields, followed by extended flowering and fruiting in September. Exceptionally high rainfall and more number of rainy and cloudy days in almost all blocks of Bathinda and Mansa added to the problem.The survey report claims green boll damage due to pink bollworm in various cotton fields varied from 30 to 85 per cent. The boll rot damage varied from 0 to 35 per cent.It was learnt that pink bollworm incidence remained low initially up to late August. It was also found that incidence was more in fields near the villages as compared to those far away. Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha said, “Around 34 per cent of the crop has been damaged due to pink bollworm. We have given compensation to around 60 per cent cotton farmers. From the next season, we are coming up with ‘mating disruption technique’.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-conducive-weather-conditions-led-to-bollworm-attack-survey-332564
01-11-2021||Kharar||Pink bollworm: Revise meagre relief, Akalis urge Punjab CM Channi||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to review the meagre compensation being offered to cotton growers whose entire crop had been destroyed by pink bollworm.He said it was shocking that the Congress government was offering most of them only partial compensation, even though their crop had been completely destroyed by the pest. “Farmers have been demanding compensation at the rate of Rs 50,000 per acre but the Congress government is offering a meagre relief of only Rs 2,000 for up to 35 per cent crop damage and Rs 5,400 for up to 75 per cent damage.“The government is also trying to limit all farmers in this bracket by stating that there was only partial damage to the cotton crop. This effectively means that even the meager compensation of Rs 12,000 per acre for 100 per cent crop damage will not be available to farmers.”Sukhbir said even farm labourers had been given a poor deal. “The government has played fraud on the farm labourers. We ask the government to give a flat financial assistance of Rs 15,000 per acre,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pink-bollworm-revise-meagre-relief-akalis-urge-punjab-cm-channi-332565
01-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||No stubble management machine yet for Sangrur farmers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 31In what appears to be a setback to the efforts of the Punjab Government to prevent burning of stubble, not a single farmer out of 2,475 applicants has got farm machinery to date in the current financial year. The government has sanctioned 630 machines and equipment for stubble management to the district to date.Of these, 555 machines have come for custom hiring centres (CHCs), 40 for Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) and 19 for panchayats, while the rest for 16 individual farmers from the reserved category. Authorities have decided to conduct physical verification of machines and equipment from Monday.2,475 seek equipmentHowever, the lack of machinery for individuals may spell more trouble as farmers have already announced to set their stubble on fire in the absence of special financial aid to manage crop residue. “We know the risks involved in burning stubble, but we do not have any alternative,” said Kulwinder Singh, a farmer from Sangrur.Machinery on wayMachinery is coming. Farmers should utilise the ones provided to panchayats and other centres. —JS Grewal, Sangrur chief agriculture officerAnother farmer from Duggan village, Balwinder Singh, said his relatives had applied on government portal for the stubble management machine. “But the government has not sanctioned it as yet. It seems the government also does not want us to shun stubble burning,” he said.To prevent any foul play in the purchase of machinery, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has decided to conduct physical verification. Authorities have fixed special sites in Moonak, Bhawanigarh, Dhuri , Sherpur, Malerkotla, Dirba, Lehra, Ahemadgarh, Sangrur city and Sunam.Sangrur Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Jaswinder Singh Grewal said the Punjab Government had been helping farmers with all possible ways to prevent burning of stubble. “Machinery and equipment are coming. Farmers should utilise the ones sanctioned to PACS, CHCs and panchayats, if any individual has not got one as yet. Our officers are visiting all villages and we request farmers to manage stubble without burning,” said Grewal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-stubble-management-machine-yet-for-sangrur-farmers-332570
01-11-2021||---||3 arhtiyas’ licence suspended, 5 fined in Muktsar||Muktsar, October 31After some farmers accused commission agents of issuing diktat of adding 1 kg of paddy more per bag during procurement citing high moisture content in the crop, Punjab Mandi Board, Muktsar, has suspended licence of three of them for a week and imposed penalty on five others.Farmers, however, alleged that the action was just an eyewash as board officials were also hand in glove with the arhtiyas. “The government has permitted 17 per cent moisture content for the procurement. But the commission agents are fleecing us by asking for about 1 kg more paddy per bag, which is worth around Rs 20. We are sufferring losses due to this. Nobody listened to our complaints in the past,” said a local farmer.Gaurav Garg, District Mandi Officer, Muktsar, said, “We have received complaints against some commission agents of overweighing paddy-laden gunny bags. Acting swiftly, we have suspended the licence of three of them for a week and imposed penalty on five others.”Meanwhile, the Kotbhai police have arrested a commission agent for allegedly fleecing farmers at the Doda grain market.The Deputy Commissioner (DC), along with the officials overseeing the crop procurement here, recently visited some grain markets and purchase centres in the district. Some farmers claimed that the paddy lifting was slow at Killianwali. “The issue has been resolved now and the procurement is underway,” said Himanshu Kukkar, District Food and Civil Supplies Controller, Muktsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-arhtiyas-licence-suspended-5-fined-in-muktsar-332571
01-11-2021||Pathankot||Punjab Diary: Caging wildcat in Pathankot||Unexpected praiseSangrur: An AAP leader recently heaped praise on Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla during a District Grievance Redressal Committee meeting here. The praise comes at a time when a ruling Congress leader had accused the district administration of delay in development works. The AAP leader’s gesture not only took the main Opposition party by surprise, but also left Congress supporters perplexed. It also came as a breather for Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who is the chairman of the committee, as he used the praise to defend the performance of his government.Holding the fortFatehgarh Sahib: The writ of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra’s wife Mandeep Kaur Nagra, popularly known as “Bhabhi ji”, prevails in the district. In the absence of the MLA, who being the PCC working president remains busy with party affairs, Mandeep has been looking after the constituency matters. A strict disciplinarian, she has been overseeing development works in the constituency, so much so that it has instilled a sense of fear among officials. Even CM Charanjit Singh Channi acknowledged her work when he saluted the couple’s “dedication and honesty” during his address here. Seen regularly at her husband’s office, Mandeep hears out scores of people who seek redress of their grievances and arranges calls with officials. For locals, her presence seems like a bonus as they don’t always have to meet the MLA for resolution of their issues.Keeping roads safeMuktsar: Law student Anurag Sharma, who unsuccessfully contested the municipal council polls as a BJP nominee here, has started a campaign on the social media to make city roads commuter-friendly. Wherever he finds an uncovered manhole or overflowing sewage, he goes live on the Facebook to highlight the anomaly. In the past, his efforts have borne fruit. The locals see him as a social activist, who is often seen helping needy people on the roadside, watering plants, distributing books and face masks, etc.Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Parvesh Sharma, Surinder Bhardwaj and Archit Watts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-caging-wildcat-in-pathankot-332572
01-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||In Gurdaspur, SAD gets head start over others||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 31With the SAD already taking the lead in naming its candidates, the party has taken a decent head start, a development which is bound to hold the party in good stead when it goes to the Assembly polls.With the Congress, BJP and AAP yet to announce its nominees, the SAD has already fielded youth leader Ravi Karan Kahlon from Dera Baba Nanak, old warhorse Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal from Fatehgarh Churian and Gurbachan Singh Babbehali from Gurdaspur.Ravi Kahlon’s entourage hits the road before day break. “It is my hard work that is going to count,” he maintains. As he stops at a village, he urges people to cast their vote. “Bad MLAs get elected when good people do not vote,” he quipped.Ravi is grappling with two variables — ex-minister Sucha Singh Langah and Sucha Singh Chottepur. Both have their pockets of influence in Dera. Langah’s decades-old differences with Ravi’s father are well known. Sources say the leadership has placated him by offering a political post to his son if the party is voted to power.As for Chottepur, he is keeping his cards close to the chest. Batala MLA Lodhinangal has been shifted to Fatehgarh Churian. He, too, starts his campaign in the wee hours and covers 8-12 villages daily.In Gurdaspur, Gurbachan Singh Babbehali has already visited all 115-odd villages of his seat. “I can sense an anti-incumbency factor building up against the Congress legislator. In 2017, I lost because people wanted a change. This time, the same people want a change,” he quipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-gurdaspur-sad-gets-head-start-over-others-332574
01-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Won’t allow BSF in Punjab beyond previous limit: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Tarn Taran, October 31Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday said as long he was the Home Minister he would not allow the BSF to enter the area beyond its previous limit.The central government recently expanded BSF’s jurisdiction area to 50 km.Also read: BSF imbroglio in PunjabAddressing party workers in Tarn Taran after paying obeisance at Gurdwara Beer Baba Budda Sahib, he instructed officials to work according to the wishes of the MLAs. He warned the officials that in case they did not oblige the public representatives, they would face consequences.On the query of newsmen about the progress in Bargari sacrilege incidents, Randhawa said the case was in the court. Others who addressed the gathering included MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira and Sukhpal Singh Bhullar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-allow-bsf-in-punjab-beyond-previous-limit-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-332575
01-11-2021||---||3 buses impounded after Raja Warring's surprise check||Chandigarh, October 31Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Sunday conducted a surprise check at the Bathinda bus stand to review the basic arrangements, including cleanliness at toilets and shops, besides availability of potable RO drinking water. He directed PRTC general manager Raman Sharma to pay more attention to cleanliness and ensure that shops/stalls inside the bus stand were located at designated areas.Three buses were impounded and challaned for operating illegally. Two buses belonged to Orbit Aviation while one was owned by the Malwa Transport Company.Nov 14 ‘No Challan Day’The Transport Minister said that about 300 buses operating illegally in the state had been impounded so far, of which 35 belonged to Bathinda district alone.He asked that when the bus operators were collecting tax from passengers in the form of tickets, why were they not paying it to the government? He appealed to operators not to ply buses without paying adequate tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-buses-impounded-after-raja-warrings-surprise-check-332578
01-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Goalie Charanjit Channi, Pargat Singh hit turf||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 31After having donned the goalkeeper’s mantle at a stadium in Mohali, CM Charanjit Singh Channi today played a goalie to his Cabinet colleague Pargat Singh during the final match of the Surjit Hockey Tournament here.The CM’s Jalandhar visit today was marked by unprecedented opposition from various quarters and diversions at several routes as unemployed teachers and farmers (demanding end to DAP hoarding and availability at fair price) held protests.On a whirlwind tour of the district, Channi first paid obeisance at Devi Talab Mandir and then visited several MLAs, MPs and party leaders. He announced GST waiver on langar at the temple.The match was played at his final stopover — the Katoch stadium. Donning the orange uniform of a goalkeeper, Channi was passed the ball by his Cabinet colleague Pargat Singh, who was dressed in a yellow jersey. Members of the Tokyo Olympics’ Bronze winning team — Mandeep Singh, Harmanpreet and Rupinder Pal — also played hitters to the CM. He defended three out of five balls from Pargat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/goalie-charanjit-channi-pargat-singh-hit-turf-332580
01-11-2021||---||2 dismissed cops among 6 held for fraud in Ropar||Ropar, October 31The district police claimed to have busted a six-member gang, including twodismissed police officials, who allegedly used to dupe shopkeepers on the pretext of selling goods at economical price, here today.Two accused, identified as Sandip Singh of Amritsar district and Ranjit Singh of Hoshiarpur district, have already been arrested after being booked under Sections 420, 482, 170, 171 and120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Kiratpur Sahib police station.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Raminder Singh Kahlon said the other accused had been identified as Gurlal Singh and Lalli of Rayya (both dismissed police personnel), Pradhan of Rani ka Bagh locality in Amritsar and Hardip Singh.He said Sandip and Ranjit used to contact shopkeepers on their phone and lure them to purchase goods from them. When a shopkeeper reached the spot fixed by them for delivery, the dismissed cops came and took away the cash from him by threatening action. Recently, they had duped the owner of Sukhdev Karyana Store at Nurpur Bedi of more than Rs 1 lakh, said the DSP.The accused have confessed of duping over Rs 5 lakh from many shopkeepers in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh and more such incidents are likely to be traced after their questioning, added DSP Kahlon.Claimed links in army canteensDSP Raminder Singh Kahlon said in order to convince their targets, Sandip and Ranjit used to claim that they had contacts in Army canteens and the goods to be sold would be procured from the canteen meant for the personnel||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-dismissed-cops-among-6-held-for-fraud-in-ropar-332582
01-11-2021||---||Dispute over tuition charges, 24 Adesh Medical University students await final exams||Faridkot, October 31In a dispute over the fixation of tuition fee, the fate of 24 MD/MS courses students of Adesh Medical University is hanging in balance for the past four months. Pending a row over the ‘arrears’ of about Rs 30 lakh tuition fee per student, these medical students are waiting for the conduct of their final exams, due in May-June 2021, after completion of their three-year course.All counterparts of the 24 students in six other medical colleges in the state have already got their degrees after taking their final exam in July this year and most of them have joined on the posts of senior resident.The controversy over the tuition fee of these MD/MS students of Adesh university started in 2018 at the time of their admission. Against the state government’s fixed tuition fee of Rs 19.50 lakh for the MD/MS (clinical) full courses in 2018 for all medical institutes in the state, the university had fixed its own fee at Rs 49.32 lakh. The university had challenged the state government-fixed tuition fee in the High Court. Pending the decision on the fee structure for the past about three years, the students of Adesh university have paid Rs 19.50 lakh as tuition fee.The students alleged pending the decision on the fee structure, the university wants the students to pay ‘arrears ‘of Rs 29.81 lakh. The university wants to conduct the final exam of the students only after getting the full fee. “It promises to return the Rs 29.81 lakh fee if the High Court decision comes against the university,” said a student.Col Jagdev Singh (retd), registrar of the university, claimed ignorance about the issue. Kulwant Singh, deputy registrar, denied that students were being pressurised to pay the fee. “The matter is sub judice, we cannot demand any fee from the students,” he said. About the delay in conduct the exams at the university, Kulwant Singh said it was due to Covid-19. “As there was delay in new admissions in the MD/MS courses, there is delay in exams for the outgoing batch too.We are in process of conducting these,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dispute-over-tuition-charges-24-adesh-medical-university-students-await-final-exams-332583
01-11-2021||Amritsar||Guru Nanak Gurpurb celebrations from Nov 17 at Sri Nankana Sahib in Pakistan||Preparations are underway to celebrate the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak at Gurdwara Janam Asthan Sri Nankana Sahib in Pakistan between November 17 and 27. The birth date falls on November 19.A meeting of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (PSGPC) and Evacuee Trust Property Board officials was held in Lahore to review the arrangements. PSGPC president Ameer Singh said Sikh community from all over the world would be facilitated during the event with excellent arrangements in all gurdwaras. “The Covid health protocol has to be followed by the pilgrims. We will welcome a ‘jatha’ from India at the Attari-Wagah border on November 17. From there, the pilgrims will be ferried to Sri Nankana Sahib,” he said. Meanwhile, the state of Utah, USA, has declared Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary on November 19 as ‘World Equality Day’ while the Governor of the state has declared the day as ‘Sikh Heritage Day’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guru-nanak-gurpurb-celebrations-from-nov-17-at-sri-nankana-sahib-in-pakistan-332587
01-11-2021||Ferozepur||7 phones seized from Ferozepur jail||In yet another seizure of mobile phones from the premises of the Central Jail, seven more handsets have been recovered from the jail in two separate cases, following which two jail inmates have been booked.Assistant Jail Superintendents Gurnam Singh and Sukhwant Singh said during the frisking of prisoners, two mobile phones were recovered from undertrials Ashu Monga of Rakhri village and Vicky of city area, from barrack number two of the jail. The accused have been booked under the Prisons Act. In another seizure, four mobile phones were recovered during a search of the jail premises. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-phones-seized-from-ferozepur-jail-332588
01-11-2021||Ferozepur||Three die in road mishap||Bid to smuggle paddy foiledAbohar: An attempt to smuggle 150 quintals of paddy from Chak 22GB village of Sriganganagar for unauthorised sale at the Abohar new grain market has been foiled. On the complaint of Market Committee secretary Baljinder Singh, the police booked and arrested two tractor-trailer drivers Dara Singh and Tarsem Singh. OC4 booked for illegal miningFazilka: The police have booked four persons for illegal sand mining. Sources said Jaj Singh of Dhani Natha Singh and Parmatma Singh of Dhani Phoola Singh were carrying two sand-laden tractor-trailers to sell it in Jalalabad. In another case, Gobind Singh of Hauz Gandhar village and Joginder Singh of Ojhanwali village were booked and two sand-laden tractor-trailers were seized. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-die-in-road-mishap-332590
