03-11-2021||New Delhi||Sonia Gandhi accepts Capt Amarinder’s resignation from Congress||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has accepted former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation from primary membership of the party, AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal said on Wednesday.Singh on Tuesday had resigned from the Congress, accusing party president Sonia Gandhi and Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra of hatching a “midnight conspiracy” to oust him.The 79-year-old leader had timed his resignation letter with an announcement on the name of his new party. The Punjab Lok Congress will be formally launched after the Election Commission registers it and allots a poll symbol.“Hon’ble Congress President has accepted the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh from the primary membership of Indian National Congress,” Venugopal said on Twitter.Singh, in his seven-page letter to Sonia Gandhi, made public on Twitter, had lashed out at Navjot Singh Sidhu, the new Punjab Congress president whom he described as an “acolyte of the Pakistani deep state”, and “dubious individual” Harish Rawat, the former All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonia-gandhi-accepts-capt-amarinders-resignation-from-congress-333859
03-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Angry over worker’s death, labourers torch six vehicles in Bathinda refinery||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 3Tension prevailed on Wednesday at Guru Gobind Singh Refinery located at Rama Mandi in the district after a labourer died on work and another got injured. The deceased labourer has been identified as Abhishek (22), a resident of Sirsa in Haryana.As per information, the labourer died during work of upcoming new petro chemical project inside the refinery. Angry over the incident, migrant labourers who were around 2,000 in numbers torched six vehicles, including three police vehicles.The protesters outnumbered police and security staff.The labourers also had a spat with the refinery security personnel as five workers had also suffered minor injuries in the incident.The protesters alleged the company officials had provided full safety to workers, due to which this accident happened and they also demanded compensation for the deceased and injured.Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja along with heavy police force reached the refinery on receipt of information. Police brought the situation under control and conducted a flag march in and around refinery.SSP Ajay Maluja said, “Two workers Abhishek and Jaskaran Singh, who work under private NCC Company, fell down from the height accidentally during the work. In this incident, Abhishek died on the spot, while Jaskaran was injured. On this information, a mob of around 2,000 migrant labourers burnt six vehicles, including of two of police, but now situation is under control.”The SSP added, “We are registering an FIR against mob, which damaged the property and burnt the vehicles. We will identify them by checking CCTV footage in refinery.”A Guru Gobind Singh Refinery official said, “A labourer today died in accident during work inside the refinery. Migrant labourers staged protest, but police brought the situation under control.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/angry-over-workers-death-labourers-torch-six-vehicles-in-bathinda-refinery-333827
03-11-2021||---||Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa tells DGP to submit report about ‘recruitment of non-Punjabis’ in police||Chandigarh, November 3Taking cognisance of the news published in the media about the recruitment of non-Punjabis in Punjab Police by ignoring the rules, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has sought a detailed report from the Director General of Police (DGP).The Deputy Chief Minister has asked DGP Iqbalpreet Singh Sahota to furnish all the facts pertaining to it. He said it is a serious issue which needed immediate action for which the detailed report is necessary.Randhawa told the DGP to submit the report within a week so that further action could be taken.The Home Minister said the Punjab government would go into the bottom of the case and strict action would be taken in case of a violation of law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deputy-cm-sukhjinder-randhawa-tells-dgp-to-submit-report-about-recruitment-of-non-punjabis-in-police-333788
03-11-2021||Washington||American lawmaker remembers victims of 1984 Sikh massacre||A US lawmaker has remembered the victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in India, calling for justice and accountability for the families affected by the massacre."Madam Speaker, I rise to recognise the November 1984, anti-Sikh riots in India, also known as the Sikh massacre," Congressman from Pennsylvania, Brendan Boyle, said on the floor of the US House of Representatives on Tuesday.The anti-Sikh riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.Boyle said today there are more than half-a-million Sikhs in the United States, who began coming here 130 years ago."The massacre against the Sikhs began in the capital territory of Delhi and a number of other Indian cities on November 1, 1984, following the assassination of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi," he said."The first Sikh life was taken early that morning. The violence that lasted three days resulted in thousands upon thousands of casualties in the Sikh community. In the aftermath of the massacre, it was reported that nearly 20,000 were forced to flee, leading to countless displaced people," Boyle said."Madam Speaker, remembering the Sikh massacre is a pivotal and historic step in the fight for justice and accountability for the families of all those victims," said the Congressman. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/american-lawmaker-remembers-victims-of-1984-sikh-massacre-333772
03-11-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh quits Congress, launches new party 'Punjab Lok Congress'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2Former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh finally resigned from the Congress today, ending his over 40 years of association with the grand old party, and launched the “Punjab Lok Congress”. Its registration is pending with the Election Commission.Editorial: Discord in Punjab CongressHe has already hinted at seat-sharing with the BJP and breakaway Akali factions, subject to an amicable solution to the farmers’ stir.Will reveal mafia list: AmarinderThe offenders (indulging in illegal sand mining) are mostly Cong MLAs and ministers… I intend to make public the list provided by state intelligence.In his letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Capt said, “I hereby tender my resignation from the Indian National Congress in the interest of my state and my country.” In the seven-page letter, he said, “Despite my profound reservations you chose to appoint Navjot Singh Sidhu as president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. One day the Congress high command will have to regret its decision.”Taking a dig at Gandhi siblings, the former Chief Minister said, “I actually felt deeply hurt by your conduct and that of your children... Unfortunately, rather than reining in Sidhu, he was patronised by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, while you chose to turn a blind eye to the shenanigans of this gentleman who was aided and abetted by the general secretary in-charge Harish Rawat, perhaps the most dubious individual.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-quits-congress-launches-new-party-punjab-lok-congress-333540
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chamkaur Sahib theme park to open by mid-November: Punjab CM Channi||CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday announced that a state-of-the-art Chamkaur Sahib theme park — ‘Dastaan-e-Shahadat’ — depicting the glorious history of Sikhs from ‘Pehli Patshahi to Dasvin Patshahi’ and the Heritage Street would be inaugurated by mid-November.Chairing a high-level meeting in this regard, the CM said the theme park would contain 11 galleries equipped with ultra-modern gadgets such as revolving theatre, dome, static set, live action studio, mixture of set and live shoot, 270° projection screen with double screens, set with murals, hologram with projection and 3D animations. The CM said the inauguration would be marked with religious fervour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chamkaur-sahib-theme-park-to-open-by-mid-november-punjab-cm-channi-333554
03-11-2021||Moga||Moga: 1,800 kg poppy husk seized, 11 booked||The Moga police seized 90 bags (20 kg each) of poppy husk, weighing 1,800 kg, from a godown at Badduwal bye-pass in Dharamkot town of Moga, SSP Surinderjit Singh Mand said today. The police have also impounded a truck and a Mahindra Xylo from the godown.The SSP said 11 persons, including Pippal Singh of Daulewala village, the kingpin operating from the jail, had been booked. Pippal is serving 30-year sentence under the NDPS Act. None of the accused had been arrested from the spot, the SSP said, adding that investigations were on and all identified drug smugglers would be arrested soon.Meanwhile, an FIR under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against all of them at the Dharamkot police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-1-800-kg-poppy-husk-seized-11-booked-333551
03-11-2021||Ludhiana||Two nabbed for aiding Jalalabad blast accused||The Sidhwan Bet police have arrested two persons for allegedly harbouring an accused in the Jalalabad IED blast case.The accused, Ranjit Singh, alias Gora, had taken shelter at his relative Tarlok Singh’s house at Khurshedpura village near Ludhiana.Those arrested have been identified as Ranjit’s father Jaswant Singh of Nihanga De Jhugge village in Ferozepur and Balwant Singh of Walipur Khurd in Ludhiana. “Ranjit is one of the accused in the case and is at large. We had inputs he was hiding at his relative Tarlok’s house at Khurshedpur village here and his father also helped in arranging shelter for him. The moment we raided the place yesterday, he fled,” said Inspector Bikramjit Singh.He said the accused was regularly changing his location and was carrying some ammunition and explosive material. A case under Sections 212 and 216 of the IPC, and 18 and 19 of the Unlawful Activities Act had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-nabbed-for-aiding-jalalabad-blast-accused-333550
03-11-2021||---||Raja Warring responds to distress call by Punbus driver||Chandigarh, November 2State Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Tuesday exposed hooliganism of employees of private bus operators, who were threatening drivers and conductors of government buses at the Inter-State Bus Terminus, Sector 43, Chandigarh.On the minister’s direction, a private bus was impounded and employees of the private operator were handed over to the police. Warring said a driver of Punbus Volvo bus, which was en route to Ludhiana-Sri Muktsar Sahib, called him up saying employees of Jujhar Transport Company were creating nuisance by stopping the bus and disembarking passengers.“After getting the call, I immediately rushed to the spot and called the police,” said the minister, adding he asked the police to impound the bus of Jujhar Transport Company and arrest the erring employees of the private company.“No private operator would be allowed to create a ruckus. If any person is found indulging in such an act, strict legal action would be initiated against him,” said the minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raja-warring-responds-to-distress-call-by-punbus-driver-333549
03-11-2021||Amritsar||Symbolic fireworks at Golden Temple on Diwali||To prevent adding pollution to the environment, the SGPC has decided to curtail the traditional display of firecrackers and also arranged special eco-friendly crackers to celebrate ‘Bandi Chhor Diwas’ (Diwali) at the Golden Temple. The excessive pollution also caused damage to the gold-plated sheen of the shrine.The fireworks take place at four spots in the Golden Temple complex — two locations close to Ghanta Ghar and one each near the Sikh Reference Library and Darshani Deodhi. Since 2017, the span of firecrackers’ display has also been reduced from 30 minutes to 15-20 minutes.SGPC’s chief secretary (honorary) Harjinder Singh Dhami said the firecrackers’ show at the Golden Temple complex would only be a symbolic gesture to mark the occasion. “The firecracker display will be there for maximum 10 minutes. We have arranged specially designed low-decibel crackers. These emit negligible smoke. The other high-rise crackers too cause negligible pollution and emit colourful lights with less smoke,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/symbolic-fireworks-at-golden-temple-on-diwali-333547
03-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Public properties up for grabs, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1In a scathing judgment, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted “public properties” were being sold and purchased by the land mafia. Worse, the land grabbers were playing hide and seek with the system.A Division Bench of the High Court asserted it was constrained to observe land grabbers and land mafias, more often than not, indulged in the sale and purchase of public properties by fraudulent documentation in collusion with notorious persons by hoodwinking and by playing hide and seek game.The Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma asserted it was resulting in “destruction of title of the state in respect of big chunk of public properties and loss to the exchequer which is a sordid and terrible state of affair”. The Bench was hearing a petition filed against Punjab Joint Development Commissioner, Director, Panchayats (IRD), and other respondents.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Verma asserted the menace of encroachments on public properties was “creeping up” day-by-day and creating obstructions to the planned development of the nation. The Bench also made it clear any attempt to regularise illegal construction was deplored by the Supreme Court.The Bench asserted the SC took note of the fact that village common land in large parts of the country had been grabbed by unscrupulous persons, using muscle power, money power or political clout to the extent that such land existed only on paper in many states. It was held the encroachers must be ordered to remove construction and hand over land possession to the gram panchayat, even if they had built houses. It was stressed gram sabha/panchayat land must be kept for the common use of village residents. Referring to the facts of the case, the Bench observed a gram panchayat filed a petition for ejectment of the petitioners, along with Sapinder Singh, from 71 kanals and four marlas situated in Patiala district. The panchayat averred the land was being used for common purpose/benefit of the inhabitants and the petitioners were illegally occupying it. As such they were liable for eviction/ejectment from the land in dispute.After hearing the parties, the Collector (Panchayat Lands) and District Development and Panchayat Officer, Patiala, came to the conclusion that the panchayat was the land owner and the petitioners had encroached upon it. As such, he directed the petitioners’ eviction from the land in dispute. Finding no merit in the writ petition challenging this and other orders, the Bench dismissed the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/public-properties-up-for-grabs-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-333546
03-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Rs 6 cr welfare fund diverted, labour board put on notice||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 2The office of Principal Accountant General (Audit), Punjab, has issued a fresh notice to the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BOCW) Welfare Board this week for not spending the welfare fund for the designated purpose.The Labour Welfare Board has been asked to give the latest status of the decision regarding the refund of Rs 6.61 crore to the audit.The welfare board had deposited Rs 6.61 crore to the Punjab Skill Development Mission in May 2016 for the construction of four skill development centres at Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Mohali. The welfare board didn’t disclose the same in its financial dossier to the audit.Notably, the construction of all four centres had to be stopped in view of the guidelines of the Government of India in June 2016 because the board did not release further payments to the Punjab Skill Development Mission and had to take the matter of refund of Rs 6.61 crore with the Punjab Skill Development Mission. Meanwhile, the Labour Department, in July 2021, earmarked Rs 17.91 crore from the Labour Welfare Board to complete the remaining work of the skill centres claiming they had received approval from the central government. However, the office of Principal Accountant General (Audit), Punjab, said no approval had been received so far. Jatinder Pal Singh, deputy secretary, BOCW Welfare board, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Centre’s directions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-6-cr-welfare-fund-diverted-labour-board-put-on-notice-333544
03-11-2021||---||Moga administration’s ‘U-turn’ on mining, favours cancellation of FIR against contractor||Moga, November 2After the transfer of the District Magistrate and Senior Superintendent of Police, the district administration of Moga has taken a “U-turn” in a case of illegal mining, which was registered against a local contractor a few weeks back. The new officials have recommended cancellation of the FIR against the contractor.Previous SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, after having got registered the case of illegal mining under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act against MS Rana and Company at the Kot-ise-Khan police station, had also recommended to the Home Secretary of the state to suspend the DSP of the Dharamkot subdivision, Subeg Singh, from service. He had also marked a departmental inquiry against him.The mining contractor was allegedly selling sand without weighing, without issuing computerised slips and without keeping a record of the vehicles transporting sand. Moreover, he was issued a permit to extract the sand from river belt in Kapurthala district, but he dumped the sand in Moga district for sale.AAP spokesperson Navdeep Sangha alleged the mining mafia was operating in the state with political patronage. “Even after the change of guard in the state government and the district administration, the mafia continues to operate under political patronage of the ruling party,” he said.He attacked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi alleging the CM transferred the District Magistrate and SSP of Moga under the pressure of mining mafia, just to cancel the FIR of illegal mining. “What was the need to transfer SSP Nimbale within a couple of weeks after his posting?” he asked.Excavation papers found genuine: SSPSSP Surinderjit Singh Mand said he had approved the cancellation of the FIR as the mining slips issued to the contractor were found genuine. The legal procedure was underway, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-administrations-u-turn-on-mining-favours-cancellation-of-fir-against-contractor-333541
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||18% of food items tested in Punjab in 3 months adulterated||With Diwali around the corner, adulterated food and sweets have dominated markets. As many as 328 of the 1,882 samples (18 per cent) of food items sold in markets from July to September were found to be substandard by the Punjab Food and Drug Administration (FDA).Between April 2018 and March 2019, the FDA collected over 10,000 samples and found around 30 per cent substandard. Similarly, between April 2019 and March 2020, 8,091 samples were collected and 1,399 were found substandard. According to FDA officials, adulteration in milk items and sweets is much higher. Besides synthetic khoya, sweets stored in unhygienic conditions and artificial milk, the most common adulteration is using unsafe colours. “Amid high demand, instead of using sweet colour, manufacturers use those used to dye clothes,” said Manoj Khosla, Assistant Commissioner (Food).The problem is so rampant that in the last three years, the FDA filed 3,700 cases against those selling substandard food and collected around Rs 6 crore from them. Criminal cases were also filed and 22 convictions took place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-of-food-items-tested-in-punjab-in-3-months-adulterated-333538
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Norms cleared for pest attack relief for Punjab cotton growers||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has approved the norms of compensation to be given to cotton growers hit by pink bollworm attack.The Chief Minister gave nod to include 10 per cent additional funds over and above the total funds demanded by the districts concerned on account of compensation for the damaged crop.A spokesperson for the Chief Minister’s Office said Channi had given the go-ahead for the compensation amount of Rs 12,000 per acre to be paid to the farmers for the damage caused to their crops to the extent of 76 to 100 per cent.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister has directed the Revenue Department to credit the compensation amount directly to the accounts of farmers/farm workers before Diwali.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-cleared-for-pest-attack-relief-for-punjab-cotton-growers-333535
03-11-2021||---||Subdued festivities for Punjab farmers||Moga, November 2In Punjab, particularly the Malwa belt, Diwali fervour is missing. The crop loss due to the vagaries of weather has added to miseries of farmers, farm labourers and labourers.Rajinder Singh, a marginal farmer of Baghaurana in Moga, says he was still to harvest his paddy crop, which has been delayed due to the recent rains. Normally, farmers get free after harvest and sale of crops before Diwali, but, this time, he would have to spend nights in the grain market.To meet the humidity content criteria, it sometimes takes days to dry the grains in the markets to make them fit for sale to procurement agencies. Nearly five lakh labourers and transporters across the state are engaged in the procurement process. This time they, too, will festivities.On the other hand, even as the price of cotton was fetching attractive rates, the income of thousands of farmers in Malwa has decreased this with the lesser yield, owing to bad weather and bollworm attack. “We have not been able to meet even the input cost this time,” said Gurcharan Singh a cotton grower of Ramgarh village in Fazilka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/subdued-festivities-for-punjab-farmers-333534
03-11-2021||---||Bathinda farmers worried over fertiliser scarcity||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 2As farmers are set to sow wheat, they are worried over the shortage of fertilisers in the south-western Malwa region of the state.As per the information available on the Urvarak portal of the Centre, the fertiliser quantity available in the region is quite less than the requirement of farmers. In Bathinda district, the total requirement of urea is 79,750 MT whereas total sale from POS is 6,765 MT. The closing stock on November 1 was 21,384 MT. Similarly, the requirement of DAP is 37, 905 MT, total sale from POS so far is 10,461 MT and the closing stock on Monday was 2,763 MT in the district.In Mansa district, the seasonal requirement of urea is 65,250 MT whereas the total sale from POS is 5,539 MT and closing stock till Monday was 14,961 MT. The requirement of DAP in the district is 24,180 MT, its total sale so far is 7,555 MT and the closing stock was 2,789 MT on November 1.Both urea and DAP are crucial fertilisers required for wheat, which is grown over 35 acres on Punjab. Apart from these, there is shortage of other fertilisers such as muriate of potash (MOP), nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium and sulphur.Farmers said shortage of fertilisers was a serious concern as private dealers were either fleecing them or forcing them to buy additional fertilisers along with DAP.Gurmeet Singh, a farmer from Bathinda, said, “There is shortage of fertilisers due to which farmers are in panic and have started buying DAP and urea from cooperative societies and traders in whatever quantity they are getting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-farmers-worried-over-fertiliser-scarcity-333533
03-11-2021||Archit Watts||Cotton sells at over Rs 10,000 per quintal in Gidderbaha||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 2The cotton price has hit an all-time high by selling at Rs 10,500 per quintal in the Gidderbaha grain market. Notably, the cash crop was fetching Rs 7,500-7,800 a quintal around a fortnight ago. The minimum support price (MSP) is fixed at Rs 5,925 per quintal. Gaurav Garg, District Mandi Officer, Muktsar, said, “The cotton yesterday fetched Rs 10,500 per quintal here.”Bhagwan Bansal, former president, Punjab Cotton Factories and Ginners Association, said: “There are various factors for the increase in cotton’s price. This year, the production is lesser as the pink bollworm has damaged the crop, but there is a huge demand of readymade garments, especially in Europe where Covid restrictions have been lifted after almost two years. The Centre government’s promise of doubling the farmers’ income is also one of the reasons for cotton’s price rise.”He added, “The average price of cotton is between Rs 9,200 to Rs 9,500 per quintal and we are hopeful that it will go up in the coming days. Last week, the cotton fetched Rs 8,800 per quintal.”Similarly, Gurjeet Singh, a cotton grower, said, “The cotton prices are expected to go up further. We will wait for a few days to take our produce to mandi.”Huge demand in international marketThe local spinning industry has got orders in bulk from abroad, especially from China, which is the largest importer of the crop. Bhagwan Bansal, industrialist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-sells-at-over-rs-10-000-per-quintal-in-gidderbaha-333532
03-11-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Jassi’s husband to be cross-examined today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2Over 21 years after the “honour killing” of his wife and Canadian citizen Jassi, Mithu came face to face for the first time with her mother and uncle, both facing charges in a Sangrur court for allegedly ordering Jassi’s killing.Mithu gave his testimony on October 29 in the case before the court of Additional Sessions Judge Smriti Dhir, narrating the sequence of events where they had first met in 1994, fell in love, got secretly married in April 1999 before contract killers, allegedly hired by Jassi’s mother Malkit Kaur and maternal uncle Surjeet Singh Badesha, killed Jassi in June 2000 and left Mithu in fields, thinking he had died of multiple stabs.Mithu survived to tell the horrific tale, which has been the subject of several international documentaries, TV shows, a book and movies.Mithu, who is facing a separate trial under the NDPS Act and has been in Ludhiana jail since May last year, was brought amid tight security with at least 25 guards.Surjeet was brought from Kapurthala jail, where he is incarcerated while facing the trial. Malkit had got bail from the Punjab and Haryana High Court last year.Mithu has faced seven different cases since the murder, including rape and drugs smuggling. He was acquitted in six of those. He has been claiming that he was falsely implicated in the cases to pressure him to strike a compromise in the murder case.Malkit and Surjeet were extradited to India in January 2019 after a long legal battle and dramatic twists in India and Canada. Mithu, in several media interviews, stated that he was alive only to fight for justice for Jassi and confront her mother. “I wanted to ask her if marrying for love and not as per parent’s wishes was such a big crime?” However, Mithu and the accused were kept at bay amid heavy police security. The case will again come up for hearing tomorrow when the defence lawyers would cross-examine Mithu.Mithu had last met Malkit before marrying Jassi secretly. The mother and daughter were visiting Surjeet’s house in Kaunke Khosa near Jagraon. Surjeet lived in a villa, while Mithu lived in a two-room house behind it. Surjeet and Malkit were reportedly against Jassi’s wish to marry Mithu as the prospective bridegroom was poor and belonged to the same village as Jassi’s mother.Of the 12 contract killers allegedly hired by the accused, three, including a dismissed sub-Inspector of the Punjab Police, were sentenced to life imprisonment by the Supreme Court.Face to faceDuring Mithu’s testimony, which went on for almost two hours, Malkit (mother) and Surjeet (uncle) were present in the court room. He identified them during his deposition. Ashwani Chaudhary, Mithu’s lawyer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jassis-husband-to-be-cross-examined-today-333531
03-11-2021||Jalandhar||Biz as usual at Phagwara property||While the ED issued orders of attachment of the property, it was business as usual at the Cabbana Resort and Spa.Officials organised functions today and said they had not yet cancelled any future event. The management said they had learnt about the attachment only through the media.The resort management claimed while the ED intended to recover Rs 32 crore, the resort property was worth over Rs 400 crore. Dutch national Shivlal Pabbi, a Phagwara-origin NRI, was arrested on July 17 while he was trying to flee to Paris. A shareholder said: “Pabbi was only a 25% shareholder in the resort. So, the entire resort can’t be attached. Even if there are any adverse orders, we will file an appeal against it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/biz-as-usual-at-phagwara-property-333530
03-11-2021||---||Rs 32 cr Phagwara resort attached||New Delhi, November 2The Enforcement Directorate (ED) today said it has issued a provisional attachment order under the Prevention of Money laundering Act (PMLA) to seize a highway resort in Punjab worth Rs 32 crore as part of a legal cooperation between India and Netherlands.Also read: Biz as usual at Phagwara propertyThe multi-acre “Cabbana Resort and Spa”, located on the National Highway No. 1 in Phagwara, belongs to Shivlal Pabbi and his associates, the agency said, adding its total value was around Rs 32.57 crore. The property is known for hosting luxury weddings, corporate events, among others, and is “managed by Shivlal Pabbi’s cousins Anil Kumar Chodha and Manoj Kumar Chodha”, it said.Pabbi was arrested by the ED in the past and all accused have been charge-sheeted by the agency before a special PMLA court in Mohali in September. “The ED initiated money laundering investigation against Pabbi and others on the basis of a request made by the Netherlands government,” it said, adding “Pabbi committed cheating and forgery in the Netherlands on the basis of fraudulent and forged documents prepared in connivance with his Indian associates”.Pabbi, it alleged, ran an “underground” banking channel without permit, which meant hawala business in the Netherlands. “The proceeds of crime generated by Pabbi were laundered through Pakistan nationals based in Dubai, who transferred the money to him and his family members’ NRE accounts in Phagwara,” the ED alleged.‘Built using hawala money’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-32-cr-phagwara-resort-attached-333529
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Slash fuel taxes: Harpal Singh Cheema||AAP senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema today said the Congress government was as much responsible for the rise in petrol and diesel prices as the Centre, which had proved insensitive in controlling inflation. He demanded reduction in taxes levied on fuel so as to bring down the rising prices.“Petrol and diesel prices in Punjab are the highest among the neighbouring states as the state government is levying 31.17 per cent VAT on petrol and 19.56 per cent VAT on diesel,” said Cheema. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/slash-fuel-taxes-harpal-singh-cheema-333528
03-11-2021||Ludhiana/Chandigarh||Punjab Oppn picks holes in power tariff cut||Opposition parties today rejected the announcement made by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to provide Rs 3 per unit cheaper electricity to the people of the state. While the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) termed the move a poll stunt, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) described it as betrayal of people, saying the government neither reduced the fixed charges nor took any action against the power mafia.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said sops of cheap power and hike in dearness allowance (DA) to government employees were on the lines of promises made by the party at the time of the last elections which were never fulfilled.“Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is indulging in political stunts. Even Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu has exposed his own government by commenting that sops were being given only for two months to fool the voters,” he said.Sukhbir said the Chief Minister had failed to tell how he would make good on his promise when mismanagement had virtually bankrupted Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). He said the state government owed PSPCL farm subsidy of Rs 4,500 crore and its departments owed Rs 2,231 crore. “If you take all subsidies into account, including Rs 3,300 crore due to the latest announcement and bills that have been waived, the subsidy bill will come to Rs 13,934 crore”, he said.Speaking about the government’s intentions to bring in resolutions to cancel the power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private thermal plants, he said in case the government intended to do this it should come out with an executive order instead of mere resolutions which would achieve nothing. “The government should take into account the penalty of around Rs 10,000 crore which it would have to pay as well as the challenge of acquiring 4,000 MW at same or cheaper rates,” he said.The SAD president ridiculed the Channi government’s announcement on hike in DA while adding that the Congress government did not release a single DA installment to employees in the last four and a half years. He said arrears of Rs 5,000 crore of DA installments ought to be cleared first before making any further announcements.Meanwhile, AAP MLA Aman Arora said the government neither had taken any action against the power mafia nor resolved the issue of procuring cheap coal. He said the Congress government was increasing the subsidy on electricity but not plugging the loopholes. Due to this, the debt burden on PSPCL had increased to Rs 34,000 crore, he said. — TNSNo roadmapThe state government does not have any roadmap to meet the financial requirements of PSPCL or other commitments. Sukhbir Singh Badal, SADMove misleadingThe government has reduced only Rs2 per 100 units and after 100 units this benefit will be further reduced to Rs1 only. Aman Arora, AAP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-oppn-picks-holes-in-power-tariff-cut-333527
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Day after, ‘resignation letter’ of Punjab AG APS Deol surfaces||Day after senior advocate APS Deol denied reports of his resignation by claiming “there was nothing of this sort”, the purported letter dated November 1 surfaced today.The top law officer of the state, who had stated “neither is there any resignation, nor any talk about it”, in his letter addressed to Chief Minister the same day said: “On personal reasons, I hereby tendered (tender) my resignation from the post of Advocate General, Punjab, today, i.e. November 1, 2021.” Deol could not be reached for comment.Sources in Deol’s office had claimed on Monday morning the senior advocate had handed over his resignation to the Chief Minister. Deol, however, refused to take phone calls amidst reports of his resignation.The same evening, Deol claimed: “The speculation (on resignation) keeps going on. Sometimes some pressures are built, but there is nothing of the sort.”Deol’s resignation letter, addressed to “dear”, came a month after his appointment and two ‘not-so-favorable’ developments for the Punjab Government before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Defending the appointment of senior advocate RS Bains as special public prosecutor for the politically-sensitive sacrilege matters, the state had told the High Court that “only regular public prosecutor will appear before the trial court till the next date of hearing”.In another matter involving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, the Advocate General stated: “For the time being, permission be granted to the SIT to associate the petitioner (Gurmeet) in the investigation of FIR No. 63 dated June 2, 2015, Bajakhana police station, by visiting Sunaria Jail, Rohtak, where the petitioner is confined.” The dera chief had moved the court after a Faridkot court issued his production warrants in a sacrilege related matter.Deol was appointed after the post fell vacant following Atul Nanda’s resignation soon after Capt Amarinder Singh stepped down as the Chief Minister. His appointment had triggered a debate as he was, at one point, the counsel for former top cop Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umaranangal, both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.Finding new AGSources in the CM’s camp said the AG submitted his resignation after the government principally decided to replace him. The replacement has to be finalised before Doel’s resignation is accepted and forwarded to the Punjab Governor. The CM could not be reached for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-resignation-letter-of-punjab-ag-aps-deol-surfaces-333526
03-11-2021||---||Amid unease, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Charanjit Singh Channi fly to Kedarnath||Chandigarh, November 2Having been apparently convinced that Advocate General (AG) APS Deol was on his way out and that he was on board regarding other important decisions, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resumed his duty by joining an interaction programme of Congress MLAs with Punjab affairs in charge Harish Chaudhary and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi here this evening.Earlier in the day, Sidhu along with CM Channi, Chaudhary and Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh flew to Uttarakhand’s Kedarnath Temple in a state helicopter.“After taking over the charge, it was Chaudhary’s first interaction with all MLAs to know their issues, get suggestions to prepare the roadmap for the 2022 Assembly elections,” said a party leader.The meeting, which took place after Sidhu and others returned from Uttarakhand, is being seen as a confidence-building attempt in the light of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh quitting the party to form his own political outfit — Punjab Lok Congress. A senior leader privy to the development said the pilgrimage was intended at projecting a picture of unity. The ice has been broken between CM Channi and Sidhu, but unease prevails as the exact position will only be clear in the coming days.Initially, CM Channi and Rana KP Singh had to fly to Kedarnath, but Chaudhary and minister Pargat Singh held back-to-back meetings with Sidhu at Punjab Bhavan and later at the minister’s residence to convince the PCC chief to join them.En route to the temple, the leaders halted at Dehradun, where Chaudhary’s predecessor Harish Rawat hosted them over breakfast.At the holy temple, both CM Channi and Sidhu shared a joint picture. Sidhu tweeted: “Life is fragile, handle with prayer… At Kedarnath, the heavenly abode of Lord Shiva.” On his part, CM Channi wrote: “Prayed for the progress of Punjab and prosperity of its people.” In Dehradun, Sidhu said there was no greater ‘dharm path’ (religion) than ‘kartavya path’ (duty). “Dharm is about feeding the poor and spreading joy. It is the message of Lord Mahadev… I have come here to seek His blessings for the welfare of Punjab.” Rawat said: “He (Chaudhary) is one of those youths we can learn a lot from. I am confident Congress will win in Punjab”.What PCC chief told Cong MLAs3 Others fly tooFood Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLA Sanjay Talwar and Capt Amarinder Singh’s ex-political secretary Capt Sandeep Sandhu separately flew to Kedarnath TempleAll is wellAll is well in Punjab unit now. We had a challenge and have overcome it. I am confident this situation will prevail. Harish Rawat, ex-incharge||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-unease-navjot-singh-sidhu-charanjit-singh-channi-fly-to-kedarnath-333525
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Despite his denial, APS Deol’s 'resignation letter' surfaces||A day after senior advocate APS Deol denied reports of his resignation after claiming “there was nothing of this sort”, his purported resignation letter dated November 1 surfaced on Tuesday.The top law officer of the State, who stated ‘neither is there any resignation, nor any talk about it’, in his purported resignation letter addressed to Chief Minister the same day said: “On personal reasons, I hereby tendered (tender) my resignation from the post of Advocate-General, Punjab, today, i.e. November 1, 2021”. Deol could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.‘Nothing of this sort’, says APS Deol on reports of his resignation as Punjab AGSources in Deol’s office had claimed on Monday morning that the senior advocate had handed over his resignation to the Chief Minister. Deol, however, refused to attend to the phone calls amidst reports of his resignation. The same evening Deol claimed: “The speculation (on resignation) keeps going on. Sometimes some pressures are built, but there is nothing of the sort”.Deol’s purported resignation letter came after a month after his appointment and two not-so-favourable developments for the Punjab government before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Defending the appointment of senior advocate RS Bains as special public prosecutor for the politically sensitive sacrilege matters, the State of Punjab had told the High Court that “only regular public prosecutor will appear before the trial Court till the next date of hearing”.In another matter involving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, the Advocate-General stated: “For the time being, permission be granted to the SIT to associate the petitioner (Ram Rahim) in the investigation of FIR No.63 dated June 2, 2015, Police Station Bajakhana, by visiting Sunariya Jail, Rohtak, where the petitioner is confined”. The dera chief had moved the court after a Faridkot Court issued his production warrants in a sacrilege related matter.Deol was appointed after the post fell vacant following Atul Nanda’s resignation soon after Capt Amarinder Singh stepped down as the Chief Minister. His appointment had generated debate since the beginning as he was, at one point of time, the counsel for former top-cop Sumedh Singh Saini and IG Paramraj Singh Umaranangal, both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.The appointment had come as a surprise as incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015 had always been considered politically sensitive. It had also led to a legal debate on the issue of conflict of interest primarily on the ground that Deol, being Saini and Umaranangal’s counsel, would neither be able to appear nor advise the State in their cases and related matters. In an attempt to settle the storm, senior advocate RS Bains was appointed special public prosecutor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-his-denial-aps-deols-resignation-letter-surfaces-333388
03-11-2021||---||Capt Amarinder sends 7-page resignation letter to Sonia Gandhi, names new party 'Punjab Lok Congress'||Chandigarh, November 2Former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday resigned from the Congress and sent a seven-page resignation letter to party president Sonia Gandhi.In a tweet, Capt Amarinder said, "I have today sent my resignation to Congress President Ms Sonia Gandhi ji, listing my reasons for the resignation. 'Punjab Lok Congress’ is the name of the new party. The registration is pending approval with the Election Commission of India. The party symbol will be approved later."I have today sent my resignation to @INCIndia President Ms Sonia Gandhi ji, listing my reasons for the resignation.‘Punjab Lok Congress’ is the name of the new party. The registration is pending approval with the @ECISVEEP. The party symbol will be approved later. pic.twitter.com/Ha7f5HKouq  In his letter, Singh recalled old ties with the Gandhi family.“I actually felt deeply hurt by your conduct and that of your children who I still deeply love as much as my own children, having known their father, since we were in school together since 1954, which is for 67 years now,” he wrote.Singh had resigned as the Punjab chief minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with Sidhu, the ex-cricketer favoured over him by the party high command.Days later, he had made clear that he will quit the Congress and float his own party. He didn’t rule out a tie-up with the BJP – if the farmers’ issue is settled – and other parties, ahead of next year’s assembly polls in the state.In the letter, Singh told Sonia Gandhi that despite knowing him “for the better part of his 52 years in public life” and that too at a deeply personal level “you never understood me or my character”.“You thought I was getting on in years and should be put to pasture. I am neither tired nor retired. I feel I have a lot to give and contribute to my beloved Punjab. I intend to soldier on and not fade away,” he wrote.He again expressed disappointment over Sidhu being made the state party chief.“Despite my profound reservations and over the unanimous advice of almost all the MPs from Punjab, you chose to appoint an acolyte of the Pakistani deep state Navjot Sidhu who had publicly hugged the Pakistan Army Chief Gen Bajwa and Prime Minister Imran Khan, as the president of the Punjab Congress Committee.” The former CM called Khan and Bajwa the people responsible for sending terrorists across the border to kill Indians.“Sidhu’s only claim to fame was that he would abuse me and my government on a regular basis. I am old enough to be his father but that did not stop him from using the filthiest and most vile language against me both publicly and privately,” he said.He accused Sonia Gandhi’s children, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, of taking Sidhu’s side.“Unfortunately rather than being reined in, he was patronised by Rahul and Priyanka, while you chose to turn a blind eye to the shenanigans of this gentleman who was aided and abetted by the General Secretary In-charge Harish Rawat, perhaps the most dubious individual I had the occasion to make acquaintance of.” Singh wrote angrily about the Congress Legislature Party meeting in September that was apparently meant to oust him from the CM’s post.“The most egregious act was the midnight conspiracy carried out against me at your and your children’s behest by calling a CLP meeting over my head in the dead of the night and that too through Twitter,” Singh said.“It was my prerogative as the CLP leader to have called the meeting if the AICC desired it. It was only early next morning that a colleague informed me that such an outrageous act has been committed,” he wrote.“You called me at 10.15 am next morning and asked me to resign. I did so without batting even an eyelid. However, the crude manner in which the whole operation was executed by the undertakers of the AICC left a very foul taste in the mouth,” he added.Singh said he hoped that no other senior Congress member is subjected to the “ignominy” that he was put through in the last few months.“I hereby tender my resignation from the Indian National Congress in the interest of my state and my country,” he wrote. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-sends-7-page-resignation-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-names-new-party-punjab-lok-congress-333350
03-11-2021||---||Day after drama over Punjab Advocate General, CM Channi, Navjot Sidhu fly together to Kedarnath||Chandigarh, November 2A day after political drama over the continuation of Punjab’s Advocate General, CM Charanjit Channi, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab Affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary and Assembly Speaker KP Singh went to pay obeisance at Kedarnath Temple in Uttarakhand.All flew in a state chopper to meet former Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat at Dehradun, before proceeding to their destination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-drama-over-punjab-advocate-general-cm-channi-navjot-sidhu-fly-together-to-kedarnath-333321
