04-11-2021||Abohar||Man held for killing wife||POCSO court awards RI to 5Abohar: A special POCSO court in Hanumangarh near here awarded 10-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) each to five persons in a case of buying a 14-year-old girl from New Delhi for Rs 1 lakh and pushing her to prostitution. Heavy fine has also been imposed on them. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-killing-wife-333979
04-11-2021||Bathinda||Employees burn Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s effigy over demands||Members of the Punjab, UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front staged a protest against the state government at Ambedkar Chowk here and later burnt an effigy of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal in front of the City Bus Stand.Darshan Singh Maur, a leader of the union, said, “We have been holding agitations for a long time now but the government seems to have turned a deaf ear to all our long-standing demands. After several rounds of meetings, the government has failed to deliver on its promises.”Maur said if the government continued with its “indifferent approach”, the Congress may have to bear consequences in the Assembly elections scheduled early next year.Gagandeep Singh, another leader, said, “Until the government accepts our demands, the agitation against the government will continue. We will also gherao the Finance Minister’s office on November 13.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/employees-burn-punjab-finance-minister-manpreet-badals-effigy-over-demands-333971
04-11-2021||---||In fresh salvo, Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Capt Amarinder Singh ‘failed CM’||Amritsar, November 3PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu today launched a searing attack on former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over his statement on exposing the alleged “sand mafia” being run under the patronage of Congress ministers, bureaucrats and leaders.Sidhu, who was here to kick-start development works at ancient Ram Talai temple falling under his Amritsar-East constituency, said if Capt Amarinder was aware of the sand mining nexus during his tenure, why didn’t he speak up then. He added no action amounted to abetment.All achievable if conscience cleanThis time (in 2022 poll) last two months’ sops will not work... But if conscience is clean and well-conceived policy is there, all is achievable. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC PresidentTaking a jibe at Capt Amarinder’s statements over resolving the farmers’ issues, Sidhu said no one was inclined to join hands with a “spent cartridge”. “You are a dying duck in a thunderstorm, a lost cause. A ‘failed CM’ was replaced. Not a single councillor, not even your wife (Preneet Kaur), stood by you. Ask your wife if she quit the Congress? Now, you have been behaving like a rondu bacha (crying child). You proved to be a ‘coward’ and ‘fraud’ for not taking action against the mafias,” he said.Earlier, dubbing Sidhu as an “unstable and incompetent person who would work against the Congress”, Capt had said he would ensure the PCC chief didn’t win in the Assembly elections.Stressing ‘all is well’ within the Congress, Sidhu said now the Congress would prepare a roadmap to steer the state out of crisis. “This time (2022 Assembly polls), the last two months’ shortcuts and sops would not work. It is our last chance. I have demanded from my party leadership to give me the power of morality, to get me on the stage. Only then, I will be committed to offer a true roadmap for Punjab. I will never betray the people of Punjab, take it from me. If the conscience is clean, the political will and well-conceived policy is there, everything is achievable”, he said.On the rising fuel prices, he said: “The VAT on fuel is the highest in Punjab. It was agreed during discussions that focus should be on increasing the state’s income to make it rationalised. We will be framing a policy on sand and liquor trading where rates would be fixed only by the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-fresh-salvo-navjot-singh-sidhu-calls-capt-amarinder-singh-failed-cm-333940
04-11-2021||New Delhi||Day after, Sonia Gandhi accepts Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has accepted former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s resignation from primary membership of the party, AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal said on Wednesday.Capt Amarinder on Tuesday had resigned from the Congress, accusing party president Sonia Gandhi and Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra of hatching a “midnight conspiracy” to oust him.The 79-year-old leader had timed his resignation letter with an announcementon the name of his new party. The Punjab Lok Congress will be formally launched after the Election Commission registers it and allots a poll symbol.“Hon’ble Congress president has accepted the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh from the primary membership of Indian National Congress (sic),” Venugopal said on Twitter.Singh, in his seven-page letter to Sonia Gandhi, made public on Twitter, had lashed out at Navjot Singh Sidhu, the new Punjab Congress president whom he described as an “acolyte of the Pakistani deep state”, and “dubious individual” Harish Rawat, the former All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-sonia-gandhi-accepts-capt-amarinder-singhs-resignation-333941
04-11-2021||Aman Sood||Dearth of equipment to measure AQI in villages||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 3Despite moderate level of pollution in October, the air quality has been dropping sharply with each passing day in Punjab. Over the past few days, the air quality has dipped from moderate to poor category with October 31 being the worst day.The air quality index (AQI) in Amritsar was 255, followed by Ludhiana (254), Jalandhar (250), Mandi Gobindgarh (249), Khanna (246) and Patiala (229). The AQI of 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe.Over 7,000 farm fires in 3 daysTrouble for villagersThe 24 monitoring stations in villages show that villagers themselves are the first sufferers of farm fires, which affect the cities later. —Karunesh Garg, Member secretary, PPCBInterestingly, while majority of the farm fires take place in villages, the air quality index is measured only in cities. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials said they had about 40 portable machines to record air quality in villages. “The ratings on these machines tell a different story with air quality in the ‘poor to very poor’ category in terms of particulate matter,” they said. Costly equipment, they said, could not be placed in all villages and, therefore, cities were chosen.The officials said manual machines to record the air quality located in villages put it in “poor to very poor” category in terms of particulate matter. “Any village where stubble burning takes place deteriorates the air quality of that village and its surroundings. Due to poor air velocity, villagers inhaling such air are the worst sufferers,” they said.As The Tribune team visited some villages where stubble burning was rampant, it became almost impossible to breathe. “We are living in such conditions almost for a fortnight every year when the farms are set on fire,” said Balraj Ghumman, a resident of Kherha Jattan.From the next season, the PPCB has decided to install 18 more manual monitoring stations at as many district headquarters and threeContinuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) at Dera Baba Nanak, Derabassi and Naya Nangal to check the air quality. The CAAQMS will help the PPCB monitor real-time air quality. Any such station requires an investment of Rs 1 crore — Rs 80 lakh installation charges and Rs 20 lakh running expenditure. Meanwhile, 18 manual monitoring stations will be set up in Faridkot, Fazilka, Moga, Mansa, Tarn Taran, Barnala, Sangrur, Malerkotla, Fatehgarh Sahib, SAS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar, Muktsar, Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Ferozepur and Ropar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dearth-of-equipment-to-measure-aqi-in-villages-333944
04-11-2021||Morinda||Morinda: Threshers at mandi, residents choke||The arrival of paddy in the local market has proved to be a nightmare for residents as the contractor, deployed to remove the leftover generated during the paddy procurement process, has installed threshers to separate rice.Irked by the pollution caused by the threshers, a large number of residents from adjoining localities staged a protest at the grain market here.Though the contractor claimed the threshers were being used to help provide grain to poor labourers, the residents said they had been facing health issues due to the suspended particles generated by the threshers.Baljinder Singh, a nearby resident, said the pollution levels increased in the area during the procurement season every year. “Things have deteriorated as threshers have been installed, leading to a rise in pollution levels,” he said.Surinder Singh, another resident, claimed a few asthmatic patients in his area had complained of uneasiness due to air pollution.Morinda Market Committee secretary Archana Bansal said before the procurement process started, the paddy brought by farmers to the market was cleaned using vibrating sieves and high-pressure air, which generated small grain particles.“Labourers are employed in the market to remove the leftover. The contractor who had been allocated the work had installed threshers to mill such paddy, causing air pollution in the area,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/morinda-threshers-at-mandi-residents-choke-333945
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||One death,  34 new Covid cases in Punjab||Thirty-four new Covid cases were reported in the state today. Besides, a person died of Covid in Mohali. The infection count has risen to 6,02,466. So far, the infection has claimed 16,562 lives across the state.The fresh death was reported from Mohali. Jalandhar reported seven cases, followed by four in Pathankot and three each in Amritsar, Ferozepur and Ropar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-death-34-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-333946
04-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Prices up 25%, sale of crackers remains low, vendors anxious||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 3Bursting firecrackers this year will be a costly affair as prices have risen by an average of 20-25 per cent. Sellers are attributing this to the rise in prices of fuel, raw material, production costs and labour shortage in firecracker manufacturing units.Rocket shots, which were sold for Rs 80 to Rs 130 per box last year, are being sold for over Rs 150 per box. Small ‘anar’, which were sold for Rs 60 per box last year, are now being sold for Rs 100. Around 90 per cent of the firecrackers come from Tamil Nadu’s Sivakasi and the transportation cost of a truck now is Rs 1.30 lakh, which used to be Rs 1 lakh a year ago. Narinder Kumar, a firecracker vendor, said compared to last year, this year’s sale of firecrackers was quite low due to the increase in prices by around 25 per cent. If the sale did not pick up on Diwali, vendors would have to face huge losses, he added.Another vendor, Sanjiv, said, “The exact percentage can’t be stated but from my experience of selling crackers, the sale this year has gone down by 60-70 per cent.”Moreover, despite a call given by the state government to celebrate green Diwali, green crackers are in a short supply in the district.Even Chinese crackers have flooded the market in the absence of any inspection of stalls at designated places in the district. “The firecracker business this year is down by 50 per cent. People are not buying green crackers, which are costlier than the regular ones,” a seller said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prices-up-25-sale-of-crackers-remains-low-vendors-anxious-333947
04-11-2021||---||Worker dies at refinery, mob torches 6 vehicles in Bathinda||Bathinda, November 3A mob of angry labourers burnt six vehicles after a worker died and another got injured at Guru Gobind Singh Refinery at Rama Mandi today. The deceased has been identified as Abhishek (22), a resident of Sirsa in Haryana. They were working on a new project of petrochemical inside the refinery.Angry over the incident, around 2,000 migrant labourers breached the security of police and guards at the spot and the situation turned ugly as they vandalised the vehicles, which included two of the Police Department.Safety not ensured by firm, say protestersThe protesters also had a spat with security personnel of the refinery as five of them had also suffered minor injuries in the incident.Protesters alleged that company officials had not ensured safety of workers. They demanded compensation for the deceased and the injured.Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja, along with heavy police force, reached the refinery and brought the situation under control. SSP Ajay Maluja said, “Abhishek and Jaskaran Singh, working under the private NCC Company, accidentally fell from a height while working. Abhishek died on the spot, while Jaskaran was badly injured.”He said, “We are registering an FIR against the mob. We will identify them by checking CCTV footage at the refinery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/worker-dies-at-refinery-mob-torches-6-vehicles-in-bathinda-333948
04-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||No provisional recognition for schools set up post RTE Act: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3In a significant judgment, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, did not envisage provisional recognition for a school set up after it came into force.The High Court also allowed a petition filed by a school before directing the issuance of a fresh recognition certificate. Justice Sudhir Mittal of the High Court made it clear that the certificate would state that the recognition was permanent in nature.Directs issuance of fresh certificateThe ruling came on a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by an NGO, Ameliorating India, through counsel Naresh Ghai. The Bench was told that the petitioner-society had established a school at Ludhiana. After completion of all necessary formalities, a letter granting provisional recognition for three years was issued.Ghai argued that the provisions of the Act did not envisage provisional recognition for a school set up after it came into force. Provisional recognition for three years was only for schools in existence prior to the Act coming into force. It was to enable them to meet the standards and norms prescribed by the Act. As such, the grant of provisional recognition was illegal.Responding to the averments in the petition, the respondents placed reliance upon instructions dated January 15, 2020. Its perusal by the Bench showed it was issued to bring about uniformity as recognition was being granted in different cases for one/two years or permanently.Justice Mittal asserted Section 18 of the Act said no school would be established without obtaining a certificate of recognition. An exception was there in favour of schools established and controlled by the government or a local authority. It further stipulated that recognition would be granted on fulfilment of norms and standards specified under the Act.In case of contravention of any of the conditions of recognition, it was liable to be withdrawn. Section 19 of the Act was regarding norms and standards to be fulfilled. It stipulated that the existing schools would take steps to fulfil the norms and standards within three years from the date of the Act’s commencement, failing which recognition would be liable to be withdrawn.“Neither of the provisions provides for provisional recognition. Thus, instructions dated January 15, 2020, are without jurisdiction. They are thus liable to be ignored,” Justice Mittal asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-provisional-recognition-for-schools-set-up-post-rte-act-hc-333952
04-11-2021||Mansa/Barnala||Barnala jail inmate alleges assault, probe ordered||A Barnala jail inmate has accused the prison staff of beating him up with a hot iron rod and writing terrorist on his back on Tuesday. The inmate submitted a complaint with the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) in Mansa today.The CJM court has directed the Barnala Judicial Magistrate to probe the matter and act against the responsible officials. As per information, Karamjit Singh of Balmgarh village of Patiala is serving his sentence in the jail in a case registered under the NDPS Act last year.The inmate was produced in the court of Mansa CJM Atul Kamboj. He alleged that he, along with other inmates, was assaulted by the officials.Karamjit’s counsel Advocate Balveer Kaur Sidhu said the court of Mansa CJM had directed the Barnala Judicial Magistrate to conduct an enquiry into the incident.When contacted, Barnala Jail Superintendent Balvir Singh denied the allegations and said: “Since I have been regularly conducting search operations in the jail to prevent the use of mobile phones, he is levelling baseless allegations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-jail-inmate-alleges-assault-probe-ordered-333953
04-11-2021||Bathinda||More farmers  to leave for Tikri||BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) president Baldev Sandoha said to strengthen the ongoing farm agitation, large groups of farmers will leave for Tikri from Bathinda from November 6. He announced this during a meeting held here on Wednesday.Shortage of fertilisers, tardy procurement of paddy in mandis and “inadequate” compensation for cotton crop damage were also discussed during the meeting.Sandoha said: “The Centre is employing every pressure tactic to destabilise the ongoing agitation for the past over 11 months. We will not tolerate such an approach of the government and would give a befitting reply to it. We will not end the farm movement until the government gives a guarantee on agricultural produce and repeals the three farm laws.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-farmers-to-leave-for-tikri-333956
04-11-2021||---||Order cancelling pvt firm’s bus permits stayed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3In a setback for the Congress-led Punjab Government, the State Transport Appellate Tribunal has stayed the operation of the orders cancelling illegally extended bus permits of Jujhar Bus Service.The next date of hearing has been fixed on November 10. The firm is one of the 340 private transport companies, including those owned by the Badal family, whose illegally extended bus permits were cancelled by the State Transport Commissioner.A total of 806 illegally extended bus permits have been cancelled. Other transport companies are also also likely to approach the tribunal seeking same relief.A senior official in the Transport Department said the termination orders had been stayed till November 10. “The department will contest the orders in the tribunal,” he said. The permits that were cancelled were being used to run ordinary buses, and not the super integral coaches.Sources in the department said the cancellation orders affected near 1 lakh km distance being covered by transporters through illegally extended bus permits, including 30,000 km being covered by buses run by politically influential families. The Transport Department had initiated the process to scrap the illegally extended bus permits after a group of private bus operators withdrew 38 writ petitions in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the government’s permit cancellation notices.Lately, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring has been taking strict action against flouting of norms by private bus operators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/order-cancelling-pvt-firms-bus-permits-stayed-333959
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Submit report on jobs to ‘outsiders’ in police, DGP told||Taking a note of allegation regarding the recruitment of non-Punjabis in the state police by ignoring the rules, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has sought a detailed report from the Director General of Police (DGP).The Deputy Chief Minister said in a statement he had asked DGP Iqbalpreet Singh Sahota to furnish all facts pertaining to it within seven days so that further action can be taken on it. “This is a serious issue which needs immediate action for which this detailed report is necessary,” Randhawa said.Activist Lakha Sidhana had on Tuesday alleged irregularities in police recruitment. Demanding an inquiry and cancellation of the recruitment, Sidhana said it was shocking that many non-Punjabis were recruited directly with the CM’s security. — TNSWill take actionDeputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has said the govt will go to the depth and take strict action if any violation of law had taken place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/submit-report-on-jobs-to-outsiders-in-police-dgp-told-333961
04-11-2021||Archit Watts||Facing ire in villages, SAD shifts focus to urban areas||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 3As the state elections are round the corner and farmers are still opposing the political leaders’ visits, the SAD has adopted a fresh strategy to mobilise its workers.While SAD chief and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal are nowadays mostly touring urban areas and holding public meetings, former CM Parkash Singh Badal is holding fort at his native Badal village here.Under this strategy, Sukhbir is visiting some Hindu religious places as well. For instance, he recently paid obeisance at the Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh and is scheduled to visit Salasar Dham in Rajasthan in the next few days.Besides, the SAD has roped in former BJP leader Anil Joshi and NK Sharma to woo the urban voters by touring different Assembly segments.In the past few days, Sukhbir has visited Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Abohar and Fazilka towns. Similarly, Harsimrat has visited Muktsar, Faridkot, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Moga, Baghapurana and Nihal Singhwala towns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/facing-ire-in-villages-sad-shifts-focus-to-urban-areas-333964
04-11-2021||Karam Prakash||For second year, no admissions to govt meritorious schools||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 3Not even a single student has been admitted in the past over 1.5 years to the 10 meritorious schools that were opened in 2016 by the state government to impart quality education to children belonging to economically weaker sections who were good in studies.Though the authorities concerned have blamed the pandemic for the zero admissions, a department official disagreed saying the situation then would have been the same in other government schools. Moreover, in the face of no new admissions and no online classes, around 270 teachers of these schools have been deputed to other government institutes.9,000 appeared for 9,200 seatsThe last batch of students was admitted in 2019 and since then no admissions have been made. It has been learnt that though the school’s managing body—Society for Promotion of Quality Education—had conducted entrance tests in October for the 2021-22 session, the results haven’t been declared yet.Given half of the session was over, the students, if admitted even this month, would have only a few months to prepare for their board and national-level entrance exams. Around 126 students of the meritorious schools cleared the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges this year.A teacher of the meritorious school, said: “If all other government schools continued teaching through online mode, why didn’t the meritorious schools follow suit?”IPS Malhotra, OSD to School Education Director General, said the entrance test results would be announced soon. “We couldn’t conduct the entrance test last year due to Covid. Besides, meritorious schools were converted into Covid centres,” he said.Meritorious School Teacher Union president Kulwinder Singh Bath said: “Owing to the government’s lack of concern, meritorious students of poor families are suffering. The apathy is evident from the fact that the meritorious schools’ teachers have not been regularised despite several assurances by the Education Minister.” Education Minister Pargat Singh and Education Secretary Ajoy Sharma could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-second-year-no-admissions-to-govt-meritorious-schools-333966
04-11-2021||Balwant Garg||Constructions come to halt as Faridkot cops cap sand price||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, November 3With the police warning dealers against selling sand beyond Rs 9 per cubic feet, the construction activity has come to a halt in Faridkot as the suppliers claim the rate set by the government was unviable.As sand was selling at Rs 25-26 per cubic feet two days ago, police officials visited the premises of construction material dealers and warned them of criminal cases if it was sold above Rs 9.After the warning, the dealers stopped selling sand altogether. “We can’t sell sand at Rs 9 when we are purchasing it at Rs 23 to Rs 24 per cubic feet,” said a dealer. Another dealer said buyers were ready to shell out Rs 26 per cubic feet, but they had halted the sales fearing police action.Other than issuing verbal warnings to dealers, the police have pasted public notices outside shops dealing in construction material. The notices mention “sale and purchase of sand above Rs 9 per cubic feet is a legal offence”.Faridkot DSP Sanjiv Kumar said the directions had been issued following orders from the government, which wanted to check the soaring sand prices. “We have convened a meeting with the district mining officer to calculate mining, loading and transport charges to ascertain how much does sand cost to retailers,” he said.Rs 9 per cubic feetThe government's mining policy of 2018 had a provision of capping the prices of sand and gravel at Rs 9 per cubic feet||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/constructions-come-to-halt-as-faridkot-cops-cap-sand-price-333969
04-11-2021||---||‘Light a lamp for martyrs of farmers agitation’||Amritsar, November 3Farmers organised a march near the bus stand here on Wednesday to spread the message of ‘Corporate Free India’ and ‘Pollution Free Diwali’ to mark celebrations of the festival. They were carrying placards with messages for the general public to remember those who have died during the ongoing farming protest during Diwali and Bandhi Chhor Divas.Gurbachan Singh Chabba of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, said, “Around 700 farmers have died during the ongoing protest. Many died fighting the unfavourable weather conditions and other problems. In an act of extreme brutality, four farmers were mowed down by a BJP minister and his son.”Chabba said as the public was getting ready for grand celebrations on Thursday, we all should spare a minute or two to remember those who were fighting against the ‘tyrant’ government and the giant corporate. He appealed that every family should light a lamp dedicated to the memory of ‘martyrs’ of ongoing agitation.The farmer leaders warned the BJP of playing tricks to end the agitation. They stated that only way to end the ongoing agitation was to repeal the three laws and ensure minimum support price for crops. They added that the recent defeat of BJP candidates in the by-elections in different states is an indicator that people of the country support farmers and would over throw a regime which is anti-farmer and anti-poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/light-a-lamp-for-martyrs-of-farmers-agitation-333925
04-11-2021||---||Crackdown on private bus operators in Punjab, but Finance Minister’s kin owe Rs 13 lakh road tax||Chandigarh, November 3While Punjab Transport Department has launched a crackdown on private bus operators defaulting on road tax, Raghu Raj Service, a transport firm owned by Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s family, has outstanding tax of nearly Rs 13 lakh since January 2021.When asked, Manpreet assured that the road tax would be deposited.So far, nearly 300 buses have been impounded and another 200 have been challaned for tax evasion or other violations. Raking up the issue, Small Scale District Bus Operators Association general secretary JS Grewal alleged the bus companies run by political bigwigs, including the ruling party MLAs, were not being targeted but only those run by small operators were facing the crackdown despite operational losses due to Covid.Dues to be clearedPending dues of Raghu Raj Service will be deposited. Manpreet BadalRejecting the allegation, Transport Minister Raja Warring said buses of Green Bus Service (owned by MLA Kiki Dhillon), Kartar Bus Service (owned by family of MLA Bawa Henry) and Pyar Bus Service (owned by family of MP JS Gill) had been challaned in the last few days. On being asked about Raghu Raj Service, Warring however said no bus of that company had been challaned so far.Sharing the concerns of small bus operators, the Finance Minister, Manpreet Singh Badal, said the government was aware that the employability of around 5 lakh to 6 lakh people was linked to the transport industry.The issue of giving some sort of relief to bus operators would be discussed after the Vidhan Sabha session on November 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crackdown-on-private-bus-operators-in-punjab-but-finance-ministers-kin-owe-rs-13-lakh-road-tax-333973
04-11-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Factual errors in Captain Amarinder Singh’s 7-page resignation letter||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3In the seven-page resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, also a reputed military historian and author, got the facts regarding his own political history wrong.Captain wrote, “When Operation Black Thunder took place in 1988 and our holy Golden Temple was once again assaulted, I as a matter of principle resigned from the then Surjit Singh Barnala government”.Newspaper records show that Capt Amarinder had resigned as the Agriculture Minister in May 1986 along with Education Minister Sucha Singh Chhotepur. The Operation Black Thunder took place in April 1986 and later in May 1988.Critics of the former CM point out that he has written that then Punjab legislator Tarlochan Singh Riyasti was killed in April 1984 as he was taking part in the negotiations with the Centre along with him to end the deadlock between the Centre and the Akali leadership. As per official records, Riyasti was assassinated much later in January 1988 along with his driver in Ludhiana.Confirming the dates, a senior journalist and an authority on Punjab affairs, Jagtar Singh said, “Factually speaking, the dates mentioned in the letter of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder are wrong. It is strange to see such errors in the communication of a reputed historian.” There was no response from the office of Capt Amarinder Singh despite repeated efforts.Mix-up of dates||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/factual-errors-in-captain-amarinder-singhs-7-page-resignation-letter-333972
04-11-2021||---||Rs 3,100 each for construction workers in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 3To mitigate sufferings due to loss of livelihood following the pandemic, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday announced another instalment of interim financial relief of Rs 3,100 each for all construction workers registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Welfare Board.Making the announcement on the eve of Diwali, the CM said, “The financial grant of Rs 3,100 is a shagun for the construction workers and their families on the joyous festival of lights.”He said the amount would be transferred into the bank accounts of the workers. The payment to nearly 3.17 lakh workers would entail an expenditure of Rs 90-100 crore.Channi also asked the sarpanches and councillors to get maximum number of workers registered.Bonus for Haryana power employeesHaryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced Diwali bonus for the employees of all four power utilities of the state. A bonus of Rs1,500 each will be given to both regular and contractual employees. More than 36,000 employees will benefit from it. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-3-100-each-for-construction-workers-in-punjab-333970
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Diwali bonanza: Punjab CM announces Rs 3,100 each for 3.17 lakh registered construction workers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced an interim financial relief of Rs 3,100 each for registered construction workers in the state on Wednesday, a day ahead of Diwali.“The financial grant of Rs 3,100 is a ‘shagun’ for construction workers and their families on the joyous festival of lights,” he said.The decision is aimed at mitigating the hardships faced by these workers due to loss of livelihood in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official statement said.The amount will be directly transferred into the bank accounts of the workers registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, it said.The board has nearly 3.17 lakh registered construction workers across the state, and the disbursement is likely to involve an expenditure of Rs 90-100 crore, the statement said.Earlier this year, another instalment of financial relief was given to registered construction workers in Punjab.Channi also asked all sarpanch and councillors to get construction workers registered so that they could benefit from welfare schemes extended by the board.The chief minister, who is also the chairman of the board, said his government was committed to help those sections of the society who did not have the means to fend for themselves.Labour Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian said with the considerable improvement in the Covid situation, efforts are being made to accelerate the pace of construction activity across the state so as to ensure the livelihood of these workers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diwali-bonanza-punjab-cm-announces-rs-3-100-each-for-3-17-lakh-registered-construction-workers-333844
04-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Jassi murder case: 21 years after murder of Canadian citizen, cross examination concludes||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 3Over 21 years after the murder of his wife and Canadian citizen Jaswinder Kaur alias Jassi, the cross examination of Mithu concluded here in a local court on Wednesday.A battery of lawyers from Punjab and Haryana High Court from the defence side, including Simrandeep Singh Sandhu, P S Brar and Arshdeep Bhardwaz, questioned Mithu for around two-and-a-half- hours about the murder and he replied to the best of his knowledge.“On Wednesday we have completed the cross examination of Mithu. We asked him questions in the court of Smriti Dhir, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Sangrur. To many questions, he said he does not remember,” said advocate Sandhu.But advocates from prosecution side, including Ashwani Chaudhary and Raj Kumar Goyal, said Mitu gave all replies properly. “Mithu strongly gave all replies and supported the version of prosecution. Court has fixed November 22 as the next date of hearing,” Chaudhary said.Jassi had married Mithu secretly in March 1999 against the wishes of her family.In June 2000, contract killers had allegedly attacked the couple near Narike village under Amargarh police station of Sangrur, killing Jassi on spot. Mithu survived with serious injuries and they threw Jassi’s body into a canal.Amargarh police had initially registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 364 (Kidnapping) of IPC, but after the recovery of Jassi’s body, Section 302 was added and FIR was registered against nine persons.In January 2019, Canadian police handed over both relatives of the deceased, including Canadian residents Malkiat Kaur (70), mother of Jassi, and her maternal uncle Surjit Singh Badesha (75), to Sangrur police. Surjeet was brought from Kapurthala jail on Wednesday here while Malkit had got bail from the Punjab and Haryana High Court.“I have been facing threats from the relatives of my deceased wife and police have been registering false cases against me. But I have faith in Indian Judicial system and I would get justice soon,” Mithu said outside of court. He is facing a separate trial under the NDPS Act and has been in Ludhiana jail. He  was brought to Sangrur on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jassi-murder-case-21-years-after-murder-of-canadian-citizen-cross-examination-concludes-333830
04-11-2021||Amritsar||‘Sand mafia-politician nexus’: If you knew about it, why didn’t you do something, Navjot Sidhu asks Amarinder||PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu launched a fresh attack on former chief minister Capt. Amarinder Singh over the latter’s statement on exposing the alleged ‘sand mafia’ being run under the patronage of Congress ministers, bureaucrats and leaders.Sidhu, who was in Amritsar on Wednesday to launch development works at ancient Ram Talai temple falling under the East constituency—which he represents as an MLA—demanded to know why Amarinder kept silent if he was aware of illegal sand mining during his own tenure.Taking a jibe at Capt. Amarinder’s statements over resolving the farmers’ crisis, Sidhu said that no one was inclined to join hands with a “spent cartridge”.“You (Capt. Amarinder) are a dying duck in a thunderstorm, a lost cause. A ‘failed CM” was replaced Not even a councillor, even your wife (Perneet Kaur) did not stand by you,” he said scathingly. “Ask your wife if she quit the Congress?  Now, you have been behaving like a ‘rondu bacha’ (cry baby). There is a saying that as you grow old, you start behaving like kids. He was proved to be ‘coward’ and ‘fraud’ for not taking action against the mafias. How many seats did he win when he formed a party earlier? Let the people of Punjab decide who was there for the ‘chair’ and who was struggling to resolving the Punjab issues,” he said.He claimed “all was well” within the Congress, and promised that the party would prepare a roadmap to steer the state out of crisis.“This time (2022 Assembly polls), the last two month’s shortcuts and sops would not work. It is our last chance. I have demanded from my party leadership to give me the power of morality, to get me on the stage. Only then will I be committed to offer a true roadmap for Punjab. I will never betray the people of Punjab, take it from me. If the conscious is clean, the political will and well-conceived policy is there, everything is achievable,” he said.He said his government would frame a policy on Value Added Tax on fuel to make it rationalised.“Much was made of the high VAT on petrol and diesel. VAT on fuel is the highest in Punjab. It was agreed that focus should on increasing the state’s income to make it rationalised .We will also be framing the policy on sand and liquor trading where rates would be fixed by the government only,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sand-mafia-politician-nexus-if-you-knew-about-it-why-didnt-you-do-something-navjot-sidhu-asks-amarinder-333829
