06-11-2021||New Delhi||Congress taking Punjab to dumps: BJP leader Tarun Chugh||Taking on the Congress over the Punjab advocate general's charges against Navjot Singh Sidhu, BJP leader Tarun Chugh on Saturday said the Congress is taking the state to "dumps" and the Governor should intervene.Punjab Advocate General (AG) APS Deol on Saturday attacked Congress state unit president Sidhu, accusing him of obstructing the functioning of the state government and his office as well as "spreading misinformation to gain political advantage".Deol's remarks came a day after Sidhu withdrew his resignation as Punjab Congress chief but declared that he will not re-assume charge till Deol is removed as AG and a panel set up for the appointment of a new director general of police.Chugh, the BJP's national general secretary, said there has been a complete collapse of governance in the Congress government led by Charanjit Singh Channi in Punjab "as it is muzzled in its internal conflicts".Taking strong exception to the charges made by Deol against Sidhu for interfering and scuttling the working of the AG office, Chugh said the infighting in the Congress has brought Punjab to the brink where drug mafia, sand mafia, and liquor mafia are controlling the state. Sidhu has been indulging in gross breach of Constitutional norms by interfering in the working of the state government, Chugh said, adding that "the Congress government in Punjab is taking the state to dumps and the Governor should intervene to check disruptions in the working of a Constitutional office by political leaders".Punjab, the epicentre of the ongoing farmers' protests against the three new central farm laws, is heading for assembly elections early next year.The BJP will try to make its presence felt and has already announced the theme of its campaign for the assembly elections. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-taking-punjab-to-dumps-bjp-leader-tarun-chugh-334735
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu: Will attend office after officers replaced||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday announced the withdrawal of his resignation from the party post even as he mounted pressure on the Channi led-government by reiterating his demand for the replacement of Advocate General APS Deol and DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota.No response yetI have been raising issues with the CM, but nothing has happened so far. Navjot Singh Sidhu, PPCC Chief‘Credit war’A senior leader says, “It is a credit war. Sidhu wants to be in the centre stage of the decision-making process, while CM Channi wants the government to take the credit.”Addressing a press conference, he said he would resume work after the new appointments were made. Sidhu had resigned on September 28. Questioning his own government, Sidhu said he had been raising these issues with CM Charanjit Singh Channi, but nothing happened in the last 50 days. “The blue-eyed officer of the Akalis who protected culprits of sacrilege has been made the DGP. Also, our government reposed faith in the person who represented ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini,” said Sidhu.On his reported differences with Channi, the PCC chief said there was no difference of opinion between them. He said, “Either we make tall promises and form the government or we work on an agenda to restore the Punjab’s glory.”Sources said the withdrawal of resignation by Sidhu was well-timed as the decision on the two posts was on the cards. The resignation sought from the AG was likely to be tabled in tomorrow’s Cabinet meeting. Regarding the DGP’s post, the state was waiting for the UPSC to return the panel of shortlisted officers, they said. A senior leader said, “It is a credit war. Sidhu wants to be in the centre stage of the decision-making process, while CM Channi wants the government to take the credit.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-will-attend-office-after-officers-replaced-334475
06-11-2021||New Delhi||BJP-ruled states slash fuel rates; Punjab to decide today||After 22 BJP-ruled states as well as UTs announced reduction in fuel rates, states ruled by the Opposition are considering to do the same.Edit: Fall in fuel pricesThe Punjab Government, which is mulling VAT cut on fuel, will take a call at a Cabinet meeting on Saturday.The VAT on petrol in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Maharashtra is still over Rs 30, while in many BJP-ruled states it’s now in the Rs 21-Rs 25 range. The Centre’s excise duty cut of Rs 5 and Rs 10 on petrol and diesel, respectively, had led to the reduction of pump prices by Rs 5.70 to Rs 6.35 in case of petrol and between Rs 11.16 and Rs 13 for diesel. This is because states charge VAT on the base price plus the Central excise duty.As compared to most BJP-ruled states and UTs, the Opposition-ruled states of Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are seeing higher prices.In Delhi, the reduction in pump price for petrol is Rs 6.07 per litre and Rs 11.75 on diesel but in neighbouring Haryana, which has cut state taxes, the fuel is over Rs 6 cheaper than that in Delhi. The costliest petrol is being sold in Rajasthan at Rs 111.10 per litre in Jaipur while it is Rs 109.98 in Mumbai.However, petrol is still over Rs 100 in BJP-ruled states of Karnataka, Bihar, MP and Ladakh. The excise duty cut by the Centre partially rolls back the Covid-era excise duty hike of Rs 13 on petrol and Rs 16 on diesel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-ruled-states-slash-fuel-rates-punjab-to-decide-today-334476
06-11-2021||Muktsar||Man held for killing brother||March to Vidhan SabhaChandigarh: The Sanjha Mazdoor Morcha, Punjab, an umbrella body of various labour unions, has threatened to hold a protest march to the Vidhan Sabha on Monday, when a special Assembly session is scheduled. Morcha leaders, led by Lachman Singh Sewewal, said the ruling Congress had been unable to fulfil their long-pending demands. TnsMan shoots self in F’purFerozepur: An official of the District Administrative Complex allegedly died by suicide here on Friday. The deceased, Sanjiv Bajaj (45) of the city area, worked as a senior assistant and allegedly shot himself with his licensed .12 bore gun at his residence around 5.30 am. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-killing-brother-334470
06-11-2021||Abohar. November 5||Sedatives, poppy husk seized||The Khuiyansarwer police have seized 24,000 sedative tablets and 18 kg poppy husk after intercepting a truck, bearing a Punjab registration number, at the checkpoint near Gumjal village here.Driver Inderjit Singh Rana of Mallanwala was held under the NDPS Act. Also, the City-2 police seized 20 kg poppy husk from Akashdeep Singh Ashu and Amandeep Singh Amna of Muktsar. Another 750 gm of opium was seized from Vikram Karwasra of Bikaner. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sedatives-poppy-husk-seized-334469
06-11-2021||Archit Watts||Land no longer infertile due to waterlogging in Muktsar: Revenue dept||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 5As per the revenue records, not even an acre of agricultural land is left infertile due to waterlogging in Muktsar.Notably, Muktsar is considered one of the worst-affected districts from waterlogging and the state government used to give Rs 3,000 per acre per crop season to the farmers unable to sow any crop on their once-fertile land.However, in the past five years, not even a single penny of compensation has been given to any waterlogging-affected farmer in the district.Muktsar District Revenue Officer Balkaran Singh said: “We had last disbursed the compensation for three crop seasons of 2015 and 2016. Thereafter, there has been no demand for compensation from any subdivision. Once we get the demand, we will verify it and seek funds from the higher-ups. As per our records, now no agricultural land is left infertile due to waterlogging in the district.”On the other hand, Muktsar Chief Agriculture Officer Gurpreet Singh said: “The assessment and disbursal of compensation does not come under our purview, but agricultural land has been left infertile due to waterlogging in the district. The farmers are unable to sow any crop on such land. I have seen such land at Midda village. It is there in some other villages too. If the revenue department needs our assistance, we may help them in preparing a field report.”The last compensation to the farmers for their land rendered infertile was given in 2018. The relief amounting to Rs 72 lakh was given to the farmers in Muktsar subdivision, Rs 35.53 lakh in Malout subdivision and Rs 16.96 lakh in Gidderbaha subdivision.Meanwhile, panchayat samiti member Maninder Singh said: “Earlier, there was a vast piece of agricultural land left infertile in Charewan village here, but now the farmers have reclaimed their land and are growing crops. Their yield may be lesser than previous years, but we can’t say the land is infertile.”No compensation sought after 2018}We had last disbursed the compensation for three crop seasons of 2015 and 2016 in 2018. Thereafter, there is no demand for the compensation from any subdivision. Balkaran Singh, muktsar District Revenue Officer (DRO)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/land-no-longer-infertile-due-to-waterlogging-in-muktsar-revenue-dept-334468
06-11-2021||Moga||10 suspects arrested for Abohar ‘honour’ killings||The police have arrested 10 suspects in the recent Abohar double murder case, said SSP Surinderjit Singh Mand today. The police had arrested three of the suspects days after the incident and nabbed the rest today.Mand said the incident took place on October 17 when a married couple was beaten up, abducted and murdered allegedly by the girl’s family members and relatives. It was suspected to be a case of honour killing as the couple had married against the wishes of the girl’s family.A criminal case under Sections 302 (murder), 452 (trespass after preparation for hurt, assault and wrongful restraint), 364 (abduction for murder), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC was registered against 18 persons at the Nihalsinghwala police station here.The bodies of the couple — Rohtash Kumar (25), belonging to the Scheduled Caste community, and his wife Suman Rani (25) from the Other Backward Classes (OBC) community — were recovered from Sappanwali village in Abohar sub-division of Fazilka district on October 17.After court marriage, the couple had taken shelter in the house of one of Kumar’s relatives at Raunta village in Moga district, from where they were allegedly abducted by at least 18 persons.The SSP said a special team comprising Nihalsinghwala police station SHO Nirmaljit Singh and Khuian Sarvar police station SHO Amarinder Singh Gill was constituted, which traced and arrested 10 suspects from different places. “We are making efforts to arrest the other suspects,” the SSP added. A police team was further analysing the evidence and interrogating the accused, said Mand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-suspects-arrested-for-abohar-honour-killings-334467
06-11-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur farmers shun stubble fires||At a time when stubble burning cases are on the rise and farmers are adamant on burning their fields, there are many in Sangrur who have not resorted to the step for the past several years.“Since 2007, I have not burnt the stubble over my 8 acres. I have been sowing wheat by managing stubble without burning. Apart from saving money, I have also been able to increase my per acre production of various crops,” said Dharminder Singh from Ugrahan village of Sangrur.Some farmers told The Tribune that after burning the stubble, the crop sowing cost also increases as they have to plough their field at least three-four times. But through happy seeder-sowing without burning of stubble, farmers are able to sow wheat per acre within just 5-6 litres of diesel (used to run their tractors for one-time plough of field).“I have not burnt my paddy stubble for the past many years. Apart from convincing my relatives, I have also been trying to prevent fire in the fields of other farmers of my village,” said Jagdeep Singh, a Kajoi village resident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-farmers-shun-stubble-fires-334466
06-11-2021||Barnala||Barnala: Farmers remember protest victims||Firm in their resolve to get the central agricultural laws repealed, farmers dedicated Diwali to their fellowmen who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation. Farmers have announced to further intensify their agitation.“There are many families of farmers, who have lost their earning hands during the protest against the central farm laws. Our protests at various sites have been going on for the past over one year. Last night farmers dedicated their Diwali to the martyrs of our agitation,” said Narain Dutt, a farm activist. Farmers alleged authorities were making much noise about the burning of stubble and alleged pollution, but were blind to the pollution caused by the bursting of crackers and big industrial houses.“Many big industrial houses have been causing pollution as they were not following the mandatory norms to contain pollution. Apart from it, the bursting of crackers has caused pollution across the country. But authorities are not taking any action and blaming only stubble burning,” said Kaka Singh, a protesting farmer.Farmers alleged central and state governments had been trying to defame farmers with allegations rather than taking required steps to fulfil their genuine demands.“Since the start of agitation, authorities have been levelling baseless allegations against farmers. But we will not end our protest till the repeal of central farm laws” said Harcharn Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-farmers-remember-protest-victims-334465
06-11-2021||---||Post Ellanabad victory, Om Prakash Chautala meets Badals||Muktsar, November 5A day after the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) won Ellanabad bypoll in Haryana, its supremo Om Prakash Chautala on Friday met Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patron and former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal and party president Sukhbir Singh Badal at their Badal village residence here.No one except the Badals and Chautala was present in the meeting. Abhay Chautala, Ellanabad legislator, shared the photograph of his father’s meeting with the Badals on the social media. In the past too, the INLD supremo has held some meetings with the elderly Badal.In September this year, Badal had attended a rally of the INLD to mark the 108th birth anniversary of former Deputy Prime Minister Chaudhary Devi Lal in Jind. The Akali Dal and INLD were alliance partners during the Assembly elections in Haryana in 2019. Further, both Chautala and Badal families enjoy strong bonding and usually take each other’s suggestion over important political and family matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-ellanabad-victory-om-prakash-chautala-meets-badals-334464
06-11-2021||Sangrur||Woman mason beats odds for siblings’ future||Being the sole woman worker among all men labourers, Seema Rani (28) draws everyone’s attention. However, Rani goes about her work as mason as usual. Undue attention doesn’t bother her as she has been in the profession for the past 10 years.“Initially, I started working as a labourer for Rs 50, but gradually I became a trained mason and now I am earning Rs 550 every day,” says a proud Rani. With her hard work, she has married her younger sister and providing education to her brother, who is in Class XI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-mason-beats-odds-for-siblings-future-334463
06-11-2021||Nangal||Nangal hospital staff sans pay for 6 months||Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Civil Hospital staff, including doctors, have not been paid their salary for the past six months. According to authorities, it will not be possible for them to disburse their salary soon.The hospital has a total of 31 employees, including 10 doctors, eight nurses, three laboratory technicians and six Class IV employees. According to a doctor, they had last received their salary in May. Despite repeated requests, they had not been paid the dues, he said.The hospital was opened on February 12, 2016, without an approval from the state government after the local civic body constructed its Rs 9-crore building. It was inaugurated by then Punjab Speaker Charanjit Singh Atwal. For a couple of years, the 50-bed hospital remained paralysed due to inadequate infrastructure and staff and things improved only a few years ago, when the state government recruited doctors and other staff on sanctioned posts under its non-planned expenditure. Civil Surgeon Parminder Kumar claimed that all paper work had been completed in time. The salaries could not be disbursed as the clerical staff had been on a strike for the past several weeks and it would not be possible in the coming days too because of the ongoing strike, the Civil Surgeon added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nangal-hospital-staff-sans-pay-for-6-months-334462
06-11-2021||Tarn Taran||Minors ‘detained’ inside Patti gurdwara, two booked||The controversy over the possession of Gurdwara Bhath Sahib took a new turn on Wednesday when the police booked two associates of Baba Narbir Singh alleging they themselves had locked two minor boys and their mother in a room in the residential quarters of the gurdwara in Patti town.Ranjodh Singh and Lovepreet Singh were booked under Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act, Sections 344 and 357 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. Lovepreet Singh is the head granthi and Ranjodh Singh is the sewadar of the gurdwara.The police said Ranjodh and Lovepreet detained the minor sons of Baba Narbir Singh and his wife in violation of norms. The case had been registered on the statement of Harjinder Singh, who claims to be a sewadar of the gurdwara. Baba Narbir Singh, in his petition submitted in the Punjab and Haryana High Court on October 27, had alleged that armed supporters of Baba Avtar Singh, with the help of the police, had forcibly occupied the gurdwara. He had demanded vacating the complex through the BSF.The case pertains to a property dispute between Baba Avtar Singh and Baba Gurbachan Singh, the two sons of Baba Daya Singh. Baba Daya Singh was the head of Baba Bidhi Chand Chheena Sect, Sursing. Differences arose between the brothers after the death of Baba Daya Singh on January 20, 2014. The police said both sides in the gurdwara were armed with weapons. The police had been instructed to file a reply on November 10 by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The situation in Patti is tense since October 16. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minors-detained-inside-patti-gurdwara-two-booked-334461
06-11-2021||Bathinda||Safety measures missing, fire breaks out at six stalls in Bathinda village||A major fire broke out at six stalls of firecrackers at Jalal village in Bathinda on Thursday. The entire stock at the stalls got damaged . However, no loss of life was reported in the incident. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.The administration had instructed the traders to keep water and sand and a fire extinguisher at each stall. But giving two hoots to the instructions, safety measures were missing at various markets. Stalls could also be seen next to each other in small lanes, sans any fire safety equipment. A fire department official, said: “This year, many shopkeepers had installed stalls in residential areas, making the situation challenging. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/safety-measures-missing-fire-breaks-out-at-six-stalls-in-bathinda-village-334460
06-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Firecracker sales dip in Bathinda amid restrictions||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 5Diwali remained a low-key affair in the city this year as not many people were seen bursting firecrackers and distributing sweets. The sale of firecrackers was also muted.Firecracker sellers attributed the dip in sales to increased awareness among people on pollution, Covid, dengue and inflation. It is also learnt many people did not celebrate Diwali as Covid had claimed lives in a number of families in the second wave.Diwali celebrations remained peaceful in the city as no major fire injury was reported. Vendors claimed the cost of firecrackers was also higher as compared to last year. Earlier, people used to purchase firecrackers worth Rs 20,000-25,000 and now, the upper limit stayed near Rs 5,000 only.A Tribune team visited many areas in the city on the Diwali night and observed a mixed response as there were places where people hardly burst any firecrackers.Vijay Kumar, a firecracker vendor, said instead of restricting bursting of firecrackers to a few hours or reducing the number of vends, the government should have made it compulsory for manufacturers to introduce only green-firecrackers. “We have been into this business for the past 20 years but have not seen such a poor sale. Earlier, people used to come and buy crackers in a huge quantity. Now, they don’t spend much on these,” he added.Another vendor, Satish Kumar, said the sale had gone down by almost 50-60 per cent. “There is an increased awareness among people about saving the environment by bursting a lesser number of firecrackers. Majority of my customers bought only small crackers for their children,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firecracker-sales-dip-in-bathinda-amid-restrictions-334459
06-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur: Smog forces children, elders to stay indoors||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 5With smog enveloping region post Diwali, most children and elderly people have been forced to stay indoors. For Covid survivors and asthma patients, too, it has become hard to venture out. The number of children and senior citizens visiting doctors has also increased in the past three to four days.“My 90-year-old uncle has been advised by doctors to stay inside his room and not go out to even our house garden. Before Diwali, big announcements were made against pollution and were hopeful that the situation would be better this year, but in vain,” said a local from Telephone exchange road in the city.Onus on residentsResidents should contribute to contain air pollution rather than solely blaming officials. Sachin Singla, PPCB SDOThe Sangrur Civil Hospital saw many elderly people facing breathing issues, while children have been suffering from itching in the eyes and other complications such as allergies, etc.“My uncle started facing breathing problem after 7 pm on Thursday and his condition worsened by 9.30 pm as in our congested neighbourhood, everyone was bursting crackers. Since, he has recovered from Covid, we do not want to take any risk and brought him here,” said Satvir, a patient’s attendant at the hospital.Local child specialist Dr Amit Singla said: “The incidents of stubble burning had already created serious problems for people with breathing issues, but Diwali-pollution worsened the conditions for children. Since last night, the number of children suffering from respiratory problems, skin allergy and redness in eyes have multiplied. Parents must keep their children indoor for at least five days,” said Dr Singla.Some locals alleged that as residents kept bursting crackers till midnight, the authorities were missing.“We have been regularly organising special camps to make the residents aware of air pollution. Residents should contribute to contain air pollution rather than solely blaming the officials,” said Sachin Singla, SDO of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-smog-forces-children-elders-to-stay-indoors-334458
06-11-2021||Aman Sood||Air pollution down in Punjab by 18% this Diwali||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 5Punjab saw an overall 18.3 per cent lesser pollution, though the state’s air quality continued to be suffocating for the second year in a row on Diwali, with many cities witnessing high particulate matter (PM) 2.5, affecting breathing. Amritsar and Jalandhar continued to be the worst in terms of poor air quality and high PM levels.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has installed six Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Khanna, Mandi Gobindgarh and Patiala to monitor the ambient air quality on a real-time basis.Best & worstMaximum AQI reduction was seen in Patiala (27.8%) and minimumin Jalandhar (0.3%)Two cities — Amritsar and Jalandhar — remained in ‘very poor’ AQI categoryAs per the data collected by the pollution control board, state’s average air quality index (AQI) was 268 as compared to 328 in 2020. Amritsar, where the pollution levels hit 386 in 2020, recorded 303 this Diwali, seeing a reduction of 21.5 per cent. The figure was 327 in Jalandhar this year, against 328 last Diwali, while Ludhiana saw a considerable dip at 289, against 376 last year, a reduction of 23.1 per cent.In Khanna, the air quality index fell to 227, against 281 recorded in 2020 (19.2 per cent dip), while in Mandi Gobindgarh, it was 220, down from 262 in 2020. Patiala recorded 241 against 334 in 2020. The PM 2.5 levels remained a concern with Amritsar seeing over 800 levels on Diwali night, followed by Ludhiana and Jalandhar at over 600. Patiala and Mandi Gobindgarh saw over 350 PM 2.5 concentration. Anything above 100 PM 2.5 is considered threatening.“The data has been recorded from 7 am on November 4 to 6 am on November 5 for Diwali. Overall, the cities of Punjab have observed a reduction in the AQI during this year’s Diwali,” said Karunesh Garg, member secretary, PPCB.Meanwhile, the cracker ban went up in smoke in almost all cities where fireworks continued till late in the night. The state had restricted the use of firecrackers from 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali. “Several complaints were received of late-night bursting of firecrackers, causing disturbance to residents,” said an official. As many as 3,000 farm fires, among the highest in the past one month, were witnessed on Diwali night.Alarming levelsAverage AQI ‘poor’The average AQI of Punjab during this year’s Diwali was 268 (poor) as compared to 328 (very poor) in 2020. Karunesh Garg, member secretary, PPCB||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/air-pollution-down-in-punjab-by-18-this-diwali-334457
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Govt dithering on holding 15-day Punjab Assembly session, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has accused the Charanjit Singh Channi government of running away from the monsoon session.Demanding that the state government should convene an Assembly session of at least 15 days which should be telecast live, the party said there should be constructive discussion on all issues, including sacrilege, Kotkapura firing, extension of the Border Security Force’s jurisdiction, unemployment, farm debt waiver, etc., so that a solution can be ensured.Probe rural job scheme ‘scam’AAP has demanded a setting up of an inquiry commission, monitored by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, to look into the alleged embezzlement of funds in the rural job schemeAAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said: “A daylong session on November 8 is not enough. The government should show seriousness and hold a full-fledged pending monsoon session.”Lashing out at the government, he said the Congress was responsible for the devastation in the past over four years. He questioned the implementation of the decisions being taken by the Channi government, stating that the electoral stunts and manipulations behind every decision were obvious.The AAP leader said before a daylong special session on September 3, Speaker Rana KP Singh had assured the session would be reconvened in 15-20 days to discuss all remaining issues. But now after two months, only one-day session is being planned as a pretence, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-dithering-on-holding-15-day-punjab-assembly-session-alleges-aap-334456
06-11-2021||Chamkaur Sahib||Chamkaur Sahib: 269 from slums get property rights  under ‘Basera’||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi conferred proprietary rights under ‘Basera’ scheme on 269 slum dwellers here yesterday. The Chief Minister went to the houses of some of the beneficiaries, lighted the lamps and handed over the ‘sanads’ conferring proprietary rights on the occasion of Diwali.The rest of the beneficiaries were given the ‘sanads’ at a function here at City Centre.Addressing the gathering, he said with the conferring of proprietary rights on slum dwellers living on the government land in the urban areas, the dreams of the needy people to own a house has been fulfilled. “All eligible beneficiaries under the Basera scheme would be covered soon and instructions have been issued to speed up the process,” said Channi.Besides, he announced Rs 2.50 crore for installing LED lights at Chamkaur Sahib and disclosed that soon proprietary rights to villagers living in ‘lal dora’ will be given for which survey work was underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chamkaur-sahib-269-from-slums-get-property-rights-under-basera-334455
06-11-2021||---||Attaining high growth priority: Punjab CM||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 5Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said the state would be soon transformed into a 'golden sparrow of India' by evolving a mechanism to put it on a trajectory of high economic growth.Channi stressed the state government was accordingtop priority to ensuringall-round progress.Addressing a gathering here today at the 111th Sri Vishwakarma Pooja Utsav, he said his government was the government of the common man, for the common man and by the common man. The Chief Minister said from day one his major thrust was on ensuring transparent, responsive and citizen-centric administration.He said several path-breaking initiatives including cheap power, Basera scheme, ownership rights to people living within 'lal dora' and others had already been initiated by his government. He said more such decisions would be taken in the coming days. The Chief Minister earlier paid obeisance at Lord Vishwakarma Temple and announced a grant of Rs 2 crore for it.He also visited the charitable hospital being run by the temple and announced a hi-tech ambulance for it.The Chief Minister said gone were the days when the common man, farmers, employees and others had to look towards the government for their problems. He said he was duty bound to serve the state in right earnest.Kedarnath pact breaks: BittuReacting to Sidhu’s attack on the CM Channi-led government, MP Ravneet Bittu tweeted: “The Kedarnath pact breaks.” Bittu was referring to the recent visit of CM Channi, Sidhu and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Chaudhary to the Uttarakhand temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attaining-high-growth-priority-punjab-cm-334454
06-11-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s veiled attack on Dy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa over sacrilege||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5All doesn’t seem to be well between Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa. Sidhu, while addressing a press conference on Friday, took a veiled dig at Randhawa. Without naming him, the PCC president said the ministers who had opened a front against former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, following a bid to arrest former Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini, were silent on the issue.“While hitting out at the government over the probe into sacrilege cases, Sidhu seems to be targeting Randhawa, who holds the Home and Police portfolios. Pressure is on Randhawa,”said an MLA from Majha. Randhawa aims to take the centrestage of Jat politics in the Punjab Congress.Similarly, Sidhu seems to be targeting Randhawa over the opening of the special task force’s drug trafficking report. “Party leaders feel the ministers do not want to give credit of taking action to Sidhu,” said the leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhus-veiled-attack-on-dy-cm-sukhjinder-randhawa-over-sacrilege-334453
06-11-2021||GS Paul||Subsidy on solar panels delayed, Amritsar residents irked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 5While the state government has been impressing upon residents to install solar power panels on the rooftops of their establishments to be self-reliant in the wake of the power ‘crisis’, the lackadaisical attitude in the disbursement of ‘assured’ subsidy to beneficiaries has become a cause for concern.Under the Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy scheme, state nodal agency Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) is to provide central finance assistance (CFA) or subsidy for grid-connected rooftop solar plants. As per the Union Government’s notification, the solar panels having capacity from 3kW (kilowatt) to 10kW would receive a CFA of 40 per cent up to 3kW capacity. The capacity above 3kW will receive an additional 20 per cent CFA on cost. CM Charanjit Singh Channi had directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) to shift focus to solar power mechanism to substitute the power crises due to coal shortage. However, several residents who had installed the solar panels on their rooftops after spending lakhs of rupees are running from pillar to post to claim their dues from PEDA.Cleared almost all casesWe cleared almost all cases. If there is any pending case, ask them to contact us with their registration number. Supinder Singh, PEDA joint directorMonu Seth, a resident of an Airport Road locality, said a firm authorised for installation of solar panels by the government had offered him to install the solar panels. “I was told I would be entitled to claim at least 30 per cent subsidy on a 3 kW capacity solar panel. I agreed and got installed a solar module worth Rs 2.25 lakh in January 2019. I was promised Rs 51,975 as subsidy but it was an unending wait to get it,” he said. When PEDA officials said the CFA was awaited from the Centre, the residents filed an RTI in this regard with the ministry concerned. “We were shocked to find that an amount of Rs 2.61 crore dated July 26, 2019 and another amount of Rs 5.49 crore dated November 28, 2019 had been given to PEDA. The officials were adopting delay tactics in giving us our dues,” he said.PEDA Joint Director Supinder Singh said the subsidies were being disbursed in due course as and when received from the Centre. “If there is any pending case, ask them to contact us with their registration number,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/subsidy-on-solar-panels-delayed-amritsar-residents-irked-334452
06-11-2021||---||Reduce tax by Rs10/ltr, Akalis ask Punjab CM Channi||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, November 5Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to reduce the VAT on petrol and diesel by at least Rs 10 per litre each. He said the CM had said on record that there was no dearth of funds.“In such a case, he should not have any problem in affecting an immediate reduction in the state VAT on the pattern of other state governments,” Sukhbir said. While Sukhbir reiterated his comment about PPCC president Navjot Sidhu being a “misguided missile”, he accused Transport Minister Raja Warring of being vindictive against Akali leaders as “he had not taken any action against any transport company owned by Congress leaders”.The SAD president attended the bhog ceremony at Gurdwara Sri Singh Sabha, Dugri, in the memory of victims of 1984 anti-Sikh riots and also attended Vishwakarma Day celebrations at different places in the city.In one of the functions, he announced appointment of city-based industrialist Gurmeet Singh Kular as an adviser on industrial affairs to the Shiromani Akali Dal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reduce-tax-by-rs10-ltr-akalis-ask-punjab-cm-channi-334451
06-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab cabinet meeting today; high fuel rates on agenda||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5The Punjab Government is mulling reducing the Value Added Tax (VAT) on retail fuel, keeping in line with a decision taken by BJP-ruled states to reduce it.The issue is to be discussed in the meeting of Council of Ministers, headed by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh, on Saturday, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal told The Tribune.Manpreet said the prices of retail fuel in the state, vis-a-vis the prices in Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, would be discussed in the meeting before any decision on reducing VAT is taken. The Punjab Government earns an average of Rs 550-Rs 600 crore a month as VAT on fuel. For every Re 1 decrease in the price, the state will lose 30 paisa as VAT.Petrol and diesel prices in Punjab are among the highest in north India, mainly because the VAT imposed by the state is the highest at 31.5 per cent for petrol and 19.5 per cent for diesel (including infrastructure development cess and other cesses and duties).As a result, the price of petrol and diesel in the state is higher by an average of Rs 11 a litre and of diesel by Rs 8 a litre, as compared to the neighbouring states of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh. “This is also leading to a lot of “consumer drain” from the border areas of Punjab to other states,” says Ashwinder Singh Mongia, president, Mohali Petroleum Dealers’ Association. Being an election year, the Congress government in the state has been drawing flak from the Opposition for the high taxes on fuel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-meeting-today-high-fuel-rates-on-agenda-334450
06-11-2021||---||Guru Nanak’s anniversary: Sikh jatha to leave for Pakistan||Amritsar, November 5The SGPC is all set to send a ‘jatha’ to Pakistan to celebrate the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak that falls on November 19. On the other hand, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has conducted a meeting with the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) to review the arrangements.The ‘jatha’ will cross over to Pakistan through the Attari-Wagah Joint Checkpost on November 17. The pilgrimage has been scheduled between November 17 and 26 and the devotees would also have an opportunity to visit other Sikh shrines, including Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh said as per the notification received from the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi, all pilgrims should be vaccinated with both doses against Covid-19 and must undergo a Covid test 72 hours before leaving for Pakistan. “We have received a telephonic message from the Pakistan High Commission in this regard. The pilgrims who have submitted their passports should pay attention to the norms so that they do not face any problem while travelling to Pakistan,” he said.The SGPC has also announced holding a special Covid-19 testing camp for the pilgrims at its office in Amritsar, the dates of which would be disclosed shortly. On the other side of the border, a coordination meeting was scheduled between the PSGPC and ETPB officials at the latter’s office in Lahore.Former PSGPC president Satwant Singh said their team would be at the Wagah border on November 17 to receive the Indian ‘jatha’ which would be straightway heading to Sri Nankana Sahib. The ‘akhand path’ would be initiated the same day and the ‘bhog’ would be performed on November 19.He said adequate boarding and lodging arrangements had been made keeping in view the Covid-19 guidelines.Meanwhile, lakhs of devotees thronged the Golden Temple on the occasion of Bandi Chhor Diwas (Diwali) on Thursday. The Golden Temple complex was decked up with colourful lights on the occasion.Jathedar: Unite to eradicate poverty||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guru-nanaks-anniversary-sikh-jatha-to-leave-for-pakistan-334449
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Take threat seriously, Capt Amarinder Singh tells Dy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa||Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday took on Deputy CM and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa over the recovery of a tiffin bomb in Ferozepur on the eve of Diwali.In a tweet, Captain Amarinder said: “Hope Home Minister Punjab will come out of denial mode and take this threat seriously. With multiple consignments being sent regularly from across the border, extra vigil and a detailed action plan must be formed to combat the challenge.” A few days ago, the Deputy CM had contested the security threat narrative of the former CM while pointing towards repeated recovery of tiffin bombs in the state during his tenure as CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-threat-seriously-capt-amarinder-singh-tells-dy-cm-sukhjinder-randhawa-334448
06-11-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Tiffin bomb found in fields at Ferozepur||Ferozepur, November 5In a joint search operation carried out by sleuths of the Counter-Intelligence Wing based in Ludhiana and Ferozepur on the eve of Diwali, the Punjab Police recovered a second tiffin bomb concealed in the fields at Alike village along the Pakistan border in the district.On Monday, the police had arrested two suspects for harbouring the main accused in the Jalalabad motorcycle blast case. During investigations, they admitted to be in possession of another tiffin bomb stashed away in fields. A joint search operation was carried out on Wednesday, leading to the recovery.Those arrested were identified as Jaswant Singh, alias Shinda Baba, a resident of Jhugge Nihanga Wale village in Ferozepur, and Balwant Singh of Walipur Khurd village in Ludhiana. They were accused of providing shelter and logistical support to Ranjit Singh, alias Gora, wanted in the Jalalabad blast case. Ranjit, too, has reportedly been arrested. However, another accused, Tarlok Singh, is at large.The investigation pertains to a motorcycle blast outside a Punjab National Bank branch in Jalalabad on September 15, killing Balwinder Singh, alias Bindu, of Jhugge Nihanga Wale village.Later, the police launched a probe, following which three accused were arrested and a tiffin bomb, two pen drives and Rs 1.15 lakh in cash recovered. Those arrested included main accused Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, his brother-in-law Praveen Kumar and another suspect Shoukeen.On October 1, the probe was taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which conducted raids at many locations and seized electronic devices and incriminating documents. It was revealed the accused were in touch with Pakistan-based terrorists and had been recruited to carry out terror attacks using arms and explosives.Additional Director General of Police (Internal Security) RN Dhoke said further investigations in the case were on and more arrests were expected soon.In the past few months, tiffin bombs have been recovered from Amritsar (Rural), Kapurthala, Fazilka and Tarn Taran.On November 1, a case under Sections 212 and 216 of the Indian Penal Code, and 18 and 19 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was registered at the Sidhwan Bet police station in Ludhiana (Rural).NIA probing case since October||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tiffin-bomb-found-in-fields-at-ferozepur-334447
06-11-2021||Our Correspondent||District consumer court chief  dies of dengue||Ferozepur, November 5Days after former MLA Ravinder Singh Sandhu died of dengue, Amardeep Singh Shergill (58), president of the district consumer court, has succumbed to the virus.As per information, Amardeep Shergil was admitted to a private hospital in Chandigarh a few days ago after his health deteriorated. While Shergill belonged to Gurdaspur district, he was staying in Mohali for the past few years. A few days ago, his son had left for Canada for higher studies, while his daughter is practising law at Punjab and Haryana High Court, Chandigarh. Bar Association president Jasdeep Singh Kamboj has mourned Shergill’s demise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/district-consumer-court-chief-dies-of-dengue-334446
06-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Diarrhoea outbreak in Rajpura; 4 kids die, 25 ill||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 5Four children have died while around 25 have fallen sick due to a diarrhoea outbreak in Rajpura town of the district. A girl, said to be critical, has been referred to the Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.The deceased have been identified as Shivania (5), Sakshi (5), Raman (9) and Chahat (13). Health officials said a medical camp at the outbreak site at Dheha Basti (slum area) in Mirch Mandi had already been set up. Water supply in the affected area had been stopped while potable water was being supplied through water tanks, said Senior Medical Officer Jagpalinder Singh.It has been learnt the children have fallen sick due to diarrhoea but the Health Department is yet to ascertain the cause behind the outbreak. Sources said illegal water connections were seemingly the reason of the outbreak because the use of hydraulic-ram water pumps was rampant in the area. The affected area reportedly had poor hygiene conditions and water contamination was quite likely, the sources said.Dr Divjot Singh, nodal officer, said, “Lab reports of water and stool samples are awaited. Some children are still admitted at the Rajpura Civil Hospital while health officials are camping in the affected area to find out more children having diarrhoea symptoms.”Notably, Rajpura town has already reported several diarrhoea outbreaks over the past few years. In January this year, around 97 people had fallen sick in the Focal Point area of the town.Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, who visited the outbreak site on Friday afternoon, said, “The situation seems to be under control now. Chlorine tablets and ORS have been distributed in the area. We will again conduct a survey on Saturday to detect any other case of diarrhoea.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diarrhoea-outbreak-in-rajpura-4-kids-die-25-ill-334445
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu withdraws resignation as Punjab Congress chief||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu took back his resignation on Friday. Sidhu had announced he was stepping down from the post of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president on September 28. Sidhu addressed a press conference on Friday afternoon to announce his latest decision and said it was never personal. He said he would return to his duties as chief of Punjab Congress the day the state gets a new Director General of Police and Advocate General. The development comes days after Advocate General APS Deol reportedly resigned from his position and almost a month after the Punjab government sent a list of 10 names to the Union Public Service Commission for appointment to the post of Director General of Police.APS Deol has denied sending in his resignation. Sidhu also questioned the state government led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi—a fellow Congressman—over investigations into sacrilege cases in the state and a report from a Special Task Force over drug trafficking in the state, and demanded to know what steps were taken to deal with them. What's the point of replacing Capt Amarinder Singh if the core issues are still unaddressed, he wanted to know, referring to his arch political rival. “The issues on which Congress leaders won the elections have not been addressed. In politics, there are two ways of doing things—either give false promises to win elections or think about the welfare of the state. If the government does not have the power to make the STF report public, let the party do it.”He however praised Channi’s government for lowering power tariffs in the state.Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had quit his position as head of the Punjab government on September 18, 2021—days before Sidhu tendered his own resignation—accusing the Congress of humiliating him. He's since quit the Congress and even announced his own party, the Punjab Lok Congress. When Sidhu resigned from the party in September, he had publicly opposed two appointments made by Amarinder Singh's successor Charanjit Singh Channi's government—those of Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who was appointed as acting DGP of the state after Dinkar Gupta was relieved of the charge, and of APS Deol. Sahota was heading investigations into the first sacrilege case in the state in 2015 and Deol had been the legal representative of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini in the Behbal Kalan police firing in 2015, when police fired at people protesting sacrilege incidents in the state. Two protesters were killed in the police action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-withdraws-resignation-as-punjab-congress-chief-334283
06-11-2021||---||Punjab govt examining reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel; cabinet to discuss it on Saturday||Chandigarh, November 5The Punjab government is examining reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said the issue would be discussed in the cabinet meeting on Saturday.Following the cut in excise duty by the Centre, various states like Haryana and UT Chandigarh have reduced the VAT on fuel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-examining-reduction-in-vat-on-petrol-and-diesel-cabinet-to-discuss-it-on-saturday-334280
06-11-2021||Karam Prakash||4 children die following outbreak of diarrhoea in Patiala’s Rajpura||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 5Four children have reportedly died while over a dozen have fallen sick owing to the diarrhoea outbreak in Rajpura town of the district.One girl said to be critical has been referred to Government Rajindra Hospital here. Health officials said a medical camp—at the outbreak site at Dheha Basti (slum area) in Mirch Mandi—had already been set up. Water supply in the affected area had been stopped while potable water was being supplied through water tanks, said Senior Medical Officer Dr Jagpalinder Singh.He said, “Water and stool samples of the affected have been sent to the state lab. Two paediatricians are on the ground. We have also conducted a survey in the area.”It has been learned that children have fallen sick due to diarrhoea. The health department is yet to ascertain the cause of the outbreak. Sources said illegal water connections are seemingly the cause of the outbreak because the use of hydraulic-ram water pumps is rampant in the area. The affected area reportedly had poor hygiene conditions and water contamination was quite likely, sources said.Dr Divjot Singh, nodal officer, said, “Lab reports of water and stool samples are awaited which would ascertain the exact cause of the outbreak. Some children are still admitted to Rajpura Civil Hospital while health officials are camping at the affected area to find out more children having diarrhoea symptoms.”He said one of the deceased kids was above 13 while others were below 10.Rajpura town has reported diarrhoea outbreaks over the past few years. In January this year, 97 people had fallen sick in the Focal Point area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-children-die-following-outbreak-of-diarrhoea-in-patialas-rajpura-334274
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cops recover tiffin-box bomb hidden in fields in Punjab's Ferozepur||Punjab Police claim to have foiled a possible attempt of a terror attack after it recovered an explosive-filled tiffin box hidden in an agricultural field near the Indo-Pakistan border in Ferozepur district on the eve of Diwali.The recovery was made at Ali Ke village on Wednesday following interrogation of three people arrested earlier this week in connection with the Jalalabad blast case.DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said the Ludhiana Rural police on Monday had arrested two men for allegedly providing shelter and logistical support to Ranjeet Singh alias Gora, an accused in the Jalalabad blast case being investigated by the NIA.The two men arrested were Jaswant Singh alias Shinda Baba, a resident of Jhugge Nihanga Wale village in Ferozepur, and Balwant Singh of Walipur Khurd village in Ludhiana. Gora, too, had been arrested, the DGP said.According to an official statement, one "tiffin bomb", two pen drives and Rs 1.15 lakh in cash were recovered from the trio earlier.During the course of investigation, it came to light that the accused were in possession of another "tiffin bomb" which they had kept concealed in agricultural fields."Following revelations of the accused persons, a joint search operation was carried out by teams of Counter Intelligence (of Punjab Police), Ferozepur and Ludhiana and CIA Jagraon at Ali Ke village in Ferozepur on Wednesday and the tiffin bomb was recovered,” the DGP said.An FIR has been registered under the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act at Sidhwan Bet police station in Ludhiana Rural.Additional Director General of Police (Internal Security) RN Dhoke said further investigation is on and more arrests were expected to be made soon. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-recover-tiffin-box-bomb-hidden-in-fields-in-punjabs-ferozepur-334265
