07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approved reduction in interest on enhancement from allottees||The Punjab Cabinet on Sunday gave nod for the reduction in the interest to be charged on the enhancement amount recovered from allottees of the development authority Improvement Trust.The rate of interest to be charged on the enhancement recoverable will be reduced from 15 per cent to 7.5 per cent. This decision was taken in the cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh.Addressing the media, Channi said the landowners usually approach the courts for enhancement of the compensation for their land acquired for setting up residential colonies by the state-owned development authorities.The enhancement is the amount which is decided by the courts and it is over and above the compensation already given to the land owners for their land acquired.According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office, around 40,000 families under various schemes of Improvement Trusts would be benefitted by this decision.The step has been taken on the repeated requests received from various Improvement Trusts either to waive or reduce the rate of interest to be charged on the enhancement amount to be recovered from the allottees. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-approved-reduction-in-interest-on-enhancement-from-allottees-335208
07-11-2021||Vibha Sharma||BJP to contest on all seats in coming Assembly election in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 7Placing his report on the poll-bound state before the party’s national executive, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma on Sunday said that the party was prepared to contest all seats in the coming Assembly election in the state.Briefing about presentations by leaders of poll-bound states at the meeting, Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said chief ministers and presidents of four states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, have given a presentation on upcoming Assembly elections.A similar presentation was also given by BJP’s Punjab unit president, he said.Addressing the meeting, BJP president JP Nadda also went out to woo Sikhs, who are in majority in Punjab, by enlisting measures undertaken by the Narendra Modi government for the community, including expediting action against 1984 riots accused, facilitating foreign grants to gurdwaras, keeping ‘langars’ out ambit of the GST and building the Kartarpur Corridor.Nadda said: “No one has done as much work as our Prime Minister for Sikh brothers. Even though many Sikh brothers have remained in power.”“The opposition has only misled them. Earlier, there was no provision for foreign contribution to Harmandir Sahib. Under the guidance of the Prime Minister, FCRA registration was granted and now Sri Harmandir Sahib has started receiving foreign contributions. Even though many Sikh brothers came to power earlier, this could not be done. Earlier, ‘langar’ was also taxed, the PM made it tax-free”“Our Sikh brothers could not visit Dera Nanak Sahib and Kartarpur Sahib, this too, was made possible by the Prime Minister. The whole country celebrated the 350th Prakash Parv of Guru Gobind Singh for which the Narendra Modi government provides Rs100 crores along with Rs 40 crore by the railways.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-to-contest-on-all-seats-in-coming-assembly-election-in-punjab-335204
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Penalty hiked for contravening provisions of Punjab Learning of Punjabi and Other Languages Act||The Punjab Cabinet on Sunday approved an amendment in the Punjab Learning of Punjabi and Other Languages Act, 2008 for enhancing the penalty for contravening the provisions of the legislation.The aim is to strictly enforce the implementation of Punjabi as a compulsory subject for all students of Classes 1-10 across the state, an official spokesperson said.The penalty will be enhanced from Rs 25,000, Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh to Rs 50,000, Rs 1 lakh and Rs 2 lakh, respectively, for contravening the provisions of the Act, he said.The cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh, also gave a go-ahead to introduce this bill in the upcoming session of the Punjab assembly, the spokesperson said.Any school, which contravenes the provisions of this Act or the rules for the first time, shall be liable for a penalty of Rs 50,000, he said.If such a school contravenes the provisions of this Act or the rules for the second time, then it shall be liable for a penalty of Rs 1 lakh and if it contravenes the provisions of this Act for the third time and then it shall be liable for a penalty of Rs 2 lakh, he added.The Punjab Learning of Punjabi and Other Languages Act, 2008 was enacted by the state government with an objective to provide for learning of Punjabi as a compulsory subject by all students studying in Classes 1-10.The cabinet also approved the amendment in the Official Language Act, 1967 by including relevant provisions of the Punjab State Language (Amendment) Act, 2008.The provision of penalty against officers or officials who do not conduct official business in Punjabi language has been made, the spokesperson said.As per this provision, a first time guilty officer or official can be fined Rs 500 while the second offence carries a fine of up to Rs 2,000 and the third offence carries a fine to the extent up to Rs 5,000.The cabinet also gave its nod to The Punjab Tissue Culture Based Seed Potato Rules-2021 to develop Punjab as a standard potato seed centre.The cabinet also approved to introduce the ‘Punjab Horticulture Nursery Bill-2021’ in Vidhan Sabha Session by amending ‘Punjab Fruit Nursery Act-1961’.It also gave ex-post approval for payment of enhanced pension through cheques under old age pension and other financial schemes for the month of July, 2021, as one time relaxation in the rules.Thereafter, disbursement would be done through direct benefit transfer (DBT) as before, the spokesperson said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/penalty-hiked-for-contravening-provisions-of-punjab-learning-of-punjabi-and-other-languages-act-335193
07-11-2021||---||Harish Chaudhary, Punjab Congress leaders meeting party workers in Patiala||Aman SoodTribune News ServicePatiala, November 7Senior Congress leaders led by Harish Chaudhary, the AICC general secretary in charge of the party's affairs in  Punjab, are meeting Congress workers in Circuit House starting Sunday. Interestingly, Capt Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur, who's the MP from Patiala MP and who's still part of the Congress, wasn't at the meeting where all MLAs and local cadre have been invited. Sources said the senior Congress leaders were likely to hold meetings with various district leaders and also interact with grassroots workers.“The meetings are crucial as the workers and leaders within the Congress in Patiala are divided into two factions. Many Amarinder loyalists have openly revolted against the party, but continue to occupy top posts in the Congress,” they said.Senior leaders said that the meeting would ensure that the Capt Amarinder Singh stamp on the district Congress is removed. “He is not our party leader and all those owing their allegiance to him should be removed so that the party cadre can work as one force ahead of the upcoming state polls," they said. It would be the first time that such meetings have been called by Chaudhary. “By next week you will see a change in the district congress which was being run from a single palatial house from past two decades. There will be a complete revamp of the Congress in Patiala, where the loyalists of the former CM still call the shots. We will give a chance to our party workers who felt sidelined all these years,” said Madan Lala Jalalpur. “Appointments in the Congress district unit, posts of Patiala mayor and many chairmen is under discussion and party workers will be heard before any decision is made,” said Jalalpur, who has been vocal about the need to revamp the Patiala unit. The visit comes a few days after the installation of hoardings across the city that featured Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu and Capt Amarinder Singh together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-chaudhary-punjab-congress-leaders-meeting-party-workers-in-patiala-335158
07-11-2021||---||Action in sacrilege, drugs cases soon: Punjab CM Channi||Chamkaur Sahib, November 6Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said action would soon be taken against the guilty in the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and those behind the drug menace in the state. He was here to lay the foundation stone of Rs 114 crore Bela-Paniyali bridge, to be built over the Sutlej.Why no action: AAPAsserting he was “poor but not weak”, CM Channi said all those involved in the sacrilege incidents would be unmasked. He further said those who guilty of pushing state youth into drugs would not be spared. “With the opening of the report against the drug mafia, the big fish will be exposed,” he added.Lambasting the Akalis, Channi said the subsequent SAD governments always ignored the interests of the state and gave priority to vested interests.Drug report will expose big fishWith the opening of the report against the drug mafia, the big fish will be exposed. —Charanjit Singh Channi, CMHe accused the Akalis of being in cahoots with the BJP in a bid to fan hatred over caste and religion. Blaming the Akalis for the delay in completion of the theme park at Chamkaur Sahib, he said they had deliberately created hurdles despite repeated requests by him in this regard.Targeting the AAP, CM Channi said several “self-styled aam adami” had surfaced nowadays who were not concerned about the problems and needs of the people. The CM said with the completion of the Bela-Paniyali bridge, the distance between the Doaba region and Chandigarh would reduce by 20 to 25 km.He added along with the bridge, another 42-metre bridge over the Bist Doab canal would be constructed at a cost of Rs 10 crore. He announced that the road connecting three historically important towns of Fatehgarh Sahib, Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib would be named after Mata Gujar Kaur. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal announced a grant of Rs 10 crore each for the construction of Astroturf at Chamkaur Sahib and Kharar. PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla, MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur and former MLA Bhag Singh were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/action-in-sacrilege-drugs-cases-soon-punjab-cm-channi-334888
07-11-2021||Faridkot||Navjot Singh Sidhu: Prayed for punishment to guilty||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today paid obeisance at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara, which was at the centre of the 2015 sacrilege cases.On June 1, 2015, a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from the gurdwara, triggering a series of sacrilege incidents at Bargari and other villages. Subsequent police firing incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura on October 14, 2015, left two Sikh protesters dead and several injured.Must act as a deterrentArdas at Gurdwara Sahib Burj Jawahar Singh Wala… Praying for exemplary punishment for those involved in the sacrilege… should be a deterrent for generations to come! —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefSidhu stayed at the gurdwara for around 15 minutes and left after paying obeisance and reciting ‘ardas’. Interacting with villagers at the gurdwara, Sidhu desisted from making any comment against the state government. During his visit to the village on April 13, the PCC chief had criticised the state government for “soft-pedalling” in the case. Interacting with local residents, Sidhu asked them pray for early justice in the sacrilege incidents. “Prayers have high power. Almighty will deliver justice and punish the perpetrators of the heinous crime,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-prayed-for-punishment-to-guilty-334889
07-11-2021||Aman Sood||Smog engulfs villages as farm fires cross 30K mark||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 6Thick smoggy conditions prevailed in many rural parts of Punjab with over 15,000 of the total 32,734 farm fires being reported in the past seven days. With an increase in the wind speed, there was some respite today. However, with over 3,000 farm fires being reported daily, the air quality is still poor.With air in villages and cities choked due to pollutants, residents complained of itching in eyes, soar throat and body ache.A thick blanket of smog engulfed rural Punjab on Saturday with several districts reporting poor air quality. The air pollution has soared to hazardous levels in certain pockets due to rising stubble burning cases. High particulate matter in the air has further aggravated the situation.According to data collected by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), 3,942 farm fire incidents were reported on Friday night. “Almost 50 per cent of the total farm fires have been reported in the past six days, while 9,269 in the past two days. This has happened as the time to prepare the field for the next crop is limited now,” said Agriculture Department officials. “We expect that stubble burning will decrease within next seven to 10 days as most of the harvesting season is over,” said the officials.A senior official said though the air quality index (AQI) data showed there was some respite today due to a rise in wind velocity, the situation was still grim. He advised people to stay indoors and avoid strenous outdoor physical activities.“The state is experiencing worst-ever post-paddy season smog. We will apprise the state government of the prevailing conditions as the outdoor conditions are not good for children and elderly,” he said.“There was some improvement in the air due to good wind speed. Hopefully, if it continues this way, the air quality will improve further, though high farm fire incidents remain a cause for concern,” said PPCB member-secretary Karunesh Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/smog-engulfs-villages-as-farm-fires-cross-30k-mark-334890
07-11-2021||Malout||Dengue claims another life in Malout; toll five||With another death due to dengue being reported, the toll has risen to five in Malout town. Besides, 595 people have tested positive for dengue. Notably, six persons have died due to dengue in Muktsar district this year.Locals said Devjot Singh Makkar, alias Harry, was suffering from dengue for the past few days. He was taken to a doctor in Malout town, and later referred to a hospital in Bathinda. Thereafter, he was taken to Ludhiana, where he succumbed today. The deceased was a cloth merchant. He is survived by parents, wife and a son.Earlier, an eight-year-old girl, a pregnant woman and two elderly persons died due to the disease in Malout town. “Ravidas Nagar and Patel Nagar are the worst-affected areas. As per official records, there have been five deaths, but we suspect that more people must have died due to dengue. It is strange that there is not even a single medicine specialist in any government hospital in the district, who can look after the dengue patients,” said Mohit Kumar, a local.The district has total 1,412 dengue positive patients. A perusal of the records revealed that now the number of dengue cases was increasing in Muktsar town, where 409 people tested dengue positive in October and 66 in November so far.Meanwhile, health officials claimed that they were working overtime to control dengue cases. They were earlier expecting that with a dip in temperature, the number of dengue cases would come down in October and November, but there is hardly any respite so far.Malout Senior Medical Officer Dr Rashmi Chalwa said, “I am unwell thus unaware of any fresh death due to the disease in Malout town.”Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar, said, “A youth has reportedly died due to dengue at a hospital in Ludhiana. However, we have not received any such report from there.” — TNSWorrying numbers1,412 cases in Muktsar district595 in Malout town409 tested positive in Oct in dist66 test postive in Nov so far||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-claims-another-life-in-malout-toll-five-334891
07-11-2021||---||Don’t axe trees in Sangrur, says HC||Chandigarh, November 6Nearly a month after the state of Punjab undertook not to go ahead with “any further construction activity” after a petition alleged carrying out of unsanctioned public works, constructions and uprooting of “hundreds-year-old trees” in Sangrur, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that trees would not be felled.The direction came as the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli made it clear that the authorities would be at liberty to carry out the works of laying the roads. But “neither any other construction activity shall be carried out, nor any trees shall be felled”.Appearing before the Bench, Punjab Assistant Advocate-General submitted on instructions that the authorities may, at least, be permitted to construct the roads in the larger public interest. He further undertook that the authorities would not cut any trees.“The statement of the Assistant Advocate-General, Punjab, is taken on record. Accordingly, the orders dated September 27 and October 5 passed by this court are modified…,” the Bench asserted. The case will now come up for hearing on November 15.The HC on the previous hearing had ordered interim order’s continuation on the basis of the state counsel’s statement the state would not to go ahead with “any further construction activity”.The matter was brought to the HC’s notice after Jasinder Sekhon and other petitioners filed the petition. Senior advocate RS Bains had contended on their behalf that the “expenditure is wasteful to the extent that when the civil hospital and the schools are crying for attention, the public funds were being used for beautification purpose.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-axe-trees-in-sangrur-says-hc-334892
07-11-2021||---||Cong leader Harish Chaudhary to visit Patiala, rejig on cards||Patiala, November 6The Congress high command is now trying to replace former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s “loyalists” occupying plum posts in Patiala district and the state.Senior Congress leaders led by Harish Chaudhary, the party incharge of Punjab, will meet workers starting Sunday. Interestingly, Capt Amarinder Singh’s wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, who is still a part of the Congress and has been nurturing Patiala, was not available for a comment.Sources said the senior Congress leaders were likely to hold meetings with various district leaders and also interact with grassroot-level workers. “The meetings are crucial as the workers and leaders within the Congress in Patiala are divided into two factions. Many Amarinder loyalists have openly revolted against the party, but continue to occupy top posts in the Congress,” they said.It would be first time that such meetings have been called by Chaudhary. “There will be a complete revamp of the Congress in Patiala, where the loyalists of the former CM still call the shots. We will give a chance to our party workers who felt sidelined all these years,” said Madan Lala Jalalpur. “Appointments in the Congress district unit, posts of Patiala mayor and many chairmen would be discussed,” said Jalalpur, who has been vocal about the need to revamp the Patiala unit. The visit comes a few days after installation of hoardings across the city that featured Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu and Capt Amarinder Singh together.While talking to The Tribune, Jalalpur said, “Capt Amarinder Singh has already left the party. Bittu’s photographs with him show that he has joined the ex-CM. So, he should leave the mayorship on his own. We already have the support of 50 councillors in the Patiala MC and they have only 10.” While Bittu has not commented on the issue, his close aides said he would contest the polls from the Patiala (rural) seat, from where Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra is the MLA. Meanwhile, Gau Sewa Commission chairman Sachin Sharma, who was appointed by the Capt Amarinder regime, today said he stood by the Congress and not with the Capt Amarinder Singh faction.Many meetings scheduledA message sent to senior Congress leaders about Harish Chaudhary’s visit said he would meet Congress councillors in the Patiala MC, zila parishad members, block presidents, districts office-bearers and other party workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-leader-harish-chaudhary-to-visit-patiala-rejig-on-cards-334893
07-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa plans to get me eliminated: Ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri||Tribune News ServiceBatala, November 6Three-time Batala former MLA Ashwani Sekhri today dropped a political bombshell by claiming Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa was planning to “eliminate me through some gangsters whose proximity to him was well known”. The two leaders have been engaged in a long-standing political feud.Meddling in affairsI have made it clear to Bajwa I will contest from Batala. I fail to understand why he still meddles in city affairs. —Ashwani Sekhri, Former MLAWill stick to my seatI will contest from my old seat itself. Sekhri is stooping to abysmally low levels of political discourse. —Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Cabinet ministerReplying to the allegations, Bajwa said: “Sekhri should write an essay on the topic of ‘on being forgetful.’ He often forgets I am his elder brother. I pity him because he is in the habit of going off-track without any rhyme or reason. He says he should be given the ticket because he is the Hindu face of the Congress. In the 2017 polls, he sold the same narrative to the high command, but lost,” quipped the minister. The former MLA claimed he had concrete evidence the minister had links with known gangsters. “I will furnish proof at an appropriate time,” he said.Sekhri added the minister was eyeing the Batala Assembly seat because “he did not have the gumption to go to Fatehgarh Churian from where he is the sitting MLA.”“CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress affairs incharge Harish Chaudhury have repeatedly made it clear to Bajwa I will be contesting from Batala. I fail to understand why he still meddles in the administrative affairs of the city?” questioned Sekhri.To this Bajwa said: “I will contest from my old seat itself. Sekhri is stooping to abysmally low levels of political discourse. In any case, the lower he goes, the higher I go.” Sekhri also alleged Bajwa was shielding corrupt officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tript-rajinder-singh-bajwa-plans-to-get-me-eliminated-ex-mla-ashwani-sekhri-334895
07-11-2021||Jalandhar||Wrong on AG APS Deol’s part to target Navjot Singh Sidhu: Pargat Singh||Reacting to the allegations levelled by Punjab Attorney-General APS Deol that PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was obstructing the functioning of the government and his office, Punjab Education, Sports and NRI Affairs Minister Pargat Singh today took clear sides with the latter.On the sidelines of a series of inaugurations in the city, Pargat said: “The AG should not have issued such a statement. But we will surely try to sort it out.” Sidhu had yesterday taken a strong stand, saying he won’t rejoin office till the AG was removed, which perhaps prompted him to issue a press release against Sidhu.On the issue of differences and verbal spats between CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu, especially on the progress related to sacrilege cases, Pargat said: “This only shows there is internal democracy in the party. This will only strengthen the party. It is an internal matter. It will not be much of a problem and can be handled.”Earlier, as Pargat held a series of meetings, including those with higher education officials and inauguration of road works, he showered praise on the working of Channi, perhaps taking a dual stand and balancing out with both leaders. Sidhu had yesterday said nearly 50 days had gone by without much to show. During an interactive session with residents of Urban Estate, Pargat, who is also general secretary of the PCC, issued a statement contrary to Sidhu’s stand and came out in Channi’s support. “The Channi-led government is leaving no stone unturned to give impetus to the overall development of the state,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wrong-on-ag-aps-deols-part-to-target-navjot-singh-sidhu-pargat-singh-334897
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cut VAT, give cotton relief: Akalis||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other party leaders were detained as they ‘gheraoed’ the residence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi demanding fuel price cut and adequate relief for cotton growers here today.The SAD workers started a march from the MLA flats and broke through the police barricading to reach the CM’s residence. They were also demanding a case against the Gandhi family for the 1984 killings.The police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the crowd, leaving more than a dozen activists injured.Condemning the attack on party workers, Sukhbir asked the CM to start delivering on promises. He asked the CM to release Rs 50,000 per acre compensation for the cotton growers affected by the pink bollworm attack, adding the Congress government was insulting a majority of farmers by offering them a meagre Rs 2,000 per acre relief. Sukhbir further sought relief for the common man and farmers by reducing VAT on petrol and diesel by Rs 10 per litre each. Party leaders, including Prem Singh Chandumajra, Bikram Singh Majithia, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Gulzar Singh Ranike, Daljit Singh Cheema, NK Sharma, Mantar Singh Brar and Anil Joshi, were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cut-vat-give-cotton-relief-akalis-334898
07-11-2021||---||Sacrilege: SIT ready with 70 posers for Gurmeet Ram Rahim||Faridkot, November 6A four-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, headed by IGP Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, will visit Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail on Monday to question Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in connection with the three 2015 sacrilege incidents at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari villages of Faridkot.The SIT is going to the Sunaria Jail, where Gurmeet Singh is undergoing imprisonment after his conviction in three criminal cases, following the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The High Court had set aside the orders of a local court last month, allowing the production warrant of the dera chief to bring him from Rohtak to Faridkot for questioning.The SIT will now visit the jail to question the dera chief, who was nominated as an accused in one of the sacrilege cases last year, said Parmar. Sources said the SIT had prepared a set of 70 questions to grill the dera chief. The questionnaire is based on evidence on file against the dera chief in the SIT investigation in all three sacrilege cases.The SIT visiting the Sunaria jail has a new member, Batala Senior Superintendent of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, who replaced Opinderjit Singh Ghuman.The new member has been made part of the SIT after the retirement of a member from the police services, said Parmar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-sit-ready-with-70-posers-for-gurmeet-ram-rahim-334899
07-11-2021||Fazilka||‘Harassed’ by MLA, Fazilka block samiti chief quits||Fazilka Block Samiti chairperson Bago Bai, zila parishad member Kaushalaya Bai and block samiti member Gurnam Singh tendered resignation from their respective posts today.They said they had been associated with the Congress for decades but were forced to resign because of the “interference and wrong policies” of Fazilka Congress MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya and his father Sher Singh Ghubaya.In the resignation letter forwarded to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, the officer-bearers and others have alleged they were being forced to pay commission in development works. Bago Bai alleged her office was forcibly locked and she was humiliated.MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya brushed aside the allegations and said Bago Bai and her husband Gurdial Singh had been opposing the Congress policies since long. Ghubaya alleged a grant of Rs 2 crore had been released for development works but the chairpersons wanted to misappropriate the funds. He said when he refused to accommodate and asked them use the fund for the designated purpose, they submitted the resignation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harassed-by-mla-fazilka-block-samiti-chief-quits-334900
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Working hit, Governor must step in, says BJP||The BJP today alleged there was complete collapse of governance in the state because of the internal conflict within the Congress.Taking exception to the manner in which Advocate General APS Deol had reprimanded PCC president Navjot Sidhu for interfering and scuttling the working of the AG’s office, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh claimed the infighting in the Congress had brought Punjab to the brink, where drug, sand and liquor mafias were controlling the state. Accusing Sidhu of indulging in breach of constitutional norms by interfering in the working of the state government, Chugh sought Governor’s intervention to check disruptions in the working of constitutional offices by political leaders.“Sidhu is making political capital out of incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, which is unfortunate and reprehensible,” he said, asserting the Congress had been playing politics on the issue instead of punishing the culprits. On his part, BJP state president Ashwani Sharma said the Congress leaders were busy accusing one other. “What can one expect from a party that is in self-destruction mode. State president Navjot Singh Sidhu and CM Charanjit Singh Channi are targeting each other, instead of focussing on governance, which had suffered for four-and-a-half years due to collapse of the regime,” said Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/working-hit-governor-must-step-in-says-bjp-334901
07-11-2021||---||Murder accused hurt in Bathinda jail attack||Bathinda, November 6Around half a dozen prisoners allegedly attacked and injured an undertrial prisoner inside the Bathinda Central Jail on Saturday.As per information, murder suspect Mani Paras was attacked with sharp weapons and was taken to the hospital inside the jail before being referred to the Civil Hospital.The Cantonment police station has started investigation after recording the statement of the injured prisoner. At present, it is unclear whether the attack was the result of enmity or some other reason.At the hospital, Paras, a resident of Kaudiya village in Sangrur, said he was earlier lodged in the Sangrur jail, but due to the pandemic he was shifted to Bathinda jail a few days ago. He claimed he was sitting alone in the park in the jail when five men attacked him with a sharp iron object. He claimed had the jail staff not intervened, he might have been killed.SHO Harnek Singh said a police team visited the hospital to take the statement of the injured prisoner. Action would be taken on the basis of the statement. The matter would also be investigated by visiting the jail, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/murder-accused-hurt-in-bathinda-jail-attack-334902
07-11-2021||---||Class XII boy, minor girl from Faridkot die by suicide in UP||Faridkot, November 6An 18-year boy and a minor girl from Faridkot, who had reportedly gone missing a few days ago, allegedly died by suicide by jumping in front of a train near Amroha town of Uttar Pradesh.The boy, a class XII student at Sirsari village here, and the girl from an adjoining village had been missing from their respective homes for the past four days. Belonging to a farm labourers’ family, the boy was the eldest of the four siblings — two brothers and two sisters.The incident came to light when local residents informed the Amroha railway police about two injured persons lying on the railway tracks this morning. The police reached the spot. While the boy was found dead, the girl later succumbed to her injuries at a nearby hospital.On the basis of the Aadhaar card found on the deceased, the Railway Police informed the boy’s family, which was away to Rajasthan for the seasonal plucking of cotton.Kotkapura Sadar police station SHO Vikram Singh said the police got information about the incident but they had not received any official complaint so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/class-xii-boy-minor-girl-from-faridkot-die-by-suicide-in-up-334904
07-11-2021||---||Punjab Agriculture Minister Randeep Nabha warns of strict action against DAP hoarders||Chandigarh, November 6Coming down heavily on retailers and societies, Agriculture Minister Randeep Nabha today said strict action would be initiated against the dealers, who hoard DAP or sell it in black market.He said the licence of retailers and primary agriculture cooperative societies would be cancelled if found indulging in such malpractices. Giving details about the availability of DAP in Punjab, Nabha said the state had been allocated 5.50 lakh metric tonne (LMT) of DAP during the rabi season 2021-2022. Of the 1.97 LMT allocated during October, 1.51 LMT had been received.He said for November, 2.56 LMT had been allocated. A total quantity of 1.60 LMT of DAP had been received up till now, he said. As on November 6, 0.67 LMT DAP was available in different districts, he said, adding that around 50 rakes of DAP would be received by November 15. Nabha further said the state was deficient of about 1.50 LMT of DAP this year as compared to the previous year during same period.As the required quantity of DAP was not available, the state government was trying its best to get the fertiliser, the minister said, adding that the DAP prices were high in the international markets and it was in short supply internationally also.Alternatives like phosphatic fertilisers such as NPK and SSP should also be used along with DAP to fulfil requirements, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-agriculture-minister-randeep-nabha-warns-of-strict-action-against-dap-hoarders-334906
07-11-2021||---||Illegal water connections behind Rajpura diarrhoea outbreak: Health Department||Rajpura, November 6Leakage from illegal connections and “mixing” of sewage with water in the main supply line has led to the diarrhoea outbreak at Dheha Basti in Rajpura town of the district that killed four children.A majority of the households in Dheha Basti have illegal water connections and use hydraulic ram water pumps. A visit to the affected area on Saturday revealed that the leakage in plastic pipes appeared to have contaminated the supply in the main line.10 fresh casesLocals admitted that they had taken illegal water connections from the main water supply line. Though the state government has regularised the area under the Basera scheme, the locals are yet to get water connections.Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, said the use of hydraulic ram water pumps, when there was no supply of water in the mainline, led to sucking of sewer into the drinking water line and contaminated the supply.Dr Divjot Sigh, nodal officer, said all six water samples that had been collected from the affected site failed the potability test. He said all samples had bacterial contamination, suggesting mixing of sewer with water.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said water would be supplied through tanks while public announcements were being made for residents showing diarrhoea symptoms to come forward for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-water-connections-behind-rajpura-diarrhoea-outbreak-health-department-334907
07-11-2021||Anirudh Gupta||No passengers, Ferozepur bus stand wears deserted look||Ferozepur, November 6Constructed in 2002 at an expenditure of over Rs 3 crore, the City bus stand portrays a picture of apathy and neglect. In the absence of any hustle and bustle of passengers, the building of the bus stand, which also houses the office of the General Manager (Roadways), wears a desolate look with just a handful of people coming here to board a bus.Despite being situated in the heart of the city, most of the passengers prefer to take buses from the cantonment bus stand to save time.Railway crossings a major problemPassengers also prefer to board buses from the cantonment stop to avoid the hassle of two railway crossings. Most of the private bus operators do not bring their buses here. —Navraj Batish, GM, Punjab roadwaysWhile the Roadways authorities maintain most of the government buses start journey from here and even the buses from other roadways depots also halt at the City bus stand, residents say bus operators avoid coming here to save fuel and avoid the hassle of rail crossings.Sources said many private transporters had already surrendered the route from the cantonment to the city bus stand in connivance with transport officials and are operating buses from cantonment only as they save both time and money by not depositing the “adda” fee.Of the 12-odd shops here, only one has been rented out as a tea stall and the rest are lying abandoned. Deepak Kumar, who runs the tea shop, said he was able to fetch hardly any revenue in the absence of passengers.Balwinder Sharma, Om Parkash, Malkit Chand Passi and Vijay Kumar, all members of the Bus Adda Bachao Sangharsh Committee, said Transport Minister Amrinder Raja Warring must ensure the entry of buses in the city area. “Even the Punjab and Haryana High Court had given its verdict in our favour following a writ petition by the members of the committee, but the district administration failed to get the court’s order implemented,” said Balwinder. “The residents of the city area come to the cantonment bus stop by covering around 6-km distance. If the City bus stand becomes functional, it will save money as well as time of the passengers,” said Kumar.Navraj Batish, General Manager, Punjab Roadways, said 96 roadways buses were running from the City bus stand. “After starting the journey, all buses go to cantonment bus stand. I have not received any written request regarding commencement of all buses (including private operators) from the City bus stand. Most of the private bus operators do not bring their buses here,” he said. “Passengers also prefer to board buses from the cantonment stop to avoid the hassle of two railway crossings and narrow roads of the city area,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-passengers-ferozepur-bus-stand-wears-deserted-look-334908
07-11-2021||Fazilka||Rs 55 crore heroin seized along border||The personnel of Border Security Force’s 52 Battalion claimed to have recovered 11 kg of contraband, suspected to be heroin, in Jalalabad subdivision of Fazilka district this morning.Official sources said during search, the personnel recovered 24 packets, containing 11 kg of the contraband worth Rs 55 crore in the international market, from harvested paddy fields across the barbed fencing near Chack Khiva border outpost in the Jalalabad area.The sources said the heroin was buried in the fields of Rachhpal Singh, a resident of Chack Bazida village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-55-crore-heroin-seized-along-border-334909
07-11-2021||Abohar||Five killed in road mishaps||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-killed-in-road-mishaps-334910
07-11-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu ‘obstructing’ govt working, says APS Deol||Chandigarh, November 6Less than a week after APS Deol resigned from the post of Punjab Advocate-General, the senior advocate today accused PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of “spreading misinformation to gain political mileage”. Deol also blamed him for obstructing the functioning of the government and AG office.AG’s office functioning hit tooWith repeated outbursts, he (Sidhu) is obstructing the functioning of the govt and AG’s office. APS Deol, senior advocateIn a statement released on the AG’s letterhead, Deol, who has been asked to continue till the next appointment, alleged Sidhu with his repeated utterances wanted to derail the government’s efforts to ensure justice in the drugs and sacrilege cases.“There is a concerted attempt by vested interests to malign the Congress in view of coming elections in Punjab,” Deol alleged.This is probably the first time that a serving AG has come out with a public statement against a senior leader of the ruling party.Sidhu had, on September 28, resigned as PPCC chief in protest against Deol’s appointment besides other issues. He had said Deol was the defence counsel for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and Paramraj Singh Umranangal, both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.Sidhu recently withdrew his resignation with a rider that he would resume office only after the government replaced Deol and DGP IPS Sahota. The government has so far not finalised Deol’s replacement even as names of a few senior advocates are being considered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-obstructing-govt-working-says-aps-deol-334809
07-11-2021||Vishav Bharti||Amid dengue outbreak, no paracetamol in Punjab’s rural dispensaries||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6Rural dispensaries in Punjab do not even have a tablet of paracetamol even as the state is facing its worst-ever dengue outbreak this year with over 18,000 cases and 60 deaths.There are around 1,200 dispensaries under the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats. Sources said the medicines were last purchased after the Covid outbreak in March last year.Dr Deepinder Bhasin, president, Rural Medical Officers’ Association, said these dispensaries were the first line of defence for healthcare in the rural areas. “It is unfortunate that even basic medicines are not available there,” he said.The sources said till last year, the department was procuring medicines on its own. But after the Covid outbreak, it handed over the work to Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC).The latter has not shown much interest in purchasing medicines. The department had even written to it a couple of months ago, but to no avail.“We have asked the corporation to procure Jan Aushadi medicines. A few meetings have taken place and the medicines will be procured soon,” said Sanjeev Garg, Deputy Director, Rural Development.Rahul Bhandari, Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayats, said he had recently joined the department and would ensure that the medicines were supplied to the dispensaries at the earliest. Drugs supplied in March last year||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-dengue-outbreak-no-paracetamol-in-punjabs-rural-dispensaries-334810
07-11-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||NIA team in Canada to investigate pro-Khalistan groups, their funding||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 6A three-member team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) reached Canada on Friday to probe the funding routes for pro-Khalistan groups trying to create unrest in India.During its four-day visit, the team, led by an Inspector General-rank officer, would discuss with the Canadian authorities the findings of its probe against such groups, including Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) and Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF).The team is likely to press for execution of the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty for faster sharing of information related to anti-India activities, said sources. Besides Canada, the probe agency is learnt to be equipped with details of funding routes from the UK, the US, Australia, France and Germany.Earlier this year, when the farmers protesting the Central farm laws organised a march to Delhi on the Republic Day, the SFJ is learnt to have announced a $2.5 lakh (approx Rs 1.85 crore) reward for anyone hoisting a Khalistani flag atop the Red Fort. The SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu had, in a purported video, tried to link the protests with the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.In December last year, the government had included Pannu, KTF’s Paramjit Singh Pamma and Hardeep Singh Nijjar as “designated terrorists” under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, following which the NIA registered an FIR against them.“The SFJ and other Khalistani terrorist organisations, including but not limited to BKI, KTF and KZF, along with their frontal outfits are conspiring to create an atmosphere of fear and lawlessness and cause disaffection among people to incite them against the government of India,” the NIA mentioned in the FIR.In furtherance of the conspiracy, massive funds were being collected abroad for on-ground campaign and propaganda against missions in countries like the US, UK, Canada, France, Germany and Australia, it added.The NIA had then filed a chargesheet against 10 Khalistani terrorists, including Pannu (a resident of New York), Pargat Singh, Sukhraj Singh, Bikramjit Singh, Manjeet Singh, Jatinder Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Harpreet Singh, Kuldeep Singh and Harmeet Singh.Invoking treaty||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-team-in-canada-to-investigate-pro-khalistan-groups-their-funding-334812
07-11-2021||Chamkaur Sahib||I may be poor but not weak; sacrilege and drugs issues will be resolved: Punjab CM Channi’s retort to Navjot Sidhu||A day after Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu targeted his government over the issues of sacrilege and drug trafficking, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday retorted that “I may be poor but not weak” and asserted the matters will be resolved.Sidhu in a press conference on Friday had questioned the Channi-led state government over the steps taken for the delivery of justice in the cases of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and drug trafficking.Addressing a gathering here on Saturday, Channi said action would be taken against all those responsible for the 2015 sacrilege incidents as investigations into them by a Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) are on the fast and right track.“I may be poor, I may belong to a poor family but I am not weak.... All issues will be resolved,” said Channi, who replaced Amarinder Singh as the Punjab chief minister.“The issue of ‘beadbi’ (sacrilege) is on the right track,” he said, adding that the SIT would go to jail to question the ‘Baba’, referring to Dera Sacha Sauda sect chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, pertaining to the sacrilege incident.Ram Rahim is currently lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail since his conviction in 2017 for raping two disciples. The Dera Sacha Sauda chief had been named as an accused in the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib.“It (sacrilege) is an issue of my Guru and an issue of Punjab’s soul,” said Channi.On the drugs issue, Channi said that all those guilty of pushing the state’s youth into drugs would not be spared at any cost.He said that after the release of a report on the drug mafia, all the big sharks involved in it would be exposed.The chief minister earlier laid the foundation of Bela-Paniyali road and bridge over the river Sutlej at a function here.He reiterated his government’s firm commitment to stamp out corruption from the public life and added that every decision was taken for the overall development and prosperity of the state. Lashing out at the Akalis, Channi said the previous Shiromani Akali Dal government had always “blatantly ignored” the interests of the state and gave priority only to its vested interests.Taking a dig at the Aam Aadmi Party, Channi said that several self-styled “aam aadmi” (common people) who are not even remotely concerned about basic problems and needs of the people have surfaced nowadays just for politicking.He said such persons are “exploiting” the emotions of the people by promising the moon to them with the sole motive of fulfilling their political ambitions.Speaking at the event, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said Channi has become the most popular among the people due to his simplicity and visionary approach.Badal said Channi could feel the pulse of the poor because he himself had passed through the pangs of penury. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/i-may-be-poor-but-not-weak-sacrilege-and-drugs-issues-will-be-resolved-punjab-cm-channis-retort-to-navjot-sidhu-334776
07-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Farmers stop screening of Akshay Kumar-starrer ‘Sooryavanshi’ in Hoshiarpur, Patiala||A group of farmers protesting the central farm laws on Saturday forced five cinema halls here to stop screening Akshay Kumar-starrer “Sooryavanshi”.A similar protest was also held in Patiala.Some of them tore posters of the movie put up outside the theatres, saying they were opposing actor Akshay Kumar for not supporting their protest.Activists of the Bharti Kisan Union (Kadian), led by the outfit’s district president Swaran Dhugga, staged a demonstration and a protest march from the local Shaheed Udham Singh Park to Swaran cinema against the screening of the movie.They forced the cinema hall authorities to stop screening the movie, and condemned the actor for not speaking up in support of their protest.The protesters added that they would not allow screening of his movies until the farm laws are repealed.Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi borders since November last year demanding that the government repeal the three agri laws—Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They claim that these laws will leave them at the mercy of corporates. They are also demanding a new law to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of talks with farmers to break the deadlock, has maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-stop-screening-of-akshay-kumar-starrer-sooryavanshi-in-hoshiarpur-patiala-334763
07-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Following resignation, APS Deol accuses Navjot Sidhu of obstructing functioning of state govt and AG office||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6Less than a week after APS Deol resigned from Advocate-General’s post, the senior advocate on Saturday launched a scathing attack against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, accusing him of obstructing the functioning of the state government and the AG office.In a press statement released on the AG’s letter pad, Deol—asked to continue till the new incumbent’s appointment—asserted that Sidhu’s repeated utterances sought to derail the state government’s earnest efforts to ensure justice in the drugs matter and the sacrilege cases.“Navjot Singh Sidhu is spreading misinformation to gain political advantage over his political colleagues. There is a concerted attempt by vested interests to malign the functioning of the Congress party in view of coming elections in Punjab for their selfish political gain by politicising the constitutional office of the Advocate-General of Punjab.” Deol asserted.This is, perhaps, the first time in recallable past that a serving AG has come out with a public statement against a senior leader of the party in power. Deol’s appointment ran into controversy following Sidhu’s objections to it. Sidhu on September 28, among other things, resigned as PPCC chief protesting against Deol’s appointment on the grounds that he was a defence lawyer for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and Paramraj Singh Umaranangal, both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.Sidhu did not initially withdraw his resignation despite meetings with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and party representatives. He took back his resignation as Punjab Congress chief while adding that he would resume charge only after the state government replaced DGP IPS Sahota and Deol.So far, the state government has not finalised Deol’s replacement, though names of a few senior advocates are being considered. Deol was appointed after the post fell vacant following Atul Nanda’s resignation soon after Capt Amarinder Singh stepped down as chief minister. The appointment had come as a surprise as incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015 had been politically sensitive. It had also led to a legal debate on the issue of conflict of interest primarily on the grounds that Deol, being Saini and Umaranangal’s counsel, would neither be able to appear nor advise the state in their cases and related matters. In an attempt to settle the storm, senior advocate RS Bains was appointed special public prosecutor.Defending Bains’ appointment before the Punjab and Haryana High Court following the filing of a petition, the State of Punjab told the Bench that “only regular public prosecutor will appear before the trial court till the next date of hearing”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/following-resignation-aps-deol-accuses-navjot-sidhu-of-obstructing-functioning-of-state-govt-and-ag-office-334717
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu prays at Faridkot gurdwara for exemplary punishment to those behind 2015 sacrilege incident||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday visited a gurdwara in Faridkot and prayed that those involved in the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 be given exemplary punishment that would be "a deterrent for generations to come".This came a day after Sidhu withdrew his resignation as Punjab Congress chief and targeted his party-led state government over the sacrilege case.Sidhu offered prayers at the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara in Faridkot from where a copy of the Guru Granth Sahib was stolen in 2015."Ardas at Gurudwaara saheb Burj Jawahar Singh wala, Bargari .... Praying for exemplary punishment for those involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth saheb ji ... should be a deterrent for generations to come!" Sidhu said in a tweet.He also interacted with locals at the gurdwara over the issue.During a press conference on Friday, Sidhu had questioned the Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government over the steps taken for the delivery of justice in sacrilege cases and making public a special task force report in drug cases in the past 50 days. --- PTIArdas at Gurudwaara saheb Burj Jawahar Singh wala , Bargari …. Praying for exemplary punishment for those involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth saheb ji … should be a deterrent for generations to come ! pic.twitter.com/Cm4jXU8kH5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-prays-at-faridkot-gurdwara-for-exemplary-punishment-to-those-behind-2015-sacrilege-incident-334694
