08-11-2021||---||Kotkapura firing: SC notice to Gurdeep Singh and others on Punjab’s plea||New Delhi, November 8The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to Gurdeep Singh and others on a petition filed by the Punjab Government challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court’s verdict that virtually gave a clean chit to certain persons in the Kotkapura firing case.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on April 9 quashed the probe into the Kotkapura firing in which two men protesting against the sacrilege at Bargari village were killed in police firing on October 14, 2015. It had ordered reconstitution of the SIT without IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh.Thereafter, another SIT led by Additional DGP (Vigilance Bureau) LK Yadav was formed in May to probe the Kotkapura firing incident as the high court had quashed the chargesheet filed by Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.The High Court’s April 9 order had come on a petition filed by Gurdeep Singh – the then Kotkapura Station House Officer (SHO) -- who was the complainant as well as investigating officer in the FIR lodged in 2015. He was made an accused in a subsequent FIR lodged in 2018 after the change in guard in the state.On Monday, a Supreme Court Bench led by Justice Indira Banerjee asked the parties to respond to the state’s petition in four weeks after senior counsel Salman Khurshid and advocate Aadil Singh Boparai—representing the Punjab Government—urged the court to expunge certain remark from the HC’s verdict as it virtually gave a clean chit to certain persons, creating hurdles in the probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-sc-notice-to-gurdeep-singh-and-others-on-punjabs-plea-335618
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi, Navjot Sidhu meet amid tension in Punjab Congress||AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary on Monday held a meeting with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, amid unease between the two leaders over government appointments.The meeting was held just a few hours after Sidhu called a press conference and questioned his party’s government in the state over the status of investigation into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident.Cabinet Minister Pargat Singh, who is considered close to Sidhu, was also present at the meeting, sources said.During the meeting, Sidhu is learnt to have raised the issue of appointments of state Advocate General A P S Deol and officiating Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota.Last week, Sidhu had said that he had withdrawn his resignation as the Punjab Congress chief but had also put a precondition that he would resume the charge the day a new advocate general is appointed in place of Deol and a panel for the appointment of a new director general of police comes from the UPSC. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-navjot-sidhu-meet-amid-tension-in-punjab-congress-335573
08-11-2021||---||Sukhjinder Randhawa takes stern note of reports of drugs being sold in Moga, Ferozepur villages||Chandigarh, November 8Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday took a stern note of the reports about drug sales at Rauli and Vajidpur villages of Moga and Ferozepur districts, respectively.He directed the SSPs of both the districts to intervene and take strict action besides attaching the property of drug dealers.He also asked them to initiate disciplinary action against the police officers who failed to take concrete action against drug smuggling. He asked the SSPs to take action and submit a report in three days.Randhawa, who also holds the charge of the Home Department, said no laxity in dealing with drug-related cases would be tolerated and negligent police officers would not be spared.He said that CM Charanjit Singh Channi had given strict instructions to all district police heads to adopt zero tolerance policy against drugs and no drug smuggler/supplier should be spared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhjinder-randhawa-takes-stern-note-of-reports-of-drugs-being-sold-in-moga-ferozepur-villages-335558
08-11-2021||London||British Sikh army officer sets off for South Pole adventure||A 32-year-old British Sikh army officer and physiotherapist is on a mission to become the first India-origin female to complete a solo, unsupported trek to the South Pole and is flying out to Chile on Sunday to begin her adventure.Captain Harpreet Chandi, known as Polar Preet, will be travelling 700 miles while pulling a pulk or sledge with all of her kit, battling temperatures of minus 50 degrees Celsius and wind speeds of up to 60mph.Writing on her online blog, she notes that the journey will take 45-47 days, during which she plans to uploada live tracking map for people to be able to follow her daily voice blogs.“I want to take as many of you as possible on this journey with me, so I hope you enjoy following,” writes Chandi. Currently based at a Medical Regiment in the north-west of England. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/british-sikh-army-officer-sets-off-for-south-pole-adventure-335495
08-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Cornea transplant lights up 171 lives||Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur Midtown, president Praveen Paliyal said under the project — ‘Gift of Sight — adopted by the Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur Midtown, in September and October, 25 dark lives were enlightened by corneal transplant.The surgeries were carried out by Guru ka Langar Eye Hospital, Chandigarh and Dr Shakin Eye and Dental Hospital, Amritsar. Chairman Manoj Ohri said 171 corneal transplant operations were performed in a year from October 2020 to October 2021 in which visually-impaired patients from several states benefitted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hoshiarpur-cornea-transplant-lights-up-171-lives-335318
08-11-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu tears into AG APS Deol; government dithers on removal||Chandigarh, November 7On the day PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu tore into Advocate General (AG) APS Deol, who had yesterday accused him of spreading misinformation and interfering in the working of the Congress government, there was little indication from Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi of an immediate resolution to the deepening crisis in the party over Deol’s continuation in office.A hint at dilly-dally by the government came as the issue was not tabled in the Cabinet meeting and sources close to the CM indicated “sensitive” issues would be touched upon after the special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. Desisting from giving a straight reply on sharing the stage with Sidhu when important announcements are made, CM Channi said: “These are issues related to the government. He will sit in meetings related to party issues.”Whose interests do you serve?May I know which interest (vested or otherwise) were you acting for when you appeared for the main conspirators and procured blanket bail for them, and which interest are you acting for now? —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefRather, the CM along with some Cabinet ministers in the evening took briefing from the AG on bills related to the power purchase agreements, resolution to reject the three central farm laws and the Centre’s notification on increasing BSF’s jurisdiction in the state.A senior party functionary said despite having deciding on seeking Deol’s resignation, the Channi government delayed the decision after the PCC chief’s public outburst against the AG, DGP and STF’s drug trafficking report.However, the PCC chief seems undeterred. His series of tweets were accompanied by what seemed to be an order from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Sidhu said: “Further, you specifically prayed for transferring the investigation to the CBI as you were afraid of their false implication in sacrilege cases on accounts of mala fide, malice and ulterior motives on part of the political party in power in the state.”Meanwhile, fireworks were witnessed at the Cabinet meeting as Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Razia Sultana reportedly had an argument with Transport Minister Raja Warring over being discredited for work she had done as the Transport Minister in the Captain Amarinder Cabinet.Sultana is learnt to have objected to certain social media reports comparing her work with that of Warring. Sources said as Warring started highlighting his achievements, Sultana objected to the campaign against her, leading to heated arguments. As minister Tript Bajwa tried to calm the nerves, CM Channi stepped in and asked Warring to end the discussion. The two ministers could not be reached for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-tears-into-ag-aps-deol-government-dithers-on-removal-335327
08-11-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Litmus test for Punjab Chief Minister Channi at 2-day assembly session||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7With eye on elections, the Channi government looks to use the two-day session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to outline its future political agenda, given the limited time left for the Assembly elections.The special session will also be a litmus test for Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to assert his authority as the leader of the Congress Legislative Party, given the new challenge of political supremacy being posed by PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu after the ouster of Capt Amarinder Singh as the CM two months ago.All eyes will be on the CM, as to how he undertakes the floor management to counter the Opposition’s onslaught.Given the opportunity to draw maximum output from a limited time window, the Cabinet on Sunday decided to extend the one-day special session by another day. The session, slated for November 8, will now be held on November 8 and 11.Sources said the government would bring in a resolution to reject the three farm laws and Centre’s notification on increasing the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km, besides a legislation to scrap or renegotiate the power purchase agreements (PPAs) by introducing a Bill.Apart from preparing the ministers and MLAs to speak on the 50-day achievements and progress made in the sacrilege probe and the special task force’s report on drug trafficking, the CM along with ministers held a three-hour meeting with AG APS Deol to discuss the draft of the resolutions being tabled in the session.AAP plans strategyThe AAP legislature party met under LoP Harpal Singh Cheema to chalk out the strategy to corner the government on key issues during the special Assembly session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/litmus-test-for-punjab-chief-minister-channi-at-2-day-assembly-session-335328
08-11-2021||New Delhi||BJP chief JP Nadda woos Sikhs, lists steps taken by govt for community||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma today said the party would contest all 117 seats in the upcoming Assembly elections in the state.Briefing about presentations by leaders at the national executive meeting, Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said Chief Ministers and presidents of the party units in poll-bound states gave briefings on the upcoming Assembly elections. A similar presentation was given by BJP’s Punjab unit president, he added.According to Yadav, the Punjab state president said, “the BJP will contest all seats with complete preparation.”Significantly, responding to a query on farmers’ agitation during a briefing on the political resolution passed by the party, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar has had held several rounds of talks with farmers.“They have to tell which is one point they have objection to. Till date they have not specified it. If the Opposition wants to raise the issue without knowing that point, their story will also be incomplete,” she said.Addressing the meeting, BJP president JP Nadda also went all-out to woo Sikhs, who are in majority in Punjab, by listing measures undertaken by the Modi government for the community, including expediting action against 1984 riots accused, facilitating foreign grants to gurdwaras, keeping langars out of the ambit of the GST and building the Kartarpur corridor.Nadda said, “Even though many Sikh brothers have remained in power, no one has done as much work as our Prime Minister for the Sikhs. The Opposition has only misled them.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-woos-sikhs-lists-steps-taken-by-govt-for-community-335329
08-11-2021||Aman Sood||Congress holds show of strength in Capt Amarinder Singh’s bastion||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 7Senior Congress leaders led by Harish Chaudhary, incharge of the party’s affairs in Punjab, today called Amarinder Singh’s tenure as “compromised” where “party workers were ignored”.Party leaders from Patiala, including those once considered close to Capt Amarinder Singh and his family, “vented their ire” in the former CM’s home bastion, stating that his tenure “was a failure”.Ex-aides turn baitersChaudhary and other leaders while addressing party workers were critical of Capt Amarinder Singh’s style of functioning. “Our MLAs and Cabinet Minister ensured that Punjab did not suffer for the past four-and a half years of the tenure,” Chaudhary said.Later, he held a closed-door meeting with various leaders from Patiala to get the pulse. Sources privy to the discussions said “instead of sidelining or shunting out party leaders siding with Amarinder Singh, parleys will be held to ensure that they stay within the party and work for it”. Earlier senior leader Lal Singh, Hardyal Singh Kambhoj, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Madan Lal Jalalpur urged the party workers to get united before the Assembly polls.Ex-CM was with BJPPunjab had elected Amarinder Singh to get rid of SAD-BJP, but he rather chose to sit in the lap of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. —Harish Chaudhary, CongressConspicuous by their absence were PCC Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra, while his son Mohit Mohindra shared the stage. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur and Mayor Sanjiv Sharma Bittu were also not present at the event. Preneet Kaur however attended a couple of events in the district. She did not respond to repeated calls. Bittu has already made it clear that he would contest from Patiala rural — at present represented by Brahm Mohindra.PCC working president Kuljit Nagra, Cabinet Minister Raj Kumar Verka, MLA Nirmal Singh Shutrana and many other leaders were present at the event. Senior leaders told The Tribune soon a decision would be taken to reshuffle the entire district Congress cadre “to ensure that the Capt Amarinder Singh stamp on the district Congress is removed”. Party leaders confessed in private that Madan Lal Jalalpur was the main man behind the Sunday’s show.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-holds-show-of-strength-in-capt-amarinder-singhs-bastion-335330
08-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||VAT, excise cut on fuel to cost state Rs 4,150 cr||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7The Punjab Government today reduced the value added tax (VAT) on two major retail fuels, petrol and diesel, slashing their retail price by Rs 10 and Rs 5 a litre, respectively.Relief not enoughThe government should have further reduced the price of diesel and brought it on a par with neighbouring states, as it is more widely consumed than petrol. —Monty Sehgal, Petroleum dealers’ associationAs a result, the price of petrol across Punjab will drop to Rs 95-Rs 96.16 per litre and that of diesel from Rs 83.84-Rs 84.80 per litre from midnight. The variation in price is mainly because local taxes and cesses vary from city to city. The decision to reduce the prices was taken at the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi this afternoon.In doing so, the common man, burdened by the ever-rising fuel costs, is heaving a sigh of relief. However, the government will lose a whopping Rs 4,150 crore in revenue as the VAT on petrol has been reduced from 27.26 per cent to 13.77 per cent and that on diesel from 17.53 per cent to 9.92 per cent. This will lead to an annual loss in revenue of Rs 3,300 crore (Rs 1,350 crore on account of reduction in price of petrol and Rs 1,950 crore on account of diesel).Since eight months of this fiscal have already gone by, this year, the state will lose around Rs 1,729 crore as VAT receipts. The state will also lose revenue as the Centre had reduced the excise duty on fuel last week.Since 42 per cent of this duty is shared by the Centre with states, Punjab’s share in the excise duty will also be reduced by Rs 850 crore. While the decision may help the ruling Congress in the election year, it is sure to cause another blow to the state’s fragile fiscal health. It may be noted the Charanjit Singh Channi government, after taking over the reins of the state in September, has announced sops worth Rs 9,116 crore, including the reduction in VAT on retail fuels. With the state’s debt burden burgeoning at the seams and its income declining, this “pre-election populism” will only add to the state’s debt burden and increase its fiscal and revenue deficits. While announcing the reduction in fuel prices here today, CM Channi and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal claimed the prices of retail fuels will be the lowest in North India.However, The Tribune found the price of petrol in Punjab is higher than Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Chandigarh, while that of diesel is higher than Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Jammu and Kashmir, though these are much lower than the prices in Delhi.Rs9,116 crore worth of sops in 50 daysIn the first 50 days of its rule, the Channi government has announced sops that will put an extra burden of Rs9,116 crore on the exchequer. This includes reduction in power tariff which will cost state Rs3,316 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vat-excise-cut-on-fuel-to-cost-state-rs-4-150-cr-335331
08-11-2021||---||Cabinet okays amendments to implement Punjabi in schools, offices||Chandigarh, November 7In a bid to strictly implement Punjabi as the compulsory subject for all students of Classes I to X across the state, the Cabinet on Sunday approved an amendment to the Punjab Learning of Punjabi and Other Languages Act, 2008, to enhance the penalties for contravening the provisions of the Act.The Cabinet also gave the go-ahead to introduce the Bill in the current session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha.Any school, which contravenes the provisions of the Act or the rules, made thereunder for a month for the first time, will have to pay a penalty of Rs 50,000. If the school contravenes the provisions of the Act or the rules for a month for the second time, then it will have to pay a penalty of Rs 1 lakh. For the third violation, the fine would be Rs 2 lakh.The Cabinet also approved amendment to the Official Languages Act, to which in addition to punishment the provision of penalty against officers/officials who do not conduct official business in Punjabi language has been made. As per this provision, the first-time guilty officer or official could be fined Rs 500 as per the recommendations of the Director, Language Department, Punjab. The second and third offences carry a fine of up to Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively.In another decision, the Cabinet approved reduction in the simple interest from 15 per cent per annum to 7.5 per cent per annum, charged on the amount of enhancement recoverable from allottees of the Improvement Trust. This will benefit nearly 40,000 families under various schemes of the Improvement Trusts.The Cabinet also gave its nod to the Punjab Tissue Culture Based Seed Potato Rules-2021 to develop Punjab as a standard potato seed centre, which would further help in achieving the target of diversification of the state government by increasing the potato acreage with production of 4 LMT of potato from 1 lakh hectare. This would help to develop the Jalandhar-Kapurthala belt as the export hub of potato.Enhanced pension through chequeEx-post approval was given to payment of enhanced pension through cheques under the Old Age Pension and other financial schemes for July, 2021, as one-time relaxation in the rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-okays-amendments-to-implement-punjabi-in-schools-offices-335332
08-11-2021||Bathinda||No pension, retd college staff seek Punjab CM Channi’s help||Retired employees of non-government aided colleges have alleged that around 3,000 retired teachers and 1,400 employees of 142 aided colleges of Punjab are victims of state government apathy. Due to this, they are compelled to lead a “pathetic” retired life in the absence of any social security and pension benefits from neither the state government nor college managements, they said.In a letter to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Aided Colleges Retired Employees’ Association president Prof Sukhdev Singh Hundal and DAV Colleges Retired Teachers’ Association president Prof Rajnish Kumar demanded his intervention into the matter. They said: “An amendment in the Service Security Act to grant pension to retired employees of non-government aided colleges was duly passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. In 2000, information/estimate was sought from the aided colleges regarding financial liabilities but the scheme was never implemented despite repeated requests and later, it was repealed.”Prof NK Gosian of DAV Colleges’ Retired Association said: “Sans any social security or other source of income, these employees are leading a deplorable and pathetic post-retirement life. Many of them are suffering from various ailments due to old age. More than 500 employees have already passed away awaiting pension. We are not given any benefits despite having served for 35-40 years.” He also said ever since the state government repealed the pension scheme passed in 1996, the retired teachers had been left high and dry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-pension-retd-college-staff-seek-punjab-cm-channis-help-335333
08-11-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur: Farmers won’t allow officials at farm fire sites||Amid the state government’s claims about strict action against farmers who burn paddy stubble, in Sangrur, a total of 2,500 incidents of stubble burning have come to light to date. However, officials have been able to visit only around 100 sites as farmers are not allowing them to enter their fields.Farmers are openly burning stubble without any fear. In many villages, special committees of farmer unions are keeping a watch over the entry of officers, who have been deputed to check stubble burning. Whenever any officer tries to reach any burnt field, committee members send a message in WhatsApp groups, and area farmers converge to oppose officials in no time.why no action against industries?Why only burning of stubble is questioned by the authorities? Big industrial houses are causing pollution too. But there is no action against them. — Jagsir Singh, Farmer“If government authorities are really serious to contain pollution, they should give us at least Rs 200 per quintal to manage stubble. Otherwise burning is the only option with us,” said Gobind Mangwal, BKU Ekta Ugrahan leader. After receiving data from the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, teams of various officials, including patwaris and panchayat secretaries, have been visiting sites and submitting their reports to their SDMs. “Of the total 2,500 sites of stubble burning, officials have visited around 100 and imposed a fine of Rs 35,000,” said Sachin Singla, SDO, Punjab Pollution Control Board. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-farmers-wont-allow-officials-at-farm-fire-sites-335336
08-11-2021||---||Punjab sees 5K farm fire cases a day||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 7Despite annual attempts to ensure a curb on farm fires, the figure crossed 35,000 mark with over 5,000 more cases on Saturday night taking the total figure to 37,000. Officials said they expected the peak of farm fires in the coming week which might further pollute the Punjab air and add to Delhi’s worsening air quality.According to data collected by the Punjab Pollution Control Board, 3,942 stubble burning incidents were reported on Friday night while 5,000 were reported on Saturday night.“Almost 50 per cent of the total fires have been reported in the past six days, while 14,000 in the past three days. This has happened as the time to prepare the field for the next crop is limited now,” said Agriculture Department officials.“We expect that stubble burning will decrease within the next seven to 10 days as most of the harvesting season is over,” said Punjab Pollution Control Board member secretary Karunesh Garg. However, sources said the peak of farm fires would be next week when many belts start harvesting.Earlier, to ensure lesser cases, the Punjab Government tried its best to promote stubble use with cumulative fiscal incentives of Rs 25 crore to certain industries, in addition to deputing over 8,000 officials in the field.Industries such as sugar mills, pulp and paper mills, besides those having boilers with steam generation capacity of more than 25 tonne per hour, will be eligible for the incentives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-5k-farm-fire-cases-a-day-335338
08-11-2021||Fazilka||BKU halts screening of Akshay Kumar’s film ‘Sooryavanshi’ in Punjab's Jalalabad||Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ugrahan stopped the screening of Akshay Kumar-starrer ‘Sooryavanshi’ in Jalalabad town of Fazilka district on Saturday and Sunday.Also read: Zirakpur: Farmers protest against screening of Akshay Kumar-starrer ‘Sooryavanshi’The farmers asked the cinema owners in Jalalabad not to screen the movie as Akshay Kumar had lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who they alleged brought in the three agricultural laws. Gurwinder Singh Mannewala, vice-president, BKU Ugrahan, who led the protest, alleged Akshay Kumar had termed farmers “terrorists and Naxalites” and lauded Prime Minister Modi last year. So they decided not to allow screening of any Akshay Kumar-starrer movie in the future too. The farmers said cinema owners who screen the movie shall themselves be responsible for the loss. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-halts-screening-of-akshay-kumars-film-sooryavanshi-in-punjabs-jalalabad-335339
08-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Sirhind canal likely to be shut for repair work||Abohar, November 7Responding to his Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot’s request, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has given consent to start the pending Sirhind Feeder Canal relining work. Water Resources Department officials indicated the canal may be closed from November 22 to December 27.The Sirhind Canal is a large irrigation canal that carries water from the Sutlej. It is one of the oldest and biggest irrigation works in the Indus river system, and was inaugurated in 1882.Channi’s first meeting with Gehlot on October 5 at Jaipur was cancelled following outrage over farmers’ killings at Lakhimpur Kheri. They were expected to take up long-pending issues of renovating the canals that emanate from the Harike Barrage. Gehlot, a few days back, drew Channi’s attention to the MoU that was signed to complete relining of the Sirhind Feeder Canal within three years and requested to take up the work as both states were to go to the Vidhan Sabha poll after a few months. Officials said closure of the canal had been planned to take up relining work from Burji Number 172 to 303 spread over 40 km.The Kisan Sangharsh Samiti said relining was to cover about 100-km canal system which would benefit 2.33 lakh hectares. “We hope governments in Punjab and Rajasthan will ensure no substandard material is usedand monitoring is ensured,” Samiti spokesman Subhash Sehgal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sirhind-canal-likely-to-be-shut-for-repair-work-335340
08-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Nine arrested for illegal sand mining in Fazilka||Fazilka, November 7Despite hue and cry over illegal excavation of sand in Punjab, sand mining continues unabated in Fazilka as at least nine persons havebeen nabbed for illegal mining in the border district during the last fortnight.As per information gathered by The Tribune, six other persons have been booked and 14 tractor-trailers have been confiscated from various locations. Out of these, two persons each were arrested on October 23 and 31 and November 3. Most of the accused have been booked under Section 379 of theIPC and Section 21 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act.Illegal mining has been going on unabated in Fazilka, despite the fact that there is no legal sand quarry in the district. According to official sources, the only legal quarry in Chack Gariba Sandar village in Jalalabad subdivision was also shut three months ago. Sources said carts carrying illegal sand, excavated from border villages, can be seen in large numbers in the wee hours daily.Moreover, the unspecified policy of the government has put the consumers, officials and villagers in a quandary. Earlier, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had allowed private land owners to excavate the sand from their own land. But the government failed to introduce a comprehensive policy on sand mining and the mudslinging by the leaders of various political parties over the black trade of white sand is still on. However, in the guise of private excavation of sand, the mafia has been minting money, said the sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nine-arrested-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-fazilka-335342
08-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Four cops booked for taking Rs40L bribe, ‘letting off’ drug smugglers||Tarn Taran, November 7The Tarn Taran police have arrested two police officials out of the four cops booked on corruption charges. They had let off two drugpeddlers after allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 40 lakh.Ranjit Singh Rana and his brother Jaspal Singh, both residents of Bhittewad (Amritsar), were held with 21-kg opium. They were also nominated in the FIR.Local Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Barjinder Singh said the suspect policemen were Head Constables Sukhwinder Singh and Malkit Singh, andConstables Arpinderjit Singh and Arshdeep Singh.The DSP said the policemen nabbed the two smugglers from Ranjit Avenue when they were travelling in a car on August 20 but allegedly let them off.Rana and Jaspal Singh were nabbed by the State Special Operation Cell, Amritsar, again on October 28 and during their interrogation, they disclosed they were let off after paying a bribe of Rs 40 lakh.The DSP said all six accused had been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and Sections 18, 29, 59, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.Arpinder Singh and Arashdeep Singh had been arrested while the other two were absconding. Raids were being conducted to arrest them, the DSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-cops-booked-for-taking-rs40l-bribe-letting-off-drug-smugglers-335343
08-11-2021||Amritsar||Allow kirtan by women raagis at Golden Temple: SGPC member Kiranjot Kaur||Batting for gender equality, the issue of right to perform ‘kirtan’ by ‘jathas’ of baptised women inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple has been raised by SGPC member Bibi Kiranjot Kaur.As per the Sikh code of conduct, there is no restriction on women on performing ‘kirtan’ at the Golden Temple, but as of now, only men perform it at the Golden Temple.Bibi Kiranjot Kaur, granddaughter of Sikh revolutionary Master Tara Singh, has requested SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur to take a lead in this regard by allowing women to perform ‘kirtan’ in the holiest shrine on the occasion of birth anniversary of Guru Nanak on November 19.Interestingly, Bibi Jagir Kaur was the first to formally raise the demand for the women hymn singers’ right to perform ‘kirtan’ at the Golden Temple in 2004-05, but it was contested by orthodox Sikhs. Consequently, the issue remained inconclusive.“Even today, I am in favour of it. But the constraint is that to date, I have never been approached by any women ‘jatha’ which could claim proficiency by its members, which can qualify them to perform ‘kirtan’,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-kirtan-by-women-raagis-at-golden-temple-sgpc-member-kiranjot-kaur-335344
08-11-2021||Phagwara||Bid to implicate Akalis in cases, alleges Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today alleged the state government had issued specific instructions to DGP IPS Sahota to implicate the top Akali leadership in the sacrilege and police firing cases.Holding a string of events in the city and periphery today, the SAD chief said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa were daily holding meetings with the SIT team, asking it to identify people who could give “false” statements under Section 164 of the CrPC against the Badal family.Claiming the Channi government was following the line of the previous regime, he alleged it was hell-bent on politicising the sacrilege issue instead of punishing the real culprits. — TNSJustifies CM stand on DGP, AG postingSukhbir on Sunday justified the stand taken by CM Charanjit Singh Channi on the appointment of the DGP and AG, saying it was his prerogative. “The PPCC chief has no say in such appointments,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-implicate-akalis-in-cases-alleges-sukhbir-badal-335346
08-11-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||BKU detains Punjab minister Razia Sultana’s PA over delay in cotton relief||Irked over the delay in compensation to Malwa cotton growers who have incurred losses due to pink bollworm attack, farmers, including activists of BKU (Ugrahan), today detained Congress leaders and PA to Cabinet Minister Razia Sultana at Maholi Khurd village.However, leaders were freed after three hours when the minister gave assurance on telephone that the issue of bollworm-hit farmers would be raised by her in the Vidhan Sabha Session on Monday. Razia Sultana also assured that other development works in the constituency would be completed soon.BKU (Ugrahan) block president Sher Singh said the action had been taken as Congress leaders had ignored call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha regarding restrictions on political activities till the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi kept his promise of immediate compensation to cotton growers of Bathinda. “We acted when we came to know some Congress leaders had visited our village to undertake political activities. We later found that the detained leader was PA to Minister Razia Sultana,” said Sher Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-detains-punjab-minister-razia-sultanas-pa-over-delay-in-cotton-relief-335347
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-CM Capt Amarinder reinstated ‘tainted’ SP(D),  claims Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Clearing the air about the government reinstating then Faridkot SP(D) Bikramjit Singh, facing a criminal case in connection with the Behbal Kalan firing incident, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today said the orders were given by former CM Capt Amarinder Singh.He said the ex-CM, who also held the Home portfolio, had ordered the reinstatement of the police officer concerned while withholding just one increment despite the then Additional Chief Secretary (Home) not writing in favour of the officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cm-capt-amarinder-reinstated-tainted-spd-claims-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-335348
08-11-2021||Dera Baba Nanak (Gurdaspur)||Kartarpur Sahib corridor: To open or not||Caught in crossfireBatala: The city seems to be the least preferred place for officers to get posted. Here, three Congress strongmen — Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, RS MP Partap Singh Bajwa and three-time former MLA Ashwani Sekhri — rule the roost. Officers often get trapped in the crossfire unleashed by these politicians. SSPs have had short tenures with one staying for just 49 days. Bureaucrats are virtually forced to bend backwards to fulfil the whims and fancies of these leaders. The latest to get ensnared in the political blitzkrieg was SDM Shayari Bhandari. She woke up one fine morning only to find herself transferred. It is not for nothing that officers are eagerly awaiting the code of conduct to kick in because then these satraps will be rendered powerless.Seasonal visitorsSangrur: With the Assembly elections round the corner, many politicians reached out to disgruntled supporters with gifts this Diwali. While many admitted they accepted gifts knowing politicians came to them only during elections and that they had no hopes from them, there were some who refused to open their doors for the “seasonal visitors”. The rejected gifts ended up in the houses of activists as they kept their bosses in the dark about the refusals. For senior politicians, who have been made to believe that all is well, a surprise or two may be in store in the coming days.Shifting baseAbohar: SAD national vice president Rajinder Deepa is now a resident of Abohar. He got his vote deleted from the electoral rolls in Sunam recently and visited a polling booth here to get registered as a voter. In 2018, the former PCC general secretary had quit the Congress and joined the SAD. Earlier, he had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 polls as an Independent from Sunam against AAP stalwart Aman Arora. Since then, he has been aspiring to contest from Abohar. Despite lobbying, he was branded an outsider and denied the party ticket this time. He has become a resident now!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kartarpur-sahib-corridor-to-open-or-not-335349
08-11-2021||Sangrur||Moisture meters ‘tampered with’, Lehra farmers to stage protest today||Alleging the use of moisture-measuring meters provided by private purchasers and delay in action by the authorities concerned, Lehra farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ugrahan) have announced a protest in front of the SDM office on Monday.“In Ghodenab and Lehra grain markets, a BKU team caught two purchase officers when they were measuring moisture content of paddy with meters provided by private purchasers. Since the meters of private purchasers are tampered with, government officers must bring their own ones. Despite our complaints, no action has been taken,” said Harjinder Singh, BKU (Ugrahan) Lehra leader.SDM Navreet Sekhon said: “I haven’t received any complaint yet. However, I will convey it to the district mandi officer for quick action.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moisture-meters-tampered-with-lehra-farmers-to-stage-protest-today-335351
08-11-2021||Muktsar||Long queues for DAP in Muktsar; shop vandalised||As there is acute shortage of DAP, farmers are forced to stand in queues outside fertiliser shops for hours in Muktsar. DAP is needed for sowing wheat and farmers are having a harrowing time due to its shortage. The sowing season started from November 1.After a shop was vandalised, police have been deployed to control the situation. Farmers said they were neither getting DAP from cooperative societies nor from fertiliser shops.On Saturday, 49,000 bags of DAP had arrived at the local railway station. However, 29,000 bags were sent to Faridkot district. Mandar Singh, a farmer of Dhulkot village, said, “I stood in the queue for almost entire day but had to return empty-handed in the evening.” Rajbir Singh of Sarainaga village said, “We need DAP while sowing wheat but the authorities concerned are least bothered” The situation is similar in Gidderbaha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/long-queues-for-dap-in-muktsar-shop-vandalised-335355
08-11-2021||Sangrur||Punjab pensioners to press for DA arrears; memo  to DCs tomorrow||State pensioners will submit memorandums to Deputy Commissioners for the Chief Minister on November 9 over their demands. They are also preparing for a state-level rally on November 17.“Our main demands include issuance of a revised notification for the pay panel, increase in medical allowance and release of DA arrears,” said Jagdish Sharma, district convener, Punjab Government Pensioners Joint Front. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-pensioners-to-press-for-da-arrears-memo-to-dcs-tomorrow-335373
08-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Biker dies in road mishap||Vigilance SSP transferredChandigarh: The Punjab Government on Sunday transferred out controversial SSP Vigilance Raj Jit Singh. Sources said the current dispensation was against Raj Jit, said to be close to ex-DGP Dinkar Gupta. Besides, SSP Vigilance Bureau, EOW, Ludhiana, Amarjit Singh Bajwa and Joint Director, Complaint Cell, VB, Varinder Singh Brar have been shifted. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/biker-dies-in-road-mishap-335374
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Justice is blind, Punjab isn’t: Navjot Singh Sidhu hits back at APS Deol||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday hit back at senior advocate APS Deol, a day after the latter accused him of interfering in the functioning of the government and AG office, and spreading misinformation.Sidhu used a long thread of 12 tweets to slam Deol. “Mr AG-Punjab, justice is blind but people of Punjab are not. Our Congress party came to power with a promise to give justice in sacrilege cases, in which you appeared before the High Court for main conspirators/accused persons and made serious allegations against our govt,” the first of the 12 tweets read. The Pradesh Congress president has been opposing Deol’s appointment asAG. Deol had represented former DGP Sumedh Saini in cases related to the 2015 post-sacrilege police firing incidents.In another tweet, Sidhu asked: “May I know which interest (vested or otherwise) were you acting for when you appeared for the main conspirators and procured a blanket bail for them?“ A month after announcing his resignation as the PPC chief, Sidhu withdrew the same on Friday. However, he said he would resume charge only after the government replaced the AG.“You appeared for the accused, now representing the State and very soon you will seek elevation as a judge so that you can decide this case... your focus is on politics and political gains,” Sidhu hit out at Deol.On the STF report in drug cases, Sidhu said: “Upon being asked that what was stopping the government from taking action on the basis of the STF report filed in the High Court, you replied that It would be ethically wrong to proceed in the matter without the court’s nod.“May I know what is unethical in proceeding against the accused persons on the basis of the STF report who are responsible for narco-terrorism in Punjab and has put India’s most prosperous state in danger of losing an entire generation to drug abuse?”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-is-blind-punjab-isnt-navjot-singh-sidhu-hits-back-at-aps-deol-335284
08-11-2021||---||Punjab govt reduces petrol prices by Rs 10 per litre, diesel Rs 5 cheaper||Chandigarh, November 7With the Centre slashing excise duty on petrol and diesel, the Punjab Government also announced a reduction in VAT on the fuels on Sunday, making them cheaper in the state by Rs 10 per litre and Rs 5 per litre, respectively.The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.The new rates will be effective from midnight.The Chief Minister made the announcement while addressing the media after the Cabinet meeting.  The retail price of petrol in the state will be Rs 96.16 per litre and for diesel it will be Rs 84.80 a litre.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said the reduction in VAT on the fuels is estimated to cause a revenue loss of Rs 900 crore to the state.Last week, the Centre had announced a cut in the excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10, respectively, bringing down their retail rates from record highs.Reducing the excise duty, the Union Government had urged states to commensurately reduce VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-reduces-petrol-prices-by-rs-10-per-litre-diesel-rs-5-cheaper-335166
08-11-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Justice is blind but Punjab isn't: Sidhu's retort to APS Deol's allegations||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu hit back at Punjab’s Advocate General APS Deol, a day after the latter accused him of interfering with the work of the Punjab Government and spreading misinformation.Sidhu, who has been demanding Deol’s dismissal ever since he was appointed to the position a month ago, used a long thread of 12 tweets to scorn at Deol on Sunday.“Mr. AG-PUNJAB, Justice is blind but people of Punjab are not. Our Congress party came in power with a promise to give justice in Sacrilege Cases, in which you appeared before the High Court for main conspirators/accused persons and made serious allegations against our Govt,” the first of 12 tweets said.The tweet was accompanied by what seemed to be an order from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. “Further, you specifically prayed for transferring the investigation to CBI as you were afraid of their false implication in Sacrilege cases on accounts of malafide, malice and ulterior motives on the part of political party in power in the state of Punjab.”“Today, you are representing the same Government of same political party in power and accusing me of spreading misinformation, whereas, I am fighting for justice in sacrilege cases and you were procuring blanket bails for the accused persons.”Navjot Singh Sidhu ‘obstructing’ govt working, says APS DeolSidhu also demanded to know from Deol whose "interests" he now served."May I know which interest (vested or otherwise) were you acting for when you appeared for the main conspirators and procured blanket bail for them and which interest, you are acting now? #ActionsSpeakLouderThanWords.”“Are you acting at the behest of those who appointed you in this constitutional office and fulfilling their political gains? Did you advise the Government to challenge the blanket bail order procured by you or any other adverse order in sacrilege cases in Supreme Court?”"You appeared for the accused, now representing the State and very soon you will seek elevation as a judge so that you can decide this case. Being the highest law officer, your focus is on politics and political gains.""Leave the politics to the politicians and focus on your personal conscience, integrity and professional ethics, which your job requires.""In the hearing of Drugs case in High Court on 05.10.2021, upon being asked that what is stopping Govt. for taking action on the basis of STF Report filed in High Court, you replied that 'It would be ethically wrong to proceed in the matter without the Court’s Nod'.""May I know what is unethical in proceeding against the accused persons on the basis of STF Report who are responsible for narcotics-terrorism in Punjab and has put India’s most prosperous state in danger of losing an entire generation to drug abuse?""Did Hon’ble High Court stop you? Hon’ble High Court itself gave a copy of the STF report to our Government for consideration and you are shielding the inaction of the Government under the guise of your own unknown Ethics.""I believe that Ethics is about the way things ought to be, not about the way things are. Ethical people often do more than law requires and less than it allows. When it comes to ethics, motive is very important.""A person of character does the right thing for right reason with right motive. Your earnest inaction is clearly subverting justice rather than ensuring it."Mr. AG-PUNJAB, Justice is blind but people of Punjab are not. Our Congress party came in power with a promise to give justice in Sacrilege Cases, in which you appeared before the High Court for main conspirators/accused persons and made serious allegations against our Govt. 1/12 pic.twitter.com/YMjPrPBPCh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-is-blind-but-punjab-isnt-sidhus-retort-to-aps-deols-allegations-335159
