10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Government approves policy for cotton farm labourers||In a bid to provide financial relief to cotton farm labourers, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved the policy formulated for extending relief to the families of cotton-picking farm labourers affected by the damage caused to the crop by the pink bollworm disease.With this decision, 10 per cent of total compensation to be given to the farmers on this count would be provided to the families of cotton-picking farm labourers affected by the pest attack on cotton crop.On the issue of Post-Matric SC Scholarship Scheme, the Cabinet, led by Chief Minister Charanjit Channi, deliberated up on the hardships faced by students who are beneficiaries of the scheme.It was highlighted that this scheme was shared between the Centre and the state government in the ratio of 60:40. However, the Centre stopped giving its share from 2016 onwards under this scheme.Resultantly, the Cabinet decided the state government would bear its liability of 40 per cent amounting to Rs 433.96 crore since 2017-18, to be released in two installments during 2021-22 and 2022-23.The Cabinet also gave approval to scrap the fee capping, thereby keeping the fee of students belonging to the Scheduled Caste on par with the general category students. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-approves-policy-for-cotton-farm-labourers-336473
10-11-2021||Bathinda/Chandigarh||Bathinda Rural MLA Rupinder Ruby joins Congress after resigning from AAP||After resigning from the AAP, Bathinda Rural MLA Rupinder Ruby joined the Congress party in the presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.After joining the Congress, Ruby said the real agenda of the Aam Aadmi Party was being followed by the Congress.She said it was suffocating for her in the AAP as the Punjab AAP was being controlled from Delhi by Arvind Kejariwal. She said she had been demanding Bhagwant Mann should be declared CM face.She said she was impressed by the performance of the Congress in last 50 days.Channi said more leaders from the AAP would be joining the Congress.In a major setback to Aam Aadmi Party, Bathinda Rural MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby resigned from the primary membership of the party by announcing it on her social media platforms on Tuesday late night. In a tweet, Rupinder Kaur Ruby said: “Mr.@ArvindKejriwal ji Convener, AAP & @BhagwantMann ji...This is hereby inform u that I am resigning with immediate effect from the membership of Aam Aadmi Party. Please accept my resignation”.Speculations were on her resigning from the party for last sometimes as she was not active in party working and even during Arvind Kejriwal recent visit to Bathinda, her photo was missing from the hoardings indicating not all is well between her and the party. Hours before her resignation, Rupinder Kaur Ruby had met Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Congress incharge Harish Choudhary at Chandigarh on Tuesday, setting speculations rolling for her joining Congress in coming days. In 2017 polls, AAP had won three seats in Bathinda district, but earlier AAP MLA from Maur, Jagdev Singh Kamalu left party and joined Congress and now second party MLA in the district Rupinder Kaur Ruby has resigned from the party, so now AAP has only one MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur from Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-rural-mla-rupinder-ruby-joins-congress-after-resigning-from-aap-336380
10-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Amid DAP shortage, coop societies’ quota hiked||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9With a widening gap in demand and supply of Diammonium Phosphate (DAP) and black marketing of fertiliser amid the sowing of wheat and potato, the Punjab Government has reversed the orders for distribution of DAP in favour of Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS).Demand, supply & pricingFarmers ProtestVehicles interceptedAs farmers continued to complain about the shortage of DAP, the government, apparently on a back foot because of the possible political backlash, decided to allocate maximum DAP (70 per cent) through 3,500 cooperative societies, leaving just 30 per cent for distribution through private traders.A decision to this effect was taken late Monday night, in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The Chief Minister is learnt to have prevailed upon his colleagues to increase the DAP allocation for cooperative societies to ensure farmers do not have to pay the premium to traders.Information gathered by The Tribune shows that as against the price of Rs 1200 per bag, DAP is being sold in the market by private traders at Rs 1,600-1,700 per bag. In most places, farmers are even forced to buy add-on pesticides or other chemicals worth Rs 400-500, along with each bag of fertiliser.In cooperative societies, however, though the political leanings of members are a consideration for priority allotment of DAP, it is being sold at Rs 1,200 a bag.Sources say the Chief Minister had sought dataregarding the number of farmers and their landholdings, attached with all cooperative societies. As many as 14 lakh farmers, mostly small and marginal ones, are attached with these societies. Kulwant Singh, secretary, Kishangarh Cooperative Society, Mansa, said based on the land holding, each person was getting only 50 per cent of the requirement.In July, the state government had issued directions that 80 per cent of fertiliser would be allocated to cooperative societies and only 20 per cent would go to private traders, with an aim of mitigating the problems faced by small and marginal farmers in sourcing fertilisers.However, this order was reversed in September, and both sides were to get 50 per cent each of the stocks.As the supply situation continued to remain grim, on past Saturday, it was decided to allocate 60 per cent of the DAP to cooperative societies, which has now been increased to 70 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-dap-shortage-coop-societies-quota-hiked-336127
10-11-2021||---||‘Truce’ reached, Navjot Sidhu to resume work soon||Rajmeet SinghTribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9Sensing the urgent need to see Navjot Singh Sidhu back in business as the PCC chief, with time running out for the ruling Congress to roll out its election campaign, the party and CM Charanjit Singh Channi finally decided to accept Advocate General APS Deol’s resignation, after routing it through the Council of Ministers.Prays for corridor reopeningPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday held a prayer meeting near the Integrated Check Post at Dera Baba Nanak for the re-opening of the Kartarpur corridor. “I hope the Centre throws open the gates soon so that people can pay obeisance at the shrine,” he said.AAP MLA ruby quitsHours before resigning from the primary membership of the party, Bathinda Rural AAP MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby’s met CM Channi and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, fuelling reports of her joining the Congress.Nothing against AGThere is no personal grudge with Deol. We demanded his removal due to his conflict of interest. — Navjot Kaur Sidhu, Former MLAAt the moment, Sidhu appears to have prevailed upon the Channi government to heed to his demand for replacing the AG and Punjab DGP. After two days of hectic parleys with Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary in the middle, the ice between CM Channi and Sidhu was broken last evening following an assurance by the CM of accepting Deol’s resignation and other demands, including required action in the sacrilege probe and STF drug report on drug trafficking. Sidhu is expected to assume charge at the PCC office in the coming days.It is to be seen whether CM Channi allows Sidhu’s intervention in selecting the new AG, though names of DS Patwalia and Anmol Rattan Sidhu are again doing the rounds. CM Channi said Deol’s resignation had been sent to the Governor for approval and the new AG would be appointed by Wednesday. PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla was sent in a state helicopter to bring back Sidhu, who was in Amritsar, for a joint press conference with CM Channi after today’s Cabinet meeting.Ahead of the meeting, the CM had a brief talk with Sidhu at Punjab Raj Bhavan guest house on crucial decisions such as bringing down the sand gravel prices to Rs 5.50 per cubic feet and regularisation of contract staff. Regarding Sidhu’s demand to replace the DGP, CM Channi clarified a new panel of officers for the appointment was awaited from the Union Public Service Commission.The party leadership wants to keep Sidhu in good humour in the run up to the Assembly election. Sources say the truce has been reached, at least for the time being, as the DGP is yet to be replaced. Sidhu did partially acknowledge efforts being put in by CM Channi, saying the Cabinet decision today on the sand and gravel prices was the first step taken in the right direction as the sand and liquor cartel had to end. Stressing the need for a roadmap to mop up financial resources, Sidhu said he would give full cooperation to the government as PCC chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/truce-reached-navjot-sidhu-to-resume-work-soon-336134
10-11-2021||---||FIRs ordered against DAP hoarders; Punjab to coordinate with Centre||Tribune News ServicePatiala/Chandigarh, Nov 9Farmers are up in arms against the state government and the Centre for their failure “to arrange for sufficient” diammonium phosphate (DAP), leading to delay in sowing of wheat and potato crop. Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha, meanwhile, has ordered FIRs against hoarders and said the government will ensure there’s no scarcity of fertiliser.Will meet shortfallThe shortfall in DAP will be met by November 15. At least 42 rakes have been demanded from the Centre. Besides, 35 more are expected by November 30. Nine are already in transit. — Randeep Nabha, Agriculture MinisterIn the wake of shortage in the market, farmers are left with no option but to buy DAP being sold on the black market, despite farmer associations advise to its members against such malpractices. Since the state is getting lesser share than its allocation, the stock at cooperative societies is minimal. With the word of shortage spreading, many dealers and landlords have already hoarded DAP, leading to its further shortage in the market.Meanwhile, farmers claim they have no option, but to buy the DAP at a premium. “In many areas, where DAP is available for Rs 1,200 a bag, dealers sell it with a pack of machinery, seeds, sulphur or weedicides,” said Jasbir Garcha, a farmer in Doraha.However, fertiliser dealers claim it was unfair to them. “Fertiliser manufacturers are selling DAP to us with schemes and we are left with no option but to sell it accordingly,” said a fertiliser dealer.Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha said they were already asking for more allocation against Punjab’s pending demand of DAP. “The prices of DAP is high in the international market and required quantity is not available internationally. I have asked all Chief Agriculture Officers to ensure retailers, cooperative societies and even individual farmers, do not illegally hoard DAP.”Farmers under the banner of various farm unions are already protesting across Punjab against the shortage of DAP. “Being a basic nutrient for Rabi crops, the DAP fertiliser has to be sprinkled at the time of sowing crops like potato, mustard and wheat. A bag of at least 45 kilos for sowing an acre of land is needed. Any delay in its supply adversely impacts sowing and therefore we are worried if we will get the fertilizer in time,” they said.Meanwhile, the Agriculture Department today constituted a team of officers who would sit in Delhi for better coordination with the Government of India for meeting the demand of availability of DAP in Punjab. Disclosing this, Nabha on Tuesday said the team of officers from the department would oversee the rakes allocation to Punjab while sitting in the control room made by the Centre in New Delhi. This would help us asking for more share allocation against our pending demand of the DAP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firs-ordered-against-dap-hoarders-punjab-to-coordinate-with-centre-336135
10-11-2021||Aman Sood||Farm fires flare, Malwa engulfed in smog||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 9Thick smoggy conditions prevailed in many cities and villages of the Malwa belt due to a spike in farm fire incidents. With over 10,000 cases in the past three days, the total farm fire incidents have crossed 45,000.State got lion’s share of Central funds to tackle menaceExperts warn that at this rate, farm fire incidents may cross 65,000, easily surpassing 52,991 cases reported in 2019, raising doubts over the state’s preparedness and expenditure on preventing stubble burning.Thick smog enveloped various parts of the city and villages yesterday and today, prompting the Health Department to issue an advisory, asking elderly people and children to stay indoors. With the air quality in villages and cities of Malwa dipping due to pollutants, residents complained of itching in eyes, soar throat and bodyache.A thick blanket of smog engulfed the rural areas on Tuesday with several districts reporting poor air quality. Smog was more evident during the morning and evening hours. Air pollution has soared to hazardous levels in certain pockets due to rising stubble burning cases. High particulate matter in the air has further aggravated the situation.“Almost 60 per cent of the total farm fires have been reported in November, with over 15,000 being witnessed in the past five days alone. This has happened as the time to prepare the fields for the next crop is limited now,” said an Agriculture Department official. “We expect that stubble burning cases will decrease over the next seven to 10 days as the harvesting season nears its end,” said the official.However, experts said with the recent spike and many pockets in the Malwa belt yet to harvest crop, the farm fire incidents may easily go past 65,000 over the next few days. “This will raise a question mark on our preparedness and ability to deliver results despite spending crores of rupees on awareness drives and machinery,” he said.“We are monitoring the situation and hope farm fire incidents drop in the next few days,” said member secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board, Karunesh Garg.Punjab is experiencing the worst-ever post-paddy season smog. The prevailing conditions are not good for children and elderly people, warn health officials. There was some improvement in the air due to good wind speed for a few days, but with a drop in speed now, polluted air is leading to smog throughout the day.In Punjab, a total of 30.66 lakh hectares are under rice cultivation this year — 26.05 lakh hectare under paddy (non-basmati) and 4.61 lakh hectare under basmati.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-fires-flare-malwa-engulfed-in-smog-336136
10-11-2021||New Delhi||Indian-American Narinder Singh Kapany who laid groundwork for high-speed Internet gets Padma Vibhushan||In recognition of his contribution in the field of ‘fibre optics’, the Government of India bestowed Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award, upon Indian-American Narinder Singh Kapany posthumously on Tuesday.Known as the ‘Father of Fibre Optics’, Kapany coined the term fibre optics, Rashtrapati Bhavan said in an official release, adding he “laid the foundation for today’s high-speed Internet technology”. Kapany, born in India’s Moga in 1926, died last year. His daughter Kiran has said the family was “truly humbled” and “overwhelmed”. She thanked the Government of India for bestowing the honour on her father.On his work on fibre optics, Kiran is reported to have said: “We realise how deeply he touched so many lives and how he laid the groundwork for so many to know that they could also reach for the stars. We thank you with all our hearts.”Narinder Singh Kapany has also been honoured in the past with Pravasi Bharatiya Samman by the Government of India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indian-american-narinder-singh-kapany-who-laid-groundwork-for-high-speed-internet-gets-padma-vibhushan-336137
10-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala orthopaedic surgeon Dr Ratan Lal Mittal gets Padma Shri, his pioneering work recognised||Octogenarian Dr Ratan Lal Mittal, a renowned orthopaedic surgeon from Patiala, received Padma Shri for his contribution in the field of medicine.Dr Mittal, a former professor and head of the Orthopaedic Department at Government Medical College, Patiala, is known for performing rare clubfoot surgeries free of cost. Dr Mittal has done cutting-edge research on severe, rigid and neglected clubfoot deformities — highly prevalent in lower and middle income countries, including India.Notably, Dr Mittal, in September, had performed an unprecedented corrective surgery of world’s first S-shaped foot deformity on a 10-year-old kid.While talking to The Tribune, he said, “This is award for my contribution to pioneering work in clubfoot surgery technique. With this technique that I invented, any type of clubfoot deformity can be corrected. I am thankful to the Government of India for giving recognition to my research work.” Dr Mittal said his research work started at the Anatomy Museum of Government Medical College, Patiala, in early 1970s. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-orthopaedic-surgeon-dr-ratan-lal-mittal-gets-padma-shri-his-pioneering-work-recognised-336138
10-11-2021||New Delhi||Tarlochan Singh feted with Padma Bhushan for social service||President Ramnath Kovind today presented Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian award, to Tarlochan Singh for his contribution in social service.Born on July 28, 1933, in Jhelum, now in Pakistan, Singh had served as press secretary to former President Giani Zail Singh and has vast administrative experience with having served in various capacities in Punjab and Central governments.Talking to The Tribune, Singh expressed happiness and thanked the Government of India for recognising his work in the public sphere.“It was a moment of extreme pleasure for me, as both President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally congratulated me on receiving the prestigious award,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tarlochan-singh-feted-with-padma-bhushan-for-social-service-336139
10-11-2021||New Delhi||Jitender Singh Shunty who lent helping hand to Covid-affected gets Padma Shri||Jitender Singh Shunty, who received Padma Shri, is the founder of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Seva Dal, engaged in the service of people by transporting Covid-19 patients to hospitals and caring for unclaimed bodies.Expressing happiness on receiving the award, he said it belonged to each and everyone who helped him accomplish the work during the pandemic. “I am inspired by Bhagat Singh, who at the age of 23 kissed the hangman’s noose for the country.” A two-time councillor from the Jhilmil ward and former Shahdara MLA, Singh has been engaged in running the foundation for 25 years,providing free ambulance services to the poor.Their chain of service remained uninterrupted all through the crisis even though Singh got infected with the virus along with son Jyot Jeet and wife Baljit Kaur. During the crisis, Jitender had told The Tribune: “I have no regrets that I have contracted the virus. It was something I was anticipating. My only regret is I am unable to personally serve the people who might still need my help. We may be quarantined at home but our organisation’s activities continue uninterrupted.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jitender-singh-shunty-who-lent-helping-hand-to-covid-affected-gets-padma-shri-336140
10-11-2021||Jalandhar||Prakash Kaur: A mother to 100 abandoned girls feted with Padma Shri||Most people who have seen the welfare work done by Prakash Kaur — who was awarded Padma Shri today — term it a well-deserved achievement. Left on the streets as a baby 60 years ago, she was raised at Nari Niketan in the city. Today, she is a mother to 100 abandoned girls. She has been running ‘Unique Home’ — a centre for orphans, “unwanted” and “unclaimed” girls — on the Nakodar Road, for the past 28 years.Almost 30 girls raised by her are married. The other 70 are studying in private schools and colleges. While some of them are doing MBBS and BTech, others are pursuing LLB, psychology and other professional courses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prakash-kaur-a-mother-to-100-abandoned-girls-feted-with-padma-shri-336141
10-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala Phulkari artist Lajwanti weaves success, honoured with Padma Shri||Patiala-based Phulkari artist Lajwanti (64), who has been doing the artwork since she was six, was honoured with the Padma Shri award.Having received a national award in 1993, she still awaits recognition of her work by the state government of Punjab. The Tribune had carried a story on her when the award was announced in January. “My family brought the art to India while migrating from Multan, Pakistan, during Partition. I learnt it from my grandmother out of interest,” she said. Later, her two sons and three daughters also joined her. On the receipt of the award, she said it was a matter of great pride. “It feels good when the government recognises your contribution to traditional art,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-phulkari-artist-lajwanti-weaves-success-honoured-with-padma-shri-336142
10-11-2021||---||Marching orders for rehired staff in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 9The Punjab Government today issued marching orders to employees who had got extension in service beyond the age of superannuation at 58 years.The orders were issued by the Personnel Department, superseding all previous notifications related to the issue.With this, re-appointments of doctors made in the Health Department, besides those in the Water Resources, Hospitality and Finance departments stand cancelled. Earlier, the government had allowed extension in service and re-appointments in the rarest of rare cases.While Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has been vocal against re-appointment of retiring employees, apparently many ministers refused to adhere to his opinion. In the Water Resources Department, for instance, as many as 15 draftsmen, 11 executive engineers, two superintending engineers and a Chief Engineer were re-employed last month.All departments have been asked to immediately relieve all such appointees, barring the law officers appointed by the government. This order can also be read in consonance with the government decision on regularising services of contract employees and filling vacant posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/marching-orders-for-rehired-staff-in-punjab-336143
10-11-2021||Moga||Kejriwal defers Moga visit||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal has deferred his November 14 visit to Moga to announce party’s next set of poll promises. Earlier, he had unveiled a 10-point agenda for the development of industry, trade and commerce, besides announcing 300 units of free power and lowering tariff for domestic sector.Bahl inducted, gets Gurdaspur ticketFormer Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board chairman Raman Bahl was on Tuesday formally inducted into the AAP even as the party officially announced his candidature from Gurdaspur seat.AAP spokesperson Navdeep Singh Sangha said the proposed visit had been postponed by three to four days. Although the exact date would be announced in a day or two, he was likely arrive on November 18, he said.Meanwhile, actor Sonu Sood said he had no plans to meet Kejriwal during his proposed Moga visit. Sonu rubbished rumours he was planning to join politics, saying: “As of now, I have no such plans. I am concentrating on social work and films, which is my priority,” he said.The actor said his advice to political leaders last week should be seen as personal views. He had said leaders should quit if the promises made in the manifesto were not fulfilled.A few months ago, Sood had met Kejriwal and joined his government as an “ambassador” to mentor youth. The meeting triggered a debate on Sood possibly joining politics. Kejriwal’s visit to Sood’s native town is now being seen in the political circles as an effort to bring the actor into the party fold. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-defers-moga-visit-336144
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||HC raps Punjab over cases against lawmakers||Just about eight months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made clear its intent to fast-track the cases involving sitting and erstwhile parliamentarians and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the Bench today rapped the two states and the CBI for acting in a “totally unacceptable” manner.The admonition by the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil came following delayed filing of reports in suo motu case ‘In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs’ for monitoring the progress of matters pending against the MP/MLAs’.As the case came up for resumed hearing, the Bench asserted the states of Punjab and Haryana, the Enforcement Directorate, as well as the CBI, were called upon to submit their reports. Even though a detailed order was passed on October 25 in this regard, it was unfortunate that the reports were not submitted prior to the date fixed.“The same have been now received in the court giving no time for the amicus curiae to go through the same or the court. This conduct on the part of the officers and two states, as well as the CBI, is totally unacceptable. It is for the last time that the court is accommodating by taking these additional affidavits or reports on record today,” the Bench added, while fixing the case for consideration on November 11. The Bench on the previous date of hearing had directed Punjab to furnish status of 42 cases registered against MP/MLAs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-raps-punjab-over-cases-against-lawmakers-336145
10-11-2021||Gurdaspur||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa must quit over job row, says Congress MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa||Fissures have started appearing in the Gurdaspur Congress with Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa demanding the resignation of Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for “appointing his son-in-law Tarun Vir Singh Lehal to the post of Additional Advocate General”.Bajwa reminded Randhawa how he criticised him when he tried to appoint his son Arjun Partap Singh as an inspector in the Punjab Police a few months ago.“It is a classic case of the pot calling the kettle black. Randhawa, please do not maintain double standards. When the Punjab Government had virtually cleared the appointment of my son, you were among the first to castigate me and then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh,” he said. Randhawa could not be reached for comment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-must-quit-over-job-row-says-congress-mla-fateh-jung-singh-bajwa-336146
10-11-2021||Moga||Minister Rana Gurjit Singh gheraoed over relief to cotton growers||Agitated over inadequate compensation to farmers who had lost their cotton crop to the pink bollworm attack, BKU (Ekta) activists today broke the security cordon of Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjit Singh at Nihalsinghwala town in the district. He was here to meet party workers in the run-up to the elections.The farmers asked the minister as to why no legal action had been taken against the suppliers of spurious seeds and pesticides, which had led to the loss of cotton crop in the Malwa belt. They also lashed out at the minister for not giving adequate compensation to farmers. They claimed thousands of farmers in the district, besides Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar and Fazilka, had suffered losses but the government was not giving adequate compensation.The minister’s cavalcade remained blocked for some time, before the police created a safe passage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-rana-gurjit-singh-gheraoed-over-relief-to-cotton-growers-336148
10-11-2021||Abohar||Farmers protest Harsimrat Badal’s meet||SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had to face farmers’ protest when she addressed a meeting in favour of Hardev Singh Megh, the party candidate from Balluana, at Seetogunno village today.Farmers leaders said the administration had assured them Harsimrat would stop on her way to answer their questions but she went straight to the meeting venue. Protesters at the venue showed black flags to her. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-harsimrat-badals-meet-336149
10-11-2021||Muktsar||Sukhbir Badal visits Rajasthan shrine Salasar Dham||After his recent visit to religious shrines in Ludhiana and Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today paid obeisance at Salasar Dham in Rajasthan.Earlier, the SAD had an alliance with the BJP, which has a major urban vote bank. “The SAD is making all efforts to please the Hindu community by regularly visiting shrines,” political observers said. Meanwhile, Sukhbir promised to resume CM pilgrimage scheme, if party came to power. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-visits-rajasthan-shrine-salasar-dham-336150
10-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Two more die of diarrhoea in Rajpura; public taps installed||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 9Two minor girls of Dheha Basti in Rajpura town of the district — the epicentre of the diarrhoea outbreak — have reportedly died of diarrhoea.Strategy in worksA plan is being drawn to avoid such outbreaks in future. A proper drainage system and water supply pipes will be provided for safe drinking water in the area.— Sandeep Hans, Patiala DCWhile one died at Government Rajindra Hospital during treatment, the other one died while being shifted from Rajpura Civil hospital to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.With this, a total of six children, including five girls, have already died of diarrhoea so far. Meanwhile, two fresh cases of diarrhoea were reported from the adjoining areas of the Dheha Basti today. Health officials informed that both patients were admitted to the hospital. The number of diarrhoea patients, with these two, has reached 43 at Dheha Basti.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said the situation was under control and only seven patients were undergoing treatment.Patiala DC Sandeep Hans asked the Water Supply & Sewerage Board officials to immediately install public taps and mobile toilets at the outbreak site. Rajpura MLA Hardial Singh Kamboj was also present at the meeting.The DC said they had sent a request to the government for financial assistance to the families of the deceased.Karandeep Singh, Sub-Divisional Officer, Department of Water Supply, said, “We have already installed public taps from our main water supply line. Meanwhile, we are chalking out a plan for the new pipeline and sewerage for the area.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-more-die-of-diarrhoea-in-rajpura-public-taps-installed-336151
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue cases begin to decline in Punjab||After hitting the peak last month, dengue cases have started declining in the state.According to state Health Department, till mid October, the daily average of confirmed dengue cases was 650. Now with decline in temperatures, the daily average of the cases has come down to 250. On October 30, the number of cases was 16,129 and on November 8, the cases reached 19,238. Thus in the last nine days the state has added around 3,000 new cases.This year the state witnessed the worst dengue breakout as the number of cases has already hit 20,000. Around 70 deaths have been reported. Five districts reported over 50 per cent of the cases. Mohali is the worst affected with over 3,300 cases and 33 deaths, followed by Bathinda with 2,362 cases and five deaths. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-cases-begin-to-decline-in-punjab-336152
10-11-2021||---||55 kg opium seized near Kartarpur||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 9The police arrested a drug smuggler with 55-kg opium during a special checking near Kartarpur today.The accused has been identified as Yudhvir Singh of Devidaspur village in Jandiala Guru, Amritsar. Yudhvir is a proclaimed offender and wanted in various NDPS cases. The police have also recovered a car from the accused.Director General of Police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said under an ongoing special drive against drugs, the CIA wing of the Jalandhar rural police had laid a naka at Kartarpur-Kishanpura road. He said during checking, the police team stopped a car being driven by Yudhvir and recovered the drug from his possession. However, Yudhvir’s accomplice identified as Palwinder Singh of Amritsar managed to flee the spot, he added.The DGP said during preliminary investigation, Yudhvir revealed that he had received the consignment through notorious drug smuggler Navpreet Singh of Vajir Bhullar village in Beas, presently residing abroad.Yudhvir revealed that Navpreet, while sitting abroad, had been supplying large scale of refined drugs mainly opium and heroin to Punjab through his aides. Pertinently, Navpreet has been facing various criminal cases under the NDPS Act and is also wanted in Phillaur’s Chintu murder case.Recently, Navpreet’s name had also appeared in the case of 300-kg heroin consignment recovered by a special cell of the Delhi Police.Jalandhar SSP (rural) Satinder Singh said further investigations are on and more recoveries and arrests were expected to be made soon. Meanwhile, an FIR has been registered under Sections 18C/61/85 of the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/55-kg-opium-seized-near-kartarpur-336153
10-11-2021||Bathinda||First Sikh elected to city council in Connecticut (USA)||Punjab-origin Swaranjit Singh (in pic) made history by becoming the first Sikh to get elected to a city council in Connecticut (USA).Swaranjit Singh Khalsa (36), who runs small businesses in Norwich where he lives with his wife and daughter, said the election speaks volumes about the fact that voters were acknowledging all the work he had been doing on the Board of Education and for equity and cultural awareness.In Norwich, Swaranjit estimates that there are around 10 Sikh families in total, but his candidacy spoke to the diversity. He found support from Indian families and the Haitian community, and yet others who found a sense of trust in his bid for the municipal body, he said. While talking to the media in the US, Swaranjit said for Sikhs, who were “underrepresented” in India and in Punjab, their homeland, it's a very big deal that they are making their way into the American political system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/first-sikh-elected-to-city-council-in-connecticut-usa-336154
10-11-2021||Ropar||Strengthen health infra in Ropar villages, authorities told||Disposing of an application filed by RTI activist and AAP leader Dinesh Chadha, Harmit Singh and Rajinder Singh, both of Lodhimajra village and Narinderpal Singh of Jhandian village, the Ropar Permanent Lok Adalat has directed the Deputy Commissioner and the Civil Surgeon to strengthen health infrastructure in Singhpur, Jhandian and Lodhimajra villages.Chadha along with local residents had been protesting poor condition of hospitals in these villages in May and June. He had also filed an application with the Permanent Lok Adalat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/strengthen-health-infra-in-ropar-villages-authorities-told-336155
10-11-2021||---||Protest against ‘assault’ on youth, road blocked||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, November 9Hundreds of people belonging to Vajidpur village blocked the Ferozepur-Moga road (NH-95) outside the Kulgarhi police station last night.4 locals booked under NDPS ActThey staged a protest against alleged physical assault on a youth, Krishan Kumar (25), who is reportedly the nephew of Pastor Jaipaul whose video alleging open sale of ‘chitta’ (drugs) in the village had gone viral last week. In the video, Jaipaul had alleged that drug peddlers were roaming scot free in the village under political patronage and had also exhorted Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, besides the DGP, to take stern action against the accused.Jaipaul and his family members alleged that the attack on Krishan was an outcome of their public utterances against drug peddlers. Later, SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans, along with senior police officials, arrived at the spot and assured the protestors of action against the culprits.The SSP also ordered registration of a case against the accused following which a case under Sections 307, 148, 149 and 120 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act was registered against seven persons, identified as Karan, Rahul, Harish, Love, Manpreet, Rupa and Darshana and two unidentified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-against-assault-on-youth-road-blocked-336157
10-11-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Drone targeted along border in Sarai Amanat Khan||A drone was spotted in the Sarai Amanat Khan area twice on Monday night, prompting Border Security Force (BSF) personnel to fire 20 gunshots and drive it back to the Pakistan territory.The BSF today launched a search operation in the area but nothing incriminating was recovered. BSF Commandant Keshwan Nanda said a search operation was carried out in the area for over three hours but nothing suspicious was recovered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tarn-taran-drone-targeted-along-border-in-sarai-amanat-khan-336158
10-11-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot: ASI sacked for supplying drugs to jail inmates||The police today dismissed an ASI for allegedly supplying narcotics to prisoners. The ASI, Jaspal Singh, was nabbed with 11-gm drug powder, hidden in a bottle, during his frisking at the jail.Jaspal Singh was deputed in the high security zone of the jail where various gangsters are lodged. During questioning, the ASI claimed it was his ‘medicine’. After the jail authorities lodged a complaint with the police, a case was registered against Jaspal under the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-asi-sacked-for-supplying-drugs-to-jail-inmates-336159
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt’s poll dole: Regular jobs for 36K employees, sand price slashed||With the Assembly elections round the corner, Punjab Cabinet on Tuesday took several populist decisions, including capping the sand and gravel price at Rs 5.50 per cubic ft, regularising services of 36,000 contractual employees, and terminating and re-determining power purchase agreements (PPAs).The legislations to regularise the services of contractual staff and terminate the PPAs will be tabled in the Vidhan Sabha session scheduled for November 11.New rates of sand and gravel to be effective from Wednesday. Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Chief MinisterAfter a Cabinet meeting here today, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the new rates of sand and gravel fixed at Rs 5.50 per cubic ft at mining sites, including loading charges, would be effective from tomorrow. Earlier, the pit head selling price of sand and gravel was Rs 9 cubic ft as per the Punjab Sand and Gravel Mining Policy, 2018.The Cabinet also decided to cut the royalty rate of ordinary clay and ordinary earth from Rs 10 per tonne to Rs 2.5 per tonne. As per the new policy, the land owner or possessor can dispose of ordinary earth extracted during the levelling of their agriculture fields up to 3 ft. These activities do not require any permit, rent or royalty. — TNSGovt accepts AG Deol’s resignationAmid pressure mounted by PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Channi-led Punjab Cabinet on Tuesday accepted Advocate General APS Deol’s resignation. CM Channi got the decision stamped from the Council of Ministers. The replacement of DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, as desired by Sidhu, is still awaited.Key Cabinet decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govts-poll-dole-regular-jobs-for-36k-employees-sand-price-slashed-336055
10-11-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi gives in to Navjot Sidhu's demand, accepts APS Deol's resignation as AG||Chandigarh, November 9The Punjab Cabinet has accepted the resignation of Advocate General A P S Deol and the post left vacant by him will be filled by Wednesday, said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi here.State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been pushing for the replacement of Deol, who had represented former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in cases related to the 2015 desecration incidents and police firing on protesters.Addressing the media after the Cabinet meeting, Channi said the AG had resigned a few days ago.“The Cabinet today accepted it (resignation),” said Channi, adding that it would be sent to the state governor.“Tomorrow, the new AG will be appointed,” said Channi.The Punjab Cabinet has decided to regularise 36,000 contractual employees. A legislation in this regard will be tabled during the Vidhan Sabha session, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said.Minimum wages of unskilled workers will be increased with effect from March 1, 2020.CM Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu shared the stage during press briefing on Cabinet meeting.The Cabinet also decided to reduce rate of sand from Rs 9 per sq ft to Rs 5.50 per sq ft.Brick-kilns will be taken out of purview of mining policy. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-gives-in-to-navjot-sidhus-demand-accepts-aps-deols-resignation-as-ag-335970
10-11-2021||Archit Watts||With party's focus on urban voters, Sukhbir Badal and SAD leaders leave for Salasar Dham in Rajasthan||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 9As the Assembly elections are around the corner, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal is regularly visiting Hindu religious shrines.For instance, on the first Navratri, he went to Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh and on Tuesday he left for Salasar Dham in Rajasthan.An SAD leader said that some MLAs and ex-MLAs, including Sikander Singh Maluka, Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu, Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, Harpreet Singh Kotbhai, Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon, Prem Arora, Gulzar Singh, Hans Raj Josan, and Barjinder Singh Makhan Brar left from Badal village here on Tuesday morning in a luxury bus."Eariler, the SAD had an alliance with the BJP. However, now the alliance is over and the SAD has come into a pact with the BSP. Now, the SAD is trying to woo the urban voters and that'swhy its leaders are making all efforts to please the Hindu community," said some elderly residents sitting in a park here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-partys-focus-on-urban-voters-sukhbir-badal-and-sad-leaders-leave-for-salasar-dham-in-rajasthan-335933
