11-11-2021||Ferozepur||Scuffle between farmers, Akali workers; SAD leader and his driver booked||The police on Thursday booked SAD leader Vardev Singh Noni Mann and his driver Gurvinder Singh for allegedly trying to run a vehicle over the farmers and firing in the air during a scuffle that took place the previous day following a protest against the visit of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal here.Mann is the SAD candidate from Guruharsahai for the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab.The party leader and his driver had been booked under different sections of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder and the Arms Act, the police said.The incident took place on Wednesday when Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal was here to attend some programmes to drum up support for her party in the upcoming assembly polls.After the incident, Badal had accused some Congress workers of holding a protest against her under the garb of farmers and also attacking Akali leaders, including Mann and Joginder Singh Jindu.However, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), in a statement, had alleged that some Akali leaders tried to run over vehicles on some farmers in Ferozepur, a claim vehemently denied by the party.Mann alias Noni had refuted allegations, saying he himself had a narrow escape as some Congress workers under the garb of farmers allegedly fired upon him and attacked his vehicle that got damaged in the incident.Mann had also alleged that his gunman was thrashed and his uniform torn apart.Farmers’ union leader Harnek Singh Mehma, Manjit Singh Pandher and Darshan Singh Karma said the police are functioning under pressure.“The police have not added the name of former SAD MLA Joginder Singh Jindu who was with Vardev Singh Mann in the SUV which tried to kill the farmers. We demand that his name should also be included in the FIR,” said Mehma.The farmers also held a protest in front of the SSP office and demanded immediate arrest of SAD leaders.“The Congress leaders had masqueraded as farmers to disturb the event and attack the Akali leaders. We have photographic evidence in which senior Congress leaders can be seen engaged in the protest against SAD leaders,” said Mann. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scuffle-between-farmers-akali-workers-sad-leader-and-his-driver-booked-336842
11-11-2021||New Delhi||AAP’s strategy for Punjab polls runs into rough weather||The strategy of Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) regarding the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab has run into rough weather with the ruling Congress elevating Charanjit Singh Channi, a Scheduled Caste (SC) member from Sikh community, as chief minister of the state.The central leadership of the AAP is tipped to convene a strategic meeting of key leaders concerning Punjab soon to assess the emerging ground realities in the state.The party is keenly watching how the Congress politics in the state, which is factious, settles down and how Channi scores himself through the choppy waters created by Navjot Singh Sidhu.“We are also following the moves of former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the BJP,” a senior AAP leader, who did not wish to be identified, said.The AAP, which had been presenting itself as a serious contender to form a government in Punjab, appears to be on the back foot now and diffident, with its support base of SCs and BCs likely to get adversely affected with Singh heading the Congress poll campaign.The AAP leaders, however, are keeping a brave face in public, saying that the Congress tactics of changing chief minister without fulfilling its promises during the last assembly elections would not stick.The party’s meteoric rise in Punjab politics is considered to be on account of fulsome support to it from SCs, BCs, OBCs, and also from sections in the Jat Sikhs and others who were disenchanted with the traditional Congress and Akali politics.The apprehension in AAP circles is that with the Scheduled Castes comprising more than 31 per cent (some estimates put it to more than 34 per cent) of the state’s population, Channi could enable the Congress to have a jump on its rival parties in the assembly elections. This momentum could also suck in BCs and OBCs in the Congress caravan.Channi is said to have a clean and humble image. He has not deported himself without earning debit during his short stint which has prevented AAP and other opponent parties of Congress to criticise him.In the given scenario, if AAP criticises him, it could be resented by SCs.With SAD-BSP alliance having declared to make Dalit as deputy chief minister, and BJP also pitching for Dalits for political empowerment, the AAP’s earlier strategies have been further challenged.A section in the AAP feels that if the party now projects a Dalit, it would be seen as a proverbial late farmer, and a copycat, besides danger of losing street cred with the Jat Sikhs. Hence, the central leadership finds itself between the rock and the hard place.Meanwhile, AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal told a private TV channel late yesterday evening that the name of his party’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab will be declared before the assembly polls.He said the people of Punjab have shown affinity for AAP.“They are angry with Akali leaders. The ruling Congress have betrayed the trust of people and are busy fighting like cats and dogs,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-strategy-for-punjab-polls-runs-into-rough-weather-336809
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Don't politicise national security issues: Amarinder||Rejecting the Punjab government resolution moved in the Vidhan Sabha on Thursday against the proposed move of the Centre to extend the operational jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 km to 50 km, former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked the state government not to politicise the issue of national security for petty partisans ends and motives."The operational jurisdiction of the BSF concerns national security and not the law and order in the state, which the current powers that be in Punjab are apparently not able to understand," he remarked in a statement here.Amarinder Singh said it was sad that the government was trying to politicize an issue, which concerns national security and concerns all border states, including Punjab.He pointed out that it is not only Punjab, but the states like Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Gujarat, West Bengal and others where the BSF jurisdiction is 50 kms inside the international border.Moreover, he added, with Pakistan using sophisticated technology and highly improvised drones with a range of as much as 30 km, it is important that the BSF gets more operational jurisdiction."Extending the operational jurisdiction of the BSF neither infringes upon the federal authority of the state, nor questions the competence of the state police in maintaining law and order, as some vested political interests are trying to make out," Amarinder Singh remarked.Extending operational jurisdiction of BSF neither infringes upon federal authority of Punjab, nor questions competence of state police in maintaining law n order, as some vested political interests are trying to make out. It concerns national security; must not be politicised.The former Chief Minister also made it clear that there is a huge difference between the law and order and national security. "Unfortunately people playing up the issue are unable to make out the difference between the law and order and the national security," he observed, while pointing out "the BSF like Punjab Police is our own force and not any external or foreign force coming to occupy our land".IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-politicise-national-security-issues-amarinder-336802
11-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Sunil Jakhar pokes fun at AAP for ‘not having a CM candidate’ for Punjab election||Chandigarh, November 11Congress leader Sunil Jakhar has poked fun at the fact that the Aam Aadmi Party has not announced a CM face in Punjab with regard to the forthcoming state Assembly elections.In a tweet, Jakhar refers to his interview given to Outlook magazine, saying, ‘A suitable Sikh match required’, followed by that this is not for a matrimonial alliance but it’s how AAP is planning to look for ‘a Sikh CM candidate on OLX’.He also says that since AAP’s MLAs were flocking to the Congress it might as well advertise for MLA candidates too."A suitable Sikh match required"(No, this is not for a matrimonial alliance) It’s how AAP was planning to look for a Sikh CM candidate on OLX*But with it’s MLAs still flocking to Cong,AAP should advertise for MLA candidates also*as told 2 Outlookhttps://t.co/YtTi7CKpL3  The tweet reads, ‘“A suitable Sikh match required” (No, this is not for a matrimonial alliance). It’s how AAP was planning to look for a Sikh CM candidate on OLX. But with it’s MLAs still flocking to Cong, AAP should advertise for MLA candidates also; as told 2 Outlook.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-pokes-fun-at-aap-for-not-having-a-cm-candidate-for-punjab-election-336794
11-11-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Heritage Street near Golden Temple, Amritsar, causes inconvenience to residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 10After the construction of the Heritage Street in 2016, there is only a single road from the Brahambuta Market to Sultanwind Gate, from where four wheelers can reach the Golden Temple complex. The SGPC vehicles, Kar Sewa trucks and vehicles of devotees and residents lead to regular traffic jams in the area.During the SAD-BJP tenure, the government constructed the Heritage Street to promote tourism by spending Rs 350 crore. The effort was highly appreciated by the visitors and tourists. But the vehicle-free Heritage Road increased the inconvenience of the residents of several localities around Golden Temple. The residents claimed that due to barricading on the Heritage Street, the traffic jams in small streets around the Golden Temple has become a routine affair.GS Bedi, a resident, said, “There is only one road, which is just 20-feet wide, and is approachable to the Golden Temple from Sultanwind gate to Brahmbuta market or Guru Ramdas Sarai. This is the only road from where trucks of wood, grains and other items reach for the Guru Ram Das Langar Hall. This is the only road which is used by residents, Akali leaders, SGPC employees and tourists to reach Darbar sahib on cars and auto rickshaws. This street remains jam for full day due to chaos of traffic.”During a visit, it has been observed that some turns are quite narrow from where only one vehicle can cross. Moreover, the open drains always pose risk of accidents.Ramesh, a resident of Chowk Dholian, said, “Many times, cars get stuck in the drains. The traffic on this road has increased several times after the construction of the Heritage Street. Other small roads from Gurudwara Ramsar to Baba Sahib Chowk and from Chowk Katra Jaimal Singh to Guru Bazar and Ghanta Ghar are only for pedestrians, two wheelers and e-rickshaws to reach.”The residents, who feel blessed for residing near the Darbar Sahib are facing inconvenience due to poor planning. The inner streets have become highly congested. Neither Akalis didn’t think about this problem nor Congress bothered to find some solution . But only residents and shopkeepers are suffering,” said Bedi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heritage-street-near-golden-temple-amritsar-causes-inconvenience-to-residents-336740
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||SIT to probe collusion between govt officials & transport mafia: Raja Warring||The Punjab Government will constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to probe an estimated loss of Rs 6,600 crore incurred by the Transport Department in the past over 14 years due to the alleged collusion between government officials and the transport mafia.Also read: Raja Warring’s midnight inspection at Zirakpur, six buses impoundedThe period includes 10 years of the SAD-BJP government and over four years of Capt Amarinder Singh’s tenure as the CM.Speaking at a press briefing, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said the department was preparing a report on the losses incurred by the state roadways due to illegal extension of permits to private bus operators. The report will be forwarded to CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa for further action.Warring alleged, “The state witnessed sheer loot of its resources during the 10-year rule of the SAD-BJP and over four-year tenure of Capt Amarinder. The loss suffered by the Transport Department for this period is around Rs 5,200 crore.” He said since the cancellation of 680 illegally extended permits last month, the department had been earning Rs 42 lakh profit every day. The state thus lost another Rs 1,380 crore since 2012, when the Punjab and Haryana High Court had struck down the illegal permits. “The total amount of nearly Rs 6,600 crore could have made a huge difference. Over 24,000 new buses could have been procured, employing nearly 50,000 new staff,” he said.Warring claimed the Transport Dept earned Rs104.31 crore in October. Revenue of the PRTC and Punjab Roadways increased to Rs55 crore and Rs50 crore in October.Channi compromised CM, says Jakhar“Ouster of a competent yet ‘allegedly’ compromised officer has exposed a ‘really’ compromised CM, giving rise to a pertinent question — whose government is it anyway?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-to-probe-collusion-between-govt-officials-transport-mafia-raja-warring-336606
11-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab Additional AG Mukesh Berry quits amid row||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10In a major embarrassment to the Punjab Government, Additional Advocate General Mukesh Berry on Wednesday resigned from the post just two days after his appointment, asking it not to ridicule and diminish the stature of senior advocates. The resignation comes after the government’s decision to accept senior advocate APS Deol’s resignation from the Advocate General’s post just over a month after his appointment.In a letter addressed to Punjab Principal Secretary, Department of Home Affairs, Anurag Verma, Berry asserted he was tendering his resignation without commenting upon the government’s decision to accept Deol’s resignation. Making it clear that he was unwilling to continue a moment longer, Berry made it clear that the resignation would be deemed to be accepted from the date of its submission, which was today itself.“Having remained an elected representative of the advocates as a member of the Bar Council of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh for 27 years and also the chairman of the same and in continuous service as law officer in the office of Advocate General, Punjab, for 28 years, I would request the government not to ridicule and diminish the status and dignity of the senior advocates of this High Court,” Berry added.Berry along with Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa’s son-in-law Tarun Vir Singh Lehal was appointed Additional Advocate General by the Channi government on November 8. Lehal’s appointment virtually led to an uproar, with the Opposition alleging nepotism.The Advocate General’s office has even otherwise been courting controversy ever since the Congress replaced Capt Amarinder Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi as Chief Minister.The government took about eight days to appoint the new Advocate General after Atul Nanda stepped down from the post. It initially finalised three names in quick succession for the post, leading to confusion and a general perception of indecisiveness.The information available suggests the post of Advocate General was initially promised to senior advocate DS Patwalia. In a last-minute turnaround, the government reportedly cleared the name of senior advocate Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu.But the government eventually appointed Deol, who was at one point the counsel for former top cop Sumedh Singh Saini and IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal, both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case. The appointment came as a surprise as the incidents of sacrilege and the subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015, have been considered politically sensitive.Was appointed two days agoMukesh Berry along with Dy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa’s son-in-law Tarun Vir Singh Lehal was appointed Addl AG by the Channi government on November 8||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-additional-ag-mukesh-berry-quits-amid-row-336607
11-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Vax drive falters in Punjab, only 31% jabbed with both doses||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 10Despite the Punjab Government’s best efforts, only 31 per cent of the eligible population in the state could be fully vaccinated so far.The daily vaccination figures have dropped drastically over the past few weeks, for which the Health Department blames the ongoing festival season. Only 88 persons got vaccinated on Diwali and 2,843 the next day, it said. Till date, 64.17 lakh eligible beneficiaries of nearly 2.07 crore have received both doses, although around 80 per cent of the targeted population has got the first dose. Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said they got a poor response in the past few weeks. “The drive will pick up pace after the festival season. We will be training vaccinators to persuade and motivate the beneficiaries to come forward,” he said.Department officials said with Covid graph seeing a downward trend, people had seemingly become complacent. On the gender gap of around 20 lakh, Bhasker said, “We are planning to go door-to-door to vaccinate women, who seem more reluctant in getting themselves jabbed.”India cases 11,466 Total Deaths 4,61,849Active Cases 1,39,683460 deaths in 24 hours||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vax-drive-falters-in-punjab-only-31-jabbed-with-both-doses-336609
11-11-2021||Faridkot||Two held with 22,300 tablets||Brig Mundi is MD of PESCOChandigarh: The Punjab Government has appointed Brig Tejvir Singh Mundi (retd) as the managing director of the Punjab Ex-Servicemen Corporation (PESCO). The orders issued on Wednesday said his appointment had been made for a period of two years. TNS‘Capt’s answer unsatisfactory’Faridkot: Ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh responded to the call of ‘parallel’ acting Jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand, who had questioned the former about his failure to ensure justice in sacrilege incidents. Mand said Amarinder had submitted his explanation but it was not satisfactory. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-with-22-300-tablets-336521
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Artistes: Name auditorium after Gursharan Singh||Theatre artistes from across Punjab have demanded that the upcoming auditorium announced by the Chief Minister should be named after the doyen of Punjabi theatre Gursharan Singh.Apart from Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi and Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch, more than 20 theatre teams active in Punjab have supported the demand. Kewal Dhaliwal, president of Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi, said, “It is pity that there is not even a single government building named after the monumental figure.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/artistes-name-auditorium-after-gursharan-singh-336522
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Legal Services Day observed||The Punjab State Legal Services Authority observed Legal Services Day by organising an awareness programme at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, on Tuesday.During the programme, Arun Gupta, District & Sessions Judge-cum-Member Secretary, Punjab State Legal Services Authority, and others addressed students and told them about the concept of ‘free legal aid” under the provisions of Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. Gupta said November 9 is observed as Legal Services Day because Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, came into effect on this day in 1996. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/legal-services-day-observed-336523
11-11-2021||Faridkot||1.5 lakh to appear for ward attendant exam on Sunday||Around 1.5 lakh candidates would be appearing for 800 posts of ward attendant on November 14. A written test for this would be conducted by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) at 359 centres in 20 districts.The university has sought the help of the district administration, police and all educational institutes in the 20 districts for the test. The School Education Department has already issued directions to all schools to cooperate with the university in conducting the test.To ensure that there is no impersonation, the university had also decided to do videography of all candidates at the exam centres, said Dr Raj Bahadur, BFUHS Vice-Chancellor. Notably, a ward attendant will fetch a salary of Rs 18,000 on regularisation of service and to get the job, a candidate will have to compete with 200 others. To be eligible for the post, the candidate must have passed middle standard with Punjabi language as one of the subjects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-5-lakh-to-appear-for-ward-attendant-exam-on-sunday-336524
11-11-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana bizwoman Rajni Bector awarded Padma Shri||Rajni Bector, founder and chairman emeritus, Mrs Bector’s Food Specialties Ltd, was awarded the Padma Shri award by President Ram Nath Kovind for her significant contribution to the promotion and sustainable growth of trade and industry.She was among the five recipients from Punjab who were honoured with the fourth-highest civilian award. At a special ceremony held at Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, Rajni Bector interacted with the President and Prime Minister. “I feel blessed and express my gratitude to the government for recognising my achievements,” said the recipient of Padma Shri. The Prime Minister also recognised her enthusiasm and expressed a desire to experience the taste of Rajni Bector’s recipe. Offering to fulfil his wish, Bector invited PM Modi to Ludhiana for lunch with her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-bizwoman-rajni-bector-awarded-padma-shri-336525
11-11-2021||---||Guest faculty seek regular jobs, lead march||Bathinda, November 10Members of the Government College Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association, Punjab, took out a protest march here and burnt an effigy of the state government and ministers outside Government Rajindra College on Wednesday. The protesters demanded that amid announcement of recruitment of lecturers, their jobs must be secured and the government must regularise their services without any condition.Sarbjit Singh, president of the association, said, “The government has announced to conduct recruitment of fresh lectures whereas there is no clarity with regard to jobs or continuation of guest faculty assistant professors rendering their services for the past over 15 to 20 years across the state. We have been sitting on a dharna for the past 10 days. Our strike will continue for an indefinite period until the government fulfils our demands.” He added, “We demand that our salaries be increased from Rs 21,600 to Rs 56,100 on par with part-time lecturers. We also demand that our services be regularised on a priority basis.”Students from government colleges also joined protetsing guest faculty assistant professors and demanded that the PTA funds be not collected from them. The association representatives also demanded that rather than paying a part of their salaries from PTA funds, the government must introduce a mechanism to make payment of entire salary amount from the state treasury.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guest-faculty-seek-regular-jobs-lead-march-336526
11-11-2021||Aman Sood||Pre-poll power sops bleed Punjab exchequer||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 10The pre-election doles of the state government in terms of various relaxations in the power sector are bleeding Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), which has to rely on loans to manage its working.As per latest data, of the Rs 17,800-crore subsidy required to be paid by the Punjab Government, around Rs 10,284 crore was payable by the end of October 2021, but only Rs 5,647 crore had been paid while Rs 4,637 crore was pending.The PSPCL is suffering due to this default as this has created serious cash flow problems. “Even the payments of retired employees have been delayed. Due to non-payments of subsidy, regular development works and new generation plants are not being executed departmentally. Due to financial constraints, the PSPCL is unable to infuse equity in new projects. And this is the major reason for the coming up of private thermal plants due to which power consumers of Punjab are suffering badly,” reads a letter to the CMD, PSPCL, by the PSEB Engineers’ Association.The Charanjit Singh Channi government’s power announcements are expected to cost the cash-strapped Punjab Rs 4,966 crore. The latest reduction in power tariff by Rs 3 per unit for those having a load of up to 7 KW will put an additional burden of Rs 3,316 crore on the exchequer.“Now, the PSPCL management, instead of asking the government to clear the pending amounts or to implement the tariff on the subsidised consumers in view of default by the government, has waived arrears of defaulting consumers to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore and is contemplating to implement reduction in tariff resulting in loss of Rs 3,300 crore more on the instructions of the state,” reads the letter.Further, power bills amounting to around Rs 2,000 crore of government departments are also pending. Even the payment of Rs 137 crore of SC and BPL consumers written off by the Punjab Government in 2016, just before Assembly elections, is still pending to be paid to the PSPCL. Non-payment of subsidy has created serious financial trouble for the PSPCL. “The financial constraints have already been reflected in the shortage of essential material, delayed payments to suppliers and contractors, thus hindering the works. This will also affect parameters considered for the rating of the company thereby increasing the financial cost. This can render the corporation ineligible for many benefit schemes. This is ultimately going to be reflected in the quality of power supply to the consumers,” said PSEB Engineers’ Association general secretary Ajaypal Singh Atwal. PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said, “We are getting Rs 500 crore per month as cash subsidy. The balance is adjusted in electricity duty.”No reimbursement of election doles||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pre-poll-power-sops-bleed-punjab-exchequer-336527
11-11-2021||Abohar||Shop, clinic burgled; Abohar SHO shifted||Unidentified miscreants critically assaulted a night guard in the main bazaar and burgled a shop and a clinic here.Various BJP, SAD leaders and businessmen launched a scathing attack on the police, following which City-1 SHO Baljit Singh was shifted to the district Police Lines and Wahabwala police station incharge Balwinder Singh took the charge.On being informed, social activist Praveen Chawla reached the spot and found goods scattered in the shop and security guard Shiv Mangal lying unconscious. He said it appeared that robbers took away about Rs 1.5 lakh. Later, the police reached the spot and started the probe. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shop-clinic-burgled-abohar-sho-shifted-336528
11-11-2021||---||Release vaccine incentive to ASHA workers: OP Soni to officials||Chandigarh, November 10Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni has directed health officials to immediately release the Covid vaccination incentive to ASHA workers as promised to them while roping them for the inoculation drive.“Motivating people in every nook and corner of the state for vaccination, dispelling their doubts about the jab and ensuring innoculation of the target population is a yeoman’s service rendered by health workers. They are delivering as expected and they must be provided the incentive in lieu of their service, without further delay.”Soni was approached by ASHA Workers’ and Volunteers’ Union, Punjab, in connection with the release of incentive. Earlier in the day, various employee unions met the Deputy CM and put forth their demands, including regularisation of NHM employees and hike in salary/honorarium taking it on par with that in Haryana.The Deputy CM promised that he would have the demand examined.Meanwhile, the representatives of the unions thanked Soni for patient hearing and requested early action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-vaccine-incentive-to-asha-workers-op-soni-to-officials-336529
11-11-2021||Bathinda||Seeking pay parity, nurses go on indefinite strike in Bathinda||Staff nurses under the banner of the Punjab Nursing Association started an indefinite ‘pen down, tool down’ strike and sat on a dharna outside the Civil Surgeon’s office in Bathinda.They have been demanding that the government must ensure pay parity and implement the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations as per the revised pay scale in 2011 and also increase the strength of nursing staff in state hospitals.Govt apatheticThe govt has been turning a deaf ear to our demands. So, we have launched an indefinite ‘pen down, tool down’ strike. The protest will continue until our demands are met. Swaranjit Kaur, Bathinda Nursing Assn ChiefSwaranjit Kaur, president of the Bathinda unit, said: “The government has been turning a deaf ear to our genuine demands. So, we have launched an indefinite ‘pen down, tool down’ strike. Our protest will continue until our demands are met.”“We have also been demanding for long that the status of nursing staff be changed to nursing officers but that also seems to have been ignored. Moreover, we also demand that nurses doing night shifts be given extra nursing care allowance considering the workload they undertake when the department is grappling with acute staff cruch.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seeking-pay-parity-nurses-go-on-indefinite-strike-in-bathinda-336530
11-11-2021||Sangrur/Muktsar||Will take to streets if decision to stop paddy purchase not revoked: Farmers to govt||The decision to close 204 of 219 paddy purchase centres in Sangrur and Malerkotla from Wednesday evening and the remaining from Thursday has angered farmers.After a meeting at Sunam, farmers have decided to launch an agitation if the authorities close any purchase centre. “Officers have no knowledge of when the paddy harvesting will end. Many farmers are still harvesting the crop,” said Amrik Singh, district president, BKU Ugrahan.As per sources in Malerkotla, till Tuesday evening, the authorities received 4,49,431 tonne of paddy, of which 4,44,661 tonne has been procured. In Sangrur, 14,37,529 tonne of total 14,61,782 tonne of paddy has been bought.Mandeep Singh, District Mandi Officer, Sangrur, said: “The government has taken this step to prevent paddy smuggling from other states.”In Muktsar too, the farmer unions have threatened to lodge fierce protests. “After Tuesday, fresh paddy arrival is not allowed. We will procure the already arrived stock in short time. Now, the private purchase of basmati crop will begin,” said Gaurav Kumar, District Mandi Officer.Meanwhile, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said, “Nearly 30% of the crop is yet to arrive in mandis... Moreover, untimely rain had already delayed the harvesting in most parts of the state.”Gurpreet Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer said, “As per my knowledge, just a few farmers have kept the paddy at their homes and they’ll have to face issues.” — TNSProtest in Ropar tooRopar: Opposing the govt move to stop paddy purchase here from Thursday, scores of farmers protested outside the mini secretariat on Wednesday. Demanding to continue the process till Nov 30, they said nearly 25% of the crop could not be harvested in the district due to delayed monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-take-to-streets-if-decision-to-stop-paddy-purchase-not-revoked-farmers-to-govt-336531
11-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Despite opposition, no paddy purchase in Punjab from tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10Even as farmers in Punjab have decided to take to the streets against the state government decision to wind up the paddy procurement, the latter has decided to wind up procurement operations across the state on Friday.Govt committed to buying every grainThe govt is committed to buying each and every grain brought to the mandis and it’s just awaiting the Centre’s response on increasing the purchase target from 170 LMT to 190 LMT. Gurkirat Kirpal, Food & Supplies SecretaryWhile mandis in 14 districts have already wound up the operations, the paddy procurement also came to a halt in Sangrur, Muktsar, Patiala and Malerkotla, besides parts of Ludhiana, Barnala and Mansa on Wednesday evening. This in spite of the fact that the paddy arrival in mandis is still in lakh metric tonne (LMT), with 6.48 LMT arriving on Tuesday, of which 6.44 LMT was purchased. On Wednesday too, 5.05 LMT of paddy arrived in the mandis and 5.33 LMT was purchased.Official sources in the Food and Supplies Department told The Tribune that the mandis in Bathinda and Mansa districts, besides a few allowed to operate in Ludhiana, Barnala and Mansa on Wednesday will also wind up the procurement by Thursday evening. Till Tuesday evening, 179.94 LMT of paddy had arrived in the mandis, of which 175.48 LMT was purchased by the government procurement agencies.Meanwhile, of 185.22 LMT arrivals, 181.09 LMT of paddy was purchased till late Wednesday evening.Notably, the target given by the Centre for paddy purchase in the ongoing kharif marketing season is for 170 LMT. However, the Agriculture Department has given an estimate of 197 LMT of paddy production, of which 190 LMT will be the marketable surplus. But considering the alleged large-scale bogus billing in previous years, when the paddy purchase by agencies was more than the production, the Centre had fixed a target of 170 LMT this year, which they are unwilling to enhance. “Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Tuesday shot off a demi-official letter to the Centre, urging to increase the target. We are waiting for the Centre’s response,” said a senior officer in the food department.But in the wake of the earlier target given by the Centre, high arrivals continuing and the apprehensions of bogus billing, the state has decided to wind up the operations.This has led to a sharp opposition from the farmers, with the SKM asking them to come out on the streets. “We have given a clarion call to all farmers to come out on the streets and protest against the decision. Everyone knows that the bad weather conditions delayed the paddy harvesting and 15-20% crop is still due to arrive in the mandis. Closing down mandis now is trying to punish the farmers and will be met with strong resistance,” said Balbir Rajewal, senior SKM leader.Strict vigil to check bogus billingTo check bogus billing, the govt has asked all District Food Officers to keep a strict vigil on farmers coming to mandis with their produce, by allowing them entry after clicking their pictures holding a copy of the day’s newspaper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-opposition-no-paddy-purchase-in-punjab-from-tomorrow-336532
11-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Amloh farmer commits suicide at Singhu||Gurpreet Singh, 42, of Roorkee village in Amloh sub-division, committed suicide by hanging himself to death from a tree at the Singhu border near Rasoi village of Sonepat on Wednesday.He was associated with BKU Ekta (Sidhupur) and is survived by his mother, wife and 19-year-old son. Gurjinder Singh, convener, BKU Ekta (Sidhupur) said the deceased had returned to the Singhu site from his village on Monday.Ravi Kumar, SHO, Kundli, said the body had been handed over to the victim’s kin after autopsy. No suicide note was found, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amloh-farmer-commits-suicide-at-singhu-336533
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Sacha Sauda follower Mohinder Pal Bittu’s wife seeks CBI probe||More than four months after Dera Sacha Sauda follower Mohinder Pal Bittu’s death in judicial custody, his wife today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking directions to the state of Punjab and other respondents for a probe by the CBI or any other independent agency.The transfer of the probe, among other things, was sought on the ground that the state police had arbitrarily and illegally not investigated the conspiracy partof the case before submitting an incomplete challan “by not verifying the true facts of the case”.Petitioner Santosh Kumari through counsel RK Handa submitted that her husband lodged in Nabha New District Jail was brutally murdered in the judicial custody following a deep conspiracy of the higher police officers enjoying political patronage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-sacha-sauda-follower-mohinder-pal-bittus-wife-seeks-cbi-probe-336534
11-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court grants bail to woman in ‘poll ticket’ cheating case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10A bizarre case has surfaced before the Punjab and Haryana High Court in which an impersonator allegedly claimed he was calling from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s office before demanding money from a ticket aspirant from a constituency in Bihar.The matter was brought to Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan’s notice after Amarjit Kaur filed a petition against Punjab for bail in an FIR registered on October 10, 2020, for cheating, criminal conspiracy and other offences in Amritsar.Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, the petitioner’ counsel submitted the FIR was registered at the instance of complainant AICC secretary Varinder Singh Rathore. It was alleged he received a phone call from Mukesh Kumar Singh. Describing himself as an aspirant for the ticket, Kumar claimed he was approached by Kanishka Singh, who stated he was calling from Rahul’s office and demanded money for securing a ticket from the Barbigha constituency. It was, subsequently, found that one Gaurav Kumar was impersonating Kanishka Singh.It was further alleged the impersonator gave a bank account number, belonging to the petitioner in which Rs 15,30,000 was transferred.The petitioner’s counsel submitted she was a distributor for Airtel. In the process, her number was circulated to several persons. There was no evidence that she cheated the victim. Justice Sangwan allowed her bail plea considering she was in judicial custody for the last nine months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-grants-bail-to-woman-in-poll-ticket-cheating-case-336535
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet removes fee cap on courses under scholarship scheme||Coming to the rescue of private educational institutions, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Chani-led Cabinet on Wednesday decided to remove the fee cap for different courses under the SC Post-matric Scholarship Scheme and bring it on par with general category students.The decision would allow the private educational institutions to get fee reimbursement for the SC students on par with the general category students. Earlier, a fee hike by the Higher Education Department under the scholarship scheme for different self-financed courses had been halted by the Chief Minister’s Office after it was found contradictory to the previous instructions on the capping of charges.Increasing the fee under the self-financed courses means an extra financial burden on the state exchequer, as the charges of the SC students are reimbursed by the government. In the past, the private universities and Joint Association of Colleges had been quoting the fee structure of government and professional universities to seek the revision of fee for self-financed courses.In 2016, the state government had brought the fee of government and private institutions on par for scholarship scheme beneficiaries.The Cabinet also deliberated on the hardships faced by SC students. It was highlighted that funding for the scholarship scheme was shared between the Centre and Punjab Government in the ratio of 60:40. However, the Centre stopped giving its share from 2016 onwards. Resultantly, the Cabinet decided that the state government would bear its liability of 40 per cent amounting to Rs 433.96 crore since 2017-18, to be released in two instalments during the financial years 2021-22 and 2022-23. — TNSRelief for cotton farm labourersThe Cabinet approved a policy formulated for extending relief to the families of farm labourers affected by the damage to the cotton crop by the pink bollworm. With the decision, 10 per cent of total compensation to be given to the farmers on the count would be provided to the families of labourers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-removes-fee-cap-on-courses-under-scholarship-scheme-336536
11-11-2021||Ferozepur||Clash during Harsimrat Badal’s Ferozepur visit||Farmer unions and the Congress protested at separate places during the visit of former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal here today.The situation became tense when Akalis and farmer leaders accused each other of opening fire and assault.Harsimrat was here to drum up support for SAD candidates. Earlier, she went to Hussainiwala to pay respects to martyrs. Later, she arrived in the city where farmers as well as Congress workers protested against her visit. While the Congress leaders were carrying placards questioning the “absence” of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal from his Ferozepur seat, unions were seeking time to meet her to share their grievances.SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans said they had made all arrangements to prevent any untoward incident but SAD leaders took a different route without intimation, where they reportedly entered into a scuffle with farmers. He said they were probing the charges of assault levelled by both Akalis and farmer organisations against each other. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clash-during-harsimrat-badals-ferozepur-visit-336537
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Why politicise AG’s office, ask Congress MPs post APS Deol row||A day after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi accepted the resignation of Advocate General APS Deol, after back to back attacks by PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, politics within the Congress heated up on Wednesday.Manish Tewari, Anandpur Sahib MPIntegrity underminedPoliticising AG’s office undermines the integrity of constitutional functionaries.Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu and Anandpur Sahib parliamentarian Manish Tewari hit out at their party colleagues for “politicising” the AG office. Though MPs did not name anyone in their tweets, they appeared to be hitting out at Sidhu.Tewari tweeted, “Politicising AG’s office undermines the integrity of constitutional functionaries. Both previous Advocates General of Punjab became punching bags in proxy political wars. Those who subvert the institution of the AG office need to remember a lawyer is neither wedded to a client or a brief.”Ravneet Bittu, Ludhiana MPWill change help?The question remains will the change of the AG ensure justice in Bargari? On resignation by Additional Advocate General Mukesh Berry, Tewari said, “The resignation very eloquently sums up the disgust that a lot of us lawyers across the country feel at repeated subversion of constitutional offices by some members of the political class. Targeting lawyers based upon clients they represented is a new nadir. I wish such politicians who perceive apolitical constitutional functionaries as ‘soft targets’ to wage their proxy war find a better way to do their politics. I sincerely pray the next AG will bring Bargari accused, drug, sand and transport mafia barons to justice.”MP Ravneet Bittu tweeted, “All is well between the CM and Congress president. But the question remains whether the drugs report will be made public now and will the change of the AG ensure justice in Bargari?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-politicise-ags-office-ask-congress-mps-post-aps-deol-row-336538
11-11-2021||---||MLAs allege interference by Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa||Chandigarh, November 10Majha leaders — Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and his Cabinet colleague Tript Rajinder Bajwa — are under fire from party legislators over the alleged meddling in political affairs of their Assembly segments.Only yesterday, Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa had alleged that Tript Bajwa was not only interfering in affairs in his Assembly seat, but had also sought an investigaion by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the alleged links of his close associate Balwinder Singh Pannu with the Sikhs for Justice. Pannu had recently been appointed chairman of GENCO.The Qadian MLA had also targeted Randhawa over job to his son-in-law and sought his resignation from the Deputy CM’s post.Former Batala legislator Ashwani Sekhri has alleged that Tript Bajwa was meddling in the affairs of the Batala Assembly Segment. Tript Bajwa and Sukhjinder Randhawa could not be contacted. Jandiala Guru MLA and one of the PCC working presidents Sukhwinder Singh Danny is learnt to have complained to Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary about Randhawa appointing a person against his wishes from Bandala village. Danny was not available for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mlas-allege-interference-by-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-tript-rajinder-bajwa-336539
11-11-2021||Muktsar||Parties ‘woo’ Muktsar orator Navjot Kaur Lambi||Navjot Kaur Lambi, 22, a resident of Lambi, who hogged the limelight with her fiery speeches while canvassing for Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidates during the Assembly elections in 2017, is now being wooed by all other parties.She claims not just the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Congress, AAP, but an aide of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav too contacted her to campaign in the Punjabi belt of the Uttar Pradesh in the upcoming Assembly elections.Navjot, a student of MSc-II (Geography), daughter of a marginal farmer, says, “I left the AAP in 2018 when Arvind Kejriwal apologised to Bikram Singh Majithia over his statement on drug trade. I then supported Sukhpal Singh Khaira. After the Lok Sabha elections, I left him too as my family circumstances did not allow me to do politics that time. However, I am actively participating in farmers’ protests.”“I am yet to make my mind on which political outfit to support. I am just 22 years old so cannot contest the Assembly elections till I turn 25,” Navjot Kaur said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-woo-muktsar-orator-navjot-kaur-lambi-336540
11-11-2021||Bathinda||Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Harpal Singh Cheema take swipe at each other||A war of words between AAP senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema and Bathinda (Rural) MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby broke out on Twitter today.After Ruby resigned from AAP’s primary membership on Tuesday night, Cheema tweeted: “Rupinder Ruby is our younger sister, stay happy wherever you go. This time she did not have a chance to get ticket from AAP, so she is joining the Congress. I request the Congress not to betray Ruby and give her ticket from Bathinda (Rural).”Quit over ticketShe wouldn’t have got ticket from AAP this time, so she joined the Congress. Harpal Cheema, AAPMLA dares CheemaWhen it was time for you to speak, you did not, neither could you raise your voice. You contest against me. Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Bathinda (R) MLAReacting sharply, Ruby tweeted: “Respected Harpal Cheema ji, you also know where the party is taking Punjab, I can’t see it quietly. When it was time for you to speak, you did not, neither could you raise your voice for the people of Punjab nor for Bhagwant Mann. Regarding the ticket, you contest against me”.The resignation of Ruby has come as a big jolt for the party at a crucial time ahead of 2022 Assembly polls. In 2017, AAP won three seats of the six in Bathinda district, but till now two MLAs — Ruby and Jagdev Singh Kamalu (Maur) — have quit the party. Similarly, AAP MLAs Nazar Singh Manshahia (Mansa) and Pirmal Singh Khalsa (Bhadaur) left the party and joined the Congress earlier this year.The Malwa region is crucial for AAP, as it succeeded in winning a majority of seats in the 2017 Assembly elections. With its MLAs leaving, the alarm bells are ringing for AAP to set the things in order.“AAP is expanding in the state. Many people come and go, such things (quitting of MLAs) happen, the stability will come,” said Neel Garg, spokesperson, AAP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rupinder-kaur-ruby-harpal-singh-cheema-take-swipe-at-each-other-336541
11-11-2021||---||Day after quitting AAP, Bathinda MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby joins Congress||Chandigarh, November 10A day after she resigned from the primary membership of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Bathinda (Rural) MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby today joined the Congress in presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary here this evening.The timing of Ruby’s joining the Congress coincides with the newly-earned truce between CM Channi and the PCC president. Heating up the electoral scene ahead of the polls, the party’s top leadership is in talks for at least four more AAP MLAs from Malwa to join the party. “The Congress is looking for the seats where it does not have a strong candidate”, said a senior leader engaged in the dialogue with opposition party MLAs.After strategically projecting Chief Minister Channi as the real “aam aadmi”, the joining of Ruby into the Congress punctures the AAP’s narrative of Arvind Kejriwal’s party. CM Channi said more leaders from AAP are expected to join Congress in the coming days.MLA Rupinder Kaur said she was highly moved by the recent pro-people policies of CM Channi-led government and Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP was exploiting the sentiments of common people. She said AAP MLAs were feeling suffocated as the party was being controlled from Delhi. Indicating growing trouble in AAP over Bhagwant Mann, she claimed she had been demanding that Sangrur MP should be made the CM face, but the party leadership did not have the courage to do so.Eye on Malwa MLAsCongress sources said the party was on a lookout for strong candidates and its top leadership was in talks with at least four more AAP MLAs from the Malwa region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-quitting-aap-bathinda-mla-rupinder-kaur-ruby-joins-congress-336542
11-11-2021||Our CorrespondentFerozepur||Scuffle during SAD MP Harsimrat Badal’s Ferozepur visit||Things went awry during the visit of former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal here on Wednesday where members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union-Ekta Dakaunda and Congress workers protested at separate places.The situation became tense when Akalis and farm union leaders accused each other of opening fire and indulging in physical assault.Harsimrat was here to attend some programmes to drum up support for SAD candidates. Earlier, she went to Hussainiwala to pay respects to martyrs. Later, she arrived in the city where farmers as well as Congress workers protested against her visit. While the Congress leaders were carrying placards questioning the “absence” of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal from his Ferozepur constituency, the unions were reportedly seeking time to meet her to share their grievances.SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans said the police had made all arrangements to prevent any untoward incident but two SAD leaders took a different route without intimation, where they entered into a scuffle with union members. The SSP said both Akali workers and union members alleged assault on their people regarding which the police was recording the statements and verifying information.Harsimrat alleged the Congress workers had masqueraded as farmers and fired at senior SAD leaders, demanding the accused be booked immediately.In its press statement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) alleged the farmers were fired upon and five farmers were hit by the vehicle of SAD leaders. The SKM claimed when farmers tried to meet SAD leaders, party leader Vardev Singh Mann allegedly tried to run them over by his vehicle.Vardev Singh Mann, alias Noni, while refuting the allegations, said he himself had a narrow escape as some Congressmen, in the garb of farmers, fired at him and attacked his vehicle.MC president Rinku Grover denied the Congress had any role in the incident. Grover said they just wanted to question the absence of Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Badal, who seldom visited the constituency after getting elected from this Lok Sabha segment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scuffle-during-sad-mp-harsimrat-badals-ferozepur-visit-336455
11-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Mukesh Berry resigns as Punjab Additional Advocate-General||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10In a major embarrassment for the Punjab Government, an Additional Advocate-General on Wednesday resigned from the post just two days after his appointment, after asking it not to ridicule and diminish the stature of senior advocates.The assertion came in reference to the government’s decision to accept senior advocate APS Deol’s resignation from the Advocate-General’s post just over a month after his appointment. In a letter addressed to Punjab Principal Secretary, Department of Home Affairs, Anurag Verma, Mukesh Berry asserted he was tendering his resignation without commenting upon the government’s decision to accept Deol’s resignation.Making it clear that he was unwilling to continue a moment longer, Berry made it clear that the resignation would be deemed to be accepted from the date of its submission, which was today itself.“Having remained elected representative of the advocates as a member of the Bar Council of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh for 27 years and also the chairman of the same and in continuous service as law officer in the office of Advocate-General, Punjab, for 28 years, I would request the government not to ridicule and diminish the status and dignity of the Senior Advocates of this High Court,” Berry added.Berry, along with Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa’s son-in-law Tarun Vir Singh Lehal, was appointed Additional Advocate-General by the Channi-government on November 8. Lehal’s appointment virtually led to an uproar, with the Opposition alleging nepotism.The Advocate-General’s office has even otherwise been courting controversy ever since the change of guard with the taking over of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Chief Minister after replacing Capt Amarinder Singh.The government took about eight days to appoint the Advocate-General after Atul Nanda stepped down from the post. It initially finalised three names in quick succession for the post, leading to confusion and a general perception of indecisiveness.Available information suggests the post of state Advocate-General was initially promised to senior advocate D.S. Patwalia. In an earlier last-minute turnaround, the government reportedly cleared the name of senior advocate Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu for the post.But the government eventually appointed Deol, who was at one point of time the counsel for former top-cop Sumedh Singh Saini and IG Paramraj Singh Umaranangal, both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case. The appointment, though a matter of surmises since long, came as a surprise as the incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015, have always been considered politically sensitive.His appointment also generated debate on the issue of conflict of interest primarily on the ground that Deol, being Saini and Umaranangal’s counsel, would neither be able to appear nor advise the State in their cases and related matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mukesh-berry-resigns-as-punjab-additional-advocate-general-336441
