13-11-2021||Amritsar||Pakistan gives visas to 855 pilgrims to visit Gurdwara Nankana Sahib, denies to 191: SGPC||Pakistan has given visas to 855 Sikh pilgrims to visit Gurdwara Nankana Sahib there on Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary but has denied the permission to 191 others, the SGPC said on Saturday.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Jagir Kaur said the apex gurdwara body had sent passports of 1,046 pilgrims to the Pakistan embassy in New Delhi, which gave visa to 855 pilgrims but denied it to 191 others.Terming the denial of visas to some pilgrims as “unfortunate”, she said, “Every pilgrim longs to visit the holy shrines of the Sikh community in Pakistan and when they do not get visas, their religious sentiments are.”“Every pilgrim should get a visa so that the maximum number of pilgrims could pay obeisance at holy places,” she added.A group of Sikh pilgrims is scheduled to depart on November 17 to participate in the ceremonies to be held at Gurdwara Nankana Sahib, also known as Gurdwara Janam Asthan at Nankana Sahib near Lahore in Pakistan’s Punjab on the occasion of the birth anniversary of the first Sikh Guru.Kaur said for the convenience of pilgrims, a free camp for Covid-19 testing is being organised at Teja Singh Samundri Hall on November 14 and 15.It is mandatory for every pilgrim going to Pakistan to carry a Covid-19 negative report issued 72 hours before departure.In addition, every pilgrim should have been got both doses of the Covid vaccine, she said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-gives-visas-to-855-pilgrims-to-visit-gurdwara-nankana-sahib-denies-to-191-sgpc-337667
13-11-2021||---||BSF only to complement and assist Punjab Police and other agencies, IG Sonali Mishra allays fears||Jalandhar, November 13Two days after a special Punjab Assembly session was held to pass a resolution against the notification to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction from 15 km to 50 km in Punjab, BSF IG Sonali Mishra held a press conference on Saturday.She tried to allay fears saying the BSF would only complement and assist Punjab Police and other agencies, including customs and DRI, in its functioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-only-to-complement-and-assist-punjab-police-and-other-agencies-ig-sonali-mishra-allays-fears-337613
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to give Rs 2 lakh compensation to 83 arrested in Delhi for tractor march on Republic Day||The Punjab government has decided to give Rs 2 lakh as compensation to 83 people who were arrested by Delhi Police after a tractor march against the Centre's farm laws turned violent on Republic Day this year.The farmers had taken out a tractor march on January 26 in the national capital to highlight their two principal demands of a repeal of three new agri laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices.However, the march took a violent turn as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort."Reiterating My Govt's stand to support the ongoing #FarmersProtest against three black farm laws, We have decided to give Rs 2 lakh compensation to 83 people arrested by Delhi Police for carrying out a tractor rally in the national capital on 26th January, 2021," Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said in a tweet on Friday.Hundreds of farmers have been camping at the three Delhi borders since November 2020 with the demand that the government repeal the farm laws.The Centre, which held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with farmers, has maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protesters claim they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislations. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-give-rs-2-lakh-compensation-to-83-arrested-in-delhi-for-tractor-march-on-republic-day-337584
13-11-2021||Gurdaspur may well end up scoring a zilch when it comes to playing cricket. Having said that||Gurdaspur diary: Controversy’s favourite child — Navjot Singh Sidhu||Call him a player of the sinister game of political opportunism or term him as highly ambitious to the extent where he cares a dime for the man on the other side, the man holds a personality which has not been understood by many. Having said that, one thing is certain. Sidhu has become controversy’s favourite child.In 2004, Sidhu was in Pakistan for a commentary stint. Midway into the tour, he got a call from India. On the other side was a senior BJP leader, who asked him, if he was interested in contesting from the Amritsar parliamentary constituency. He replied in the affirmative. That was the time when a maverick politician was born.Unknown to many, six years before that call he had got a message from Sonia Gandhi asking him to contest the 1998 General Election. Sidhu, citing his cricket commitments, declined. In 1999, he requested the Congress high command to give him the ticket to contest from Patiala parliamentary seat. This time it was the high command’s turn to decline.Sensing that politics was not his cup of tea, he left for England to do commentary for the 1999 World Cup. He gained instant ‘fame’ as he started mauling the spoken word with a distinctive yet entertaining concoction of mixed metaphors and garbled clichés. These included “Australian wickets are like newly-wed wives. You never know which way they will turn when touched.”TV producers loved his style. Their TRPs started soaring. His ‘shayaris’ tested your patience and his dialogues, also known as Sidhuisms, became impossible to avoid till you put the TV on the mute. He, nevertheless, was a success in his new profession.A flashback into his life as a cricketer will give a better insight into the character of the man considered to be a fighter both figuratively and literally!“Spotlight on Navjot Sidhu, George Bush.” ‘The Sydney Morning Herald’ carried this lead the day President George Bush arrived Down Under in the fall of 1992. The same day the cricketer had landed as reinforcement for the beleaguered Azharuddin led team. The world media had focused its attention simultaneously on the most powerful man on earth and the tall and wiry Sardar. For his Punjabi brethren, it was a moment to be proud of because he had always been epitomising the indomitable spirit of Punjabis.In 1996, the ‘fighter’ in him surfaced but at a most inopportune moment. The Indian team during its tour of Old Blighty under the captaincy of Mohammad Azharuddin, was going through a rough patch. The skipper made life ‘uncomfortable’ for him by using some words which ‘offended’ him although they are very much normal to be heard in the alleys of Azhar’s hometown of Hyderabad. With his self-respect bruised, Sidhu took the first flight back home. Foreign cricket writers, including Peter Roebuck, claimed he had jumped ship when his country needed him the most.It is imperative to divide Sidhu’s career into two parts — the pre 1983 and the post 1987 Reliance world cup periods. In 1983, he made a not so impressive debut against the might of the Clive Lloyd-led West Indies. In domestic cricket, he developed this habit of chickening out of first class matches. Cricket reporters remained busy writing his obituaries.Among this tribe was Rajan Bala. He wrote a piece titled ‘Sidhu-A strokeless wonder’.The cricketer pasted this article on his bedroom mirror in his Patiala house. As events later proved, it was this very piece that motivated him into making a spectacular comeback. He started reconstructing his career layer by layer, brick by brick. The cemented driveway at his residence became his pitch. Local boys would be asked to flood the driveway with water and then would be asked to bounce golf balls at him. Never the one to be a decent player of the rising ball, he did the next best thing. He slowly mastered the habit of weaving and ducking away from the bouncing cherry. He adopted a tortuous fitness schedule and weight training, which earlier was an option, was religiously adhered to.His mental attitude too underwent a change. The Sheldons and the Archers, that dotted his drawing room, were consigned to the backburner. In came psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud and the MCC coaching manual, the last one meant to improve his basics. The saga of survival of an old man fighting the vagaries of nature in Ernest Hemingway’s classic ‘The old man and the sea’ held sway. This one book energised him like no other one would do.The cog had fallen in place and the wheel had started moving. The art of playing spin was taken care of. Peter Taylor and John Emburey, both considered to be finest exponents of off spin bowling in the world, became his first targets. Perfectly pitched deliveries would be found 20 feet deep into the stands. He concentrated on the pragmatic, with no ground given to impulse or appearance.The 1987 Reliance Cup was played in the sub-continent. A rejuvenated Sidhu was drafted into the national team. After the tournament was over, the saying doing the rounds was that if Sachin and Sidhu get going, India will achieve the target in 20 overs flat. Whatever the odds against him, the man still retains the Phoenix-like quality to rise from the ashes as and when the situation demandsAkalis start campaignWith the mainline political outfits still engaged in the exercise of identifying their candidates, two-time ex-Gurdaspur MLA Gurbachan Singh Babbehali has already started campaigning. This seat has 113 villages and 27 wards of the municipal committee. Babbehali has already toured the rural areas once and is now ready to visit them a second time. He surely knows the meaning of ‘The early bird catches the worm.” His son, Amarjot Babbehali says his father is banking on the anti-incumbency wave that is in place “following the Congress MLA’s inability to bring in developmental projects.”Sri Hargobindpur MLA fans out among massesSri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi is a busy man these days. He regularly reaches out to the masses to inform them about the freebies being given by the Channi government. “In my assembly seat, bills of 29,000 people whose load was less than 2 kW have been waived off. This amounts to nearly Rs 19 crore. Well done MLA, but who will tell the people from where will the CM bring money needed to finance the freebies? Some food for thought!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-diary-controversys-favourite-child-%E2%80%94-navjot-singh-sidhu-337572
13-11-2021||---||Dengue cases cross 20K in Punjab, outbreak worst so far||Patiala, November 12Amid continuous reporting of cases, Punjab is seeing the worst-ever dengue outbreak this year. With over 20,000 cases and 70 suspected deaths, the state is virtually facing a public health emergency. The Health Department has, however, blamed the prolonged rainy season and lack of community participation for the worrying situation.Of the 23 districts, Mohali alone has already reported over 3,000 cases and 36 suspected deaths. Mohali is followed by Bathinda with 2,200 cases and five deaths. The department said dengue testing had been increased from 18,000 in 2020 to 51,000 in 2021.Health officials said the large-scale testing was one of the factors for the detection of high number of dengue cases.A health official said, “Around 16.5 lakh households have been checked across the state. Dengue larvae were found in over 30,000 households. We are doing what we can, but people’s participation is a must.”It has been learned that patients are scrambling for beds in hospitals — both government and private. Shortage of blood platelets is also being reported in some districts.Dr Andesh Kang, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said favourable weather conditions had led to rise in mosquito breeding. She said, “The cases have started to decline. These will further come down as there is a dip in average daily temperature.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-cases-cross-20k-in-punjab-outbreak-worst-so-far-337369
13-11-2021||---||Rules on MLAs’ disqualification cleared||Chandigarh, November 12As the term of the present government nears completion, the Vidhan Sabha has finally approved the rules governing the disqualification of legislators. In the 16th special session of the 15th Vidhan Sabha, which concluded yesterday, the House passed the Punjab Legislative Assembly (Disqualification of Members on Ground of Defection) Rules, 2020. The House is in the process of notifying the rules.As per the procedure, the rules were to be laid in the Assembly for 30 sittings of the House, either in one session or in two or more successive sessions or unless these were approved with or without modifications or disapproved by the House. “The rules were laid in the March 2, 2020, session of the Assembly. This brings the number of sittings to 16,” said an official, adding since the Assembly had given its nod, the rules stood approved.While Sukhpal Singh Khaira and Baldev Singh have been disqualified as MLAs following hearings in disqualification petitions filed against them, former AAPs MLAs Nazar Singh Manshahia and Pirmal Singh, and Jagdev Singh Kamalu, who recently joined the Congress, will come under the ambit of the new rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rules-on-mlas-disqualification-cleared-337374
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Assembly elections: Cheema, Arora among 10 MLAs on party’s first list||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday released its first list of candidates for the 2022 Assembly elections. It has decided to field only 10 of the sitting MLAs. AAP Punjab state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs incharge Jarnail Singh released the list.AAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the party understood the sentiments of Punjab and this time the AAP government would be formed in the state. Cheema appealed to the people to support the candidates to give their party a chance to serve them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-elections-cheema-arora-among-10-mlas-on-partys-first-list-337376
13-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Ahead of Punjab Assembly polls, AAP fritters away gains||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) seems to be frittering away its gains, just before the Assembly polls. With the party’s central leadership unwilling to yield any control to local leaders, resentment among the rank and file is now showing the signs of the party breaking away, irrespective of a groundswell in favour of the party. With less than three months to go for the polls, the party has not announced a chief ministerial face.It is only after they suffered a setback this week (with two MLAs switching over to the Congress), that the party quickly released its first list of candidates, giving tickets to 10 sitting MLAs. This has reportedly been done to plug the exit route for its MLAs, some of who are in “advanced stages of talks” with other parties. The only MLA whose name has not been announced as candidate is Amarjit Singh Sandoa, who is back in the party after rebelling in 2019.SAD that some have Backstabbed: CheemaThough no one from the party was willing to go on the record, several leaders The Tribune spoke to said the unwillingness of the party high command to delegate some responsibility to local leaders and allow them to work autonomously, was costing the party dear. “There is just too much interference. We are on the ground and know how to strategise, but the central leadership won’t let us do anything,” rued a senior MLA.Other than the two MLAs who switched sides to the Congress this week, another three are reportedly in talks with the ruling party. Party leaders here were thoroughly embarrassed when MLAs Rupinder Kaur Ruby and Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal jumped over to the Congress camp, while the Vidhan Sabha session was on.The AAP is now left with 11 MLAs, though technically rebel MLA Kanwar Sandhu, and three others — Pirmal Singh Khalsa, Nazar Singh Mansahia and Jagdev Singh Kamalu, who have joined the Congress, continue to be in the party, along with Ruby and Jagga. While the party’s strength in the House remains at 17, effectively it is 11.Sonu Sood meets CM, ChaudharyAmid reports of actor Sonu Sood joining the AAP, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary met the actor in Chandigarh on Friday. Though the outcome of the meeting was not known, it was being assumed the Congress wanted to completely “disarm” the AAP in run-up to the elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-punjab-assembly-polls-aap-fritters-away-gains-337377
13-11-2021||Bathinda||Act against cops failing to curb drugs sale: Punjab Dy CM||Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday instructed senior police officers to ensure strict action against police personnel in case drug smugglers were caught selling narcotics under their jurisdiction.Heading a meeting of senior officers from the region, Randhawa directed them to eradicate drug smuggling, resolve pending cases and exercise vigilance at the International Border.Randhawa was accompanied by DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and special principal secretary Varun Roojam at the meeting, which was attended by IGs and SSPs of Bathinda, Faridkot and Ferozepur Range.He also reviewed work being done on crime and drug prevention in these ranges. The minister directed the authorities to ensure there was no laxity in matters concerning security and crime. Interacting with mediapersons, Randhawa said the Centre was encroaching upon the rights of the Punjab Government by expanding the border area in the state.The Deputy CM said the state government was committed to maintaining peace and harmony in the state. Strict measures were being taken on the issue of drugs and instructions had been issued for stepping up vigil along the Pakistan border.Replying to a query, he said the guilty would not be spared in sacrilege cases and those shielding drug smugglers would be put behind bars. On the Aam Aadmi Party, Randhawa said the party had lost base in the state as three of its MLAs, including Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Nazar Singh Manshahia and Jagdev Kamalu, had joined the Congress and more leaders were expected to switch over.He said the government had been taking decisions for all sections of society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/act-against-cops-failing-to-curb-drugs-sale-punjab-dy-cm-337386
13-11-2021||Mohali||ED gets Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s custody for 7 days||A special Enforcement Directorate court today remanded Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira in seven-day ED custody in a money laundering case registered against him and others.Khaira was arrested by the ED from Chandigarh on Thursday and was produced in the PMLA court in Mohali and sent to ED custody for a day. According to information, the ED had sought Khaira’s remand for 13 days, but Duty Magistrate Ranjan Kumar Khullar ordered seven-day remand. The next date of hearing has been fixed as November 18.The ED officers told the court they had to examine Khaira’s bank accounts to investigate the source of the money and to whom it was given. They had to identify the persons involved in the money dealings and their statements were to be recorded, they claimed. The court was informed that in 2016, Khaira had gone to the US to raise funds for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The agency had to probe various aspects of the funds brought from there as Khaira failed to cooperate despite being issued notices four times in this regard, the ED officers told the court.Opposing the remand, Khaira’s lawyers argued they had got stay orders from the Supreme Court after the ED issued summons in a drugs case. As the agency could not arrest him, it filed a fresh case against Khaira, which was against the law, they alleged.Meanwhile, Mehtab Singh Khaira, his son and one of the advocates, alleged his father had been framed in false cases. He claimed in 2017, his father had been framed in an NDPS case as one of the supporters was arrested and later sentenced to 20 years in jail. He said in the present case, the Delhi Chief Minister in 2016 had asked Khaira to raise funds from NRIs abroad. He said the ED had framed his father for bringing one lakh Canadian dollars. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-gets-sukhpal-singh-khairas-custody-for-7-days-337394
13-11-2021||Amritsar||BJP MP Shwait Malik slams Punjab Vidhan Sabha resolution against BSF jurisdiction order||BJP MP from Rajya Sabha Shwait Malik today slammed the resolution passed by the Vidhan Sabha against the Centre’s order of enhancing the BSF’s jurisdiction from 15 km to 50 km from the international border.Malik, the former state BJP president, said the CM should know Punjab borders shared closed proximity with Pakistan, which was the breeding ground for terrorism and drugs, and the move was taken keeping in view the national security.Also read: Amid BSF row, Ajit Doval pitches for bigger police role in border managementMalik said, “Why do the Congress leaders always ask for central security forces for their own security? Now, when the same central force was being used for the safety of the residents of Punjab, where should be the hitch? It was Congress’ anti-people approach which could never be justified”, he said.Malik pointed out that CM Charanjit Singh Channi had made absurd comments against the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS). “It was a joke when Channi said Akalis brought the RSS to Punjab. The fact is that the RSS was serving in Punjab since 1925 before the birth of Channi. Thakur Ram Singh, Rajinder Lal Malik, Dr. Baldev Prakash, Balram ji Das Tandon and many such Sangh pracharaks and lakhs of workers took care of the people who were uprooted from Pakistan at the time of Partition,” he said. — TNSBJP flays Channi’s remarks on RSSState BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on Friday took exception to the language used by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi against the RSS and BJP. He termed the remarks unfortunate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-mp-shwait-malik-slams-punjab-vidhan-sabha-resolution-against-bsf-jurisdiction-order-337395
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||HC judge should monitor sacrilege probe: SAD leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today demanded the entire investigation into the sacrilege case be monitored by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The party alleged Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa were responsible for hatching a conspiracy by holding a secret meeting at the Raj Bhawan on October 22. He said the meeting was attended by DGP IPS Sahota, Home Secretary Anurag Verma, former Advocate General APS Deol, SIT Chairman SPS Parmar, AIG RS Sohal, SSP Mukhwinder Bhullar, DSP Lakhbir Singh, and Inspector Dalbir Singh, retired police officers RS Khattra and Sulakhan Singh, and legislators Kushaldeep Dhillon and Kulbir Zira.SAD leader Maheshinder Grewal alleged the purpose of the meeting was to fix the Opposition, especially the Badal family, by implicating it in false cases. Grewal, along with other party leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Cheema urged the Governor to provide the party with the CCTV footage of the Raj Bhawan of October 22 so that the party could prove the conspiracy being hatched against it. They also demanded the Chief Minister and the Home Minister should disclose why a meeting of the SIT was held in such a secret fashion and why retired police officers had been associated with it. — TNSCharge ‘baseless’Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa termed the allegation of conspiracy levelled by Akalis as baseless. “As the Home Minister, I keep meeting police officers regarding law and order. Instead of trying to scuttle a fair probe, they should face the SIT,” he said.Accused misledThe State Forensic Science Laboratory, in its report on handwriting samples of Sukhjinder Singh, accused of writing blasphemous posters in three sacrilege incidents of Faridkot in 2015, has claimed he tried to modify some letter formats in an attempt to disguise his natural writing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-judge-should-monitor-sacrilege-probe-sad-leader-maheshinder-singh-grewal-337415
13-11-2021||Amritsar||Capt Amarinder Singh hand in glove with Akalis: Navjot Kaur Sidhu||Former MLA Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu today accused former CM Capt Amarinder Singh of conniving with the SAD to delay justice in drug and sacrilege cases.“For the past four and a half years, there was no government in Punjab as then CM Capt Amarinder was hand in glove with the Akalis. That’s the reason the culprits got immunity incases that pertained to drug trading and sacrilege, and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was removed from the Local Bodies Department” she alleged.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-hand-in-glove-with-akalis-navjot-kaur-sidhu-337416
13-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Bid to hasten things up in cases against lawmakers: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that efforts, in its opinion, were being made to get things done quickly in the cases registered against sitting or former MPs and MLAs in Punjab.The assertion came after the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil noticed that cancellation/untraced reports had been prepared but not submitted to the courts in most of the cases. In some other cases, the reports stood presented to the courts. “The impression gathered by the court is that the effort is being made to push through things without really looking into the true aspect of the investigation and the conclusions thereof,” the Bench asserted.Study reports before submission, IGP toldFor dispelling the opinion, the Bench directed the IGP, Crime, to personally look into the reports before proceeding to submit the same to courts, if satisfied. Directions were also issued for the submission of compliance report in the matter prior to the next date of hearing. The Bench was hearing suo motu or court on its own motion matter “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs” for monitoring the progress of cases pending against the MP/MLAs. Referring to an affidavit dated November 8 filed by the IGP, the Bench observed as many as 32 cases were under trial. In eight out of 10 other cases, cancellation/untraced reports had also been presented.The Bench also took on record submissions by Punjab’s Senior Deputy Advocate General Gaurav Garg Dhuriwala that only 19 cases were pending investigation in the state. All efforts were being made to expedite the process of investigation and conclude the same.Dhuriwala also prayed for six weeks to conclude the investigations before submitting a specific report indicating the progress. He reiterated that progress of investigation was being personally monitored by the IGP, Crime, in compliance with court order and in pursuance to Supreme Court directions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-hasten-things-up-in-cases-against-lawmakers-hc-337417
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Issuance of NOC simplified for illegal colonies, says minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria||Giving a major relief to people who have purchased plots or buildings in unauthorised colonies, Housing and Urban Development department today decided no-objection certificate (NOC) is required for getting sale deed registered in such colonies that came into existence before September 8, 1995.Housing and Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria instructed officials concerned to take a decision on pending applications of NOCs received under the policy issued in 2018 within two months positively.However, for plots or buildings purchased by way of sale deed, power of attorney, sale agreement or lease in case of commercial built up between September 9, 1995 and March 19, 2018, NOC only for the purpose of allowing sale deed would be issued immediately by the authority concerned on the basis of self-declaration signed jointly by the seller and the buyer and on payment of regularisation fee.Self-declaration shall include that plot or building does not violate the provisions or conditions of the policy issued by the department in 2018 for regularisation of plots falling in unauthorised colonies, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/issuance-of-noc-simplified-for-illegal-colonies-says-minister-sukhbinder-singh-sarkaria-337419
13-11-2021||---||Now, treatment under Ayushman scheme at Bathinda AIIMS||Bathinda, November 12The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here has launched the Ayushman Bharat Scheme under which patients from the region would be provided quality medical care for major and minor diseases.AIIMS Director DK Singh said the treatment of various major and minor diseases was possible on Ayushman card at the institute in Bathinda now. He congratulated the Ayushman Bharat team at the hospital for launching the scheme in such a short time. Prof Satish Gupta, Medical Superintendent, AIIMS, Bathinda, said efforts were being made by the institute for providing affordable and accessible healthcare to the needy patients.Dr Moonis Mirza, Deputy Medical Superintendent and nodal officer incharge for the Ayushman Bharat scheme, said the first procedure under this scheme was a total knee replacement performed by the Department of Orthopaedics about two weeks ago.A team of doctors from the Department of Oncosurgery, headed by Dr Nikhil Garg, conducted its first batch of cancer surgeries under the scheme. The surgeries were performed on two patients suffering from cancers of tongue and breast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-treatment-under-ayushman-scheme-at-bathinda-aiims-337420
13-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Paddy purchase stops, crop yet to be harvested in Sangrur, Malerkotla districts||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 12Though the state government stopped the arrival of paddy at all purchase centres from November 11, the crop is yet to be harvested in many villages of Sangrur and Malerkotla districts owing to high moisture content and re-sowing.The state government move has multiplied the apprehensions of indebted farmers, who fear private purchasers will make a killing. Many farmers alleged since they were busy in the Delhi protest against the central farm laws, their harvest got delayed.“The anti-farmer face of the Punjab Government has come to the fore. It should have continued the government purchase to help farmers, who are fighting an indefinite battle against the farm laws. There are many farmers who have not harvested the paddy yet,” said Bhupinder Singh, a farmer leader from Langriya village of Malerkotla. In Sangrur too, many farmers have not harvested their paddy yet. Moonak A and B (180 acres), Salemgarh and Bashera (100 acres each), Surjan Bhaini (60 acres), Rajal Heri (25 acres), Bhunder Bhaini (15 acres) and Hamirgarh and (10 acres each) are the worst-hit villages.Baldev Singh, a farmer in Moonak, said his standing paddy on 4 acres was destroyed in rain. “I have re-sown the paddy after taking debt. But now, the Punjab Government has halted its purchase and I will be compelled to sell my crop at lower rate to private purchasers. The decision to stop the government purchase will cost dearly to the Congress in the Assembly elections,” he said.“In many villages, the paddy was destroyed in rain. Farmers had sown the crop again and they have not harvested it. We have decided to launch an indefinite agitation if the government fails to restart the purchase,” said Rinku Moonak, a member of the BKU (Ugrahan).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-purchase-stops-crop-yet-to-be-harvested-in-sangrur-malerkotla-districts-337421
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Centre to expedite supply of DAP and other fertilisers to Punjab||Acceding to the demand of the Punjab Agriculture Minister, the Union Government has assured expediting the supply of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) and other fertilisers to Punjab. The rakes of DAP will be moved on priority for the state in the coming days.Earlier, Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha had requested to speed up the supply of DAP and said the state had total due allocation of 5.50 lakh metric tonne (LMT) DAP for Rabi 2021-22 but had received only 1.51 LMT of DAP. The minister said the state had demanded 2.75 LMT of DAP during October-2021, of which only 1.97 LMT was allocated by the Government of India for October, but the state received only 1.51 LMT. This had created an imbalance and shortage of 1.24 LMT of DAP in October only. The Agriculture Minister said about 85 per cent sowing of wheat in the state would be completed by November 25 and now sowing was at its peak. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-to-expedite-supply-of-dap-and-other-fertilisers-to-punjab-337422
13-11-2021||Fazilka||Three booked for selling DAP, urea on black market in Jalalabad||Three persons of two fertiliser firms were booked under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 420 of the IPC today for selling DAP and urea fertiliser on the black market in Jalalabad town of Fazilka district.On the basis of a complaint, the police recovered 1,852 bags of DAP and more than 5,000 bags of urea from the alleged unauthorised godowns belonging to the firms. A large number of farmers and Municipal Council president Vikasdeep Chaudhary staged a protest outside the City police station demanding arrest of the accused. The police officials reached the dharna site and sought two days to nab the accused. — OCProtest in SangrurSangrur: Demanding financial aid to farmers who have suffered crop losses and supply of DAP, Sangrur farmers on Friday protested in front of the Lehra SDM office. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-booked-for-selling-dap-urea-on-black-market-in-jalalabad-337424
13-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Shortage of DAP: Resentment brews in Agriculture Minister’s constituency Amloh||Fatehgarh Sahib, November 12There is resentment among farmers in the Amloh constituency represented by Agriculture Minister Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha due to acute shortage of DAP, which is affecting the sowing of wheat and potatoes.Farmers are up in arms against the government and fear the output of their crop would be adversely affected for want of DAP. Thefarmers have been running pillar to post to get the fertiliser and allege the state government had made no arrangement for them.Sandeep Singh Bholia, a farmer, said most of the growers were managing DAP by buying it in the black market from Haryana and the dealers there charged Rs 300 to 400 per bag or forced them to buy add-on pesticides or other chemicals worth Rs 400-500, along with each bag of fertiliser.The farmers said due to shortage, the wheat and potato crops were likely to be affected and this would result in a loss of 4 to 5 quintal yield per hectare leading to a financial loss of Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 per hectare.Abhitej Sandhu, district registrar, cooperative societies, said the district got only 55 per cent DAP supply against the demand and of this, 65 per cent quota had been allotted to cooperative societies falling in Amloh constituency. He said a rake of 800 MT had come toNabha yesterday andthey were likely to get supply from that stock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shortage-of-dap-resentment-brews-in-agriculture-ministers-constituency-amloh-337425
13-11-2021||---||Gurpurb: Pak issues 3K visas to Sikh pilgrims||New Delhi/amritsar, Nov 12The Pakistan High Commission has issued around 3,000 visas to Indian Sikh pilgrims on the eve of the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.During their stay in Pakistan from November 17 to 26, the pilgrims will pay obeisance at different gurdwaras, including Gurdwara Janam Asthan in Nankana Sahib and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, said a release.Reopen corridor on guru’s anniv: SGPCThousands of pilgrims living in other countries, too, will visit Pakistan to attend the event. “The issuance of maximum number of pilgrimage visas is in line with the Government of Pakistan’s efforts for promoting visits to religious shrines in Pakistan,” said the release.The announcement indicates the gulf between the two foreign offices. On Thursday, while being non-committal about the reopening of the Kartarpur Corridor, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had said the government would allow 1,500 pilgrims to visit Pakistan as per the 1974 protocol. A day later, the Pakistan side announced double the number of visas.Meanwhile, the Pakistan Embassy has issued visas to 855 pilgrims who had applied through the SGPC to visit Pakistan, rejecting 191 applications. SGPC official Harbhajan Singh Wakta said 1,046 passports were sent for procuring visas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurpurb-pak-issues-3k-visas-to-sikh-pilgrims-337426
13-11-2021||---||17 yrs on, Chamkaur Sahib theme park likely to open on Nov 19||Chamkaur Sahib, November 12Seventeen years after its announcement in 2004 by the then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, a theme park built in the memory of Guru Gobind Singh’s elder Sahibzadas — Baba Ajit Singh and Baba Jujhar Singh — in Chamkaur Sahib is likely to be opened for public on November 19.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who had inspected the final preparations in this regard on October 26 during a function at Chamkaur Sahib, recently announced that the theme park would be inaugurated on November 19. On December 20, 2004, Capt Amarinder Singh, besides declaring Chamkaur Sahib as a subdivision, had announced a national memorial in the memory of the two elder Sahibzadas and 40 other Sikhs who had attained martyrdom while fighting the Mughals.While the work on 14-acre project was started two years later in 2006, it was halted during the term of the SAD-BJP government. After the Congress came back to power in 2017, work on the theme park commenced again. A total of 11 galleries for organising as many shows on Sikh history using multimedia-based ultramodern technology have been set up in the park.Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranThe visitors would be introduced to the history of the Sikh Gurus in the first multimedia show, following which they would be shown the ‘sakhi’ of martyr Bhai Jaita, who had brought the severed head of Guru Teg Bahadur from Delhi. The next three shows would be dedicated to Guru Gobind Singh, which would be followed by an animated show depicting the Battle of Chamkaur Sahib.Besides, a musical park, a 10-metre high stainless steel ‘khanda’ weighing 8 metric tonne and two swords of similar height, weighing one tonne each, have also been installed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17-yrs-on-chamkaur-sahib-theme-park-likely-to-open-on-nov-19-337427
13-11-2021||Moga||FCI not to accept foodgrain in synthetic bags||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has announced it would neither accept rice nor paddy in synthetic bags.However, the Union Food and Civil Supplies Ministry has allowed 15 states, including Punjab, to accept paddy packed in HDPE/PP or synthetic bags. But the FCI maintains the foodgrain stored in HDPE/PP or synthetic bags may deteriorate in quality. The ministry, in a letter, stated, “Although the Centre has granted permission to pack paddy in synthetic bags, the FCI will neither accept rice nor paddy in these. The permission was given at the states’ request in the wake of shortage of jute bags.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fci-not-to-accept-foodgrain-in-synthetic-bags-337429
13-11-2021||Amritsar||Sikh judicial panel moved against SGPC||Sikh leader Baldev Singh Sirsa has filed a petition in the Sikh Gurdwara Judicial Commission accusing the SGPC of disrespecting Sikh principles.“The petition was filed under Section 142 of the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 and the next date of hearing has been fixed for December 9 by the commission,” he said.In his petition, the Sikh leader alleged that “masia”, “punya” and “sangrand” were not given any importance or recognition in Sikhism. However, the SGPC has put up a board on the Golden Temple premises displaying the dates ofthese occasions. Demanding immediate removal of the board, he sought action against SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and formerpresident Gobind Singh Longowal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-judicial-panel-moved-against-sgpc-337430
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rehired ex-forest ranger sacked||Forest Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian today terminated the services of a retired forest ranger, Chamkaur Singh, who had been engaged as an officer on special duty (OSD) by his predecessor Sadhu Singh Dharamsot.The forest ranger after retirement from Patiala had been re-engaged by Dharamsot as his OSD. The role of the forest ranger had been under the scanner for some time. The orders have been issued by the Divisional Forest Officer, Wildlife, Patiala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rehired-ex-forest-ranger-sacked-337432
13-11-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana court orders bailable warrant against Simarjit Singh Bains||A local court has ordered issuance of a bailable arrest warrant against Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjit Singh Bains, MLA from Atam Nagar constituency, and six others in a rape case registered on the complaint of a 44-year-old woman. The case will come up for hearing on November 18.The police had filed a chargesheet against MLA Bains recently. The FIR was registered following the orders of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate in July. But none of the accused had been arrested in this so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-court-orders-bailable-warrant-against-simarjit-singh-bains-337433
13-11-2021||---||NHM staff seek regular jobs||Bathinda, November 12Terming the state government’s announcement of regularising services of 36,000 contractual employees as a “bundle of lies”, members of the Bathinda unit of the NHM Joint Front Punjab staged a protest here at the Civil Hospital and burnt the copies of ‘The Punjab Ad-hoc, Contractual, Daily wages and Outsourced Employees’ Welfare Act’.The union representatives rued that despite rendering their services in the department for the past over 12 to 15 years, they have been ignored by the government.Narendar Kumar, a leader of the union said: “Contractual and outsourcing employees under the Centre’s scheme (National Health Mission) have been rendering their services in the state health department for the past many years but the state government has ignored our interests. When representatives of our union took up the matter with the Chief Minister and other government representatives, they did not give any satisfactory response and said they do not know whether NHM staff will be considered under the new act/bill or not.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhm-staff-seek-regular-jobs-337435
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh-Ludhiana highway widening: HC orders status quo on land possession||Acting on a petition claiming absence of rehabilitation and resettlement award for the owners after the acquisition of their properties for widening, maintenance, management and operation of a national highway, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had ordered status quo regarding to possession of land. The case pertains to the Chandigarh-Ludhiana highway.The direction by the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Archana Puri will remain in force at least till December 7, when the case comes up for hearing. It came on a bunch of nine petitions filed by Harvir Singh and about 200 other landowners of Fatehgarh Sahib and Ludhiana.The issue before the Bench was whether non-preparation of rehabilitation scheme was justifiable after acquisition of houses for NH widening.Counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri and Gurjit Kaur Jassar Bagri had submitted that the award had already been passed after the petitioners’ houses were acquired. But the authorities did not follow the procedure for preparation, approval and publication of rehabilitation award. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chandigarh-ludhiana-highway-widening-hc-orders-status-quo-on-land-possession-337436
13-11-2021||Archit Watts||One principal for 10 colleges in 5 districts of Punjab||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 12It sounds strange, but it is true. There is just one principal for 10 government colleges. In addition, he is incharge of two district libraries in the Malwa region.In such circumstances, Prof Surjit Singh has to travel to five districts — Bathinda, Muktsar, Faridkot, Moga and Ferozepur — to discharge his official duties.He holds the main charge of Government College, Bathinda. However, due to an acute shortage of the staff, he has been given the additional charge of government degree colleges at Muktsar, Husnar, Danewala, Sardargarh, Faridkot, Kotkapura, Rode and Fatehgarh Korotana. Besides, he is the principal of Government College of Education, Faridkot. Prof Surjit Singh, also holds the charge of two district libraries at Bathinda and Ferozepur.A resident of Bhucho, Prof Surjit Singh, said, “I visited three colleges today. I am the lone principal in the state, who has been given such a responsibility. Despite my hectic schedule, I am happy in discharging my duties. I feel honoured by it. The situation has occurred as the senior-most teachers are retiring.”Meanwhile, a senior officer in the Higher Education Department said employees were being recruited and the promotion panel had cleared 15 more names for the posts of principal, but the process had been challenged.Repeated attempts to contact Education Minister Pargat Singh and DPI (Colleges) Upkar Singh remained futile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-principal-for-10-colleges-in-5-districts-of-punjab-337439
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure cleanliness in hospitals: Ashwani Sekhri||Punjab Health System Corporation Chairman Ashwani Sekhri today directed all civil surgeons, medical superintendent, deputy medical commissioners and Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, to raise the standard of cleanliness in hospitals and ensure availability of medicines.Sekhri said as per the directions of CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Dy CM OP Soni, the PHSC was committed to providing the best healthcare facilities to the people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-cleanliness-in-hospitals-ashwani-sekhri-337440
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||PUDA XEN promoted on panel intervention||An Executive Engineer (XEN) of the Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) has got a promotion with retrospective effect i.e. from May 4, 2019, as the Chief Engineer on the intervention of the Punjab State Schedule Castes Commission.Commission member Gian Chand said complainant Balwinder Singh had been occupying the post of Executive Engineer since July 3, 2015, but had not been considered for promotion. It was claimed he didn’t fulfil the eligibility criteria on the grounds that the annual confidential reports of 2018-19 had not been received. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/puda-xen-promoted-on-panel-intervention-337441
13-11-2021||Abohar||Abohar shops to stay shut for 3 hours today||As the police could not find any clue about the miscreants who had burgled a shop and a clinic here, the Main Bazaar Association gave a call of three-hour strike on Saturday.The victim shopkeeper, Praveen Chawla, and Main Bazaar Association president Arvind Baghla said a protest march would be started on Saturday morning to wake up the city police from their slumber. The protesters would stage a dharna and raise slogans outside the police station. A protest note would also be submitted.Unidentified miscreants on Wednesday critically assaulted a night guard in the main market and burgled ashop and a clinic here.Despite replacing the City-1 police station inchargeand claiming intensified patrolling, there is no end to incidents of theft. Ajay Kumar, a student and resident of Kothi Faiz, said his bike, parked outside Government Branch High School, was stolen during working hours on Friday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-shops-to-stay-shut-for-3-hours-today-337442
13-11-2021||Morinda||Contract employees demand regular jobs||Seeking regularisation, members of the Punjab Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha blocked the Morinda-Sirhind road by setting up a tent here on Thursday.Rejecting the government’s decision to regularise jobs of 36,000 contractual employees under the Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employees Bill-2021, the protesters said nearly 1.25 lakh employees working for the government under outsourcing and other schemes were deprived of this right.A large number of protesters started reaching the town in the morning and by the afternoon, they blockedthe road by staging a dharna and setting up a tent in the middle of the road.SDM Ravinder Singh said the protesters had been appealed several times to vacate the road as locals were being troubled. The administration would take appropriate measures if the dharna was not lifted, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contract-employees-demand-regular-jobs-337443
13-11-2021||Muktsar||Man booked for rape||Rape convict gets 20-yr RIAbohar: A special court dealing with POCSO cases at Hanumangarh near Abohar sentenced a rape convict to 20-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) and also imposed Rs 1 lakh fine on him. Special public prosecutor Vinod Doodi said the sentence was awarded under Sections 363, 376 and 447 of the IPC. OCDrive to redress grievancesBarnala: A special grievance redressal drive will be conducted on November 15 for the freedom fighters and their wards as per the instructions of the state government. Barnala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Sourabh Raj said a district-level grievance redressal drive would be conducted on the 15th of every month. TNSCouple held for ‘fraud’Abohar: After investigating a complaint lodged by Sant Lal Dass of Bagha Purana (Moga), the police have arrested a couple for alleged forgery and fraudulently selling properties worth crores of a dera. Peelibanga police station incharge Inder Kumar on Thursday said Tosh Kumar Jain of Haridwar and his wife Monika had been arrested. The present value of the seized property is said to be about Rs 200 crore. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-booked-for-rape-337444
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi compulsory in Punjab schools up to Class X||Punjabi has been made a compulsory subject for all students from Class I to X in the state, said Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today.He tweeted: “To promote mother tongue, Punjabi has been made a compulsory subject for all students from Class I to X in Punjab. Schools to be fined up to Rs 2 lakh for violation. Now, Punjabi is mandatory in offices. Also, Punjabi will be written on top of all boards in the state.” The tweet comes after the state Assembly passed the Punjab Learning of Punjabi and Other Language (Amendment) Bill, 2021, yesterday. Clause (e) of Section 2 of the Act says the term “school” includes any primary school, middle school, high school and senior secondary school, established and maintained by the state government or a local body or panchayat, society or trust or such other schools, as notified by the state government from time to time. It may also be mentioned that in pursuance of the aforesaid definition, the state government, vide notification dated March 22, 2010, has already notified “that Central Schools, Navodya Schools and all schools affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education and Indian Council of Secondary Education situated in the state of Punjab to be schools for the purposes of the said Act”. — TNSCBSE, ICSE schools also includedA 2010 notification makes the provision mandatory for all Central, Navodya, CBSE, ICSE and other schools located in Punjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-compulsory-in-punjab-schools-up-to-class-x-337336
13-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||CM Channi makes Punjabi compulsory for all students from Classes I to X in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 12Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said Punjabi has been made a compulsory subject for all students from classes I to X in the state.He tweeted: “To promote mother tongue, Punjabi has been made a compulsory subject for all students from class I to X in Punjab. Schools to be fined upto 2 lakh for violation. Now, #Punjabi is mandatory in offices. Also, Punjabi will be written on top of all the boards in the state.”ਪੰਜਾਬ ਵਿੱਚ ਪਹਿਲੀ ਤੋਂ 10ਵੀਂ ਜਮਾਤ ਤੱਕ ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ਭਾਸ਼ਾ ਨੂੰ ਲਾਜ਼ਮੀ ਕਰ ਦਿੱਤਾ ਹੈ। ਕਿਸੇ ਵੀ ਸਕੂਲ ਵੱਲੋਂ ਇਸਦੀ ਪਾਲਣਾ ਨਾ ਕੀਤੇ ਜਾਣ ‘ਤੇ 2 ਲੱਖ ਰੁਪਏ ਤੱਕ ਦਾ ਜੁਰਮਾਨਾ ਲੱਗੇਗਾ। ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ਭਾਸ਼ਾ, ਦਫ਼ਤਰਾਂ ਵਿੱਚ ਵੀ ਲਾਜ਼ਮੀ ਕਰ ਦਿੱਤੀ ਗਈ ਹੈ ਅਤੇ ਸੂਬੇ ਅੰਦਰ ਹਰ ਬੋਰਡ ‘ਤੇ ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ਭਾਸ਼ਾ ਸਭ ਤੋਂ ਸਿਖ਼ਰ ’ਤੇ ਲਿਖੀ ਜਾਵੇਗੀ। 1/2  The Punjab Chief Minister had wanted Punjabi as one of the main subjects. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had then clarified that all regional languages have been kept in the category of minor subjects for first term exams for class 10 and 12. "I firmly oppose the CBSE's authoritarian decision to keep Punjabi out of the main subjects. This is against the federal spirit of Constitution, violating the right of Punjabi youth to learn their native language. I condemn this biased exclusion of Punjabi," Channi had tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-channi-makes-punjabi-compulsory-for-all-students-from-classes-i-to-x-in-punjab-337183
