14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder rubbishes claims of his proposed meeting with Gandhis||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday trashed the claims of a state minister regarding his likely meeting with the Gandhis and returning to the Congress, saying there is no question of looking back.He said one of the ministers in the Punjab government has claimed that he will be meeting Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and return to the party.“These are malicious and mischievous assumptions apparently made with an ulterior motive,” Singh said in a statement here.He reiterated that there is no question of his looking back ever.The former chief minister said he is shaping up his party and giving finishing touches to the organisational set-up.“We are waiting for the registration of our party, Punjab Lok Congress, by the Election Commission of India and the allotment of the party symbol,” he added.Singh quit the Congress on November 2 and accused Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra of hatching a “midnight conspiracy” to oust him from the state government.He had resigned as the chief minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Charanjit Singh Channi had replaced Amarinder Singh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-rubbishes-claims-of-his-proposed-meeting-with-gandhis-338069
14-11-2021||Aditi Tandon||11-member BJP delegation meets PM, demands reopening of Kartarpur corridor before Gurpurb on Nov 19||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 14A high-level delegation of BJP leaders from Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence on Sunday morning and demanded the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor ahead of Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary on November 19.The corridor was closed in the wake of Covid 19 and demands to reopen it have been growing in recent past with the ruling Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab making repeated demands.The 11-member delegation comprising senior BJP leaders Ashwani Sharma, Saudan Singh, Tarun Chugh, RP Singh, Dushyant Gautam, Tejinder Bagga among others in a representation to the PM cited daily new Covid cases stabilising at around 10,000 and active cases at a 274-day low (1.35 lakh) besides the delivery of over 110 crore Covid-19 vaccine shots to demand that the corridor be reopened “in line with the sentiments of the Sikh devotees who want to cross over to the Pakistan to pay obeisance to Guru Nanak at Gurdwara Darbar Saheb in Narowal, Pakistan”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in 2019 inaugurated the Indian side of the Kartarpur corridor, which links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of the first Sikh guru and Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district.“Gurdwara Darbar Sahib shrine went to Pakistan at the time of Partition due to the callousness of the Congress even though it is located just three km from the border with Pakistan. Subsequent governments did nothing to reopen the corridor. PM Modi eventually reopened the corridor honouring the sentiments of Sikhs across the world,” the delegation said in a memorandum to the PM.The leaders also said with the economic and other activities reopening gradually the hope for reopening of the corridor had been revived.“We hope your good self will reopen the corridor for the Sikh devotees to celebrate Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak on November 19,” the delegation said.The delegates said the BJP government at the centre had done for Sikhs what no other government had done in the past including the constitution of a special investigation team to bring to Justice the culprits of 1984 Sikh massacre, the recent Protection granted to Sikhs from Afghanistan, the commissioning of special flights to retrieve Guru Granth Saheb copies from war torn Afghanistan and the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor.Dyal Singh Sodhi, BJP general Secretary Punjab said after the meeting, “We are extremely hopeful of the corridor’s reopening. PM Modi did for Sikhs what the governments could never do in 70 years. The government under the PM also marked the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur in a big way. In the same spirit we hope the Kartarpur corridor would be reopened too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-member-bjp-delegation-meets-pm-demands-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-before-gurpurb-on-nov-19-337993
14-11-2021||New Delhi||Punjab sees biggest reduction in petrol price, Ladakh on diesel||Congress-ruled Punjab has seen the biggest reduction in the price of petrol in the country after it cut local sales tax or VAT the most while the Union Territory of Ladakh witnessed the largest reduction in diesel rates for the same reason.Post the Union government’s decision of reducing excise duty on petrol by Rs 5 per litre and that on diesel by Rs 10 a litre, 25 states and UTs have cut VAT to give further reprieve to consumers battered by record-high retail prices.Petrol price has been further reduced by as much as Rs 16.02 per litre and diesel by Rs 19.61 a litre as a result of combined impact of the excise duty and VAT cut, according to price charts available from state-owned fuel retailers.Poll-bound Punjab has seen the most cut in petrol price of Rs 16.02 a litre, followed by UT of Ladakh with Rs 13.43 a litre and Karnataka (Rs 13.35).The VAT reduction in Punjab is Rs 11.27 per litre on petrol while in Uttar Pradesh, which will go to polls early next year to elect a new government in the state, the reduction is Rs 6.96. Gujarat has seen Rs 6.82 a litre reduction in VAT while Odisha has cut sales tax by Rs 4.55 and by Rs 3.21 in Bihar.Diesel has seen the most reduction in Ladakh where rates have come down by Rs 9.52 per litre because of a cut in VAT on top of Rs 10 a litre fall in excise duty. Karnataka has cut VAT by Rs 9.30, followed by Rs 9.02 reduction in Puducherry.Punjab has cut Value-Added Tax (VAT) on diesel by Rs 6.77 a litre while Uttar Pradesh has cut the tax by the second lowest level of Rs 2.04.Uttarakhand has cut VAT on diesel by Rs 2.04 a litre and Haryana by Rs 2.04. Bihar has reduced VAT by Rs 3.91 and Odisha by Rs 5.69. Madhya Pradesh cut tax on diesel by Rs 6.96 a litre.The states/UTs that extended additional VAT benefits are Ladakh, Karnataka, Puducherry, Jammu & Kashmir, Sikkim, Mizoram, Himachal Pradesh, Daman & Diu, Dadra & Nagr Haveli, Chandigarh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Gujarat, Nagaland, Punjab, Goa, Meghalaya, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Andaman & Nicobar, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.States that have so far not lowered VAT include Congress and its allies ruled Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu. AAP-ruled Delhi, TMC-governed West Bengal, Left-ruled Kerala, TRS-led Telangana and YSR Congress-ruled Andhra Pradesh have also not cut VAT.Since states charge local sales tax or VAT not just on the base price but also on the excise duty levied by the Centre, the total incidence of price reduction was higher than Rs 5 a litre cut in excise duty on petrol and Rs 10 per litre cut in diesel. The reduction was larger in states with higher VAT.In Delhi, the reduction in petrol price was Rs 6.07 per litre, and that on diesel was Rs 11.75, according to the price chart. Petrol costs Rs 103.97 a litre and diesel is priced at Rs 86.67 per litre.There have been no changes in retail selling price since the excise duty cut was implemented from November 4.After duty changes, the costliest petrol is sold in Rajasthan at Rs 111.10 per litre (Jaipur), followed by Mumbai (Rs 109.98) and Andhra Pradesh (Rs 109.05). The fuel is below Rs 100-a-litre-mark in most BJP-ruled states barring Karnataka (Rs 100.58), Bihar (Rs 105.90), Madhya Pradesh (Rs 107.23) and Ladakh (Rs 102.99).Diesel is costliest in Rajasthan at Rs 95.71 a litre, followed by Andhra Pradesh (Rs 95.18) and Telangana (Rs 94.62). — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-biggest-reduction-in-petrol-price-ladakh-on-diesel-337992
14-11-2021||Vishav Bharti||Two years on, farm machinery bank scam returns to haunt Punjab agri officials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 13Two years after The Tribune blew the lid off the stubble management machinery scam, the government has started a fresh inquiry after the officials concerned failed to produce any record regarding the machine purchased by spending subsidy of hundreds of crores sent by the Centre.In a report that appeared on October 18, 2019, The Tribune had highlighted how a large number of farm custom hiring centres (machinery banks) established under the In-Situ Crop Residue Management Scheme couldn’t be traced on the ground, when a team of the Union Ministry of Agriculture carried out a field survey.Unearthed in 2019Following the report, the government formed a five-member inquiry panel that failed to fix responsibility in the scam. With the change in guard at the top in the government, the scam has again started haunting officials.The government has started an inquiry against Manmohan Kalia, head of the Engineering Wing of the Agriculture Department, for failing to produce the record of machinery distribution. A report has been sought within seven days. As per a memo issued by the government, Kalia failed to produce record of the money spent on machines under the Crop Residue Management Scheme. The Secretary (Agriculture) has been asked to institute an inquiry and submit the report within seven days.With an aim to make available stubble management machinery to marginal and small farmers, the central government had given funds to establish farm machinery banks (custom hiring centres) last year. The banks were to be established by cooperative societies of farmers, producer organisations, self-help groups, registered farmers’ societies, farmers’ groups and private entrepreneurs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-years-on-farm-machinery-bank-scam-returns-to-haunt-punjab-agri-officials-337730
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab DAP shortage: Minister orders action against erring officials||The Agriculture Minister, Randeep Singh Nabha, on Saturday said that disciplinary action would be taken against officials allegedly involved in malpractices in the supply of diammonium phosphate (DAP).In a statement, Nabha today that said disciplinary action had been initiated against the agriculture officer and block agriculture officer of Patiala district following negligence in supply. Any laxity in the supply to farmers would be dealt with seriously, he said.Cases registeredInstructions have been issued to deal with malpractices sternly and cases have also been registered. Unregulated stock of DAP has been confiscated in Jalalabad and Ferozepur, and action is being taken. —Randeep Singh Nabha, Agriculture MinisterNabha pointed out that instructions had been issued to deal with malpractices sternly and that cases had been registered in some districts in this regard. Unregulated stock of DAP had been confiscated in Jalalabad, Ferozepur district, and action was being taken.The minister said the state needed 5.50 lakh tonnes of DAP for rabi crop and the Centre had made the allocation. The state had so far received 1.51 lakh tonne of DAP against the demand of 2 lakh tonne, he said, adding the arrivals of consignments were slow. — TNSFarmers protest Ferozepur: Farmers belonging to the border area today blocked the railway overbridge connecting the city to the cantonment area and raised slogans against the government over the DAP shortage. Commuters had a tough time as the traffic was affected.They said those close to “influential” leaders were getting DAP on their doorstep. “DAP is generally available at Rs 1,200, but is now being sold at Rs 1,500. What will a poor farmer do?” said Gurmit Singh, a farmer. “Earlier, we suffered due to gunny bags shortage and now we are facing DAP crisis. The government claims to be ‘farmer friendly’, but failed to provide fertilisers at fixed prices,” said Dalip Singh, a farmer.DC Davinder Singh said proper arrangement for the distribution of DAP had been made. “There will be no shortage in the district,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-dap-shortage-minister-orders-action-against-erring-officials-337732
14-11-2021||---||BSF's job only to assist state police, says IG||Jalandhar, November 13Two days after the Assembly passed a resolution against the increase in the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force from 15 km to 50 km, BSF IG Sonali Mishra today said the force’s job was only to complement and assist the state police since it did not have any policing powers.The IG said in the light of newer challenges emerging in the western theatre and political developments in Afghanistan, it was important to extend the limit of the force guarding the 553-km Indo-Pak border. “With the jurisdiction increasing, the reaction time of the BSF will be quick. Ultimately, we will only be helping the state police. The BSF has no policing powers, as neither it can register FIR nor carry out investigation. After seizure, the substance has to be handed over to the state police or any other law enforcement agency. There are strict SOPs in place to handle everything,” she said.UAVs programmed to reach target, returnThe drones have become so advanced that they now fly higher and are difficult to spot. These are now equipped with advanced software to reach the target site and programmed to return. —Sonali Mishra, BSF IGThe IG specified that the NDPS Act, Arms Act and Customs Act would still not be applicable beyond the 15-km range. She explained, “Since 1969, the BSF vide a GoI notification had been given the powers of arrest, search and seizure till 15 km in Punjab under the Foreigners Act 1967, Foreigners Act (Entry into India) Act-1920, Customs Act, NDPS Act and Arms Act. Now, the Centre has issued three notifications as per which only the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Passport (Entry into India) Act-1920 and Passport Act-1967 have been extended for the BSF from the International Border up to 50 km in Punjab.”Mishra said 45 drone sightings had taken place so far this year. This has increased from 32 in 2020 and 12 in 2019. Claiming that the government was already working on counter-drone technologies, she said it was conducting trials to develop radars to detect small drones.“Practically, we can only hear a mild humming sound if drones are flying at a height of 250-300 m, beyond that it is quite unlikely to detect these,” she said, adding that the drones had penetrated up to 6 km in Punjab so far. She said that instances of drones carrying and dropping weapons weighing up to 10 kg were also known.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsfs-job-only-to-assist-state-police-says-ig-337733
14-11-2021||Promising to work for reviving the state economy||Navjot Singh Sidhu, PPCC President: ‘Have roadmap to pull state out of quicksand’||There are reports you have differences with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. What do you have to say?There is no question of getting along or not with Channi. He is the CLP leader. It is not about him. I have no personal issues with anyone. It is about Punjab. It is about my state. We are managers of public funds. I am concerned about the pitiable financial condition of the state, which has made us the most debt-ridden state in the country. The state’s external debt to GDP ratio is 48 per cent, which is the highest in the country. My politics is not about me, it’s about Punjab. We need to respond to the situation, else “Punjab rehne layak nahin rahega (Punjab will become unliveable)”.This government will end up with Rs3 lakh crore debt, which is being recovered in the form of indirect taxes, which people have to pay. I want to see a toll-free Punjab. The revenue should go to education, health and employment generation. These are the real issues facing Punjab.I don’t know why the STF report on drugs is not being made public. It was filed by ADGP Harpreet Sidhu who headed the STF in February 2018. I have asked the government to act on the report immediately… As a party leader, it’s my duty to be accountable to people of the state.Do you see yourself as the Chief Minister candidate during the coming elections?I can’t comment. It is for the party high command to decide.As you claim the Congress will return to power, will the arrangement of Channi being CM and you PCC chief stay?This is not about any personal arrangement. An individual means nothing. It is about the state. Men and women go. This is not about any personal issue.There are rumours that you could possibly be contesting the next Vidhan Sabha elections from the Patiala constituency. Any comment?I will contest from Amritsar, nowhere else. I did not agree to another seat when former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley was fielded from the Amritsar Lok Sabha seat in 2014. I was offered a Rajya Sabha seat or a seat of my choice anywhere in Haryana, Delhi or Chandigarh. I am a man of my word and am committed to the people of my constituency.Are the issues raised by you being resolved?I have been raising my voice against the same issues ever since I joined politics. The debt on the state when Capt Amarinder Singh’s term ended in 2007 was at Rs 30,000 crore. From 2007 to 2017, the debt touched Rs 1.82 lakh crore. This government will end up with a debt of Rs 3 lakh crore. The increasing debt is being recovered in the shape of indirect taxes, which people have to pay. I want to see a toll-free Punjab. The revenue should go to education, health and employment generation. These are real issues facing Punjab. In the last 25 years, the state has taken a hit. There is no magic wand to turn around the state in a few days. But the problem should not persist. The bad practices should go. New policies should take over. My goal is government beyond 2022. Instead of making a list of poll promises, the one who generates income beyond 2022 is the real champion.Do you foresee Congress coming back to power in the state?There is no question of not returning to power. Look at the alternatives. We have to convince people that we have a policy-driven roadmap that can pull Punjab out of this quicksand.How many seats do you expect to win in 2022?That people will decide. We will try our best to get an absolute majority, which allows us to freely implement public policies. Otherwise, in a minority or a coalition government, there are pulls and pressures.Capt Amarinder Singh says you are a national security risk.It’s laughable. What is he talking about? In his four-year tenure, did he do anything for the betterment of the state? Jo insaan jaisa karam karta hai, waisa hi phal pata hai (As you sow, so shall you reap).What is most disturbing about the state debt?Currently, the state government is under Rs 3 lakh crore debt. Who will repay it? Unfortunately, the people of the state. By 2023, it is expected to rise to Rs 4 lakh crore. A simple but disturbing fact is approximately 73 per cent of the new borrowings are used to repay the old debt.Your biggest concern?Going by the situation on the ground, Punjab will be rendered not worth living. We have to show a path to revive the state economy. First, we have to stop the exodus of youth to foreign countries and for this we have to create enough employment opportunities in Punjab.Do you think your repeated statements on the need for positive steps for the revival of state’s economy are making any difference?A positive example is that of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring showing the way by generating income for the state exchequer. The sector had for decades remained in private hands making money at exchequer’s cost. In another example, the state has decided to have a relook at the faulty power purchase agreements with private companies. The Advocate General, who had a questionable standing, being changed is yet another example of a positive change. Steps have also been initiated to replace the state DGP, who was seen to be having leanings towards the previous SAD dispensation that is under the scanner for its alleged role in the sacrilege incidents.What is the way forward?I know there is no money-making machine. So, we will have to look at the options available. These could possibly be taxes, borrowings and independent income. At the same time, we cannot rely more on borrowings because we are now the most financially burdened state. So, the possibilities for our way forward could be ensuring no toll tax, creation of jobs for the youth, good education and health.What is stopping the state government?It is about intentions. Good intentions mean everything for a positive change. Look at Telangana. The state got only Rs 10 crore from sand mining in 2014 when it separated from Andhra Pradesh. The state income increased to Rs 300 crore the next year. Importantly, Punjab earned only Rs 10 crore per year against Rs 47 crore per month in Telangana. It is worth mentioning that our state has a sand expanse spread over 1,300 km.You differ from the state government over making public the STF report on drugs. Do you think there would be a logical conclusion to the sacrilege and drug-trafficking probe?The issues brought the Congress to power in 2017. The CM was removed over these. I don’t know why the report is not being made public. The report was filed by ADGP Harpreet Sidhu who headed the STF in February 2018. I have asked the government to act on the report immediately. The court hadalso asked the state government to proceed on the report as per law. As a party leader, it’s my duty to be accountable to people of the state.What do you have to say about no live coverage of the Vidhan Sabha proceedings?I am for full live coverage of the House proceedings like the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and many Assemblies. In the recent House session, I spoke at length on the White Paper on the PPAs. However, nothing significant came out in public. Only the Chief Minister’s speech in the Assembly was covered. Our public is deprived of important bits of information on a wide array of public issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-ppcc-president-have-roadmap-to-pull-state-out-of-quicksand-337734
14-11-2021||Bathinda||Employees’ union blocks highways in Bathinda||Demanding implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report after amendments, members of the Punjab and UT Employees’ and Pensioners’ Joint Front today took out a state-level protest rally here.Scores of protesters from different departments raised slogans against the state government. They later blocked the Bathinda-Goniana and Bathinda-Amritsar highways near the Ghaniya Chowk area. Addressing the protesters, Megh Singh Sidhu, a union leader, said, “Bowing down after a string of protests, the state government has announced 11 per cent DA. However, it is still ignoring the demand of making required amendments to the pan panel report. The government has also made announcement of regularising services of contractual workers, but as per the conditions, only a small number of workers will benefit.”Meanwhile, owing to the road blockade, commuters were harassed and had to take alternative routes. “We demand that all allowances discontinued by the government must be revived. Employees recruited to different departments after January 1, 2016, must be provided same benefits as other employees recruited before that period. The employees recruited after July 17, 2020, must be given the pay scale as per the government pattern. The old pension scheme must be revived and contractual workers must be regularised,” added Sidhu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/employees-union-blocks-highways-in-bathinda-337735
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP: Rs2 lakh for  R-Day accused arbitrary move||The BJP today said the government’s decision to give Rs 2 lakh compensation to persons arrested for the Red Fort violence on Republic Day was arbitrary and anti-national.State party chief Ashwani Sharma said the CM had “no right to squander the taxpayers’ money by doling it out from the state exchequer”. “Channi needs a reminder that the state treasury is not his personal fiefdom and there is no place for people who indulge in anti-national activities,” he said. The CM had on Friday said his government stood by those protesting against the farm laws. “We have decided to give Rs 2 lakh relief to 83 persons held for carrying out a tractor rally on 26th January,” he had tweeted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-rs2-lakh-for-r-day-accused-arbitrary-move-337736
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||CLU permission for industries gets easier||With an aim to facilitate industrial development in the state, the government has exempted the provision of getting Change of Land Use (CLU) permission for setting up standalone green, orange and red category industries in permissible zones.Housing & Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said earlier the industrialists were required to obtain the CLU from the department and then get the building plans approved. Many industrialists found the process quite cumbersome and time-consuming. Exemption from obtaining the CLU would encourage setting up industries. Now the industrialists can directly get their building plans approved from the department, he said.However, the approval of building plans would be subject to the fulfillment of guidelines for industries and building bylaws of the department. Various industrial associations had been demanding simple process for setting up industries and demanded a single-step clearance. These associations said there were many entrepreneurs inclined to establish industries in the state, but lengthy procedures were discouraging them. — TNSExemption grantedNo approval needed for setting up standalone green, orange and red category industries in permissible zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clu-permission-for-industries-gets-easier-337737
14-11-2021||Archit Watts||No platelet machine in Muktsar govt hospitals||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 13Despite the fact that the number of dengue patients has risen to 1,647 in Muktsar district, there is not even a single Solo Donor Platelet Concentrate (SDPC) machine in any government hospital here. Further, there are reports that the lone private laboratory equipped with the machine has run out of required kits.Deepak Garg, a member of Jai Babe Di Blood Sewa Society, Muktsar, said, “Dengue patients and their family members are facing a major problem. The government hospitals don’t have the SDPC machine and the private laboratory does not have the required kits. As a result, families of dengue patients have to go to neighbouring districts. One platelet unit costs above Rs 12,000.”He further said some patients even needed two or three units of platelet transfusion daily. “We have even handed over a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, seeking installation of the SDPC machine at the Civil Hospital here,” said Garg.Muktsar CMO Dr Ranju Singla said, “The civil hospitals in the district don not have the SDPC machine. Further, there is one private laboratory equipped with the machine in the district, but it too appears to have run out of the required kits.”Cell separatorThe Solo Donor Platelet Concentrate (SDPC) is an automated cell separator machine. It is used to separate and collect platelets from blood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-platelet-machine-in-muktsar-govt-hospitals-337771
14-11-2021||---||Three ASIs booked after undertrial flees custody||Muktsar, November 13The Sadar police have booked three Assistant Sub-Inspectors (ASIs) after a drug accused facing trial allegedly fled their custody during transit to the district jail here.The undertrial, Amritpal Singh of Jhoke village in Ferozepur district, had developed some health issues on November 6 in the Ferozepur jail and was shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Faridkotfor treatment.The incident occurred when Amritpal was being shifted to the district jail in Muktsar but as the ambulance carrying him reached outside the jail, he fled.The ambulance driver, Beant Singh, lodged a complaint with the police alleging that three ASIs were bringing the accused to the Muktsar jail. “However, one of them alighted at Faridkot and the second at Sadiq, leaving a lone Assistant Sub-Inspector to accompany the accused in the ambulance. On reaching Muktsar, the accused fled,” he alleged.Those booked have been identified as Gurcharan Singh, Gian Singh and Ranjit Singh, all posted at the Police Lines in Ferozepur. Besides, the accused was booked for fleeing police custody.Investigating officer Jasvir Singh said efforts were on to nab the escapee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-asis-booked-after-undertrial-flees-custody-337787
14-11-2021||Ferozepur||To curb drug sale, search ops at medical shops||The police today conducted a special search operation at various places, including the cantonment and city areas, Makhu, Zira, Mallanwala, Talwandi Bhai, Machhian Wali Basti and Tibba Basti, to check illegal sale of drugs in the border district.A team of 300 police officials, including five DSPs, seven SHOs and a drug inspector, were involved in the raids at various medical shops and villages.At Jhoke Hari Har village, houses were searched by officials. SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans said though no major recoveries were made, the move would act as a deterrent for drug smugglers. “We have instructed medical store owners not to sell medicines without prescription,” said SSP Hans. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-curb-drug-sale-search-ops-at-medical-shops-337788
14-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Recovering stamp duty dues after 3 years impermissible, says High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 13The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that initiation of process to recover alleged deficiency in stamp duty after three years was impermissible. The assertion came in a case where the respondents claimed the three-year bar was not applicable as the matter involved detection of fraud and not under-valuation.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after a bunch of three petitions was filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by an asset reconstruction company through senior counsel Munisha Gandhi with Vaibhav Sharma and Vedika Gandhi. The stand of the respondents in the matter was that certain deeds were wrongly described as assignment agreements, instead of conveyance deeds. As such, a fraud had been committed by the petitioner.Justice Rajbir Sehrawat asserted the respondents undisputedly initiated the action for recovering alleged deficiency in stamp duty after three years from the date of registration of the assignment deeds.Section 47-A of the Indian Stamp Act, applicable to the state of Punjab, contained a specific provision on when, where and how the authorities could initiate action for recovering alleged deficiency in stamp duty. It provided an outer limit of three years. As such, the action was barred by Section 47-A, Justice Sehrawat observed.The argument that the matter involved detection of a fraud to avoid the bar of Section 47-A was totally devoid of any merit. The deeds contained complete details and there was no question of fraud being committed by the petitioner. At the most, it could be the Sub-Registrar’s failure to properly understand the nature of the deed at the time of registration, Justice Sehrawat added.“The nutshell assertion of the respondents now is that the deeds were wrongly described as agreements instead of conveyance deeds and thereby fraud was committed by the petitioner. However, sub-section (3) of Section 47-A of the Act clearly stipulates for such a situation as well. Under Section 47-A (3), the collector is fully authorised to determine the nature, character and description of the deed. Hence, Section 47-A not only deals with the under-valuation as disclosed in the deed presented for registration, it also deals with all possible situations through which an attempt can be made to avoid payment of full stamp duty,” Justice Sehrawat observed, adding the bar of limitation would still be applicable.Allowing all writ petitions, Justice Sehrawat set aside the impugned orders, including an order on the recovery of alleged deficient stamp duty passed by a DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recovering-stamp-duty-dues-after-3-years-impermissible-says-high-court-337789
14-11-2021||Ferozepur||85-yr-old murdered in Ferozepur||Rape victim sent to rehab centreMuktsar: The District Legal Services Authority with the help of the Child Welfare Committee shifted a minor girl allegedly raped by her stepfather to a rehabilitation centre at Rajpura. Besides, it paid Rs 5 lakh interim relief to the victim. “The girl’s mother and other family members are untraceable. After getting the information, we shifted her to the centre," said Aman Sharma, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-secretary, District Legal Services Authority. TNSProtest over crop loss reliefSangrur: Demanding financial aid for farmers who have suffered crop loss besides adequate supply of DAP, area farmers have started an indefinite protest at the Lehra SDM office. The farmers said they would further intensify their agitation if the authorities fail to accept their demands. TNSMan nabbed with opiumAbohar: The police on Saturday claimed to have seized 500 gm opium by intercepting Kamlesh Kumar of Khajuwala, Rajasthan, and recovered Rs 30,000 alleged drug money from him. The accused was held under the NDPS Act. In another raid, the police recovered a stolen bike and a mobile phone from Kulwinder Singh of Govt Seed Farm colony here. His custodial interrogation had been allowed by a court. OCFilm on legal services releasedChandigarh: A film on legal services, Insaaf-Punjabi short film, has turned out to be an example for all district legal services authorities. Prepared by Bathinda District Legal Services Authority, it was released as part of weeklong “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebrations from Nov 8-14. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/85-yr-old-murdered-in-ferozepur-337790
14-11-2021||---||Punjab does away with obtaining CLU for standalone industries in permissible zones||Chandigarh, November 13In a decision intended to facilitate industrial development in the state, the Punjab government has dropped the provision of getting Change of Land Use (CLU) permission for setting up standalone green, orange and red category industries in permissible zones.Housing and Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said that earlier the industrialists were required to obtain the CLU from the department and then to get the building plans approved.The process was cumbersome and time-consuming. Exemption from obtaining CLU would encourage setting up of industries. Now the industrialists could directly get their building plans approved from the department, said the minister.However, the approval of building plans would be subject to fulfilment of the guidelines for industries and building by-laws of the department, which the applicants would have to abide by, Sarkaria said.Various industrial associations for long were demanding ease-out of the process of setting up industries and single-step clearance. These associations were of the view that there are many entrepreneurs inclined to establish industries in the state but lengthy procedures for getting the approvals were discouraging them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-does-away-with-obtaining-clu-for-standalone-industries-in-permissible-zones-337620
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||SAD announces 3 more candidates for Punjab Assembly polls||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday announced the names of three more candidates for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls.Sunita Chaudhry has been given a poll ticket from the Balachaur seat in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, while Jaspal Singh will contest from the Patiala Rural seat.Bachittar Singh Kohar will be the SAD nominee from the Shahkot Assembly constituency in Jalandhar district."SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced Sunita Chaudhry from Balachaur, Jaspal Singh Bitu Chatha from Patiala Rural and youth leader Bachittar Singh Kohar from Shahkot assembly constituency as party candidates. Total 83," party leader Daljit Singh Cheema said in a tweet on Saturday.The SAD has forged an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the upcoming Assembly polls.According to the seat-sharing arrangement between the two political parties, the Mayawati-led BSP will field candidates from 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the remaining seats will be contested by the SAD.The Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year. PTISAD President S Sukhbir Singh Badal announced Sunita Chaudhry from Balachaur, Jaspal Singh Bitu Chatha from Patiala Rural and youth leader Bachittar Singh Kohar from Shahkot assembly constituency as party candidates. Total 83.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-announces-3-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-polls-337600
