15-11-2021||---||Not fair, says Pargat Singh as teachers enter his private house in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 15As members of PTI Teachers’ Union barged into his residence at Mithapur locality on Monday afternoon over their demands, Education Minister Pargat Singh took to Twitter to post the video and condemn their action.My Statement on teachers barging into my private residence in my absence . pic.twitter.com/8jN40UUmcj  He put out three tweets and even sent across a video message to the protesting teachers condemning the move. “This is not fair as the members of teachers union have barged into my residence that too at time when I was busy deliberating upon ways and means to solve their pending problems. I have already met these agitating teachers umpteen times and directed the department to look into their genuine demands sympathetically. But then also these teachers have acted responsibly due to which a huge inconvenience has been caused not only to my aged and ailing parents but also to several people residing in the area. This is highly unfortunate. I condemn this inhuman act by teachers and urge them to refrain from this in future.”Ever since Pargat Singh has become Education Minister, teachers have been lodging protest almost on daily basis and breaking barricades so as to enter his house. They were finally successful in their attempt today. Pargat even shared the video of the teachers sitting inside his house on his Twitter account while adding that it is a failure of the Punjab Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-fair-says-pargat-singh-as-teachers-enter-his-private-house-in-jalandhar-338439
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||More than 65,000 farm fire incidents recorded in Punjab so far||More than 65,000 farm fire incidents have been recorded across Punjab this season despite penalties imposed by the authorities and efforts made for management of crop residue, officials said on Monday.Farmers kept flouting the ban on paddy stubble burning across the state, and around 2,500 farm fire incidents were witnessed on Sunday, with Sangrur district accounting for the most of them, they said.To curb the practice, the state government has so far imposed an environmental compensation of Rs 2.46 crore on erring growers, said an official of the Punjab Pollution Control Board.Punjab saw 65,404 stubble burning incidents till Sunday, as against 73,893 registered till November 14 last year, the official added.Though the number of farm fires this year so far is less than last year, it has crossed the 2019 figures.Punjab had seen 76,590 incidents of field fires in 2020 as compared to 52,991 in 2019, as per the data.The farm fires continued unabated despite the state government deputing nodal officers across Punjab to check these and giving more machines for management of crop residue.Farmers burn paddy stubble in order to clear their fields to sow the next crop, but the fumes of these fires cause air pollution.According to farmers, it is not feasible for them, especially small and marginal growers, to purchase farm machinery for the management of crop residue.“We want the government to give us Rs 200 per quintal as bonus for management of paddy straw,” said Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan.Farmers of Punjab and Haryana are often blamed for causing air pollution by burning paddy straw.Punjab alone generates an estimated 20 million tonnes of paddy stubble annually. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-than-65-000-farm-fire-incidents-recorded-in-punjab-so-far-338418
15-11-2021||---||Delegation of 32 Punjab farmer unions to meet CM Channi on Nov 17||Chandigarh, November 15A delegation of representatives of 32 Kisan Unions of Punjab would meet Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi at Chandigarh on November 17.Buta Singh Burzgill, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Dakaunda), said the demands included adequate and timely supply of DAP, procurement of paddy, arrest of Akali leaders involved in recent Ferozepur incident, compensation to the heirs of martyrs of Kisan Andolan and prompt and immediate payment and employment arrangements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delegation-of-32-punjab-farmer-unions-to-meet-cm-channi-on-nov-17-338411
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab waives income limit on pensions of medal-winning internal athletes||Punjab’s Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Pargat Singh announced a waiver of the income limit on pensions of medal-winning international athletes.The announcement came after an interaction with athletes at the MGSIPA in Sector 26.Singh unveiled a new sports policy that lays focus on establishing more coaching centres for sportspeople and recruiting more staff into the sports department under the sports quota. He also announced that his government would set up a 20-member committee of athletes taken from various sports to help give a boost to sports in the state.He said his department had set a target of getting five lakh youngsters into various sports in the state. The government will enlist the help of public sector organisations, private companies, and NRIs to help promote sports in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-waives-income-limit-on-pensions-of-medal-winning-internal-athletes-338394
15-11-2021||---||‘Damage’ to Bhagat Puran Singh memorial gate: 2 BJP leaders booked||Amritsar, November 14A day after several unidentified persons damaged a memorial gate erected in memory of Bhagat Puran Singh, the founder of Pingawara Charitable Society, opposite the inter-state bus terminus on Saturday, the police have booked Rajiv Sharma, alias Dimpy, and his brother Bhushan Bholla, both sons of former Mayor of the city — BJP’s Subhash Sharma.However, no arrest has been made in the case so far as the police claimed that they are at large. They were booked for hurting religious sentiments of people besides theft and under Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.On the other hand, the BJP has come in defence of Rajiv and his brother alleging that a false case was registered at the behest of Congress leader Saurav, alias Mithu Madaan.Lovepreet Singh told the police that the accused came in a car at Tehsilpura, where they started damaging the gate erected in memory of Bhagat Puran Singh. They also stole the name plate from there. ASI Pawan Kumar, investigating officer, said raids were conducted but the accused were on the run. Perturbed over the incident, the All-India Pingalwara Charitable Society headed by its president Dr Inderjit Kaur also lodged a complaint with the bus stand police seeking stringent action against those who damaged the gate.“The incident has hurt the sentiment of followers of Bhagat Puran Singh and well-wishers of the society,” she pointed out.Suresh Mahajan, district BJP president, in a statement issued here on Sunday denied the involvement of any BJP worker or leader in the incident. He said BJP workers’ names were being dragged due to political rivalry. He said the incident was an outcome of personal rivalry of Congress leader Mithu Madaan. Rajiv and his brother’s name was dragged in the incident as Shikha Sharma, wife of Rajiv Sharma, had contested elections against Mithu’s mother. Mahajan said the police acted under the influence of Congress leaders and registered a false case against Rajiv and his brother. He demanded a probe into the incident and cancellation of FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/damage-to-bhagat-puran-singh-memorial-gate-2-bjp-leaders-booked-338180
15-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dengue: Punjab Govt fails to repair critical equipment||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 14As dengue cases are on the rise, the state government has delayed the repair and maintenance of its huge inventory for months, including the critical apheresis machines that separate platelets from blood.While the Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) of the healthcare inventory expired on June 30, the new AMC contract is yet to be initiated. The floating of tenders for the new contract was delayed until September, when dengue cases were at the peak. Senior health officials, however, said blanket approvals were given for repair of apheresis machines.Tenders floated, ops to resume this monthThe new price bid for the contract has been opened and will be started this month… The previous firm assured us that it will extend the project, but posed new terms, which didn’t suit us. —Dr Sharandeep Sidhu, Director, Procurement, Punjab health systems corpnContinued services for 40 extra daysThe government gave us the project in July 2016. It expired in June this year. We continued services for 40 more days, but eventually we had to pay the salaries of 70-90 engineers. With no contract, we had to bow out. —Kiran Anand, Director, BiostarThe delay in the repair and maintenance of the critical inventory cost thousands of patients exorbitant money for the same healthcare treatment (including for platelet donation) from private hospitals and blood banks, which could have been conducted at civil hospitals at much subsidised rates.As per the health department, there are 12 apheresis machines at various government hospitals in the state. Many of these remained defunct and some were put up for repair or maintenance only recently after dengue figures saw a historic spike.The entire repair and maintenance of the healthcare inventory of the state government, under an Annual Maintenance Contract, is handed to a single company. The last contract was given to Biostar in July 2016 and it expired on June 30, 2021.Biostar officials maintain that they waited for 40 days for an extension of the contract and finally withdrew services in July end after the state government did not renew the contract.While Biostar was providing repair and maintenance for 415 government hospitals, including primary healthcare-level facilities, the total inventory amounted to at least 20,000 big and small equipment from blood pressure monitors and weighing machines to ultrasound machines, apheresis machines, X-ray machines, CR systems, ventilators, defibrilators, ECG machines and radiant baby warmers (violet therapies), etc.Surabhi Malik, Managing Director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, said she would look into the matter.Meanwhile, Vikas Garg, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said: “The new tenders for the annual maintenance contract have been issued. Blanket approvals were given for the repair of apheresis machines. There were problems with only two machines — one in Jalandhar and the other in Mohali.”On being questioned, he didn’t give any reason for the delay in tender issuance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-punjab-govt-fails-to-repair-critical-equipment-338193
15-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Prices spiral as demand for kiwi, dragon fruit up in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 14The rising number of dengue cases in the city has led to a sudden increase in the demand for exotic fruits kiwi and dragon fruit as it is believed these help increase the platelet count in patients suffering from dengue.As the district has reported more than 24,000 cases so far, the sale of coconut water, too, has witnessed surge. While doctors say there is no scientific evidence of the fruits boosting platelet count, fruit retailers across the city are doing a brisk business.The varietiesThe exotic fruit traders, who used to report a footfall of around 10 customers a day, are now serving as many as 35-40 customers daily. They say they have increased the stock of these exotic fruits to meet the rising demand. “Customers say these fruits help in increasing the platelet count,” a trader said.Manoj, a fruit seller, said: “Earlier, there were only a few selected customers for the exotic and expensive fruits, but now as dengue cases are on the rise, the demand and sale of these fruits have witnessed a manifold surge in the city.”Two types of dragon fruit are available in the market. The first one is imported from Thailand. Its wholesale price is Rs 350 per kg and is sold at Rs 400 per kg in the retail market. The other one is imported from China. It is available in the wholesale market at Rs 260 per kg and at Rs 300 per kg in the retail market.Three types of kiwi are available in the market. Kiwi is imported from New Zealand. Its wholesale price is Rs 35 per piece and Rs 40 per piece in the retail market. One of the kiwis is imported from Iran and is available at Rs 25 per piece in the wholesale market. Even a third new variety gold kiwi is also available in the market, which is considered most effective and is being sold for Rs 60 per piece. Besides, even juice sellers in the city have come up with booster juices — kiwi, dragon fruit and avocado shakes — for patients and are in high demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prices-spiral-as-demand-for-kiwi-dragon-fruit-up-in-bathinda-338194
15-11-2021||Nearly two months after taking over the reins of Punjab||I’m no maharaja, anyone can meet me: Punjab CM||Have you been able to dispel the perception of an understanding between ex-CM Capt Amarinder and the SAD?The most important thing is to dispel the perception by taking action on the ground. Where there is fire, there is smoke. Decisions speak for themselves. Lack of action by the Captain government was evident. Now, buses are being impounded and the special investigating team (SIT) on sacrilege cases is working while the officers remain the same.There were charges of inaccessibility during Captain’s tenure. Have things changed?I am no maharaja. Anyone can meet me. I go to meet people. When I was appointed Chief Minister, critics had questioned my capabilities. Now, their opinion has changed.The well-entrenched sand mining mafia is bound to create hurdles. But I am determined to root it out. We have reduced the rates to Rs5.50 per cubic feet.... I have directed the DCs and SSPs to strictly enforce the new rates.... My strategy is to ensure law and its enforcement act as a deterrentWhat challenges do you see after taking over from Capt Amarinder Singh?I have no competition with anyone. I am working to break the nexus that ails governance in the state. It is painful when NRIs compare the governance in their country with that of their home state. I am working to put in place a transparent and responsive administration. My priorities are education and health. I have a model to improve the education system. Instead of being an armchair politician, I approach people and ask about their problems. I am a worker. I have risen from the grassroots. I have evolved a mechanism to get feedback from people on the action taken on their complaints. As part of my model for the health sector, I am soon rolling out a government-run programme to make entire state cataract-free. Over the next one month, I will complete the drive.I told Captain Amarinder a leader needs political will to solve issues. The same goes for officers. If I cannot take the sacrilege cases to their logical conclusion, I fail in my job. The same advocate booked the Badals, represented ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and was now taking forward the sacrilege casesHave you sorted out the differences with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over the appointments of DGP and AG?There are over 400 IAS officers, police officers and a battery of advocates on different panels to represent the government in courts. I will not get dragged into petty issues. My agenda is betterment of Punjab. I don’t have ego. I told Capt Amarinder a leader needs political will to solve issues. The same goes for officers. If I cannot take the sacrilege cases to their logical conclusion, I fail in my job. The same advocate booked the Badals, represented former Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini and was now taking forward the sacrilege cases. If I can solve people’s issues, I can do the same for the party.Will the present arrangement of you being the CM and Sidhu the PCC chief continue if the Congress retains power?This is the prerogative of the party president. I am no one to decide. I will not interfere. It is for the party and public to decide. There are no differences among party leaders. The performance of the treasury benches in the recently concluded Vidhan Sabha session saw all party leaders take on the Opposition jointly. I request the Opposition to debate on the floor of the House, instead of walking out.What are the biggest challenges that your government faces?The biggest challenge is to reach out to the maximum number of people. I want to provide good education and health to people, stop revenue or police officers from asking for monetary favours from the common man. I want to give a clean and responsive administration. I have experienced the different phases of struggle of the common man. I understand poverty. I know the hardship of students who do not have the money to pay for travel. I understand their pain. I want to address their issues.What is your plan to end unemployment now that the government has only 45 days left?Employment generation is the main focus area. I want Punjabis to get jobs within the state. I am bringing in law to ensure near-100 per cent jobs for locals in both government and private sectors. It has been seen candidates from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi eat into the job share of locals. I plan to bring in legislation better than the one passed by Haryana. I am trying to ensure transparency in employment generation. We have already revised the minimum wages for unskilled and skilled workforce.n In the past over 50 days, you have rolled out populist measures costing the exchequer Rs9,000 crore. Where will the government get the money from to fund subsidies and sustain these over the next five years?I am not doing anything that would destabilise the fiscal health of the state. I am a student of political science and economics. I have reduced the tariff and annulled the power purchase agreements. It will reduce spending on purchase of power. The Akalis had inked pacts to buy solar power at Rs 17.28 paise/unit. We are preparing a new agreement to buy it at Rs 2.38 paise/unit, bringing down the cost by Rs 15 per unit. I also have a Punjab model for the coming years. I am doing whatever I can in the given time and circumstances.What efforts are being made on the ground to eliminate the sand mining mafia? How will you ensure sand and gravel are sold at Rs5.50 per cubic feet?The well-entrenched sand mining mafia is bound to create hurdles. But I am determined to root out the mafia. We have reduced the rates to Rs 5.50 per cubic feet. Those selling it at Rs 22 per cubic feet were linked to politicians, influential people and contractors. I have directed the Deputy Commissioners (DCs) and Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs) to strictly enforce the new rates. We first tested waters by selling it at Rs 9 per cubic feet, before reducing it further to Rs 5.50 per cubic feet. My strategy is to ensure that law and its enforcement act as a deterrent. If voted to power, we can think of making a corporation and regulating the functioning of stone crushers.What are your concerns about issues related to NRIs?I have urged the NRIs to give suggestions to improve the system and laws to redress their concerns. I am bringing in legislation to safeguard NRIs’ properties and protect them from being implicated in false cases.Are you looking to get more AAP MLAs on your side?AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal got the answer when one of his MLAs walked over to me during the Vidhan Sabha session, calling me “real aam aadmi”. More AAP MLAs will join us in the coming days.There has been a Dalit leadership void in the party. What do you have to say?I do not see it like that. I feel everyone should work together to improve the lives of the people. Ours is an ‘aam aadmi’ government and will continue to work for the common man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/im-no-maharaja-anyone-can-meet-me-punjab-cm-338199
15-11-2021||---||705 bags of spurious DAP seized in Mansa's Sardulgarh||Bathinda, November 14A fertiliser company has been found selling spurious or sub-standard DAP (diammonium phosphate) at Sardulgarh in Mansa. Led by Chief Agriculture Officer Mansa Dr Manjit Singh, a team of the Agriculture Department seized 705 bags of spurious or sub-standard DAP from the company.The team checked a godown of Victory Bio Tech Pvt Ltd, during which it found the spurious DAP. Officials informed the Sardulgarh police, which seized the fertiliser and registered a case against officials of the company under Section 420 of the IPC; Section 13, 19, 4 and 7 of the Fertiliser Control Order, 1985; and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.Will step up vigilWe have strong inputs about miscreants indulging in hoarding or black marketing of DAP. We are going to step up vigil and take strict action. —Randeep Nabha, Agriculture minister“No illegal practice will be tolerated. We appeal farmers to remain alert to such things and inform the department about any malpractice,” said Dr Manjit Singh.Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha said he had directed the officials to be strict on hoarding, black marketing and sale of spurious DAP. “Two days ago, I had directed officials to step up vigil and raids to prevent hoarding. An official in Patiala was issued a show-cause notice also. Today officials got this big haul of spurious DAP in Sardulgarh district and got an FIR registered,” said Nabha, adding the Centre had increased allocation and the shortfall would be met soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/705-bags-of-spurious-dap-seized-in-mansas-sardulgarh-338201
15-11-2021||Sangrur||Lehra farmers demand fertiliser||Farmers have been protesting outside the Lehra SDM’s office for the past two days, demanding financial assistance for crop losses and adequate supply of DAP. They have announced to intensify their agitation in the coming days if authorities fail to fulfill their demands.“Since farmers are opposing the central farm laws, the Centre is deliberately harassing us by delaying the supply of DAP. Many women and children have been taken ill after sitting here on an indefinite protest,” said Ram Singh Dhindsa, president, BKU (Ugrahan) Lehra block.Alleging the Punjab Government had failed to help them, protesters said more farmers would join the stir.“To date, neither the Punjab Government nor the Centre has shown any inclination to help us,” said Harjinder Singh, BKU (Ugrahan) Lehra leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lehra-farmers-demand-fertiliser-338203
15-11-2021||Bathinda||Protest outside BJP event venue in Bathinda||Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) today staged a protest outside the venue for BJP state president Ashwani Sharma’s event organised by party leader Veenu Goyal here.As farmers got the information about the BJP senior leader’s expected arrival here, they reached the venue and staged a protest outside the main gates.The farmers raised slogans against the party and said they would continue to protest its events across the state till the Centre repealed the three farm laws.Union leaders Harjinder Singh Buggi, Jagdev Singh Jogewala and Paramjit Kaur Pitho said farmers had been fighting for repeal of the central laws, including one imposing heavy fines and penalties on farmers for burning straw, for over an year. “Unions have been fighting on the Delhi border for over a year, but the Modi government at the Centre is adamant on not repealing these laws, which are in the interest of corporate houses,” said the leaders.On his part, Goyal said: “She had organised an event in which 400 families were to join the party and state president Ashwani Sharma slated to attend the event. However, he could not join them as he had to head to Delhi and instead sent state unit vice-president Jaswinder Singh Dhana.”She said in a democracy, everyone had the right to hold functions or join a party of their choice. Staging such protests amounted to “murder of democracy”. — TNSSoni stopped from attending functionsJaito: Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni faced farmers’ protest during his visit to Jaito town on Sunday. He was on a day’s visit to Faridkot, Kotkapura and Jaito. Soni was to attend public functions, but farmers prevented him from attending some. They demanded answers to their queries regarding the shortage of DAP, debt waiver for farmers who died at Delhi protest sites. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-outside-bjp-event-venue-in-bathinda-338204
15-11-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Samyukt Kisan Morcha activists oppose Suhbir Badal’s rally||The police had a hard time today as activists of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) opposed SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s rally at Sarinh village here.Sukhbir addressed the rally amid the confrontation between farm activists and the police. Farmers later blocked traffic on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road over the alleged manhandling of an activist. The blockade was lifted after senior officials promised action against the erring cops.An activist, Harnek Singh Gujjarwal, said Sukhbir held the rally in total disregard to the SKM’s appeal to all parties not to undertake political activities until the polls are announced. He alleged they were detained for over two hours when they tried to ask questions to Sukhbir.Meanwhile, the SAD chief projected former MLA Darshan Singh Shivalik as party candidate from Gill constituency. He said the Centre betrayed farmers by implementing three farm laws whereas the SAD had always been working for welfare of peasantry. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-activists-oppose-suhbir-badals-rally-338205
15-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Discord in Gurdaspur Cong may hit prospects||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, November 14Turmoil in the Gurdaspur Congress following repeated intrusions of MLAs into their colleagues’ territories is bound to affect the party’s poll prospects in this district, which has seven seats.Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa fired the latest salvo by claiming Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was “ordering transfers and postings” in his Assembly seat without taking him into confidence. His allegations have stunned many a Congress man for Randhawa is not known to meddle in the fiefdoms of his fellow legislators.“Randhawa seldom engages himself in political misdemeanors. At the same time, he never lets anyone interfere in his own seat of Dera Baba Nanak. In any case, if Fateh’s claims are true then the party is sure to suffer jolts in the elections,” said a minister.Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri often slug it out over postings in the Batala seat. Sekhri has all along been claiming Tript Bajwa, an MLA from Fatehgarh Churian, has been “unduly snooping into his area of jurisdiction.” MP Partap Singh Bajwa is another leader who is keen to contest from Batala and making his presence felt in a subtle way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/discord-in-gurdaspur-cong-may-hit-prospects-338206
15-11-2021||Baghaurana (Moga)||Lok Insaaf Party keen to contest all Punjab Assembly seats||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president Simarjit Singh Bains today said it was keen to contest all 117 seats in the forthcoming Assembly elections.Bains was at Baghapurana town here to preside over a state-level meeting of its representatives from all segments. LIP representatives observed two-minute silence in tribute to farmers who have lost their lives during the ongoing agitation.The party praised the good work done by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, but lashed out at Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for ignoring the interests of the state. Balwinder Singh Bains, the patriarch of the party, was also present on the occasion.Bains brothers also kept the option of an alliance with like-minded parties open. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lok-insaaf-party-keen-to-contest-all-punjab-assembly-seats-338207
15-11-2021||---||Punjab farmer leaders drum up support for stir anniversary||Chandigarh, November 14Farmer leaders are back in Punjab, motivating people in villages, to go to Delhi borders on the eve of completion of one year of protests against the three central farm laws.With just less than two weeks left, various union leaders are holding a plethora of meetings in villages, exhorting people to reach the protest sites. Kirti Kisan Union president Nirbhay Singh Dhudike and vice-president Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala today met farmers and urged them to start moving towards Delhi in their tractors.The two also cautioned farmers against rumours being spread about two of the three laws being scrapped. “This is being done to avoid a massive show of strength by farmers on the first anniversary of the agitation. There have been no talks with the central government and we are asking farmers to come in huge numbers,” said Deepsinghwala.A statement by Samyukt Kisan Morcha claimed hundreds of farmers had started reaching the protest sites, and they are expecting many more in the coming days. Buta Singh Burjgill, president of BKU (Dakaunda), said the protest at Delhi borders on November 26 would be historic. “We are holding meetings at district, block and village levels, and urging farmers to come in huge numbers to the protest sites,” he said. Meanwhile, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has said farmers will observe the Shaheedi Diwas of Kartar Singh Sarabha at all protest sites in Punjab on November 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmer-leaders-drum-up-support-for-stir-anniversary-338208
15-11-2021||Moga||Sister Malvika may fight polls from Moga, says Sonu Sood||Reiterating his intention of not foraying into politics for now, actor Sonu Sood today indicated his younger sister Malvika might contest the Assembly polls from Moga.Also read: Sonu Sood on not receiving Padma Shri…Sood, however, did not specify from which party she would contest the elections. He was recently in touch with AAP and the Congress. While praising both CM Charanjit Channi and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, Sood said he would also meet SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in the coming days, keeping the options open for a political bargain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sister-malvika-may-fight-polls-from-moga-says-sonu-sood-338209
15-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab sand miners halt operations days after price cut||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 14Mining operations in most parts of Punjab have come to a halt ever since the government announced and fixed rate of sand at Rs 5.50 per cubic feet four days ago.Mining contractors say since the decision was announced last week, they have been forced to shut the operations as the rate announced by the government is too low. They say that since they have paid royalty earlier, it is unfair to cut down the profit margins midway through the contract period.As the contractors and wholesalers of the minor minerals (sand and gravel) claim they are unable to sell the sand at the government-specified rates, they have stopped extraction in Amritsar, Ferozepur, parts of Ropar and Anandpur Sahib. The gap in demand and supply of sand and gravel is increasing, leaving consumers in a fix, who are demanding these at the rates announced by the government.Only the already extracted sand and gravel is available for sale, and that, too, at the previous rates of Rs 1,400-Rs 1,900 per 100 cubic ft of sand and Rs 1,800-Rs 2,100 per 100 cubic ft for aggregate (sand and gravel mixed), depending upon the distance of source to the destination.A contractor, who has contracts to extract sand in Amritsar and Ferozepur, said they would be unable to provide sand to consumers at Rs 5.50 per cu ft. “We have to extract sand and also load it and in no way we can sell it at the new rate. We have stopped mining operations till the government comes out with a plan to cover our costs,” he said. In Ropar, too, though the government has now installed boards at various quarries specifying new prices of sand, mining has come to a standstill. The government was earning Rs 320 crore through the sale of minor minerals, which it has now let go of.Barinder Pal Singh, chief engineer, Mining Department, said, “The government is sure that fixing the rates of sand at pithead will bring down the cost of these minerals. It will stop illegal mining. We have fixed the Environment Management Fund and District Minerals Foundation Fund (at Rs 2.40 and Rs 1.04, respectively) while letting go of our licence fee and cutting down on the profit margin of contractors.”A contractor, who has sand mining contracts in several states, including Punjab, said the government had fixed the rate of sand at the pithead, but forgot to fix the rate of transportation. “So, in places where the mining is still on, the contractor is forced to supply sand at Rs 550 per cu ft, but the transporter has not reduced his charges. As a result, consumer is getting sand at Rs 1,400-Rs 1,900 per 100 cu ft, Had the government taken all stakeholders into confidence, we would have advised them to give licence to all minor mineral retailers (as is done in most other states) and fix the transportation charges. Somehow, the only ones to benefit from the new policy are the transporters,” he rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sand-miners-halt-operations-days-after-price-cut-338210
15-11-2021||Karam Prakash||6.5 lakh differently abled at receiving end of Punjab Govt ‘apathy’||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 14Though the Cabinet has already approved the “Punjab Divyangjan Sashaktikaran Yojana (PDSY)” across the state in January this year, a majority of the government departments are not even aware of the scheme so far.The scheme is meant to empower the differently abled persons in the state and the Cabinet has already allocated Rs 35 crore towards it for the financial year 2021.Due to the lack of awareness among different stakeholders of the scheme, around 6.5 lakh persons with disabilities in the state are being deprived of various benefits.DEPTS INFORMEDWe've already informed departments about the scheme. Besides, we'll soon have a meeting wherein the communication gap, if any, will be filled. — Raji P Shirvastva, Principal secy, Department of social securityThe alleged government apathy towards persons with disabilities came to the fore when a specially abled Patiala resident requested the Health Department to provide due benefits under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana because the perks of the existing plan had already been extended to the registered people under the new scheme. However, the Health Department feigned ignorance about the same.The government had allowed free travel of one attendant with blind persons in the state transport buses under the new scheme, but the department replied there was no such provision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-5-lakh-differently-abled-at-receiving-end-of-punjab-govt-apathy-338211
15-11-2021||---||ETO caught helping candidate in exam for ward attendant posts||Faridkot, November 14During the written test for 800 posts of ward attendant in the state Health Department conducted today, observers nabbed an Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO), deputed as executive magistrate, while he was helping a candidate in copying at an exam centre in Tamkot, Mansa.At another exam centre at Talwandi Bhai town of Ferozepur, a woman was nabbed for impersonating and appearing in the test in place of another candidate.Impersonator heldThere were about 1.50 lakh candidates who were to appear in this test today. The test was conducted by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS). The university had appointed 80 observers to check any wrongdoing during this test, which was conducted at 359 centres in 19 districts of the state.To ensure fairness in the test, the university had sought the help of district administrations and the police for the smooth conduct of this test. The district administrations had deputed its gazetted officers as executive magistrates at all exam centres.At one exam centre in Tamkot, an Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO) was deputed as an executive magistrate. When an observer for the exam, deputed by the BFUHS, reached the the centre, the ETO was found helping a candidate by way of Google search on his mobile phone.“We are going to take strict action against the officer who was supposed to help the university in the smooth conduct of the test but was himself caught indulging in wrongful ways, it is utterly shameful,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, BFUHS.At another exam centre in Kotkapura, Faridkot, a candidate was nabbed with a mobile phone during the test. Though the university had prohibited candidates from taking the question paper out of the exam hall, 15 candidates allegedly violated this direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eto-caught-helping-candidate-in-exam-for-ward-attendant-posts-338212
15-11-2021||---||Punjab Chemist Association alleges police harassment||Bathinda, November 14Alleging harassment by police personnel after a series of raids conducted at chemist shops across the state recently, the Punjab Chemist Association (PCA) has condemned the police action and written a letter to Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister OP Soni and DGP Iqbalpreet Singh Sahota, requesting them to give directions to the police to not “harass” chemists or interfere in their work.Surinder Duggal, state president of the association, said, “Chemists in the state are facing harassment these days as teams of 10-15 policemen are conducting checks at chemist shops. The police have conducted raids at chemist shops in Faridkot, Phagwara, Kapurthala, Bholath, Sultanpur Lodhi, Fazilka and Ferozepur. During these raids, members of the chemist fraternity were harassed.”“They visited 25 chemist shops and did not find any narcotics drugs. The PCA is with the state government on the eradication of the drug menace and we have already given clear instructions to district-level representatives of the association. We request the Health Minister and the Police Department to give directions to police commissioners and other senior officials of the department to not harass or interfere in the working of chemists in the state. If there is any specific information, then the police are free to conduct raids along with the drugs control authority and district-level representatives of the PCA,” added Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chemist-association-alleges-police-harassment-338213
15-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur liquor contractors owe Rs 39 crore to Excise Dept||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 14The failure of the Sangrur Excise and Taxation Department to recover arrears of 2016-17 from liquor contractors has raised questions.The information procured under the RTI Act shows that contractors have not paid Rs 39.81 crore to the department, while an RTI activist has decided to take up the issue with CM Charanjit Singh Channi.“It’s shocking that liquor contractors have not paid arrears of 2016-17 as yet. Initially, excise officials refused to give information, but when I knocked at the doors of the information commission, they provided the data. The delay in paying arrears cannot happen without the involvement of officers concerned,” said Birshbhan Bujrak, an RTI activist.The influence of liquor mafia can be gauged from the fact that in the past four years, authorities have only recovered Rs 6 lakh, whereas Rs 21.16 crore are still pending against the liquor contractors of Sangrur. In Sunam, authorities have recovered Rs 6.41 lakh, while Rs 16.35 crore are pending. In Ghabdan, Rs 13.36 lakh have been recovered, while Rs 41 lakh are pending and in Khanauri, Rs 1.89 crore are pending.Some liquor contractors, on the condition of anonymity, told The Tribune that due to smuggling of liquor from Haryana, they suffered heavy losses and thus failed to pay arrears.Records of the excise department show that authorities have attached the properties of defaulters and have also made red entry in the revenue records. Apart from it, they have also started further proceedings under the provisions of the Punjab Land Revenue Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-liquor-contractors-owe-rs-39-crore-to-excise-dept-338214
15-11-2021||---||Biography of first Arjuna awardee Olympian Gurbachan Singh Randhawa released||Chandigarh, November 14“The sporting life of the legendary first Arjuna Awardee athlete, Gurbachan Singh Randhawa, who made the country shine like a star in the international arena, would forever be a beacon of inspiration for the other Indian players till eternity.”This was stated by Sports Minister Pargat Singh while dedicating to people ‘Uddna Baaz’, the biography of Olympian Gurbachan Singh Randhawa, penned by sports writer Navdeep Singh Gill.Lconic athletePargat said the very fact that Randhawa made it to the finals of the Olympics, was adjudged best athlete at the Asian Games and achieved four national records within two days speaks volumes about the prowess of the athlete.Randhawa was the flag-bearer of the Indian contingent at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics where he bagged 5th position in the 110-metre hurdles event. He won Gold in the 1962 Jakarta Asiad in Decathlon besides the Best Athlete title. He was bestowed Arjuna Award in 1961 and Padma Shri in 2005. Superannuating as Commandant from CRPF, Randhawa was awarded Rashtrapati Puraskar for meritorious services in the Police apart from honorary PhD degree as sports adviser of Punjabi University, Patiala.Former DGP Rajdeep Singh Gill praised Randhawa as the most naturally gifted and complete athlete of India. He said the Indian athletes derived their inspiration of conquering milestones at the world-level from him.Prof Gurbhajan Singh Gill said Randhawa dazzled the sporting scene and bestrode the athletics like a Colossus, who left indelible footprints on the sands of time coming from a non-descript village Nangli and caused sensation at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics. “This book is not just a chronicler of his sporting achievements but an important document of nation’s sports history,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/biography-of-first-arjuna-awardee-olympian-gurbachan-singh-randhawa-released-338215
15-11-2021||Abohar||Punjab Diary: Politicians visit temples to woo Hindu voters||Awaiting red-letter dayBatala: The talk of elevating the sub-divisional town of Batala into a full-fledged district was recently given a quiet burial. RS MP Partap Singh Bajwa, however, has raked up the issue again. In September, he had written to then CM Capt Amarinder Singh. However, after the change of guard, the matter was as good as done and dusted. The MP has now written to CM Charanjit Channi. Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, chairman of the Gurdaspur Planning Board, says it will be a red-letter day for the city if the Punjab Government confers the district status on it on November 19, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. Indeed, the city needs a big dose of divine intervention to make the cut. Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and his Cabinet colleague TPS Bajwa, too, have been making efforts for the cause. So has three-time former MLA Ashwani Sekhri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-politicians-visit-temples-to-woo-hindu-voters-338216
15-11-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht suspends six ‘dhadis’ for violation||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has put a ban on six ‘dhadis’ (balladeers) for performing traditional ‘diwan’ at the Akal Takht allegedly for violating the Sikh code of conduct.Baldev Singh MA of Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib Shiromani Dhadi Sabha said neither any official communication was released nor the names of ‘dhadis’ who were barred were revealed by the Akal Takht Secretariat yet.He said the SGPC president had promised them the move would be withdrawn and their demands would be met. “We insisted her to give us in writing, but in vain,” he said.On October 29, dhadis of Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib Shiromani Dhadi Sabha had conducted a march on the Heritage Street leading to the Golden Temple, against discontinuation of remuneration of Rs 7,500 to each jatha that was earlier being paid on every occasion of ‘sangrandh’ and ‘masya’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-suspends-six-dhadis-for-violation-338217
15-11-2021||Moga||Cattle vax drive on in Moga||The Animal Husbandry Department has initiated a drive to vaccinate cattle against the foot-and-mouth disease under the National Animal Disease Control Programme in Moga district, department deputy director Harveen Kaur Dhaliwal said.The programme for the foot-and-mouth diseaseis a central sector scheme where 100 per centof funds are being provided by the Union Government to the states and union territories for vaccinations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cattle-vax-drive-on-in-moga-338218
15-11-2021||Abohar||Five peddlers arrested||Burglary bid at Muktsar bankMuktsar: Some persons tried to steal valuables from a bank at Mandi Killianwali after breaking through the wall on Saturday night. The branch is located close to a police checkpoint. The security guard was in the ATM booth. The thieves remained inside the bank for nearly three hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-peddlers-arrested-338219
15-11-2021||New Delhi||Reopen Kartarpur corridor, Punjab BJP leaders urge PM Modi||A high-level delegation of BJP leaders from Punjab, J&K and New Delhi met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence on Sunday morning and demanded the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor for Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary on November 19.The corridor was closed in March 2020 in the wake of Covid-19 and demands to reopen it have been gathering momentum in the recent past with the ruling Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab petitioning the government. The 11-member delegation included senior BJP leaders Ashwani Sharma, Saudan Singh, Tarun Chugh, RP Singh, Dushyant Gautam and Tajinder Bagga. In a representation to the PM, the leaders cited the dipping of Covid cases besides the delivery of over 110 crore vaccine shots to demand that the corridor be reopened “in line with the sentiments of Sikh devotees who want to cross over to Pakistan to pay obeisance to Guru Nanak.”“Gurdwara Darbar Sahib came under Pakistan at the time of Partition due to the callousness of the Congress even though it is located just 3 km from the border. Subsequent governments did nothing to reopen the corridor. PM Modi eventually reopened the corridor, honouring the sentiments of Sikhs across the world,” the delegation said in a memorandum to the PM.The leaders also said that with the economic and other activities reopening gradually, the hope for reopening the corridor had been revived.“We hope you will reopen the corridor for the Sikh devotees to celebrate Parkash Purb on November 19,” the delegation said.The delegates praised the BJP government at the Centre for looking after the interests of Sikhs. It praised the leadership for the constitution of an SIT to bring to justice the culprits of 1984 Sikh massacre and the recent protection to Sikhs in Afghanistan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reopen-kartarpur-corridor-punjab-bjp-leaders-urge-pm-modi-338222
15-11-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Law soon on job quota for locals in govt & pvt sector: Punjab CM Channi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 14With Punjab elections round the corner, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is racing against time to woo voters and dispel the perception he is running the government with a tacit understanding with the Akalis. He says he will soon bring a law to ensure near cent per cent quota for locals in government and private sector jobs.“Employment generation figures high on our model for a government in 2022,” the CM told The Tribune here today. “I am consulting legal team on job opportunities for Punjabis. Often candidates from neighbouring Haryana, HP and even Delhi are given jobs at the cost of locals. My effort will be to fill one lakh vacancies, including 5,000 in the Home Guard. Also, minimum wages of skilled and unskilled workforce have been raised,” he said.On sand and gravel continuing to be sold at rates higher than those fixed (Rs 5.50 per cubic feet) by his government, Channi hinted at setting up a government-monitored corporation to rein in the mining mafia in the event of the Congress retaining power. “We have brought down the rates four times. There are strict instructions to DCs and SSPs to ensure the rates fixed by the government are implemented.”Asked how he would strengthen Punjab’s fiscal state with sops — lower power tariff, one-time settlement for unauthorised constructions and cut in fuel rates — costing the exchequer nearly Rs 9,000 crore, the CM replied: “I’m a student of economics and political science. I will not only curtail government expenditure but also check tax evasion.”On his reported differences with PCC chief Navjot Sidhu over appointment of Advocate-General and DGP, Channi said there were none.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/law-soon-on-job-quota-for-locals-in-govt-pvt-sector-punjab-cm-channi-338221
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Actor Sonu Sood’s sister to contest from Moga in Punjab Assembly polls||Actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood on Sunday said his sister Malvika is joining politics, but added he has no such plans for himself.Malvika later said she will contest the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls from Moga.Sood, who is from Moga district, said his sister has done a lot of amazing work in the past.“We today officially want to say that Malvika will certainly come to serve Punjab,” the actor said, addressing the media at his residence in the district.Asked about joining any political party, Sood said no decision has yet been taken in this regard.“We have not yet taken a call about the party. Whenever the time comes, we will make sure that we let you know,” he said.When asked whether he would enter politics, Sood said he has not thought about it.“It is a very big decision in life. I think Malvika is strongly rooted in Moga… For me (joining politics), I have not thought of it,” he said.Asked about his recent meetings with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, Sood said both of them are good people.On SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Sood said he would meet him too, adding that Badal has vast experience in politics.About the ongoing farmers’ protest, the actor said it was necessary that the farmers get their rights, asserting that their issues should be resolved so that they can return to their fields.“What we are eating is because of them. It is important they should be happy,” he said.He also emphasized on improving the healthcare system in the state.“There are several dispensaries in villages in Punjab where nobody is there (for patients). Sometimes in government hospitals, doctors and medicines were not available. These things should be set right,” Sood said.To a question on income tax raids on his premises in September, he said he had faced many difficulties in the past but he continued his fight for the people.Replying to another query, Sood said unemployment was the biggest issue in Punjab.“The biggest problem of Punjab is unemployment, and when people do not get jobs, they take to drugs. We are already working on it,” he said.He stressed that the IT industry should be promoted in the state in a big way for generating employment opportunities.Sood also announced a dialysis service for needy patients free of charge.Later talking to reporters, Malvika said she had been working towards addressing issues related to healthcare and education.The Punjab assembly polls are due early next year.Sood grabbed the national spotlight for helping migrants reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown clamped last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/actor-sonu-soods-sister-to-contest-from-moga-in-punjab-assembly-polls-337991
15-11-2021||Sanjeev S Bariana & Rajmeet Singh||I’m a man of my word, will only contest from Amritsar: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 13The Congress leadership in Punjab seems to have finally got together to begin campaigning as a cohesive team for the Assembly elections. “My mission for revival of Punjab has begun showing results on the ground with the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government initiating action on my 13-point agenda,” Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu told The Tribune here today.THE TRIBUNE INTERVIEWNavjot Singh Sidhu, PPCC President: ‘Have roadmap to pull state out of quicksand’“Reining in the transport mafia, initiation of the process to renegotiate power purchase agreements with private plants and controlling sand prices are our first steps towards putting Punjab back on the rails,” he said. “The state debt, which was aboutRs 30,000 crore in 2007 during the tenure of Capt Amarinder Singh’s government, went up to Rs 1.82 lakh crore in 2017 during the SAD-BJP government’s term. It now stands at Rs 3 lakh crore. We have to stop this. A small beginning has been made and I’m confident we will succeed in our efforts,” the PPC chief said.Hinting at an understanding with CM Channi to complement each other’s efforts to “successfully run a government in 2022 which no force can stop from happening,” Sidhu evaded a question on whether he was aspiring to be the party’s CM face for the elections, simply saying: “It is for the party high command to decide.” Sidhu said being a man of his word, he would contest only from Amritsar. “I did not shift to another constituency when Jaitley was fielded from Amritsar in 2014. I declined a Rajya Sabha seat,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/im-a-man-of-my-word-will-only-contest-from-amritsar-navjot-singh-sidhu-337793
