16-11-2021||---||Winnability to be criteria for selection of candidates for Punjab Assembly polls: Navjot Sidhu||Chandigarh, November 16Winnability will be the only criteria for the selection of candidates for the Punjab Assembly polls and being an MLA does not guarantee candidature, said Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday as he resumed the charge at the party’s state office here.Sidhu had earlier put a precondition that he would resume the charge the day a new advocate general was appointed and a panel for the appointment of a new director general of police came from the UPSC. Sidhu had earlier resigned as the Punjab Congress chief, objecting to the appointments. The Punjab government had earlier this month accepted the resignation of Advocate General A P S Deol.Sidhu was accompanied by AICC general secretary Harish Chaudhary and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.He told reporters that a list of district Congress committee presidents will also be released soon and asserted that the party was united. Sidhu said the criteria of the candidates for the upcoming elections will be winnability.“We will not compromise on the criteria,” said Sidhu while stating that it would not be a guarantee that once a person had become an MLA, he would be getting the ticket again for contesting the polls.“The party will decide, surveys will be done, high command will decide. We have a very good democratic system which will decide about the candidates but the criterion is merit,” asserted Sidhu.To a question on an alliance with any party for the polls, Chaudhary said at this point of time, there were no talks on alliance.He, however, said the party was open to like-minded parties which have vision to take Punjab and ‘Punjabiyat’ forward. To a question on going with CM face in the elections, Chaudhary evaded a clear reply but said for them, every person of Punjab is the chief ministerial face.Chaudhary said the party’s state unit under the leadership of Navjot Sidhu and the state government under chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will take Punjab forward.He again pitched for raising the state’s income for spending on development works rather than depending upon the debt. “Punjab is the most indebted state in the country. Today, Goa’s capital expenditure per person is Rs 14,000 while Haryana’s is Rs 6,000 and the national average is Rs 3,500. But Punjab spends only Rs 870,” he said.Stressing that becoming self-reliant was a key in the state’s progress, he said Punjab has to be put back on its feet in terms of financial position.“Punjab has to be taken out of the debt cycle,” he said.Sidhu said the party would come out with a concrete plan to bail out Punjab from a precarious situation. “Opportunities will have to be created by generating income,” he said. Replying to a question, Sidhu stressed on giving results to people, saying they will judge leaders only on the basis of performance. Sidhu apparently called himself and Channi as two wheels of a “rath” (chariot), stressing that it cannot be driven with either of the wheels missing. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/winnability-to-be-criteria-for-selection-of-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-polls-navjot-sidhu-338935
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to give school uniforms to general category boys||The Punjab government will give uniforms to nearly 2.66 lakh boys belonging to the general category and studying in Classes 1 to 8 at state-run schools.The decision was taken by the Punjab Cabinet led by CM Charanjit Singh Channi with an aim to increase enrolment, reduce dropout rate and attract students to government schools, an official statement said here.The government will spend about Rs 15.98 crore in current financial year on providing uniforms to students, it added.Presently, the School Education Department is providing free uniforms costing up to Rs 600 per student to all girls and boys belonging to the SC and BPL categories.The Punjab Cabinet also accorded approval for setting up Sant Kabir, Jeevan Singh/Jaita and Makhan Shah Lubana chairs in Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; and Guru Ravidas and Bhagwan Valmiki chairs in Punjabi University, Patiala. Another chair will be set up soon in the name of Bhagwan Parashuram, the statement said.This decision would help in undertaking extensive research on these prominent personalities with an objective to study their invaluable contribution to society, the statement said.To ensure economic viability of private sugar mills and timely payment of state agreed price (SAP) to the farmers for the current crushing season, the Cabinet also gave approval to provide financial assistance at the rate of Rs 35 per quintal to sugarcane farmers out of the SAP on behalf of private sugar mills.This amount will be deposited directly into the bank account of sugarcane farmers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-give-school-uniforms-to-general-category-boys-338930
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||CM Channi welcomes reopening of Kartarpur corridor; Punjab cabinet to visit shrine in Pak||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday welcomed the Centre’s decision of reopening the Kartarpur corridor and said the state cabinet will be part of the “Jatha”, which will visit the historic shrine in Pakistan on November 18.Besides Channi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also hailed the Centre’s move.The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, with the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district.Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March last year because of the Covid-19 outbreak.Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday that the Union government has decided to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib corridor from Wednesday.Gurpurab, which marks the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, will be celebrated on November 19.Channi welcomed the move and said he as the Punjab CM had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to reopen the corridor.“I thank them”, he said.“The entire cabinet will be part of the first ‘Jatha’ (group) which will visit and pay obeisance on November 18,” Channi told reporters.“I warmly welcome the decision to reopen the Sri Kartarpur Sahib Corridor on the auspicious occasion of 552nd Parkash Purb of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. This laudatory step has fulfilled aspirations of millions of devotees who’ve been deprived of ‘darshan didare’ due to the Covid pandemic,” Channi said later in a tweet.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also welcomed the decision.“Welcome step…. The reopening of the corridor of infinite possibilities…invaluable gift for Nanak naam levas…may the corridor of the Great Guru remain open eternally to shower blessings on one an all….Sarbat da bhala,” said Sidhu in a tweet.In his earlier tweet, Sidhu had said, “I urge GOI to reopen Kartarpur Corridor, to create a new Darshan Asthan for ‘khule darshan didar’ for all and to cancel the 3 farm laws on Shri Guru Nanak’s Gurpurab, as it’s a day for reflection, rediscovery and reiteration of Gurus message of peace, harmony & universal brotherhood.”Former chief minister Amarinder Singh thanked the PM and the Union home minister for the decision.“My profound gratitude to PM @narendramodi and HM @AmitShah for the timely opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. It will provide a chance to thousands of devotees to pay obeisance at the holy shrine on the occasion of Guru Purab of Guru Nanak Dev,” said Amarinder.BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said, “I thank the Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi for reopening the corridor. With this decision, Sikhs around the world will be able to celebrate ‘Prakash Purab’ with full devotion and enthusiasm.”On November 14, a delegation of Punjab BJP leaders had met the PM in Delhi and requested him to reopen the corridor before Gurpurb.The Kartarpur Corridor provides Indian devotees visa-free access to the final resting place of Guru Nanak Dev. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-channi-welcomes-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-punjab-cabinet-to-visit-shrine-in-pak-338896
16-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||In meeting of state finance ministers with Nirmala Sitharaman, Manpreet Badal vociferously pleads Punjab’s case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Punjab needs to be considered as a security case and not as an economic case by the Centre, when it decides on pushing growth and investment in states.This was the contention made by Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal before the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, during a meeting held between chief ministers and/or finance ministers of all states with the Centre on Monday evening.During the meeting that ended late in the night, Badal pleaded Punjab’s case vociferously, arguing that Punjab’s geography should not define its future, nor should the events of 1947, 1962, 1965, 1971 and “the decade-long period of terrorism, sponsored by our friends from across the border. Punjab has suffered because of the incentives given to the neighbouring hill states since 2000 and has not been able to keep the growth pace with other states located next to the sea,” he contended, arguing that the Centre immediately allot three major projects for the state - a farmers’ park, a textile park and a food park - to help the small and medium enterprises here jump on the growth bandwagon.The state finance minister also sought the Centre’s help to switch from the expensive thermal-based power generation to either solar power or gas-based power generation. “We are farthest from the coal mines, which makes thermal power generation very expensive for us. We want to retire our coal-fired stations so that power becomes cheap and we become a viable investment destination,” he said.Stating that agriculture and Punjab are synonymous and the Centre, in its budget, should come up with schemes like production-linked incentives given to industry for agriculture, so that the state’s farmers can diversify to other cash crops and animal husbandry. “This will help in water conservation and also control stubble-burning. It will help us overcome challenges we face in transiting to new-age agriculture,” he said.Badal said though Punjab had a good rail infrastructure, there are certain missing links – 30-km link stretch between Patti and Makhu (this is a strategic link for defence as it will connect Jammu, Amritsar, Rajasthan all the way to Gujarat); link of 20 km from Rajpura to Mohali to connect our state capital Chandigarh to Rajasthan and Gujarat, besides a 28-km stretch between Beas and Qadian. “We hope that you will consider this demand in your budget,” he said. He also demanded that the Institute of Virology, proposed to be set up in Punjab, be expedited and the state allowed to offer its citizen-centric services to their doorstep through Bharat Net platform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-meeting-of-state-finance-ministers-with-nirmala-sitharaman-manpreet-badal-vociferously-pleads-punjabs-case-338860
16-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Protesting atop a water tank since October 28, jobless teacher falls sick||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 15On the 19th day, the health of Munish Fazilka, who started the BEd TET-pass Unemployed Teachers Union protest by climbing atop an overhead water tank, worsened on Monday. The teacher had been sitting atop the tank with Jaswant Ghubaya, a fellow protester, since October 28 demanding jobs for 9,000 unemployed youth.A health team led by Dr Preetinder Singh climbed the tank to conduct his check up and took his blood and urine samples. SDM-1 Harpreet Singh also climbed the tank and requested him with folded to get hospitalised until he recovers, but he refused the request by saying, “I am thankful to you that you came to meet me here. I protested at Sangrur too, but no one met me there.”Munish had complaining of pain and swelling in his legs, difficulty in urinating and pain in the stomach for the past many days. Before he climbed atop the water tank in Jalandhar with fellow unemployed teacher Jaswant Ghubaya, he had been protesting at Sangrur. He started his Sangrur protest against former education minister Vijay Inder Singla by climbing a water tank there on August 21. After Pargat Singh became the new education minister, Munish began protesting on the Jalandhar water tank from October 28 onwards.Munish and Jaswant are provided food and water by fellow protesters. They use utensils to urinate and defecate. Hailing from Mandi Arniwala village in Jalalabad, Fazilka, Munish has two brothers, one is employed in the Pesticide Department and another is a gorcer.Pargat Singh on teachers entering his house: Not fairAs members of PTI Teachers’ Union barged into his residence at Mithapur locality this afternoon over their demands, Education Minister Pargat Singh took to Twitter to post the video and condemn their action.He put out three tweets and even sent across a video message to the protesting teachers giving his viewpoint: “This is not fair as the teachers have barged into my residence, that too at time when I was busy deliberating upon ways and means to solve their pending problems. I have already met these agitating teachers umpteen times and directed the department to look into their genuine demands sympathetically. But then also these teachers have acted irresponsibly due to which a huge inconvenience has been caused not only to my aged and ailing parents but also to several people residing in the area. This is highly unfortunate. I condemn this inhuman act by teachers and urge them to refrain from this in future.”Ever since Pargat Singh has become Education Minister, teachers have been lodging protest almost on daily basis and breaking barricades so as to enter his house. They were finally successful in their attempt today. Pargat even shared the video of the teachers sitting inside his house on his Twitter account while adding that it is a failure of the Punjab Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-atop-a-water-tank-since-october-28-jobless-teacher-falls-sick-338504
16-11-2021||Vijay C Roy||Job quota not viable, will oppose move, says industry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15The Punjab industry has flagged concerns, saying the government’s job reservation move is not viable as it will have an adverse impact on the beleaguered sector.Also read: Punjab Govt studying clauses in states with job quotaMay struggle to find skilled workforceMigrant workforce is hardworking and technically skilled. If we are asked to hire locals, we may not be able to find skilled workers. — Badish Jindal, National President, all Industries & Trade forumIndustry representatives argued the proposed law would be regressive for their growth as they were heavily dependent on migrant workers, constituting 70-80 per cent of their total workforce. Punjab had a registered industrial workforce of around 20 lakh, including shops. According to the representatives, at a time when the industry needed to draw investment, imposing such restrictions on them would prove detrimental. Reservation affected productivity and reduced competitiveness, they asserted.Badish Jindal, national president, All Industries & Trade Forum, said: “This is not going to work. We are going to oppose it. In industrial cities such as Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar, 70-80 per cent of the workforce is from Purvanchal. We can’t sustain without this workforce and it would ultimately lead to the closure of units.”The industry felt there was an acute shortage of local workforce, which was the primary reason for their dependency on migrants. The policy might force some industries to relocate and discourage the existing ones from expanding, they added.SC Ralhan, president, Ludhiana Hand Tools Association, said: “Hiring people with inadequate skills would prove disastrous for the industry.”The associations feel the law would would hit the micro, small and medium enterprises that are still coming out of the crippling effect of the lockdown due to the pandemic. Ajit Lakra, MD, Superfine Knitters Ltd, said substituting migrant workers with locals was practically impossible as the former comprised nearly 80 per cent of their workforce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/job-quota-not-viable-will-oppose-move-says-industry-338538
16-11-2021||Adampur (Jalandhar)||‘Bahujan samaj’ at helm in Punjab: CM Channi||Having attempted to dent the AAP with his ‘aam aadmi’ approach, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today hit out at the SAD-BSP alliance at a rally in the reserved Adampur seat in the Dalit-dominated Doaba region.Inaugurating works to the tune of Rs 130 crore in Adampur, the seat which is likely to be contested by ex-minister Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Channi exhorted the ‘Bahujan Samaj’ to unite under the Congress, saying: “There is rule of Bahujan Samaj in Punjab now”.The CM said the Akalis had always used the BSP as a pawn. “In 1996, the SAD had an alliance with the BSP, but the very next year, they ditched the party and joined the BJP,” said Channi, adding after getting a taste of their own medicine from the BJP, the Akalis had now returned to their old ally. “This time too they have given Hoshiarpur and Pathankot seats to the BSP from where the Akalis have never themselves won. Ideally, they should have given Adampur to the BSP. The SAD is hand in glove with the BJP,” alleged Channi.He said the government would write to the Centre seeking the renaming of the Adampur airport after Guru Ravidas. “The final decision rests with the Centre, but this is the least I can do. The road leading to the airport will be named after Guru Ravidas,” he added. On the demand of Kshatriya Rajputs that they should again be accorded the general category status, he said he would get it executed at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bahujan-samaj-at-helm-in-punjab-cm-channi-338539
16-11-2021||New Delhi||BJP team meets President Kovind, Amit Shah over Kartarpur corridor||A day after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a delegation of BJP leaders from Punjab and Delhi today called on President Ram Nath Kovind and Home Minister Amit Shah requesting them to reopen the Kartarpur corridor so that pilgrims could visit the gurdwara on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev on November 19.Observe Children’s Day on Nov 20: partyChandigarh: State BJP general secretary Jeevan Gupta on Monday said Children’s Day should be observed on November 20. “November 14 was imposed on the nation in 1964 as it was the birthday of Pt Jawaharlal Nehru,” he saidDelhi BJP leader RP Singh, who was part of the delegation that met Shah, said the Home Minister “assured us of positively considering it”.The corridor was closed following the pandemic. A memorandum submitted by the delegation stated: “Gurdwara Darbar Sahib shrine went to Pakistan at the time of Partition even though it is located just 3 km from the border. Subsequent governments did nothing to reopen the corridor”. “PM Modi eventually reopened the corridor honouring the sentiments of Sikhs across the world,” it said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-team-meets-president-kovind-amit-shah-over-kartarpur-corridor-338540
16-11-2021||Mohali||SAD (Sanyukt), Punjab Lokhit Party join hands||The Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and Punjab Lokhit Party on Monday announced to jointly contest the forthcoming Assembly elections.Addressing mediapersons, SAD (Sanyukt) senior leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Punjab Lokhit Party led by four-time former MLA from Ludhiana and former Jail Minister Malkiat Singh Birmi said they had formed an alliance and no party would be able to form the new government without their support.Claiming Birmi had the support of 35 OBC wings, Dhindsa said in the next two weeks the third alternative would be visible in Punjab. He said people in the state were upset with all main parties and needed a third alternative, which no one party, including us, could offer but only a common alliance of Punjab-friendly groups of parties.Birmi said his party would work in unison with the SAD (Sanyukt) and a united alliance would change the destiny of Punjab.Dhindsa said the SAD, which would turn 101 years old on December 14, is a great organisation of martyrs, who always fought for Punjab and Punjabiyat. He said the remarks made by Channi in the Assembly against the SAD were insulting and couldn’t be tolerated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-sanyukt-punjab-lokhit-party-join-hands-338541
16-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar hospital fire safety system in a shambles||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 15The fire fighting system at the state’s biggest civil hospital in Jalandhar seems to be is in a shambles.Fire department’s recommendationsRequest sentA request has been sent to the Punjab Health Systems Corporation Director regarding repair of the equipment and requirement of trained fire officers. Dr Perminder Singh, nodal officer for fire safety, Civil HospitalDays after 15 persons were killed in four days in fire at two hospitals — in Ahmednagar and Bhopal — a team of The Tribune visited the Jalandhar hospital to check the ground situation in the state.Sources say the hospital sees at least 1,000 patients a day. Several shortcomings were pointed out in the fire safety equipment at the hospital when it had applied for a No Objection Certificate (NOC) earlier this year. The certificate was given following an assurance to the Fire Department that the shortcomings would be fixed within a month. However, it has been three months since the NOC has been obtained, but the obsolete fire safety system still exists.The firefighting mechanism at the hospital was established way before the 2016 National Building Code guidelines were issued and hasn’t been updated.A visit to the hospital revealed that some fire hydrants had no pipes or hoses, some were covered with dust, some were blocked by an almirah (in the emergency) and some were in a state of disrepair. The fire hydrants in wards double up as broom cupboards. Eight years ago, a fire at the hospital saw a dearth of trained fire personnel. Some vigilant employees brought out the fire safety hoses to douse the flames, but none worked.Assistant Divisional Fire Officer Jaswant Singh said: “Various shortcomings and the need for the maintenance of hydrant systems at the hospital were pointed out when the NOC was issued this year. It was issued on the condition that the needful will be done within a month. But the issues haven’t been redressed yet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-hospital-fire-safety-system-in-a-shambles-338542
16-11-2021||Vishav Bharti||Less than 20% fully jabbed in 5 Punjab districts, Mansa worst||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15As Covid cases are on the rise again, five districts, which have below 20 per cent complete vaccine coverage, are the biggest worry for the state.As per a report presented at a meeting of the Health Department last week, five districts could not even fully vaccinate 20 per cent eligible population. Among poor-performing districts, Mansa is at the bottom with just 17 per cent fully vaccinated population. Ferozepur, Sangrur and Fazilka are slightly better with 19 per cent each and Bathinda has reported just 20 per cent complete vaccine coverage.These five districts are lagging behind consistently as they have poor coverage of the first dose as well. All these districts fall in south Punjab, which also falls at the bottom in the Human Development Index Report. SAS Nagar tops in complete vaccination coverage with 56 per cent fully vaccinated population, followed by Hoshiarpur (50%), Jalandhar (42%), SBS Nagar (40%) and Pathankot (38%).Punjab also figures among poor-performing states in terms of Covid vaccine coverage. The national average of fully vaccinated population is 37 per cent and 79 per cent eligible population has been given first dose, but in Punjab just 28 per cent population has been fully vaccinated and 71 per cent has been given the first dose.In absolute figures, 1.61 crore people have been administered the first dose and 65 lakh the second. Going by the vaccination trend, there has been observed a decline in the past two weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/less-than-20-fully-jabbed-in-5-punjab-districts-mansa-worst-338543
16-11-2021||Aman Sood||Farm fires: Year on, no action in sight despite SC order||Tribune news servicePatiala, November 15Despite the Supreme Court asking northern states, including Punjab, to help farmers in managing stubble and act against the violators along with the government spending crores on awareness and machinery last year, more than 67,500 farm fires have been reported in the state this season so far.Annual plan NeededWe have done our best to control farm fires, but farmers are reluctant for various reasons. Hopefully, the season will end this week, but we need to ensure an annual strategy to control this practice. — Karunesh Garg, PPCB Member SecretaryOn Monday, the SC again asked the states to persuade farmers not to burn the stubble to curb pollution.Even after a year, Punjab has failed to collect fines from the erring farmers, who were booked immediately post the SC order. Against Rs 6.10 crore penalties imposed in the past three years, merely a few lakhs has been collected to date. The whole exercise of levying penalties and registering FIRs has turned out to be mere eyewash with no farmer being asked to deposit fines.Following the SC order in 2020, thousands of FIRs were registered against erring violators in haste and due to the knee-jerk reaction, the authorities even made red entries into the land records of the farmers. “However, as no fines were collected from a majority of the defaulters, most of the farmers again resorted to stubble burning this season. The government needs to be serious and not bow to pressure tactics by farm unions. Either compensate the farmers or ensure that they don’t create pollution,” said a senior police official.On Sunday, as against a few farm fires reported in 2020, the state reported 2,541 cases. Experts, however, suggest that this was the last week before the farm fires end, with only a few villages per district in the Malwa belt left with their stubble in fields.Sources within the government confirmed that it was high time that the state officials think out of the ordinary and put an end to farm fires, given that political will was missing. “Every season, the government spends crores. Despite, wasting over Rs 200 crore on machinery and awareness drives, farm fires continue to bother residents and also add to Delhi pollution. The government and officers need to work closely to curb pollution every season,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-fires-year-on-no-action-in-sight-despite-sc-order-338544
16-11-2021||---||Jalandhar dealers sell sand at four times cap placed by govt||Tribune News ServiceJalanhdar, November 15While the state government has fixed the sand rate at Rs 5.50 per cubic feet, dealers here continue to sell it at Rs 18 to Rs 22 per cubic feet. A trolley containing 100 cubic feet of sand is selling for anywhere between Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,800.Dealers urged to reduce costWe’ve asked transporters and dealers to reduce cost as much as they can. No illegal mining ops are being carried out in Jalandhar. Sukhpal Singh, Asst Dist Mining officer Dealers here are of the unanimous opinion the government while fixing the sand price had not factored in the transportation cost.A Basti Sheikh-based sand dealer said, “We are selling the sand at the rate of Rs 18 per cubic feet. The price fixed at Rs 5.50 per cubic feet is too less. Many years ago, the sand was sold at this rate. With the fuel prices increasing exponentially, there has been a steep rise in the transportation cost. We also have to pay GST and loading charges.”Another sand dealer said, “Fine sand might be available at the pit at Rs 5.50, but we can’t sell it at less than Rs 17-18. The prices of various inputs, including transportation and mining taxes, have escalated.”Another sand contractor said, “The cost of a trolley is not less than Rs 2,700 to Rs 2,800. The GST, transportation, ‘parchi’ tax and price of machines make it costly. Sand is being mined at Phillaur, Nakodar, Shahkot and in the vicinity from the Beas. With sand costing Rs 18 to Rs 20 to dealers alone, how can they sell it to customers for less?”When asked, a Shahkot-based mining contractor said only river sand of inferior quality was available at Rs 20 per cubic feet that too from the pit head.Meanwhile, Assistant District Mining Officer Sukhpal Singh said: At all pitheads in Jalandhar, we have ensured that sand is available at Rs5.50 per cubic feet. We (mining officials) along with officials of the district administration met transporters at Adampur today. They shared their concerns and told about escalating maintenance, mining, depreciation costs, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-dealers-sell-sand-at-four-times-cap-placed-by-govt-338545
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Contempt proceedings against Navjot Sidhu sought||A Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate has moved an application before the Haryana Advocate General for his consent to file a criminal contempt petition against PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for tweets on the ongoing drugs menace case.MEA status reportThe proceedings were sought to be initiated on the ground that the tweets were, among other things, allegedly “intended to interfere with the administration of justice”. The AG’s consent is a pre-requisite in a criminal contempt case.In the accompanying petition, Parampreet Singh Bajwa prayed for initiation of contempt proceedings against Sidhu before punishing him as he “apparently committed criminal contempt, through various publications on his official Twitter account”.The petitioner said Sidhu, who had 9,73,413 followers, knew that his tweets were widely read and generated huge publicity. Yet, he came out with tweets about the ongoing proceedings, which were “apparently prejudicing and substantially interfering with due course of the proceedings”. He added the respondent-contemnor was aware about the pendency of the proceedings and was using a public platform, Twitter, to irresponsibly publish tweets, which substantially interfered with the due course of justice.The respondent was not even party to the proceedings, yet he was using his current position to create and influence public opinion, which showed that his publications were not bonafide, he argued, adding that the respondent made these publications for personal and political gain. “If the respondent was genuinely interested in the matter, he ought to have become a party to the proceedings and raised all points in the proceedings. On the contrary, without making any such effort, the respondent used a public platform (like Twitter) and announced his version,” he added.The petitioner further contended Sidhu made serious allegations against certain people and even posted statements on important documents being examined by the High Court and, as such, interfered in the administration of justice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contempt-proceedings-against-navjot-sidhu-sought-338547
16-11-2021||---||Apologise for ‘defaming’ farmers: SAD to Kejriwal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to apologise for launching a defamation campaign against farmers by holding them responsible for Delhi’s pollution.The SAD said Kejriwal’s campaign cost farmers dear as they were penalised and had to face cases with the Congress government following Kejriwal’s lead, instead of providing any alternative to reduce stubble burning.“This twin attack on the innocent farmers by Kejriwal and Congress government in the state was aimed at painting our farmers as villains when the truth is completely different,” said SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema.In a statement here, he said after it had become clear that most of the air pollution in Delhi was caused by the industrial and transport sector and that stubble burning only contributed 4-10 per cent to it, Kejriwal owed an apology to the farmers of the state. Cheema said Kejriwal had been thoroughly exposed by the Supreme Court today for lies about farmers being responsible for Delhi’s air pollution. He said the apex court had also rightly pointed out politics being played on the issue of pollution by Kejriwal.“The Delhi Government could not enumerate the steps it had taken to improve the quality of air,” the SAD spokesman said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/apologise-for-defaming-farmers-sad-to-kejriwal-338554
16-11-2021||---||Rakesh Tikait mobilises support for Nov 26 Delhi protest||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, November 15Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait today met farm union leaders at the Dappar toll plaza and asked them to mobilise support for the November 26 protest at the Delhi border.Tikait, accompanied by BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal and others leaders, said a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ would be held in Lucknow on November 22, which would be “historic”.“At the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’, we would seek justice for the farmers killed at Lakhimpur Khiri,” he said.To mark one year of the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Delhi border, Tikait asked farmers to reach the Singhu and Tikri borders by November 26. The union members also discussed their plans for the farmers’ march towards Parliament from the Delhi border during the winter session beginning November 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rakesh-tikait-mobilises-support-for-nov-26-delhi-protest-338563
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||FIRs against 12 erring companies amid DAP shortage in Punjab||Taking action on overpricing, hoarding, and tagging of diammonium phosphate (DAP), the Agriculture Department has lodged FIRs against 12 erring companies.These were found involved in overpricing, diversion of subsidised urea for industrial purposes, tagging other products and selling fertilisers from unauthorised sales point.Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha said FIRs had been lodged against Mand Khad Store and Sidhu Kheti Store, both at Dakoha village in Sri Hargobindpur in Gurdaspur, and Ranjit Pesticides, Sangowal village, Nakodar (Jalandhar), for overpricing. The process of cancellation of licence was underway.The department had also registered a case against Victory Biotech Pvt Ltd, Sardulgarh (Mansa), for alleged sale of misbranded DAP. Nabha further pointed out an FIR had been registered against Ram Murti Gupta & Sons, Phillaur (Jalandhar), for alleged involvement in diversion of subsidised urea.Thuha Pesticides & Seed Store, Zirakpur, was found involved in alleged tagging of other products with DAP and FIR, while Chugh Khad Bhandar, Chugh Trading Company, Chugh Khad Store, Bhata Cooperative Fruit & Vegetable Processing Sabha, and Ajay Trading Company, all from Jalalabad, were allegedly found involved in hoardings. FIRs had been lodged against the firms and a show-cause notice served. Jindal Agency, Giddarbaha, was found selling fertiliser from an unauthorised sales point and a case had been lodged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firs-against-12-erring-companies-amid-dap-shortage-in-punjab-338569
16-11-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana Civil Hospital runs without mandatory fire safety certificate||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 15Life of hundreds of patients is at risk at the Ludhiana Civil Hospital, which is allegedly running without the mandatory fire safety certificate.Despite being one of the Covid care centres when the cases hit a peak and still conducting Covid tests and vaccinating people, the hospital has failed to get a no-objection certificate.A Fire Department official said the hospital had not applied for the certificate. “Earlier, hospital authorities had to apply for it manually, but now it is available online. The authorities have been told to apply for it online, but they have failed to do so. The procedure of issuing a certificate and other formalities will be done only after we get a request application from the hospital. The certificate, which is renewed every year, is pending since 2020,” he said.Senior Medical Officer Dr Amarjeet Kaur said the Fire Department’s NOC was pending as some work related to firefighting, which had to be taken care of by Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC), was yet to be completed.According to information, a central team visited the hospital in January 2020 and had asked the hospital management to make a few changes in accordance with the National Building Code (NBC), 2016, and PHSC was supposed to make the necessary changes, but the work remains pending.PHSC Sub-Divisional Officer Gurpinder Singh said they had completed the work and wrote to the Municipal Corporation to check the system by visiting the hospital. “The system was completed according to the NBC, but some formalities are pending. Underground fire tank of 1 lakh litre capacity has been built, but some pipes have been stolen from the hospital,” he said.Sanjay Goel, one of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City said it was a serious issue. “The hospital authorities should get the NOC from the Fire Department at the earliest as the life of hundreds of people is at risk. Ludhiana is an upcoming smart city and if its Civil Hospital is in such a state, what else can we expect from other public places/offices,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-civil-hospital-runs-without-mandatory-fire-safety-certificate-338579
16-11-2021||---||Woman shot, gangster injured in Amritsar attack||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 15A woman was shot, while a gangster suffered injuries when another gangster, Gopi Mahal, along with accomplices, barged into the former’s house in Chogwan, falling under the Lopoke police station here, and opened fire.The injured, identified as Gagandeep Singh, alias Gagan Kaulan, was being operated upon at a private hospital and his condition was stated to be serious. His mother, Paramjit Kaur (49), died on the spot.Sources said Kaulan was talking to someone on the street when the accused along with four of his accomplices arrived in a car and opened fire. To save himself, Kaulan fled inside his house. On hearing the gunshots, Paramjit came out and was shot. Kaulan’s brother Harmandeep retaliated to the fire, forcing the assailants to flee.Senior police officials, including SSP Rakesh Kaushal, visited the crime scene to oversee the investigation. The SSP said police teams were conducting raids to arrest Mahal and his accomplices. The incident was the outcome of a gang war, he said, adding both Mahal and Kaluan were facing criminal cases.The police later recovered a pistol dropped by the assailants while fleeing. Empty bullet casings were also seized.A police official said that Mahal and Kaulan were friends earlier and had committed a number of crimes, including robberies, extortion, etc. They had recently come out of jail on bail, but reportedly fell apart over unknown reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-shot-gangster-injured-in-amritsar-attack-338586
16-11-2021||Patiala||42 MC councillors demand removal of Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma||Twentyfive more councillors of the Patiala Municipal Corporation today submitted a letter to Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra demanding the removal of Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma. As many as 17 councillors had yesterday demanded his ouster. Mohindra said four more councillors were said to have made the demand.The development has brought to the fore the growing rift among the councillors. As per the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976: “A councillor holding office as mayor or senior deputy mayor or deputy mayor may be removed from his office by a resolution of the corporation passed by a majority of the total membership and by majority of no less than two-thirds of the members present and voting in a meeting of the corporation in the prescribed manner.”The total number of rebel councillors now stands at 42. The MC ideally has 60 councillors. Mohindra said: “As many as 25 councillors today submitted a request in writing seeking the Mayor’s removal. As many as 17 had demanded the same yesterday.”“I have done the job that was asked of me. The party high command will now take the decision on the matter.” Around 10 days ago, Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur had said the Mayor could be removed by the Local Government Minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/42-mc-councillors-demand-removal-of-patiala-mayor-sanjeev-sharma-338587
16-11-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Interstate gang of rail thieves busted||The Government Railway Police (GRP) on Monday claimed to have busted a gang of Haryana men that have been stealing the valuables of passengers by making reservation in trains. Five persons have been arrested.The gang was operative in different states, including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, UP, New Delhi and MP.GRP SP Rashi Dogra said the kingpin — Kuldeep, alias Sonu Sansi (32) — along with Sushil Sansi (40) of Kugund in Bhiwani; Jagdish Chander Sansi (43), Ram Chander (56) and Dharam Pal Sansi (49) of Rohtak had been arrested.Notably, Kuldeep was already wanted in a three-year-old case of railway theft. A challan was also presented in the court against Sushil Sansi in another theft case.Many cases have already been registered against the gang in different states. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/interstate-gang-of-rail-thieves-busted-338588
16-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t declare student ineligible if documents not scrutinised: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15In a significant judgment, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a student cannot be declared ineligible in the absence of proper scrutiny of documents by the CBSE at the time of his admission.The Bench has ruled that it was incumbent upon the CBSE and another respondent to peruse the documents of the petitioner-student when he took the admission to Class XI. As a petition by Rohit Kapoor came up for hearing, Justice Sudhir Mittal was told that the petitioner took Class XII exam this year. But the result was not declared. He was declared “not eligible”, resulting in the filing of the petition.Justice Mittal observed the student took his Class X exam at the Ludhiana centre of Grameen Mukt Vidhyalayi Shiksha Sansthan in July 2018. He took admission to Class XI in a school in 2019 on the basis of a migration-cum-transfer certificate before he was promoted to Class XII in 2020. The form for taking the Class XII exam was filled and roll number issued by the CBSE. The practical exam was also taken, but the result was not declared.In a written statement on the behalf of the CBSE and another respondent, it was averred that the board from which the petitioner passed his Class X exam was not recognised. As such, the petitioner was ineligible for admission to Class XI. He could not have, thus, taken the Class XII exam at all. Besides, the petitioner was guilty of misrepresentation, the statement claimed.Referring to the general conditions of admission, Justice Mittal asserted it was incumbent upon the CBSE and another respondent to peruse the documents when the petitioner took admission toClass XI. “Had the same been done, the respondent-school could’ve been informed that the petitioner was not eligible to take admission.”Justice Mittal made it clear that the allegation of misrepresentation was also unacceptable. It was well-known that printed forms were presented to the students and their parents at the time of “filling the list of candidates”. They signed the document placing full faith in the institution concerned. The fault did not lie with the petitioner. The respondent-school was responsible, if at all. “The CBSE and another respondent have been remiss in their own duties and they can’t make the petitioner suffer,” he asserted, while directing the CBSE to declare the result at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-declare-student-ineligible-if-documents-not-scrutinised-hc-338589
16-11-2021||---||Arms, ammo seized from Bhakra canal||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, November 15A large quantity of arms and ammunition, a rocket launcher and some bomb-like objects have been recovered from the Bhakra canal near Adampur village bridge on Sirhind-Patiala Road on Monday.SSP Sandeep Goel said the police got information about the ammunition from the divers while they were searching for a body.Shankar Bhardwaj, president, Bhole Shankar Divers Club, said he along with divers were searching for a body when they found some ammunition. He said they immediately informed the SSP and he deputed the DSP to supervise the operation.Meanwhile, DSP Brij Mohan said with the help of the divers, the police recovered 12 weapons, two bomb-like objects, two rifles, Mauser pistols, rocket launcher and ammunition.The SSP further said a team of experts had been summoned to defuse it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arms-ammo-seized-from-bhakra-canal-338590
16-11-2021||---||Special religious event held at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 15A special religious congregation of Malwa zone was held at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo, on Sunday, in which 1,247 persons got initiated as Sikhs.The event was dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib under the SGPC’s ‘Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal’ (sacred shrine within every home) campaign.On the occasion, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said: “They are making efforts to connect the sangat with the Sikh faith under its door-to-door campaign. Under this, various teams of preachers of the SGPC’s Dharam Prachar Committee will conduct ‘gurmat’ ceremonies in the villages to connect the sangat, including youth, with the Sikh history.”She further said the SGPC’s Dharm Prachar Lehar was getting full support from the sangat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-religious-event-held-at-takht-sri-damdama-sahib-talwandi-sabo-338591
16-11-2021||Ropar||No potable water, Ropar authorities get notice||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has issued a show-cause notice on authorities after Nurpur Bedi resident Brij Mohan claimed that contaminated water was being supplied in the area.Mohan claimed that even 13 years after the national panel’s orders in this regard, the authorities had failed to supply potable water. Mohan said his struggle to get clean water started in 2003 after his mother fell ill in 2001. After diagnosis, he came to know that her health deteriorated due to poor quality of drinking water being supplied from groundwater-based schemes.Following this, he first moved the local panel in 2003, then the national commission on March 10, 2008, which directed the state to supply drinking water conforming to ISI standards. Later, the state approved a water treatment plant and its stone was laid in 2013. The Rs 26-crore project to supply potable water to 47 villages in the Nurpur Bedi block, however, got delayed. Finally, it was inaugurated on March 5, 2019.Mohan claimed despite spending a huge amount on the project, locals were still being supplied contaminated water. The panel has asked the Executive Engineer and Sub-Divisional Engineer to appear before it on January 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-potable-water-ropar-authorities-get-notice-338592
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress using sacrilege for poll gains: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today accused the Congress government of using the sacrilege issue for the upcoming elections and not being serious to deliver justice in related cases.“That is why the Congress government is running away from appointing the Advocate General. A benevolent, honest and senior advocate should be made Advocate General of Punjab as soon as possible to give justice to the people of Punjab,” said Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition.Cheema alleged due to the differences between Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Pradesh Congress committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Advocate General was not being appointed, resulting in legal cases of the Punjab Government not being pursued. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-using-sacrilege-for-poll-gains-aap-338593
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer unions’ panel to call on Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi tomorrow||A delegation of representatives of 32 farmer unions of Punjab will be meeting Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi here on November 17.This is the first meeting of representatives of the 32 unions with Channi as Chief Minister. Buta Singh Burzgill, President, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakaunda) said the agenda of the meeting was to discuss various issues concerning the farming community. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-panel-to-call-on-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-tomorrow-338594
16-11-2021||Ferozepur||Rs 37-cr heroin seized in Ferozepur||BSF personnel have recovered eight packets of heroin, weighing 7.412 kg, near the Pacharian outpost along the Pakistan border in the sector. The price of the recovered consignment was around Rs 37 crore in the international market.Sources say the personnel belonging to 116 Battalion recovered the consignment from paddy fields across the border fencing. On November 5, BSF personnel belonging to 103 Battalion had recovered 950 gm heroin. — OCCongress leader among two held with drugsMuktsar: The police on Sunday arrested two persons, including a Congress leader, with 5 gm heroin from the Jandwala Road. Those arrested have been identified as Om Parkash, alias Bubby, of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, whose wife had unsuccessfully contested the Malout civic elections on the Congress ticket, and Kapil Kumar from ward No. 6. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-37-cr-heroin-seized-in-ferozepur-338595
16-11-2021||---||R-Day violence: Haryana minister Anil Vij slams Punjab Govt for ‘rewarding’ protesters||Chandigarh, November 15Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today took a dig at the Punjab Government for giving Rs 2 lakh each to the people involved in the Red Fort incident.He said, “It cannot be more shameful as the Constitution of the country is one and the law and order of the country is one. Whether there is a rule of the BJP or Congress or of any other party, rewarding such people is insulting the law and order of the country.”Insult to countryRewarding such people is insulting the law and order of the country. Anil Vij, Haryana Home and Health MinisterVij was interacting with the media here today.Flaying the Punjab Government, he said it proved that all those people were sent by the Punjab Government or by the Congress party itself.In response to a question regarding Gurnam Singh Chaduni’s yatra, he said they had no objection to him holding a sit-in and fast.He added, “Every person has the right to agitate, but you do not have the right to break the glass of someone’s car. You don’t have the right to hold anyone hostage. You don’t have to tear someone’s clothes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/r-day-violence-haryana-minister-anil-vij-slams-punjab-govt-for-rewarding-protesters-338486
16-11-2021||---||Punjab Govt studying clauses in states with job quota||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15With Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announcing his government’s decision to bring in a law on reservation for Punjab youth in government and private jobs, the Congress government is learnt to be analysing the provisions incorporated by other states in securing jobs for their local candidates in both sectors.Also read: Job quota not viable, will oppose move, says industryBorrowing not an option for us: Sidhu PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday said borrowing was not the way forward for Punjab. “Taxes should not go to settle debt but go back to people in the form of development. Solution-oriented model is to stop theft of state’s resources, fill exchequer and create a welfare state through income generation,” he tweeted. TNSFill 500 posts in agri department: AAPThe Aam Aadmi Party on Monday said there was a shortage of about 500 Agriculture Development Officers (ADO), especially in the Doaba belt, who are critical for about 20 lakh families of farmers, whose main source of income is agriculture. AAP leader and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said there should be an ADO behind 400 farmers’ families, but at present there was not even one behind 2,000 families. He said 400 posts of assistant sub-inspector were also lying vacant in the Agriculture Department. Besides, AAP demanded proper compensation to the farmers affected by pink bollworm.In an interview with The Tribune on Sunday, CM Channi had stated he was holding consultations with the legal department to frame the provisions. The issue is likely to be tabled in the Cabinet meeting, as wider discussions with the Council of Ministers are to be held.Already at least nine states, including Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Karnataka, have in place reservation rules for local candidates in both government and private sectors.Forest Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian said at least 75 per cent of the government jobs should be reserved for local candidates. Apart from candidates having passed classes X and XII from Punjab, the job applicant must have studied Punjabi as a compulsory subject in class X and should have lived in the state for the past 10-15 years, he wrote to the CM.Former Union Minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia said the promise for reservation of jobs in both sectors should be part of the election manifesto of various political parties.Ramoowalia termed the move “victory of Punjabiyat”. “The recruitment being done by Punjab Police officers through a private IT firm should be stopped,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-studying-clauses-in-states-with-job-quota-338537
16-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s tweets contempt of court: Plea with Haryana AG||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15A Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate has moved an application before Haryana Advocate-General for his consent in writing to institute criminal contempt petition against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for tweets in the ingoing drugs menace case.The proceedings were sought to be initiated on the ground that the tweets were, among other things, allegedly “intended to interfere with the administration of justice”. The Advocate-General’s consent is a pre-requisite in a criminal contempt case.In the accompanying petition, Parampreet Singh Bajwa prayed for initiation of contempt proceedings against before punishing him as he “apparently committed criminal contempt, through various publications on his official twitter account”.The petitioner stated Sidhu has a huge following of 973413 followers, who “get immediate knowledge about any tweet which is made by him”. The respondent knew that his tweets were widely read and generated huge publicity. Yet, he came out with tweets about the ongoing proceeding, which were “apparently prejudicing and substantially interfering with due course of the mid-proceedings”.He added the respondent contemnor was aware about the pendency of the proceedings and was using public platform – Twitter – to irresponsibly publish tweets, which substantially interfered with the due course of justice.The respondent was not even party to the proceedings, yet he was using his current position to create and influence public opinion, which showed that his publications were not bonafide. The respondent made these publications for personal and political gain. “If the respondent was genuinely interested in the matter, he ought to have become a party in the proceedings and raised all points in the proceedings. On the contrary, without making any such effort, the respondent used a public platform (like Twitter) and announced his version and even judged the entire cause, which was pending before this Court,” he added.The petitioner further contended Sidhu made serious allegations against certain people and even posted statements on important documents being examined by the High Court and, as such, interfered in the administration of justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhus-tweets-contempt-of-court-plea-with-haryana-ag-338441
16-11-2021||PK Jaiswar||Gangster injured, mother dead in Amritsar gangwar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 15Notorious gangster Gopi Mahal along with his accomplices on Monday barged into a house in Chogwan falling under Lopoke police station here and fired indiscriminately leaving a woman dead and a rival gangster injured.The injured gangster identified as Gagandeep Singh alias Gagan Kaulan was being operated upon at a private hospital and his condition is stated to be serious but stable. The deceased was his mother Paramjit Kaur (49) who died on the spot.Senior police officials, including SSP Rakesh Kaushal reached the spot and carried out investigations. He said police parties were conducting raids to nab Gopi Mahal and his accomplices. He added that the incident was an outcome of a gangwar between Gopi Mahal and Kaulan. Both have several criminal cases registered against them.The accused fled the scene in a car after Kaulan’s brother Harmandeep Singh returned fire.The police recovered a pistol and magazine belonging to the attackers that fell on the road while fleeing. Empty shells of bullets were also recovered from the spot.A police official said Gopi Mahal and Gagan Kaulan were friends earlier and had committed a number of crimes, including robberies, murder bid, extortion, etc. They recently came out on bail but developed rivalry over some unknown reasons.Gagan was talking to some car-borne person when the accused along with his four accomplices came to the spot in a Hyundai Verna car and started firing indiscriminately. To save himself, Gagan rushed inside his house to get his weapon. After hearing gunshots, Paramjit Kaur came out of the house and fell victim to the firing. In the meantime, Harmandeep also came out and retaliated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-injured-mother-dead-in-amritsar-gangwar-338426
16-11-2021||New Delhi||EC receives application seeking registration of Capt Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress||The Election Commission has received an application from an association seeking to register itself as a political party with the name of Punjab Lok Congress, sources said on Monday.This comes days after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh resigned from the Congress and announced that he would launch a political party under that name.“An application for registration of a political party under section 29A of Representation of the People Act, from an association wanting to be registered as a political party under name of Punjab Lok Congress party, has been received in the ECI,” a source in the Commission said without elaborating.The application is under process, the source added.Earlier this month, Singh had resigned from the Congress, accusing party president Sonia Gandhi, and senior leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra of hatching a “midnight conspiracy” to oust him.The 79-year-old leader had timed his bitter resignation letter with the announcement on the name of his new party. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-receives-application-seeking-registration-of-capt-amarinder-singhs-punjab-lok-congress-338392
16-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Borrowing is not the way forward for a debt-ridden state like Punjab, says Navjot Sidhu||Chandigarh, November 15PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu has said that for a stste like Punjab borrowing is not the way forward.In a series of tweets, the Congress leader said, “Borrowing is not the way forward! Taxes should not go to settle debt but go back to the people in the form of development. Solution oriented model is to stop theft of State’s resources, fill up public exchequer and create a Welfare State through income generation.”Borrowing is not the way forward! Taxes should not go to settle debt but go back to the people in the form of development. Solution oriented model is to stop theft of State’s resources, fill up public exchequer and create a Welfare State through income generation.#JittegaPunjab  “Today Punjab is the most indebted state in India. Debt accounts for 50% of State GDP. Half of our expenditure is funded by expensive debt. Lets not derail from real issues to which every Punjabi & party worker demands solution, because there's Punjab beyond 2022.Today Punjab is the most indebted state in India. Debt accounts for 50% of State GDP. Half of our expenditure is funded by expensive debt. Lets not derail from real issues to which every Punjabi & party worker demands solution, because there's #PunjabBeyond2022#HaqiqatPunjabDi  “Financial Accountability and Transparency are pillars of Punjab Model. Accountability demands revealing sources of funds at every scheme announcement, whether from income or from more debt. Transparency demands making public state’s fiscal health every month.”Financial Accountability and Transparency are pillars of Punjab Model. Accountability demands revealing sources of funds at every scheme announcement, whether from income or from more debt. Transparency demands making public state’s fiscal health every month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/borrowing-is-not-the-way-forward-for-a-debt-ridden-state-like-punjab-says-navjot-sidhu-338386
