17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi promises farmers to quash old, stubble-burning FIRs against them||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday promised farmers to drop old cases of stubble burning against them but asked them not to set the paddy straw on fire in future.The Chief Minister also promised to cancel all FIRs against farmers, registered in the state during their protests against the Centre’s three farm laws.He also announced his government decision to raise the compensation for the loss of the cotton crop to Rs 17,000 per acre from Rs 12,000 per acre.Channi made these promises during a meeting with the representatives of Punjab’s 32 farm bodies here.Addressing the media after the meeting, Channi, while acceding to farmers’ demands, said his government will cancel all FIRs registered by the Punjab Police against farmers protesting against farm laws in the state.“With this, we want that no farmer should set stubble on fire in future and the government will act strictly against the violation,” he said.“But if any old FIR related to the stubble burning is there against anyone, we are cancelling it,” he added.“But it is my request to farmers that they should not set the straw on fire as it causes pollution,” Channi reiterated.Channi’s statement comes amid rising incidents of stubble burning with Punjab recording over 69,000 such incidents this season.Stubble burning is banned but many farmers continue to flout it. Delhi and Haryana have taken several emergency measures including the closure of schools (in four districts in Haryana) and a ban on construction work to curb air pollution.Later while speaking on the issue of stubble burning, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said he told the CM that the decision of the National Green Tribunal should be implemented in which farmers having less than 2.50 acres of land should be given farm machinery for the management of crop residue free of cost.Farmers were being fined but no machinery was given to them, he said, adding he also asked the state government why the central funds of Rs 375 crore for giving subsidy on the machinery has not been released.He asserted that the number of farm fire incidents were less this season.On the relief related to cotton crop loss due to pink bollworm attack, Channi announced a hike in the compensation amount from Rs 12,000 to Rs 17,000 per acre, besides a 10 per cent of the relief to farm labourers engaged for the picking of cotton.Channi said giving higher compensation would cost nearly Rs 200 crore more to the state government over the already approved sum of Rs 416.18 crore for it at the rate of Rs 12,000 per acre.He also told farmer leaders that he would personally take up the matter with the Punjab governor to withdraw the cases against the farmers who participated in the protest march towards Punjab Raj Bhawan against farm laws.Taking a serious note of the supply of “spurious quality” paddy seeds to farmers in Moga, Channi asked the agriculture minister to take stern action against the fraudulent seed company and ordered due compensation to affected farmers.On the “meagre compensation” to farmers for their land acquired for the Delhi-Katra-Amritsar expressway, Channi said he would personally convene a meeting of all divisional and deputy commissioners to rationalise the rates of compensation.Referring to the demand for waiving the outstanding farm loans, Channi said he would have a separate meeting with them after detailed deliberations with the state’s Finance Department.Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, who lost their breadwinners during farmers’ agitation, the chief minister said the state government has already provided government jobs to 152 victim families, besides giving a financial aid of Rs 5 lakh to each of them.Talking to reporters later, farmer leader Rajewal said they also raised the issue of pension for farmers and farm labourers.He also said the farm bodies in Punjab were against Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni who was trying to implement his “political agenda” in the state with his “Mission Punjab”.Chaduni had earlier asked farmer outfits in Punjab to contest the upcoming state assembly polls.Meanwhile, before the meeting with the chief minister, several farmer leaders held a protest outside the meeting venue, claiming that they were allegedly pushed by the security men when they were trying to enter the Punjab Bhawan.They threatened not to attend the meeting till the CM tenders apology for the same.Punjab Agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha came out to pacify them and later Channi met them to placate them.Though a few pacified farmer leaders went inside with Nabha and Channi, some farmer leaders refused to attend the meeting.Then Nabha came out again and urged farmer leaders to join the meeting. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-promises-farmers-to-quash-old-stubble-burning-firs-against-them-339359
17-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||First two pilgrims given a warm send-off as Kartarpur Corridor opens for pilgrims||Chandigarh, November 17The first two pilgrims were given a warm send-off at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) gate by the manager as the Kartarpur Corridor linking Dera Baba Nanak in India to Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan opened on Wednesday.The Kartarpur Corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district.Gurpurab, which marks the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, will be celebrated on November 19.Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 due to the Covid pandemic.First two pilgrims given warm send-off at ICP gate by the Manager ICP. The pilgrimage to Gurudwara Darbar Sahib through Kartarpur Corridor formally commences today. Gurudwara Prabandhak Samiti welcomed them across the border. #KartarpurCorridor #DeraBabaNanak @PMOIndia @HMOIndia pic.twitter.com/C7qtKePsOz  The Land Port Authority of India said in a tweet, “First two pilgrims given warm send-off at ICP gate by the Manager ICP. The pilgrimage to Gurudwara Darbar Sahib through Kartarpur Corridor formally commences today. Gurudwara Prabandhak Samiti welcomed them across the border. #KartarpurCorridor #DeraBabaNanak.”“Our team at PTB Dera Baba Nanak is warmly facilitating travel of pilgrims through Kartarpur Sahib corridor,” it further said in another tweet.The LPAI develops, sanitises and manages the facilities for cross-border movement of passengers and goods at designated points along the international borders of India.On Tuesday, LPAI chairman Aditya Misha held a meeting with all stakeholders at Integrated Check Post Dera Baba Nanak to take stock of the preparedness, ahead of the reopening of the Kartarpur Corridor.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with his ministers, will be part of the first ‘jatha’ (group), which will visit the Kartarpur Sahib on Thursday, officials said.The Gurdaspur district administration was busy in preparations for the visit of the first ‘jatha’ on Thursday, they said.RT-PCR report and fully vaccinated certificate are mandatory for pilgrims, the officials said.Daily many people visit Dera Baba Nanak to catch a glimpse of the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara, said residents of the Dera Baba Nanak town.A few days back, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had demanded from the Centre to keep its promise of setting up a ‘darshan sthal’ fitted with binoculars to allow devotees, who do not have passports, to get a clear ‘darshan’ of the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara.An estimated 70,000 pilgrims had visited the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara so far after it was opened in November 2019.The Kartarpur Corridor, which provides Indian devotees visa-free access to the final resting place of Guru Nanak Dev, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 9, 2019, to mark the 550th birth anniversary of the first Sikh guru. The Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the Ravi river, about four kilometres from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine. —with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/first-two-pilgrims-given-a-warm-send-off-as-kartarpur-corridor-opens-for-pilgrims-339278
17-11-2021||---||Farmers’ protest no deterrent for Sukhbir Badal||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, November 16Maintaining the same strategy to hold public meetings, visiting the places of his workers for tea and meals, meeting groups of unionists and paying obeisance at places of worship, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal continued with his day-long programme in the district on Tuesday despite a stiff opposition from farmers.Sukhbir’s first stopover was a 34-minute public meeting with farmers at Chak Dana village, which ended up in a fiasco. Aggression could be seen from both the sides and they could not reach an amicable solution. While Sukhbir headed to a public rally at a palace closeby and later went to the residence of sarpanch Surinder Singh to have tea, farmers announced that they would block his way to Rahon, which was to be his fourth halt point.Taking a longer tour through villages, Sukhbir reached Rahon where he went to the place of MC chief Hemant Bobby. Later, he also addressed a public meeting where he said his focus on coming to power would be improving health and medical facilities. His whirlwind tour shifted to Jadla village where he held a short five-minute meeting before moving to the residence of Youth Akali Dal (rural chief) Ramandeep Thiara.He again moved on for a public meeting at a resort in the city. Sukhbir’s narrative in the rallies today was largely asking people “not to fall into the trap of anti-panthic forces that were using the Sikh garb to weaken the community from inside”. He said there was a deep-rooted conspiracy to render Sikhs leaderless by discrediting their religious institutions as well as the party.Indicating towards sacrilege incidents in the past, he said “emotional issues are being used to create a wedge in the community. We must guard against such conspiracies which are the brainchild of both the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party”.He then paid obeisance at gurdwara Manji Sahib before moving to the bus stand where he garlanded the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar. Later, he started his market tour. He walked from shop to shop for over two hours and met shop owners to garner support for BSP candidate Dr Nachhatar Pal. He also savoured golgappas from RK Sweets and Rasmalai from Ramson Sweets.After the market tour, he again set out for a religious tour to Sunehi Mandir, followed by Guru Ravidass gurdwara. He had dinner at the place of Kuljit Singh Lucky, Nawanshahr YAD chief (urban), where he also met representatives of the District Bar Association, Indian Medical Association, Arhtiya Association, Rang Manch and other panels. Doaba Youth Akali chief Sukhdeep Sukar accompanied Sukhbir throughout the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-no-deterrent-for-sukhbir-badal-339168
17-11-2021||---||No Covid case in entire Doaba||Jalandhar, November 16In a major sigh of relief, all four districts of Doaba reported no new Covid case on Tuesday. Notably, Nawanshahr was also the district which had nil active Covid case as of today. After four patients got discharged from Jalandhar and one from Kapurthala today, the active cases in Jalandhar stand at 39 in Hoshiarpur at 27 and in Kapurthala at nine.Despite no cases, Jalandhar health authorities took 2,559 samples today. Kapurthala on the contrary took only 294 samples. Nearly, 1,360 samples were taken from Hoshiarpur and 837 from Nawanshahr.The only point of concern today was that one of the patients from Jalandhar had to be shifted to ICU after his condition deteriorated. The total Covid cases so far in Jalandhar today stand at 63,446 in Hoshiarpur at 30,863 in Nawanshahr at 11,472 and in Kapurthala at 17,863.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-covid-case-in-entire-doaba-339174
17-11-2021||Aditi Tandon||Kartarpur corridor reopens today, Punjab Cabinet to be part of first jatha||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 16Closed since March last year in the wake of the Covid pandemic, the Kartarpur corridor linking Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Narowal, Pakistan, will reopen for pilgrims on Wednesday.Also read: Kartarpur Corridor: First jatha’s limit 50, including ministersSGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur to lead Sikh jatha to Kartarpur on GurpurbKartarpur Corridor: Online registration begins todayKartarpur Corridor a gift for devotees: BJPMarking gurpurbMaking the announcement on Twitter today, Home Minister Amit Shah said, “In a major decision that will benefit a large number of Sikh pilgrims, the government has decided to reopen the Kartarpur corridor from tomorrow, November 17. This decision reflects the immense reverence of Modi government towards Guru Nanak Dev and our Sikh community.” The Home Minister said the nation was all set to celebrate the Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev on November 19 and the decision would further boost the joy and happiness across the country.Welcoming the move, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi said the state Cabinet would be part of the jatha which would visit the historic shrine in Pakistan on November 18. Sources said the PMO had been in touch with the Ministry of External Affairs and Ministry of Home to finalise the modalities of the reopening process after representations were made to the government in this regard.The move came at a time when the daily Covid cases have stabilised at or below 10,000. The country saw 8,865 new cases in the past 24 hours and daily new infection cases have been below 50,000 for 142 days now.“Active Covid cases constitute 0.38 per cent of the country’s total cases, the lowest since March 2020, when the corridor was closed. The situation has stabilised,” said a Health Ministry source. The Home Ministry has also assessed the security scenario before giving a go-ahead to reopen the corridor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kartarpur-corridor-reopens-today-punjab-cabinet-to-be-part-of-first-jatha-339090
17-11-2021||Sanjeev S Bariana & Jupinderjit Singh||Congress, AAP suffer from ‘Badal phobia’: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Claiming that all political parties, especially the Congress, were suffering from ‘Badal phobia’, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal has asserted only his party has a clear chain of command to provide a stable government in Punjab.In an exclusive interview with The Tribune, Sukhbir took a dig at the Congress and the AAP, alleging that both were conspiring against the Akalis as they were afraid of the Badals. He dared the two parties to name a CM candidate and not fall through.In contrast, he said, everybody knew who the CM candidate of the SAD-BSP alliance was. “You will see Navjot Singh Sidhu leaving the Congress if (CM Charanjit Singh) Channi is announced CM candidate. Similarly, (AAP chief Arvind) Kejriwal himself wants to be the CM of Punjab,” he said.Terming Channi’s self-projection as ‘aam aadmi’ (common man) a “drama”, Sukhbir insisted that the state needed a visionary CM unlike the present incumbent who was “doling out sops without any financial basis”.The SAD chief asserted that the party would not go in for any new alliance while claiming that they had received resounding response during their campaign for the 2022 Assembly elections. “I have covered 55 constituencies, including those where the Akalis are contesting for the first time post break-up with the BJP. The response is phenomenal. We are heading for a landslide victory,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-aap-suffer-from-badal-phobia-sukhbir-singh-badal-339092
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana AG to hear plea against Navjot Singh Sidhu on November 25||The Punjab and Haryana HC advocate, who moved an application before the Haryana AG for his consent in writing to institute criminal contempt petition against PCC chief Navjot Sidhu for tweets in the ongoing drugs case, will now argue on the locus standi.One of the issues that cropped up during the arguments today was that neither advocate Parampreet Singh Bajwa nor Sidhu was party to the case before the HC.Available information suggests the arguments were heard for about half an hour today and the matter will now come up for further hearing on November 25. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-ag-to-hear-plea-against-navjot-singh-sidhu-on-november-25-339012
17-11-2021||---||Punjab: New AG likely to be announced today||Chandigarh, November 16Punjab is likely to get the new Advocate General by tomorrow.An indication in this regard was given by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today at the Cabinet meeting after the Council of Ministers authorised him to select the new Advocate General.Among those in the reckoning are Anmol Rattan Sidhu, Sanjay Kaushal and Anu Chatrath.Channi had accepted the resignation of former Advocate General APS Deol on November 9, before it was accepted by the Governor, Banwarilal Purohit. Deol had submitted his resignation to Channi on November 1.During today’s Cabinet meeting, the Council of Ministers authorised the Chief Minister to select the new AG when the matter came up for discussion. Sources said efforts were on to select the Advocate General, who was related to the Congress.Earlier in the day, Anmol Rattan Sidhu reportedly met Navjot Singh Sidhu and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Chaudhary at Punjab Congress Bhavan, where the PCC chief had gone to resume his work. It is learnt that the party wants to take Sidhu on board before the formal announcement on the new Advocate General is made.Sidhu had been batting for DS Patwalia, but there had reportedly been opposition from other quarters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-new-ag-likely-to-be-announced-today-339013
17-11-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Income Tax raids on two Ludhiana colonisers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 16After cracking the whip on bicycle manufacturers and dry fruit dealers, colonisers are now on the radar of the Income Tax (I-T) Department.On Tuesday, various teams of the I-T Department, comprising around 100 persons, conducted early morning raids on the premises of two leading colonisers — Manpreet Singh Ayali and Manu Gupta and Jagmit Garewal of Sunview Enclave. Even the premises of the deed writers have been raided.As per the information, the IT sleuths started the raids at 6 am in the presence of police and Army personnel. Over 20 locations of the two leading colonisers (Golf Link and Sunview Enclave) have been raided and documents, computers and lockers, etc have been sealed.Reportedly, the land rates in both these colonies have touched the sky in the past one or two years. Residents of Sunview Enclave said a plot was priced anything between Rs 50,000 to Rs 70,000 per square yard, which stood around Rs 30,000 before the pandemic. Similarly, the rate of Ayali’s properties have almost doubled in the past two years.Meanwhile, the raids are still on and the entire area is cordoned off. One of the workers with Ayali said even in 1999, I-T raids took place on his premises but nothing was found.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/income-tax-raids-on-two-ludhiana-colonisers-339014
17-11-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court quashes selection process for ETT posts||Chandigarh, November 16Nearly 18 months after an advertisement was issued for the appointment of the Elementary Trained Teachers (ETT) meant for border areas, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has set aside and quashed the entire selection process, including provisional merit list for carrying out recruitment to 2,364 posts.The HC has also set aside the ad dated March 6, 2020, containing the impugned selection criteria.‘Can’t ignore Disregard of Service rules’ This court knows that quashing the ad may cause hardship to aspirants. But, it can’t be ignored that in case the selection initiated in disregard of the service rules is allowed to attain finality, the same shall perpetuate the illegality. Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu, HCThe ruling by Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu came on a bunch of petitions against the state and other respondents by Daljit Kaur and other petitioners. The Bench, was told that the selection criteria mentioned in the ad for awarding additional marks to the candidates on the basis of higher qualification i.e. graduation, wasn’t legally permissible.It was also contended that the initial selection criteria was changed in an arbitrary manner vide public notice dated November 11, 2020. Among other things, weightage of one mark against each year of work experience, up to maximum 10 marks, was also granted in favour of education providers/education volunteers, EGS volunteers, AIE volunteers and special training resource volunteers despite the fact that there was no such provision under the service rules.The petitioners were represented by counsels Vikas Chatrath, Karanvir Hooda, Harkesh Manuja, Har Avtar Singh Saini and Amit Shukla. Justice Sindhu ruled the weightage by the way of additional marks ranging from 2 to 5 was incorporated under the selection criteria in the ad, which was “running de hors the mandatory provisions of the relevant service rules”.The appointments to the posts were to be made on the basis of recommendations by a “board”, but it was not constituted. Rather the Recruitment Director was made the final authority for making recommendations without there being any competency to that effect under the service rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-quashes-selection-process-for-ett-posts-339015
17-11-2021||---||Supreme Court junks pleas against Dinkar Gupta’s appointment as Punjab DGP||New Delhi, November 16The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed petitions challenging the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order of upholding the appointment of Dinkar Gupta as the Director General of Police (DGP) of Punjab.Gupta, a 1987-batch IPS officer, was DGP (Intelligence) before being appointed the Punjab DGP in 2019, superseding several senior officers, including Mohammad Mustafa and Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, who belonged to 1985 and 1986 batch, respectively. After the change of guard in Punjab in September, Gupta had proceeded on leave. Later, he was transferred as chairperson of the Punjab Police Housing Corporation.“Appeals are dismissed,” a Bench led by Justice L Nageswara Rao said, rejecting the petitions of Mustafa and Chattopadhyaya against Gupta’s appointment as the DGP.The Bench had on September 15 reserved its orders on their petition challenging the November 6, 2020, order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court that upheld the Punjab Government’s February 7, 2019, order appointing Gupta as the DGP.The High Court had allowed the Punjab Government’s appeal against the January 17, 2020, order of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) that had set aside Gupta’s appointment.The CAT order had come on a plea by Mustafa and Chattopadhyaya who questioned Gupta’s appointment on the grounds that they were ignored despite being senior to him.However, the HC on November 6, 2020, held the CAT “exceeded its power of judicial review by transgressing into the domain of law regarding judicial review of the decisions/recommendations of the Selection Committee”, and went on to set aside CAT’s order that had quashed Gupta’s appointment as the DGP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-junks-pleas-against-dinkar-guptas-appointment-as-punjab-dgp-339016
17-11-2021||---||2.66 lakh more Punjab students to get free uniform||Chandigarh, November 16To boost enrolment, reduce dropout rate and attract students to government schools, the Punjab Cabinet led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today decided to provide free uniform to nearly 2.66 lakh left-out boys of the general category studying in classes I-VIII. The government will spend around Rs 15.98 crore in the current financial year.At present, the School Education Department is already providing free uniform costing up to Rs 600 per student to all girls, SC boys and BPL boys studying in classes I-VIII at government schools, government-run schools and Adarsh schools being run by the Punjab School Education Board.The number of such students is 15.03 lakh for which Rs 90.16 crore are being spent in the current fiscal. It may be recalled that boys belonging to general category are not provided uniform by the department as such students are not covered under the RTE entitlement.Meanwhile, the Cabinet also accorded approval for setting up of Sant Kabir Sahib, Bhai Jeevan Singh/Bhai Jaita and Makhan Shah Lubana Chairs in Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and Guru Ravidas and Bhagwan Valmiki Chairs in Punjabi University, Patiala. Apart from these, another chair would also be set up soon in the name of Bhagwan Parshuram.To obtain ex-post facto approval/approval for new work from the Cabinet regarding revision of guidelines for utilisation of funds under Punjab Nirman Programme, the Council of Ministers gave its nod to amend the guidelines to incorporate additional permissible works and to ensure speedy implementation and execution of development works at the district level.To finalise the draft of the legislation to provide reservation to local candidates in government and private jobs, a Cabinet subcommittee under the chairmanship of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal has been constituted to bring it in the next Cabinet meeting.Cabinet hikes aid for cane farmersTo ensure economic viability of private sugar mills and timely cane payment of State Agreed Price to the farmers for the crushing season 2021-22, the Cabinet approved the financial assistance at the rate of Rs35 per quintal. The amount will be deposited directly into the bank accounts of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-66-lakh-more-punjab-students-to-get-free-uniform-339017
17-11-2021||---||Merit, winnability must for ticket: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Chandigarh, November 16Asserting that sitting MLAs may not necessarily get a party ticket, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said winnability and merit would be the sole criteria for selection of candidates in the upcoming Assembly elections.Having withdrawn his resignation, Sidhu accompanied by CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary resumed work at the PCC office here. He said the charges of wrongdoing by certain MLAs would be verified before deciding on the ticket. Sidhu’s statement comes amid an ongoing survey by the All India Congress Committee on the popularity and winnability of candidates in all 117 Assembly segments. There are reports that seats of some of the MLAs could be changed.Asserting he had the mandate of the party high command to implement his Punjab model on the revival of state economy, Sidhu said the party would put up a united front and go full esteem in the campaign in the coming days.He said the list of district presidents and other office-bearers would be out in the next five to seven days and the party would enter the field with full strength.The PCC chief said he was not here just for politics but for making the lives of the people better and this could be achieved through better governance and revival of the economy. Pointing out that the next two months would set the roadmap for the government in 2022, he said: “What was not done in four and a half years is now being done in two months. Facts speak for themselves”.Reacting to a question on sand and gravel prices still being on a higher side, Sidhu said the only solution was making corporation to sell sand gravel. On the present situation of controlling the sand prices, he said changes could not be made overnight. “As the party president, I am answerable for party affairs, CM Channi can give the reply,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/merit-winnability-must-for-ticket-navjot-singh-sidhu-339018
17-11-2021||---||Kartarpur Corridor a gift for devotees: BJP||Chandigarh, November 16The state BJP unit today hailed the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor, saying it was a gift from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to the devotees of Guru Nanak Dev.National general secretary Tarun Chugh said it would provide an opportunity to the devotees to pay respects at the gurdwara, where Guru Nanak spent his last days.Chugh complimented the PM for respecting the sentiments of the devotees and said the interests of Punjab were safe in his hands. “It is a historic moment as the followers of Guru Nanak can go on a pilgrimage to the gurdwara,” he said.In a statement, BJP state president Ashwani Sharma said Guru Nanak’s Gurpurb would be celebrated with greater fervour.A delegation led by Sharma had called on the PM, President Ram Nath Kovind, Shah and BJP president JP Nadda in Delhi over the past two days seeking the reopening of the corridor.Now repeal farm laws, demands AAPThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday welcomed the decision of the Modi government to reopen the Kartarpur corridor. Kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan said now the Modi government should repeal the farm laws as well. Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha thanked the central government for the timely move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kartarpur-corridor-a-gift-for-devotees-bjp-339019
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Consider Punjab a security case for funds, says Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal||The Centre must consider Punjab as a security case and not an economic one while deciding on pushing growth and investment in states.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said this during a virtual meeting attended by the Chief Ministers and/ or Finance Ministers of all states and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last evening.Badal pleaded Punjab’s case vociferously, arguing that Punjab’s geography should not define its future, nor should the events of 1947, 1962, 1965, 1971 and “the decade-long period of terrorism”. “Punjab has suffered because of the incentives given to our neighbouring hill states since 2000 and had not been able to keep the growth pace with other states located next to the sea,” he contended, arguing that the Centre should immediately allot three major projects to the state — a farmers’ park, a textile park and a food park — to help the small and medium enterprises.Badal also sought the Centre’s help to switch from the expensive thermal-based power generation to either solar or gas-based power generation. “We want to retire our coal-fired stations so that power becomes cheap and we become a viable investment destination,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/consider-punjab-a-security-case-for-funds-says-finance-minister-manpreet-singh-badal-339020
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Defend quota rights of Valmikis: Capt Amarinder Singh to Punjab CM||Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today asked his successor Charanjit Singh Channi to defend the “reservation within the reservation” for the Valmikis and Mazhabi Sikhsduring direct recruitment in government jobs.The former CM said he had in 2006 ensured the passage of a legislation in the Vidhan Sabha to safeguard the reservation rights of the Valmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs, since they mostly remained left out from the benefit due to their extreme educational and economic backwardness.He said the Giani Zail Singh government in 1975 had reserved 50 per cent jobs within the reserved quota for the Valmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs.Capt Amarinder said the circular was struck down by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in July 25, 2006. His government took the legislative route to safeguard the reservation rights of the Valmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs. The matter is in the Supreme Court.He said he had learnt that some within the government were not keen to retain the “reservation within reservation” benefit for the Valmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs. Hence, the government was being advised not to pursue the case in the top court. — TNSTewari bats for Mazhabi SikhsAnandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari has written to CM Charanjit Singh Channi to continue supporting the state government’s stand since 1975 on offering 50% of the quota vacancies for the SCs to Valmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs.Don’t expect much from CM, says BSPCiting the row over the appointment of AG and DGP, state BSP chief Jasbir Singh Garhi said the community shouldn’t expect much from CM Chani who could not appoint officials of his choice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/defend-quota-rights-of-valmikis-capt-amarinder-singh-to-punjab-cm-339021
17-11-2021||Terming Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s “aam aadmi” outreach nothing more than “photo op” ahead of the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections||Channi weak CM, state needs visionary leader: Sukhbir Singh Badal||CM Channi seems to be preparing a roadmap for the state’s growth. Isn’t he proving to be an “aam aadmi” who understands the voters’ pulse?It’s all theatrics. What kind of an “aam aadmi” is he? He sleeps in an air-conditioned house and lives a life of luxury. I can say with full responsibility that he is one of the main faces behind the land mafia in the state. We have evidence to support Channi is the man behind a sizeable number of constructions in Kharar, Morinda and nearby areas. Ludhiana industrialists are being asked to pay up in the name of party funds, which are supposedly meant for the Congress high command in Delhi. A team of camerapersons accompanies him wherever he goes. The whole exercise is to project him as an “aam aadmi”. Only SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal can feel the pulse of the masses.The PPA story is another big fraud being played by the Congress government only to score political brownie points. The Assembly is not even authorised to withdraw these PPAs... If these were faulty, why didn’t the government register cases against those involved in the exercise, including officers?Not even a single bus we own is plying illegally. We have never defaulted on tax payment. There is a certain issue pending with the tax department over the payment during the pandemic period because our carrying capacity was halved and even work days got reduced.Don’t you think people can relate to a Chief Minister who is accessible?How do his acts translate into effective administration? His tall promises on giving jobs can’t happen without reforms. If by any remote chance Channi wins, he will simply say his government’s coffers are empty. He is just trying to cover up for the failures of the Congress government by blaming his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh. Were they not part of the same Cabinet? Where are the culprits involved in the illegal drug trade? Where is ‘ghar ghar naukri’? The party has simply changed the face of the leader to mislead people.Who do you think is your main opposition in Punjab?The public response that we have received so far has been encouraging. I have toured 55 of the total 117 constituencies and can say with confidence that people have understood that ours is the only party that can serve the interests of Punjab. The BJP has its control in Delhi, as was evident from the fact that despite facing farmers’ wrath during their outreach, state leaders didn’t speak up against the central leadership. The same way, the Congress is being remote-controlled by Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi from Delhi and the state AAP unit is being run by party national convener Arvind Kejriwal, also from Delhi, who wants to start his political innings at the national level from Punjab. Barring certain pockets, the Congress will be the main opposition that the SAD will face in the upcoming elections. Punjab needs a visionary leader, not a “dramebaaz”.Channi has blamed your government for the faulty power purchase agreements due to which people were forced to pay exorbitant charges.The PPA story is another big fraud being played by the Congress government only to score political brownie points. The Assembly is not even authorised to withdraw these PPAs. The agreements, in their current form, were initiated by the Manmohan Singh-led Congress government. If the state government was competent, it would have cancelled the PPAs by now. If the agreements were faulty, why didn’t the government register cases against those involved in the exercise, including officers?Only the Central Regulatory Commission can take a decision through the state electricity board.What is your stand on the farm laws? Did you have to cancel your 100-day outreach programme due to protests?The Congress was the one that introduced the farm laws. At the time, the BJP had opposed these. Now when the BJP brought in the laws, Congress leaders remained quiet. We broke our alliance with the BJP because we are with farmers. The protests at our rallies are being organised at the behest of political opponents who come in the garb of farmers.The government has decided to regulate sand prices. What do you have to say?Check the facts on the ground. Nowhere have the sand prices gone down. How can the prices drop when senior Congress leaders are knee-deep in the money-making swamp? A senior party leader whose name cropped up in connection with illegal sand mining had to quit Capt Amarinder’s Cabinet. He is back in the Channi Cabinet.The Advocate General appointed by the Channi government had to go and now the fate of the DGP hangs in the balance. What’s your take?The situation has arisen only because the state has a weak Chief Minister. He is running between the power centres in New Delhi and here to save his job. These are the traits of an obedient follower, not a good leader. The state needs a strong leader.Transport Minister Raja Warring has initiated action on illegal plying of buses. Some of these are owned by your family.The Congress and other parties suffer from ‘Badal phobia’. Not even a single bus we own is plying illegally. We have never defaulted on the tax payment. There is a certain issue pending with the tax department over the payment during the pandemic period because our carrying capacity was halved and even work days got reduced. Buses belonging to Congress leaders and supporters are not being touched. Why?What do you think of the government’s effort towards resolving the sacrilege issue?The Congress is not sincere at all. If it were so, the culprits would have been caught by now. The party is not interested in getting any justice done. It is using sacrilege as a tool to garner votes.Arvind Kejriwal has claimed AAP will deliver on its promises in Punjab.He lies big. He had said he would not enter politics, but became the CM. In Delhi, he says all the pollution comes from Punjab, but here he pretends to be a friend. Many of his own leaders say Kejriwal fancies being the CM of Punjab. Else, why doesn’t he name the CM face for Punjab?Who is the chief ministerial candidate of your party?You know the answer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-weak-cm-state-needs-visionary-leader-sukhbir-singh-badal-339022
17-11-2021||---||SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur to lead Sikh jatha to Kartarpur on Gurpurb||Amritsar, November 16The reopening of the Kartarpur corridor ahead of the 552nd Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev brought cheer to pilgrims who gathered to collect their passports at the SGPC office inside the Golden Temple complex.A 855-member jatha will cross over to Pakistan to pay their obeisance at the historic Sikh shrine. While Malerkotla’s Joginder Kaur welcomed the announcement, Sangrur’s Ranjit Kaur and Manjit Singh of Mehta village thanked the central government.Immediately after Union Home Minister Amit Shah announced the reopening of the corridor on Twitter, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, in a hurriedly convened press conference, said she would lead a jatha to the Kartarpur shrine on November 19. Its entire cost will be borne by the SGPC.Expressing gratitude to the Almighty, she thanked PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and External Affairs Minister Subramaniam Jaishankar. She recalled that the SGPC had written several times to the Centre, seeking the reopening of the corridor.The SGPC chief said she spoke to Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Amir Singh and former president Bishan Singh and they assured of making all arrangements for the jatha, which will include ragis and provisions for langar, by November 19.Move in line with people’s wishes: SADNawanshahr: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor was in line with the sentiments of the Sikh community and Guru Nanak Naam Lewa sangat worldwide. He said the SAD as well as the SGPC had constantly urged the Prime Minister to honour the sentiments of the Sikh community by reopening the corridor. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-chief-bibi-jagir-kaur-to-lead-sikh-jatha-to-kartarpur-on-gurpurb-339023
17-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Kartarpur Corridor: Online registration begins today||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak (Gurdaspur), November 16With the decks having been cleared for the reopening of the 4.6 km-long Kartarpur corridor, the online registration process will commence from Wednesday, while the first devotee will cross over two days later.The passage is being thrown open to the public after a 20-month hiatus, beginning from March 23 last year following the outbreak of Covid.The passage connects Dera Baba Nanak with the shrine in Pakistan. The reopening will coincide with the birth anniversary celebrations of the Guru Nanak Dev.The decision was welcomed by CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. The CM was at Dharowali, the native village of Randhawa, barely 10 km from the corridor, when he received the news.Teams of the Bureau of Immigration and the Customs department have already reached the Integrated Check Post (ICP). Hectic activity was seen today in and around the ICP, where all immigration and security activities take place before devotees are allowed access to the corridor. The decision comes nearly two years after the passage was dedicated to the public by PM Narendra Modi on November 19, 2019.The passage has been designed to enable 5,000 pilgrims to pass every day. However, this figure was never touched, let alone being surpassed following security restrictions. There were days when the figure dropped to just 90-100. The low turnout was attributed to the precondition that devotees should possess passports. Although a visa is not stamped on the passport, its details are uploaded onto the immigration software systems of both India and Pakistan.All conditions that were prevalent before March 23, 2020, remain in place. These include the requirement of a passport. The corridor’s security, like earlier, will be looked after by the BSF, Army, CISF and Batala police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kartarpur-corridor-online-registration-begins-today-339024
17-11-2021||---||Kartarpur Corridor: First jatha’s limit 50, including ministers||Gurdaspur/chandigarh, Nov 16Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi welcomed the Union Government’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur corridor even as he confirmed his entire Cabinet will pay obeisance at the shrine on Thursday as “thanksgiving to the Almighty”.It is learnt that the Centre has given the state government permission for 50 persons, including Cabinet ministers, for the first delegation. It is not clear whether Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu would be part of the first delegation.Capt Amarinder Singh, Ex-CMTimely move by central govtMy profound gratitude to PM Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for the timely opening of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor. It will provide a chance to thousands of devotees to pay obeisance at the holy shrine on Gurpurb.The Chief Minister was at Dharowali, the native village of Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, on the occasion of the death anniversary of his father Santokh Singh Randhawa, a former Cabinet minister and PCC president. Channi said he was indebted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah as “both went out of their way to get the project back on its legs”. “I had taken up the issue with the Prime Minister and Home Minister on many an occasion. Finally, my efforts have borne fruit today,” he added.Randhawa said during his last meeting with Shah, he had impressed upon him that the Sikh community would be indebted to him if he makes efforts to reopen the venture. He said: “At the time, Shah had given a positive signal. It is a moment of joy for the entire Sikh community that had been yearning for this auspicious day.”Randhawa said he knew it was a matter of time before the passage was thrown open because “attendance at all religious places was back to normal once the Covid scare had subsided”.Eager to visit shrine again Chandigarh: Welcoming the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor by the Union Government, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the issue was above politics. He wished the corridor of peace to the gurdwara remained open. He said he was eager to visit Kartarpur Sahib again and would apply soon. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kartarpur-corridor-first-jathas-limit-50-including-ministers-339025
17-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi joins villagers rescuing a cow from a pit while on way home, watch viral video||Chandigarh, November 16He calls himself a common man and does not refrain himself from doing simple tasks.In one such example, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi joined a group of men in rescue of a cow trapped in a pit late on Monday night, which has left the social media abuzz.It so happened that the Chief Minister was on his way home when he saw a group of people gathered on the road.[Live] On my way back to the residence, a cow had fallen in a pit. Efforts are being made for the rescuehttps://t.co/PoHDK1S8BuCurious, Channi got down from his vehicle to know what had happened. He saw a group of men trying to rescue the cow that had fallen into a deep pit.It was a difficult job and took a long time to pull out the bovine from the deep and narrow pit. However, the chief minister didn’t leave the site and was seen holding a torch as several men tied ropes around the animal to pull it out.Finally, the animal was safely rescued.The Chief Minsiter shared the rescue mission Live on his Twitter handle, and garnered a lot of praise.As he left, he also sought blessing from the animal. “You were saved,” Channi said while referring to the cow as ‘massi’, a Punjabi endearment for elderly women.The simplicity of the CM was much loved by people around him and got him a lot of praise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-joins-villagers-rescuing-a-cow-from-a-pit-while-on-way-home-watch-viral-video-338878
17-11-2021||---||Kartarpur Corridor reopens tomorrow, govt says 'reverence for Sikhs'||New Delhi, November 16Closed in March 2020 in the wake of the Covid pandemic, the Kartarpur Corridor linking Dera Baba Nanak in India’s Gurdaspur to Gurdwara Darbar Saheb in Narowal, Pakistan, will reopen for pilgrims on Wednesday.Union Home Minister Amit Shah made the announcement on Twitter on Tuesday saying, “In a major decision, that will benefit large numbers of Sikh pilgrims, PM Narendra Modi’s government has decided to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from tomorrow, November 17. This decision reflects the immense reverence of Modi govt towards Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji and our Sikh community.”The Home Minister said the nation is all set to celebrate the Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak on November 19.“I am sure that PM Modi government’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib corridor will further boost the joy and happiness across the country.”In a major decision, that will benefit large numbers of Sikh pilgrims, PM @Narendramodi govt has decided to re-open the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from tomorrow, Nov 17.This decision reflects the immense reverence of Modi govt towards Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji and our Sikh community.  Sources said the Prime Minister's Office was in touch with the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Home to finalise the modalities after serial representations to the government to reopen the corridor.The announcement of reopening follows three meetings of BJP leaders from Punjab, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir with President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister and home minister, seeking that the corridor be reopened.Welcome step …. The reopening of the Corridor of infinite possibilities … invaluable gift for Nanak naam levas … may the corridor of the Great Guru remain open eternally to shower blessings on one an all …. Sarbat da bhala pic.twitter.com/88Dw9o8nA9  The reopening comes at a time when daily Covid cases have been stabilising and active Covid cases are at a 10-month low.My profound gratitude to PM @narendramodi and HM @AmitShah for the timely opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. It will provide a chance to thousands of devotees to pay obeisance at the holy shrine on the occasion of Guru Purab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji.  The Home Ministry has, meanwhile, assessed the security scenario before giving the go-ahead to the corridor reopening.An agreement between India and Pakistan for the facilitation of pilgrims to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, Pakistan, was signed on October 24, 2019, in order to fulfil the long-standing demand of the pilgrims to have easy and smooth access to the holy gurdwara and to operationalise the corridor in time for the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.The Agreement provides for visa-free travel of Indian pilgrims as well as Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders, from India to the holy gurdwara in Pakistan on a daily basis, throughout the year. The corridor connects Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan with Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kartarpur-corridor-reopens-tomorrow-govt-says-reverence-for-sikhs-338865
17-11-2021||---||Income Tax dept raids premises of Ludhiana builders||Ludhiana, November 16The Income Tax department on Tuesday started early-morning raids on the premises of leading builders here.They include Manpreet Singh Ayali and owners of Sunview Enclave.I-T sleuths started the raids at around 6 am in the presence of police and army personnel at almost all premises of these builders.The raids are going on and the entire areas have been cordoned off; no-one is allowed to enter or exit the premises.Earlier, the I-T department had raided local cycle manufacturers and dried-fruit dealers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/income-tax-dept-raids-premises-of-ludhiana-builders-338847
17-11-2021||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court dismisses appeals against appointment of Punjab ex-DGP Dinkar Gupta||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 16The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed petitions challenging the Punjab and Haryana High Court's order of upholding the appointment of Dinkar Gupta as the then Director General of Police (DGP) of Punjab."Appeals are dismissed", pronounced a Bench led by Justice L Nageswara Rao while rejecting the petitions of IPS officers Mohammad Mustafa and Siddharth Chattopadhyay against Gupta's appointment as DGP.The Bench had on September 15 reserved its orders on the duo’s petition challenging the November 6, 2020 order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court that upheld the Punjab Government’s February 7, 2019 order appointing Gupta as Punjab DGP.Gupta – who was DGP (Intelligence) -- was appointed the Punjab DGP in 2019, superseding five senior officers, including Mustafa and Chattopadhyaya who belonged to the 1985 and 1986 batches, respectively.After the change of guard in Punjab in September, Gupta – a 1987-batch IPS officer – had proceeded on leave. Later, he was transferred as chairperson of Punjab Police Housing Corporation.The high court had allowed the Punjab government’s appeal against the January 17, 2020 order of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) that had set aside Gupta’s appointment as Punjab DGPThe CAT order had come on a plea by Mustafa and Chattopadhyaya who questioned Gupta's appointment on the grounds that they were ignored despite being senior to him.However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on November 6, 2020 held that the CAT "exceeded its power of judicial review by transgressing into the domain of law regarding judicial review of the decisions/recommendations of the Selection Committee," and went on to set aside CAT's order that had quashed Gupta’s  appointment as Punjab DGP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-dismisses-appeals-against-appointment-of-punjab-ex-dgp-dinkar-gupta-338843
