18-11-2021||Lahore/Kartarpur||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi, ministers visit Kartarpur gurdwara||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with about 30 people, including his Cabinet ministers, visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan using the visa-free Kartarpur corridor on Thursday on the second day of the reopening of the route which was suspended for some 20 months following the Covid outbreak.Evacuee Trust Property Board spokesperson Amir Hashmi said that another delegation of BJP leaders also visited the gurdwara."Indian Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with about 30 people, including his Cabinet ministers, visited Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, by using the Kartarpur Corridor," Hashmi told PTI.Kartarpur Corridor Project Management Unit chief executive officer Muhammad Latif, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee office- bearers and Gujranwala Commissioner greeted the Indian guests who arrived here a day before the annual commemoration of the birth of Guru Nanak.The first batch of 28 Indian Sikhs, including women, visited the gurdwara on Wednesday by using visa-free corridor on the first day of its reopening.Latif said that over 100 Indian pilgrims were expected to visit the historic gurdwara on Thursday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-ministers-visit-kartarpur-gurdwara-339783
18-11-2021||Dera Baba Nanak||Punjab BJP leaders leave for Kartarpur shrine in Pakistan||Several BJP leaders of Punjab on Thursday left for Gurdwara Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur in Pakistan through a visa-free corridor for offering prayers at the shrine dedicated to Guru Nanak.The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district.“A BJP delegation is going to pay obeisance at the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara,” Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma told reporters before moving towards the integrated check post.Sharma, who was sporting a turban, said they were thankful to the prime minister and the Union home minister for reopening the Kartarpur corridor to allow devotees to offer prayers ahead of the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.Among party leaders who were part of the BJP delegation included Jeevan Gupta, Subhash Sharma and KD Bhandari.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and ministers will also visit the shrine on Thursday.Twenty-eight devotees on Wednesday had visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan through the Kartarpur corridor.Security men have been deployed in strength in and around Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur on Thursday.The Centre reopened the Kartarpur corridor on Wednesday ahead of Gurpurab, which marks the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, on November 19.Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 due to the Covid pandemic. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-leaders-leave-for-kartarpur-shrine-in-pakistan-339766
18-11-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal’s programmes in Doaba getting marred by protests||Jalandhar, November 17If it were the farmers who tried to hinder the campaign of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal at Nawanshahr yesterday, today it were the Bahujan Samaj Party workers who led a protest ahead of his programme in Phillaur.Ever since Sukhbir has started campaigning, the farmers have been trying to gherao him at various locations. Last month, an angry protestor had even flung a slipper on his convoy, when he had come to pay obeisance at Devi Talab Mandir.Today’s protest by BSP workers was against the decision of giving Phillaur reserved seat to the SAD. The workers have been since long demanding that this seat should have been vested with the BSP, which was placed well here.The workers said they had decided to show black flags to Sukhbir and gherao BSP state president Jasvir S Garhi. Aware that the protestors would not let him pass, Garhi reportedly dropped his plan to join Sukhbir at the campaign programmes held in Phillaur constituency today.Yesterday during his campaign in Nawanshahr, Sukhbir had to face a volley of questions from the agitating farmers, who through the local administration had sought a public meeting with him at Chak Dana village.Farmers led by Kuldeep Singh Bajidpur, president, Doaba Kisan Union and member Samyukt Kisan Morcha, had readied a questionnaire of 18 posers for Sukhbir which he had to answer publicly standing in front of them for about 34 minutes with both sides given a microphone.Sukhbir arrived 1.5 hours late behind the scheduled time of 10.30 am, which had already led to more anger. He answered only seven of the 18 questions, cross-questioned them back to their disliking and left in between with the farmers raising slogans, announcing to block his passage during his events today and threatening that he will be gheraoed repeatedly at all his venues.The first question asked to him was as to why he was holding political events despite an assurance by his representatives that these would be kept on hold till the Assembly polls are announced. Sukhbir told them that the farmers were stopping his way only while not disturbing the events of Congress and AAP.“Why don’t you also gherao Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal also the way you do it with me? I am here to answer all your queries on your request. Why don’t you ask them also to reply the same way?” Sukhbir put his query back.The farmers got a bit annoyed saying: “You have been called here to answer to our questions and not counter-question us. Still we will like to tell you that we have been gheraoing only MPs. We did that with Manish Tewari earlier”.The next poser was as to why the SAD remained aligned with BJP for three months even as it knew that the Farm Ordinances were being brought in. Sukhbir replied saying, “We broke our old alliance. We left the Cabinet post just to stand with you”. The farmers said: “We do not want such statements that have been a part of your political speeches. We are not satisfied with your reply”. Questions were also asked on sacrilege issue to which Sukhbir confronted all allegations and left not answering the pending 11 questions.At this, the farmers blocked his way and his convoy had to take a longer detour from villages to reach his next spot at Rahon. The SAD President had held a number of programmes.Temple, market tour in Phillaur tooFollowing the same temple, market tour plan even at Phillaur on Wednesday, Badal also paid obeisance at various religious places including historical Hanuman Mandir, Vaishno Devi Temple, Bhagwan Valmiki Mandir, Shiv Mandir, Gurdwara Takhtgarh Sahib and Guru Ravidass Mandir in Phillaur. He also visited the renowned Burfi wala at Goraya and partook sweets there. Later in Phillaur market, he ate street food and also held a freewheeling discussion with the shopkeepers. Badal also paid floral tributes to social reformer and writer Shardha Ram Phillauri and Dr BR Ambedkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badals-programmes-in-doaba-getting-marred-by-protests-339443
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Make STF report on drugs public: Navjot Sidhu||A day after resuming his work as Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president, Navjot Singh Sidhu today yet again reminded Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government to make public the special task force (STF) report in the multi-crore drug case, while hitting out at former CM Capt Amarinder Singh for not being able to efficiently handle the drugs problem while at the helm.Catch big fishThe HC supplied a copy of the STF report on drugs to the government, but we have been sitting on it since February 2018… solution is to catch and punish the big fish. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefAs the government is all set to announce the new Advocate General (AG), the PCC chief, in a series of tweets, said: “It was promised to the people of Punjab in 2017, that we will break the backbone of drugs in four weeks but as per the National Crime Record Bureau Reports from 2017 to 2020, Punjab has continuously retained the top position in the crime rate under the NDPS Act.” Pointing fingers at his own government, Sidhu tweeted: “We have been accused of carrying forward the inglorious legacy of Akalis by waging a sham war on drugs.”Citing the case involving the recovery of 12 lakh Tramadol tablets, which was transferred to the CBI, he quoted the High Court as saying “Punjab State Functionaries for the reason best known to them are intentionally protecting the drug offenders”.Sidhu said: “The High Court supplied a copy of the STF report on drugs to the government but instead of proceeding as per law, we have sitting on it since February 2018. Even we have failed to extradite the other accused in the case.” The report should be immediately made public, an FIR be registered on its basis and a time-bound investigation be initiated to catch the big fish responsible for narco-terrorism, he tweeted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/make-stf-report-on-drugs-public-navjot-sidhu-339480
18-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Corridor reopens, 70 devotees reach Kartarpur Sahib on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak(Gurdaspur), November 17As the Kartarpur corridor reopened on Wednesday, 70 devotees crossed over the border to pay obeisance at the historic shrine in Pakistan on the first day.Covid protocol mandatory for pilgrimsAAP leaders to pay obeisance tomorrowChandigarh: Expressing happiness over the reopening of the corridor, AAP said party MLAs led by state chief and MP Bhagwant Mann would pay obeisance at the Pak shrine on Friday. Mann said, “On Gurpurb, prayers will be offered for the progress, prosperity and happiness of Punjab.” TNSAn official confirmed that these were the pilgrims who had booked their visit on the online portal before the passage was shut following the Covid outbreak. On Thursday, members of the state Cabinet, led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, will visit the shrine. The CM’s entourage will be assembling at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) around 11 am. Some MLAs arealso expected to accompany the Cabinet.Meanwhile, heavy footfall is expected on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, which will be celebrated on Friday.On Wednesday, unprecedented security arrangements were put in place by the BSF along with the Army and the Batala police. Intelligence Bureau officials have also been placed at the strategic points.Talking about the guidelines for the pilgrims, an ICP official said: “Temperature check will be conducted at the check post itself. We are awaiting further instructions from the authorities concerned in New Delhi on any other Covid protocol to be followed.”Meanwhile, officials of the Land Ports Authority of India, the central agency instrumental in constructing the 4.6-km-long passage, were also present even as the BSF officers held regular meetings with the Pakistan Rangers at the Zero Line.Also, broadcasting vans of various media houses weren’t being allowed to go near the ICP. The devotees will have to be back in the ICP before sunset.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/corridor-reopens-70-devotees-reach-kartarpur-sahib-on-day-1-339481
18-11-2021||Amritsar||Over 2.4K Sikh pilgrims crossed over to Pakistan from Attari||A jatha of 2,464 Sikh pilgrims crossed over to Pakistan at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post here today to celebrate the Gurpurb of Guru Nanak Dev, which falls on Friday.They have been issued a 10-day-long visa.Bhagwant Singh Sialka, general secretary of the Shiromani Committee, said of the 1,046 applications submitted at the Pakistan High Commission, 191 were rejected. He requested the Pakistan Government to grant visas liberally.Sialka presented ‘siropas’ to senior members of the jatha and their leader Rampal Singh, an SGPC member.During their pilgrimage, the devotees will visit various historic shrines in Pakistan. They will return home on November 26. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2-4k-sikh-pilgrims-crossed-over-to-pakistan-from-attari-339482
18-11-2021||Aman Sood||Harvest almost over, but Punjab air still polluted||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 17Over Rs 1,000 crore, a majority of these being central funds, spent by various government departments in Punjab have gone down the drain as farm fires continue to pollute the air. Despite the harvest season almost over, a majority of the cities have been breathing poor quality air owing to rising smoke from the burnt paddy stubble.With around 70,000 incidents and still counting, Punjab is witnessing the 2019 scenario when farm fires choked many districts of the state, causing breathlessness and smoggy conditions. More than 5,000 farm fires were witnessed in the past three days, with Sangrur district accounting for the most of the incidents. However, only 523 far fires reported on Wednesday hinted that the season is almost over.Experts claim that while the state government had so far imposed an environmental compensation of Rs 2.50 crore on the erring farmers, nothing concrete had been done to check the menace. Though the number of farm fires this year so far is less than last year, it has crossed the 2019 figures. As per the data, Punjab had seen 76,590 farm fires in 2020 and 52,991 in 2019.Meanwhile, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) said despite the rising incidents, the area under farm fires had shrunk this season, which was a silver lining. “The data collected by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre showed the burnt area to be 10.34 lakh hectare till November 10 as compared to 15.21 lakh hectare in the 2020 season. While in 2019, this area was 17.40 lakh hectare,” said Karunesh Garg PPCB member secretary.Moreover, a senior official, earlier monitoring farm fires, said: “Despite hundreds of crores spent on spreading awareness and machinery and over 10,000 officials wasting time visiting fields, there was no respite from farm fires. It shows there is an ample scope for improvement.”As a result, people in a majority of villages and cities continue to breathe poor quality air, with certain pockets also having “very poor” AQI.Farmers, especially small and marginal ones, however, say it is not feasible for them to purchase the machinery for the management of the crop residue.“Senior officials of the police and the Agriculture Department say following the lack of political will, they usually do not act against such farmers as it can backfire when the local MLA backs them. With the polls approaching, not many officials are willing to act sternly against the erring farmers,” said a senior bureaucrat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harvest-almost-over-but-punjab-air-still-polluted-339483
18-11-2021||---||Two shot dead, one hurt in Patti over ‘drug trade’ rivalry||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, November 17A conflict between two groups claimed the lives of two youths in a firing incident in Patti town on Wednesday. Another person was was injured in the incident that took place on the Sarhali road.How it unfoldedSources said both groups were part of “drug trade”, which led to the enmity.The deceased have been identified as Jagdeep Singh (22) of Patti town and Anmol Singh Maula (21) of Burj-Ra-Ke village.The injured, Gursewak Singh of Pringri, has been admitted to a private hospital in Amritsar.The sources said bike-borne assailants of a group called members of the other group on the site, where they indulged in a verbal spat. Later, they opened fire on them. While two of them sustained fatal bullet injuries on their chest, Gursewak, who tried to flee, was shot at his back.Senior Superintendent of Police Harwinder Singh Virk, along with other senior police officers, rushed to the spot. The police said they were checking CCTV footage to identify the assailants.The Patti city police have registered a case under Sections 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-shot-dead-one-hurt-in-patti-over-drug-trade-rivalry-339484
18-11-2021||---||Alleging a plot, Bikram Majithia moves HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17Adding a twist to the ongoing drug menace case, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court claiming that a “definite, malicious and malafide agenda” was being pursued by his political opponents to target him.Names Dy CM, SidhuSukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Navjot Singh Sidhu have been demonstrating intense hatred for the applicant, who is their political rival. Bikram Majithia, SAD LeaderHe specifically named Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in his plea. In his 124-page application for being arrayed as a respondent, Majithia claimed an impression was being given time and again that he had been “insulated from a just investigation process, which was contrary to the truth”.In his petition filed through senior counsel RS Cheema with Arshdeep Singh Cheema, Majithia added the applications were filed at different points in time with the extraneous motive of gaining political advantage in the electoral arena and with the objective of tarnishing his image. “Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister, and Navjot Singh Sidhu, president, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, have been demonstrating intense hatred for the applicant, who is their political rival, being one of the leaders of the SAD,” he said.Majithia said a report filed by STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in a sealed cover was perused and re-sealed by the Bench, but it was deliberately leaked and handed over to the PCC president. The application is expected to come up for hearing with the main case on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/alleging-a-plot-bikram-majithia-moves-hc-339485
18-11-2021||---||Sidhu-pick DS Patwalia frontrunner forPunjab AG post||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17A day after the Punjab Cabinet authorised CM Charanjit Singh Channi to select the new Advocate General (AG), the party leadership is learnt to have taken PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on board over the matter.As the party wants the PCC president to focus on the 2022 Assembly elections, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary and CM Channi have reportedly informed Sidhu about the new AG.The CM is learnt to have cleared the file for appointment of the new AG on Wednesday before sending to the Governor for approval.Though there is no formal announcement on the name of AG, It is learnt from the reliable sources that the name of DS Patwalia had been approved. The PCC chief had been pushing for the name of Patwalia, before APS Deol was announced. However, Deol resigned after Sidhu’s exerted pressure on the government.“If Patwalia is appointed AG, it means PCC president has his way,” said a party leader. Others in the AG race are Anmol Rattan Sidhu, Sanjay Kaushal and Anu Chatrath.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-pick-ds-patwalia-frontrunner-forpunjab-ag-post-339486
18-11-2021||Bathinda||Ahead of Punjab Assembly elections, Dera Sacha Sauda gets active||Dera Sacha Sauda has again become active ahead of the Assembly elections with congregations of followers at several places in the state.Show of strength by followersOne such assembly was held its state headquarters at Salabatpura in Bathinda on Sunday. Dera functionaries, however, said the large gathering had nothing to do with the elections, claiming that the followers had assembled to celebrate the birthday of Shah Mastana Ji Maharaj, the dera founder. Addressing followers, dera spokesman Harcharan Singh called upon them to remain united.Harcharan Singh denied any connection between the large congregations and the Assembly elections. However, he said dera followers were angry over a conspiracy against dera head to involve him in a sacrilege case.It is learnt that the dera’s political wing is assessing the ground situation at all places and according to the response, they would announce further plans. Besides Salabatpura, congregations were held at Ferozepur and Patiala. This for the first time the dera held such gatherings in the state after its head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was convicted in rape cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-punjab-assembly-elections-dera-sacha-sauda-gets-active-339487
18-11-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar: Best time to sow wheat ends  but DAP shortage persists||The optimum time to sow wheat ended on Tuesday, but the shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser in Muktsar district continues. The sowing season starts from November 1 and lasts till December 10, but the best time is considered till November 15. Against the total required of 31,350 MT of DAP, just 17,631 MT has arrived in the district till today, which means there is a shortage of 44 per cent. In such a situation, a maximum of five bags of DAP, weighing 50 kg each, are being given to a farmer.Gurpreet Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Muktsar, said, “The temperature is still favourable for wheat sowing. The Agriculture Minister today held an online meeting with all Chief Agriculture Officers and assured that the fresh stock of DAP will be arranged soon.”He added, “The DAP required for October and November is 26,640 MT.” On alternative to DAP, he said single super phosphate (SSP) and nitrogen phosphorus potassium (NPK) mixture too could be used.Meanwhile, long queues of farmers were witnessed at the IFFCO centre in Malout town. “As the fresh stock of DAP was expected to arrive today, farmers had started reaching the IFFCO centre last night. They spent all night in open. The government should arrange DAP at the earliest,” said Ravneet Brar, spokesperson, BKU (Kadian). “We need 55 kg of DAP an acre. However, we are getting almost nothing and that too after standing in long queues,” said Gurjant Singh, farmer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-best-time-to-sow-wheat-ends-but-dap-shortage-persists-339488
18-11-2021||Abohar||30 AAP activists quit in Balluana||As many as 30 office bearers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Balluana (reserved) constituency announced to quit the office in protest of removal of the block president, who has been replaced by a turncoat who had quit Congress sometime back.Baldev Singh, who led the revolt, said AAP Balluana halqa incharge Goldy Musafir, son of retired District Education Officer Gurcharan Singh Musafir, had been involved in anti-party activities since the beginning. “Due to this, he removed Beant Singh, head of the Wahabwala block, without any reason and appointed Angrej Singh, an ex-Congressman in his place. A halqa incharge does not has the powers to remove any official. Beant Singh had worked hard for the party,” he said. The protesters have sent their resignations to the Chandigarh office. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/30-aap-activists-quit-in-balluana-339489
18-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala Mayor issue: Rebel councillors to meet Brahm Mohindra today||The matter of Patiala city mayorship will be discussed at a meeting at Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra’s Chandigarh residence on Thursday. The party high command will hear out councillors who “want a change in city leadership”.The unrest as regards the mayor’s removal, wherein 42 councillors have submitted a letter demanding the same, may come to rest.Mohindra said, “I conveyed councillors’ sentiments to the party high command and the CM yesterday. They said they would look into the matter. The councillors then expressed a wish to meet them. Therefore, they have been invited to a meeting in Chandigarh tomorrow. A decision may be taken at the meeting.”Sources in the party said most “rebellious” councillors would attend the meeting. “If all don’t make it to the meeting, we have their signatures and we will pursue the matter accordingly,” they said. Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma has not been invited. “I have been busy looking after development works in Patiala. I am unaware of any meeting in Chandigarh,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-mayor-issue-rebel-councillors-to-meet-brahm-mohindra-today-339490
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chief administrator gets CLU power||With an aim to simplify the process, the state government has extended the power of change of land use (CLU) for residential and industrial colonies of all types up to 25 acres and commercial colonies up to 5 acres to chief administrator (CA).Housing Development Minister Sukhbinder Sarkaria said the government had accorded the power to grant CLU under Section 81 of The Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act, 1995, and Licence (under Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995) for residential or industrial colonies of all types up to 25 acres and commercial ones up to 5 acres to the CA.However, the case would be scrutinised and signed jointly by the DTP and the ACA/ADC (Urban Development) where authority offices didn’t exist, before being put up to the CA, he added. The decision will proved helpful for majority of developers to get licenses at local level in their districts.Sarkaria said all ADCs would exercise the regulatory powers in their respective districts. Where development authority offices are situated, ACAs posted would also exercise the same powers. He said the power to regularise illegal colonics also be granted to ACA/ADC where authority offices didn’t exist, in consultation with the DTP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-administrator-gets-clu-power-339491
18-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Owner to get back land if compensation for acquisition not paid in 30 days: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that landowners appearing before it would be entitled to take back the possession of their land if the compensation for acquisition was not paid to them within a month.Gives last chance to stateIf the state fails to pay the amount assessed by the Land Acquisition Collector, the court is compelled to issue such directions. As a last opportunity, the state has been granted a period of 30 days to pay the amount. — Justice Anil Kshetarpal, High CourtThe direction came after Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the High Court described as shocking the fact that the amount assessed by the Land AcquisitionCollector in 2017 had not been paid and the owners, who were “deprived of their precious land”, were being made to run from pillar to post.The matter was brought to Justice Kshetarpal’s notice after a petition was filed by Rishpal Singh and other petitioners against the state and other respondents. Taking on record an affidavit filedby an executive engineer of Muktsar, Justice Kshetarpal asserted it was not in dispute that the acquired land’s possession was taken away by the respondent without the payment of complete compensation. In fact, it was stated that 52 per cent of the compensation amount had not been paid as it had not been released by the state government.Referring to the scheme of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, Justice Kshetarpal added the Land Acquisition Collector was required to tender the amount at the time of award announcement. The stand of the respondents that the petitioners would be paid as and when the amount was released was not in accordance of the scheme of the Act. Justice Kshetarpal ruled that the remaining amount of compensation had been wrongly withheld by the authorities.Disposing of the writ petition, he directed the Land Acquisition Collector to release the payment to the petitioners, if there was no dispute, within a month, failing which the petitioners would be entitled to take back possession of their land.“This court is conscious of the fact that such a step may cause inconvenience to the public, however, the petitioners, who have been deprived of their property, are required to be adequately compensated,” Justice Kshetarpal stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/owner-to-get-back-land-if-compensation-for-acquisition-not-paid-in-30-days-hc-339492
18-11-2021||Bathinda||NHM staff go on strike in Bathinda, demand regular jobs||Members of the NHM Joint Front Punjab started a pen-down strike for an indefinite period and sat on a dharna outside the Civil Surgeon’s office at Bathinda Civil Hospital.Contractual workers rued that despite rendering services in the Health Department for the past over 10 to 15 years, they were not considered for regularisation of services under the Punjab Ad-hoc, Contractual, Daily wages and Outsourced Employees’ Welfare Act by the state government.The staff members working under various programmes such as the Revised National TB Control Programme, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram, National Health Mission (NHM) and Integrated Child Development Services also participated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhm-staff-go-on-strike-in-bathinda-demand-regular-jobs-339493
18-11-2021||---||CBI questions Dasuya driver in porn case||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, November 17A special CBI team raided a house at Dasuya’s Kasba Mohalla to probe a case registered in Delhi regarding child pornography. During this, a 38-year-old driver, who was made a co-accused in the case, was questioned.After hours of interrogation, though he was not arrested, the CBI team took away his mobile phone. He has been asked to appear at the CBI headquarters in Delhi on Thursday to get his statement recorded. Bharat Bhushan works as a driver with a famous ‘halwai’ of Dasuya.He told The Tribune that the CBI team questioned him regarding child pornography and his mobile phone was searched, in which such videos were found in some WhatsApp groups. The CBI team questioned him about those groups and their admins but he claimed that did not know anyone.He said he had seen the videos sent on the groups but didn’t know the people making or sharing them. He claimed someone had added him to a group in which many such videos were shared. Later, his number was added to many such groups. He said he was added to 131 such groups. When asked why he did not leave the groups, he claimed he did not know how to do so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbi-questions-dasuya-driver-in-porn-case-339494
18-11-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Child pornography case: Couple’s phones seized in Amargarh||As part of the crackdown on an online child pornography racket, CBI sleuths seized the mobile phones of a couple at Bhaini Khurd village in Amargarh subdivision near here, during a raid conducted on Tuesday night.The suspects have been identified as Rakesh Kumar, an employee of a Ratolan-based factory, and his wife. They have been summoned to the CBI office in Delhi to join further investigations.No criminal case has been registered at the Amargarh police station yet. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/child-pornography-case-couples-phones-seized-in-amargarh-339495
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Clear air on Navjot Singh Sidhu’s queries at open forum: AAP||Senior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema has termed the daily announcements made by the Channi government as an election stunt. He challenged the government to answer the questions of Congress state president Navjot Singh Sidhu in an open forum.Cheema said, “When the government announces any public welfare work, AAP welcomes it but Sidhu is calling them a hoax. Therefore, every citizen fears whether these are the works of the government or just misleading announcements.” He said even today it was doubtful that Channi was fooling the people by making mere announcements like his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clear-air-on-navjot-singh-sidhus-queries-at-open-forum-aap-339497
18-11-2021||Ferozepur||Under mounting debt, Ferozepur farmer ends life||A debt-ridden farmer, identified as Sukhdev Singh (58), allegedly ended his life by consuming poison, in Saner village of Zira sub-division of the district.As per information, the deceased had five acres of agricultural land and he had a debt of over Rs 7 lakh towards banks and commission agents which he was unable to pay.Sukhdev was an active member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Qadian) and had also gone to the Singhu border to participate in the ongoing agitation against the agricultural laws.He is survived by his wife, a son and two daughters. Expressing grief on the tragic incident, BKU (Qadian) block president Sukhdev Singh Aulakh, Saner sarpanch Angrej Singh urged the government to come to rescue of the aggrieved family members. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/under-mounting-debt-ferozepur-farmer-ends-life-339498
18-11-2021||---||NIA chargesheets  7 KTF operatives||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 17The National Investigation Agency (NIA) today filed a chargesheet against seven alleged Khalistani terrorists in a special court here for being involved in extortion from businessmen in Punjab.The suspects have been identified as Lovepreet Singh, Kamaljeet Sharma and Arshdeep Singh from Moga; Ram Singh from Ferozepur; Gagandeep Singh and Mohammad Asif Ali from Meerut; and Hardeep Singh Nijjar from Jalandhar. Arshdeep Singh and Hardeep Singh Nijjar are said to be in Canada now.The chargesheet has been filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, NDPS Act and the Arms Act. Charges have been abated against one suspect (Pankaj Kumar) as he has already died.In May, an FIR was registered after the police received information that Arshdeep Singh and Ramandeep Singh were extorting money from Punjab-based businessmen from abroad, sources said.The case was handed over to the NIA in June which concluded that Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) head Hardeep Singh Nijjar and his accomplice Arshdeep Singh were plotting kidnappings and elimination of persons of other faiths to disturb communal harmony in Punjab.Arshdeep was stated to be actively involved in coordinating with the terror suspects, procuring weapons and assigning targets, NIA officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-chargesheets-7-ktf-operatives-339500
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Language officers deputed in 15 Punjab districts||The government has deputed language officers in 15 districts. Higher Education and Language Minister Pargat Singh distributed station allotment letters to these officers at the Punjab Civil Secretariat here on Wednesday.Pargat said the government was committed to implementing the State Language Act, for which it was first necessary to depute these officers. He said there was vacancies of the officers for the past 25 years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/language-officers-deputed-in-15-punjab-districts-339501
18-11-2021||---||Govt to set up film city on 400 acres: Punjab CM||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, November 17Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said the state government would set up a film city on 400 acres near Mukaronpur village to promote the state’s culture. It will ensure a safe, secure and exclusive workplace for producers and artistes, he said.He was address a gathering after laying the foundation stone of Punjab Film City, being set up by PFC Entertainment World Private Limited executive director Iqbal Singh Cheema.He said Punjabi films were more successful than other language films and Punjabi songs were liked across the world. He called upon script writers and songwriters to not promote vulgarity and anti-social activities.He said Punjabis had succeeded wherever they had gone and hoped that they would dominate in the film industry too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-to-set-up-film-city-on-400-acres-punjab-cm-339502
18-11-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Honey trap gang busted, 3 held||The Sriganganagar police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a honey trap gang with the arrest of three women. Two men are still absconding. A case was registered late last night on the complaint lodged by two persons. The police conducted raids early this morning and arrested three women who work as helpers in Anganwadi centres. The gang allegedly made obscene videos of the complainants and demanded Rs 5 lakh. A woman also got Rs 1 lakh deposited online in her bank account.Anand Sharma, SP, said Veerpal Kaur (40) of Daulatpura village near the Indo-Pak border, Kesar Devi Meghwal (36) and Harjit Kaur (38) of Sangatpura had been arrested. Harjit lives in a rented house in Sriganganagar, which was allegedly used to honeytrap Jitender Singh of Hanumangarh and Ajay Arora. Jitender said Veerpal was his old acquaintance. She allegedly called him many times saying she had a problem to share with him. When he and his friend went to meet her, the group forcibly removed their clothes and made obscene videos. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/honey-trap-gang-busted-3-held-339503
18-11-2021||Bathinda||Class IV workers stage protest||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/class-iv-workers-stage-protest-339504
18-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||But for one, Punjab CM Channi accepts farmers’ demands||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today held meetings with the leaders of 32 farmers’ unions and the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and acceded to a majority of their demands (barring the agri-loan waiver).The key demands accepted by the CM included cancellation of FIRs against farmers for stubble burning and protesting against farm laws, enhancing the compensation for pink bollworm-hit cotton growers, expediting payment to paddy growers whose land records have not been uploaded online and granting jobs to the heirs of farmers who died during the ongoing agitation.“We have agreed to their demands. They were fully satisfied… I even thanked them for waging such a long struggle for the sake of Punjab’s future,” the CM said. With this, Channi seems to have staked his claim as a leader of the farmers—one of the biggest vote banks in the state.By categorically stating that his government was even willing to resign to support farmers against farm laws, Channi has tried to woo and wean them away from gravitating towards his predecessor, Capt Amarinder Singh.Interestingly, after some union leaders felt slighted at being pushed around by the CM’s security before the start of their meeting, not only Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha, but the CM also went out and apologised to them.Later, when union leaders were asked whether Capt Amarinder Singh was trying to resolve their issue, they said, “We won’t let anyone from outside take credit.”Leaders of all these unions led by Balbir Singh Rajewal and Buta Singh Burzgill said they were satisfied with the favourable response they got from the CM.“We had demanded a compensation of Rs 40,000 per acre for the pink bollworm-hit farmers, the CM enhanced it from Rs 12,000 to Rs 17,000 per acre. He agreed to withdraw all FIRs registered against farmers. He has also agreed to increase compensation for land acquisition; giving farmers Rs 360 per quintal for cane… He assured of ending DAP shortage and granting jobs to kin of all protesters who died during the farm struggle,” they said. Burzgill said the only pending issue was that of loan waiver, which the Congress had promised before the last elections. “The issue will be discussed with the CM at the next meeting,” he said.Sukhbir: Congress misleading unionsSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to tell farmers why the Congress party had hoodwinked them for the last nearly five years of its rule if it did not have any intention to waive their loans as promised during the last Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/but-for-one-punjab-cm-channi-accepts-farmers-demands-339384
18-11-2021||---||Punjab Transport Dept cancels 125 bus permits, including 31 of Badals’ firms||Chandigarh, November 17The Transport Department has cancelled 125 bus permits, including 31 owned by former Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal and his family members, for evasion of taxes.Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring said the action was taken following non-payment of taxes and alleged attempts to hoodwink the system to inflict loss to the exchequer.The action has been taken under Section 103 of the Motor Vehicles Act.Warring asked the department to pace up vigil against any attempt to fleece the exchequer. Nobody found involved in any wrongdoing would be spared, he said.Thirty integral coach permits belonging to Badals-run Orbit Aviation Private Limited, besides one owned by New Fateh Travels have been cancelled the by the Bhatinda RTA authorities.Sixteen ordinary permits of Mandeep Travels have also been cancelled. Tax liability is pending against New Fateh Bus Service since January, while Orbit Aviation Private Limited has been acted against for delay in depositing tax from March to October.The RTA, Faridkot, has cancelled 73 ordinary bus permits of New Deep Bus Service, in addition to their three integral coach permits in connection with tax dues of Rs 2.62 crore. Two ordinary bus permits of Malwa Bus Service have also been cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-transport-dept-cancels-125-bus-permits-including-31-of-badals-firms-339360
18-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Watch Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra dance with other athletes at NIS-Patiala||Chandigarh, November 17Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra has said there are no shortcuts to success in life.Neeraj was at the NIS, Patiala, where he elaborated on how he began his journey to success from the institute. He said it took him 10 to 11 years to reach where he is today. He said that he came to the NIS in 2015 and it was here that he got the right direction to achieve his goal. He was imparted right coaching and was told about the right diet to be taken.  Neeraj said it is only with hard work and perseverance that one can achieve success.The javelin thrower, who won a gold medal for the country at the Tokyo Olympics and was awarded the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna, was warmly welcomed at the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Sports Institute in Patiala. A large number of other sports personalities were also present on the occasion, including Kamaljit Kaur.He said that he will continue to do his best to make the country proud all over the world. Neeraj also appealed to the youth to get involved in sports, and stay away from drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-olympic-gold-medallist-neeraj-chopra-dance-with-other-athletes-at-nis-patiala-339351
18-11-2021||Lahore||28 Indian Sikh pilgrims arrive in Pakistan via Kartarpur Corridor on 1st day of its reopening||The first batch of 28 Indian Sikhs, including women, arrived at the revered Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan on Wednesday by using visa-free corridor, some 20 months after the pilgrimage was suspended in March 2020 following the Covid-19 outbreak.Similarly, over 2,500 Indian Sikhs arrived in Pakistan via Wagah border crossing to take part in the annual commemoration of the birth of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev.“As many as 28 India Sikhs including women visited the Kartarpur Sahib on the first day (Wednesday) after the Indian government reopened the corridor,” Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) spokesperson Amir Hashmi told PTI. The ETPB looks after the holy places of minorities in Pakistan.Hashmi said that Kartarpur Corridor chief executive officer (CEO) Muhammad Latif, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) Pardhan (president) Sardar Ameer Singh and Dr Mampaal Singh greeted the Indian pilgrims at the Sikh shrine.The pilgrims spent several hours at the gurdwara and offered religious rituals before crossing back to their homeland, he added.The corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, where Guru Nanak Dev lived and died at the start of the 16th century, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district. The 4 km-long corridor provides visa free access to Indian pilgrims to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib.Separately, over 2,500 Indian Sikhs entered Pakistan via Wagah border crossing by foot.“The yatris had been queued since 6am Wednesday. Immigration and vaccine and other Covid related tests made the process slow, causing a great deal of inconvenience for the pilgrims,” an official told PTI.He added that unlike the past practice, the yatrees would come here by foot instead of train. “This time they came by foot and that made the whole immigration process lengthy,” he said. When asked about the exact number of Indian Sikhs who arrived via Wagah border crossing, Hashmi said, “Pakistan had issued 2,890 visas to Indian Sikhs for this occasion and so far over 2,500 have arrived. Hopefully by late in the evening all those issued the visas will reach here.”At Wagah, ETPB chairman Dr Aamer Ahmed, senior board members and PSGPC officials received the Indian pilgrims. Almost all yatrees entered Wagah bare feet in respect of their spiritual leader Guru Nanak Dev.Talking to reporters at Wagah, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Delhi leader Sardar Balwinder Singh said that Sikhs are very happy after the reopening of the Kartarpur Corridor. He also expressed satisfaction over the upkeep of the Sikh holy places in Pakistan.Dr Ahmed said the ETPB welcomes the Sikhs all over the world and it will try its best to provide them with best facilities during their stay in Pakistan.He said the main event in connection with the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak will be held at Gurdwara Janamasthan Nankana Sahib on Friday. All visiting yatrees will be taken to the Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib during their 10-day stay. In November 2019, Prime Minister Minister Imran Khan had formally inaugurated the Kartarpur Corridor as part of commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak at a colourful ceremony, paving the way for Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit one of their religion’s holiest sites in Pakistan without needing a visa. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/28-indian-sikh-pilgrims-arrive-in-pakistan-via-kartarpur-corridor-on-1st-day-of-its-reopening-339340
