19-11-2021||Lahore||Over 240 Sikhs from India visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan||Over 240 Sikh pilgrims from India visited the revered Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan using the visa-free Kartarpur Corridor on Friday to take part in the main ceremony in connection with the 552nd birth anniversary celebrations of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev.The pilgrims used the Kartarpur Corridor on the third day of the reopening of the route which was suspended for some 20 months following the Covid-19 outbreak.The main ceremony in connection with the 552nd birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev was held at Gurdwara Janaasthan Nankana Sahib, some 80 km from Lahore, on Friday.Over 2,500 Sikhs from India, who arrived here through the Wagah border, and a large number of local pilgrims participated in the ceremony.Celebrations also included the ‘Nagar Kirtan’ procession and a ‘Palki’ procession was taken out from Janamasthan which was moved to the other eight gurdwaras in Nankana Sahib.Pakistan’s Federal Minister for Religious Affairs and Interfaith Harmony Pir Noorul Haq Qadri was the chief guest at the ceremony in Nankana Sahib.Langar (community feast) was arranged for all pilgrims as dozens of Sikh women chopped vegetables, kneaded flour, and made bread in the gurdwara kitchens. Kar Seva is considered a religious duty in the Sikh faith.At Kartarpur, Bibi Jagir Kaur, president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), along with a delegation visited the temple.“A total of 242 Indians, including deputy chief minister of Punjab and Jagir Kaur, visited Kartarpur Sahab today,” Kartarpur Corridor Project Management Unit chief executive officer Muhammad Latif told PTI.They performed religious rituals. On Thursday, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with 37 people including his Cabinet ministers, visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib.Opposition Pakistan People’s Party chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari said in a statement that it was the late Benazir Bhutto who had first given the proposal of building a visa-free Kartarpur Corridor.“Today we need more interfaith harmony,” Bilawal said and welcomed Sikhs in Pakistan on this occasion.“Wishing 552nd Guru Nanak Dev Ji Jayanti to all Sikhs around the world. On this auspicious occasion, we welcome thousands of Sikhs to visit their religious sites in Pakistan. I reiterate my govt’s commitment to continue facilitating them to perform their religious rituals,” Prime Minister Imran Khan said in a tweet.The over four-kilometer-long Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur, the final resting place of Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district.Pilgrimage to the gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.The Indian government reopened the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from its side on Wednesday.In November 2019, Prime Minister Imran Khan had formally inaugurated the Kartarpur Corridor as part of the commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak at a colourful ceremony, paving the way for Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit one of their religion’s holiest sites in Pakistan without needing a visa. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-240-sikhs-from-india-visit-gurdwara-darbar-sahib-in-pakistan-340277
19-11-2021||Amritsar||AT Jathedar, SGPC Chief welcome Centre’s decision to repeal farm laws, say Centre feared communal disharmony in Punjab||Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said the central government had rolled back the three controversial laws fearing “communal disharmony”. “Majority of the protesters were Sikhs as their sentiments were hurt with the passage of laws. He said we were concerned of worsening communal harmony with the prolonging of the agitation,”  Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said.He said it was a pity that people with vested interests tried to pitch the protest as a battle of sorts between Sikhs and the central government, and Sikhs and Hindus.We wish to maintain harmonious relations between Sikh and Hindu communities in the present and the future,” he said. “For this gesture, I heartily thank Prime Minister Sahib and his cabinet.”It said it even more joyous that the decision came on Gurpurab.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the prolonged struggle claimed several lives and had an effect on communal relations in the state.Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik said Prime minister Narendra Modi showed how much the part valued Sikhs. “The Congress party has always been an enemy to the Sikh community and orchestrated violence against them in 1984. Anti-India elements tried to sneak in the agitation to defame it even then PM Modi kept standing with farmers and their leaders,” he claimed.  He said he couldn’t rule out a future alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal.Meanwhile, Congress Member of Parliament led Congress celebrations in Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-jathedar-sgpc-chief-welcome-centres-decision-to-repeal-farm-laws-say-centre-feared-communal-disharmony-in-punjab-340268
19-11-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh thanks Modi on repeal of farm laws, sets the tone for his possible future alliance with BJP||Chandigarh, November 19Setting the tone for his possible future alliance with BJP in the coming Punjab Assembly elections, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh while thanking PM Narendra Modi for repealing the farm laws said he was looking forward to working closely with the BJP for development of farmers.Also read: Victory for Punjab farmers comes at the cost of 669 livesCentre's repeal announcement brings relief to Punjab farmersAmarinder has already said that he would go in for an alliance with the BJP or the breakaway faction of the Akalis, subject to favourable solution to the stir over farm laws.In a tweet, Amarinder said, “Great news! Thankful to PM @narendramodi ji for acceding to the demands of every punjabi & repealing the 3 black laws on the pious occasion of #GuruNanakJayanti. I am sure the central govt will continue to work in tandem for the development of Kisani!”He said, “I’d been pursuing the matter with Centre for last 1+ year & had met @narendramodi ji @AmitShah ji requesting them to heed the voice of our annadaatas. Really happy they’ve heard farmers & understood our concerns,” said the former CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-thanks-modi-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-sets-the-tone-for-his-possible-future-alliance-with-bjp-340256
19-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Navjot Sidhu pays obeisance at Sultanpur Lodhi gurdwara, says new Punjab cannot be created by 'giving lollipops'||Tribune News ServiceSultanpur Lodhi, November 19Having been put on the third list of delegates who would visit Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan, PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu on Friday paid obeisance at Gurdwara Ber Sahib here on the occasion of Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak.Also read: Satguru Nanak Pargateya: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Sultanpur LodhiAfter paying visit to the gurdwara alongwith party MLA Navtej Cheema, Sidhu interacted with the media where he took a jibe at Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi saying, “All those big chief ministers tend to dance like rubber puppets because they have no moral authority. They don’t have the morality that Baba Nanak has blessed me and my family with. The government can be formed only on righteousness, moral authority and high integrity. Those finding short cuts like instant coffee and making 500 promises in two months and are unable to keep even two are actually going much beyond their limits.He said, “May God give them the wisdom and courage to tell the truth and correct their wrongdoings. Only then a new Punjab can be created. It cannot be built on falsehoods or lollipops. I have come here to seek blessings so that I should keep up the philosophy of Guru Nanak, get strengthened and be able to carve the right path, however, thorny it may be. Punjabis need a proper roadmap.”On the opening of Kartarpur corridor, he said it had paved way for a number of new possibilities. If I get a chance to be there, I will surely talk about the real way to drive Punjab forward.”Regarding today’s significant announcement of withdrawal of farm laws, he said, “It is good if one realises his mistake and accepts it on the occasion of Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak, Punjab accepts his apology. No one should try to take credit for this for it entirely goes to the satyagrah of Samyukta Kisan Morcha. They were fighting on the path of truthfulness and following the principles of work culture given by Guru Nanak, who himself did farming for 17 years. They lost 650 men but they have given the entire country a lesson of brotherhood and unity in diversity.”On the state’s role ahead for the farmers, he said, “It has become significant that we give a proper roadmap to make agriculture stand out again. We need to help them raise their productivity. The occupation of farming which has faced setback for 25 years needs to be made a profitable proposition. When the farmers return from the morcha, their real challenges will start. Farmers have triumphed in the year-long morcha but we need plans to make them prosperous.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-pays-obeisance-at-sultanpur-lodhi-gurdwara-says-new-punjab-cannot-be-created-by-giving-lollipops-340250
19-11-2021||Vishav Bharti||It was farmers' fear of losing their lands that made them continue their struggle||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19A farmer can slay his real brother but he can't let an inch of land go, the old saying goes in Punjab's countryside. The fear of losing land that came with the three farm laws proved turning point in making the farmers' agitation a true people's movement in Punjab.     "The corporates will snatch your lands one day, we had been trying to tell people for the past three decades," recounts Shingara Singh Mann, state committee member of BKU (Ugrahan). But the current movement centred on the question of land was a dream come true for many leaders who had been active for several decades.Last year, Punjab was in the grip of Covid and curfews were on, when the Union government pushed three bills through ordinances on June 5. On the evening of June 5, Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union and Jagmohan Singh of BKU (Dakunda) organised a Zoom meeting from Patiala with other constituents of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Commitee (AIKSCC) and gave a call to burn effigies of the Modi government. That was the first action. "It was decided to tell people that their lands would be taken away by corporate houses if Contract Farming Act came into existence."At the same time, one of the biggest farmer organisations, BKU (Ugrahan), was also worried about the ordinances but was not part of AIKSCC. On June 13, they called an emergency meeting of their state committee at Machhike village in Moga and decided to make villages centre of the struggle. "Let's take this to every hearth," that was the slogan.Most of leadership of the organisation which was in mid-seventies decided that now we must choose, whether we should die of coronavirus or while fighting the government.  "The choice was obviously second," says Shingara Singh Mann, state committee member of BKU (Ugrahan).   "In the following days, our leaders tried to tell people that how the corporate houses have arrived to take away their lands," says  Mann. Soon the organisations realised that the response from the villages is beyond imagination. The movement spread to around 1,000 villages. "So we decided to take the movement beyond villages." It was followed by giving memoranda to SDMs and DCs ad also to the President. On June 30, protests were held in front of the SDM and DC offices across the state. The months of July and August were marked with tractor marches, banning entry of SAD-BJP leaders in villages.In September, from tractor to motorcycle marches, from mega protest rallies to street corner meetings, Punjab witnessed so much. But the biggest turning point was brought by BKU (Ugrahan)'s call to start protest at Badal village demanding that the SAD end its alliance with the BJP. On the first day, around 10,000 people were present. The protest kept swelling and on the last day on September 22, the number was 45,000. But before that it had forced the SAD to break alliance with the BJP and Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned. "It infused a new life into the movement," says Mann.       When the movement was picking up momentum across the state, the constituents of AIKSCC in Punjab were trying to bring the remaining organisations into the fold. "We had realised that it is not easy to defeat the government onslaught by individual oragnsiations. So we invited Rajewal, Ugrahan and other organisations for joint meeting in Moga on September 23," says Jagmohan Singh. Thus, the 32 farmer organisations' umbrella platform came into existence.  By then several popular Punjabi singers started showing solidarity with the movement. "Their new songs regarding Punjabi farmer's love for land and his history of struggle against Delhi, simply swayed the masses," says Manjit Dhaner of BKU (Dakunda).   Soon, it became Punjab vs Delhi. And a call for march for Delhi was jointly given for November 26 and 27. "Now it will go as a true Long March, which not just saved the lands of Punjab but of India," says Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala of Kirti Kisan Union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/it-was-farmers-fear-of-losing-their-lands-that-made-them-continue-their-struggle-340246
19-11-2021||---||Repealing farm laws a defining moment in history, says Parkash Singh Badal||Muktsar, November 19After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurance that the three farm laws would be repealed in the coming Parliament session, SAD patron-cum-former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Friday said it is a defining moment in history.Also read: Victory for Punjab farmers comes at the cost of 669 livesCentre's repeal announcement brings relief to Punjab farmers“A historic victory of farmers on the historic and sacred day of Guru Nanak Dev ji’s Parkash Purb. This is the greatest event in the history of farmer struggles all over the world. I thank Guru Nanak Devj ji Maharaj and congratulate every farmer working hard in his fields. This victory will have wide-ranging and long-lasting implications on the struggle for justice not only for the farmers but for the poor and the deprived across the world.”He added, “While I congratulate the farmers of Punjab, the country and the world over, my first thoughts go to the families of over 700 farmers who attained martyrdom on the path of this struggle. But I wish that they were here with us to see this day today. The loss of these brave soldiers and the tragic, disgraceful and entirely avoidable events like the one at Lakhimpur will always remain a dark blot on the face of this government.”Badal said, “These brave sons of the soil would remain martyrs to the cause of justice for farmers, a cause to which my whole life has been dedicated. It was the first time in history of democratic governments that brazen and cruel laws were made without even taking the stakeholders on board. No government should ever do such an insensitive and cruel thing again.”In protest against the three farm laws, the SAD had broken its alliance with the BJP and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union cabinet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repealing-farm-laws-a-defining-moment-in-history-says-parkash-singh-badal-340235
19-11-2021||As 552nd Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak falls today||Satguru Nanak Pargateya: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Sultanpur Lodhi||Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranAmritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinctionSINCE the 550th Guru Nanak gurpurab celebrations, Sultanpur Lodhi town falling in Kapurthala district has emerged as one of the most common pilgrimage sites. It is here that the guru attained enlightenment after taking a dip in the holy waters of Bein.He stayed in this town for 14 years and used to meditate under the Ber tree, where Gurdwara Ber Sahib stands. The present building of the gurdwara was built by Maharaja Jagatjit Singh of Kapurthala.After attaining enlightenment, the guru had emerged from a spot 2-km upstream where now Gurdwara Sant Ghat has been renovated. The guru uttered his first words, “No one is Hindu, no one is Muslim” here.Besides, Gurdwara Ber Sahib and Gurdwara Sant Ghat, the town has other historical gurdwaras all of which have been renovated nearly two years ago. These include Gurdwara Hatt Sahib where the stones used by the guru as weights during his job in a provision store have been kept.Gurdwara Kothri Sahib, Gurdwara Guru Ka Bagh, Gurdwara Antaryamta, Gurdwara Sehra Sahib and Gurdwara Bebe Nanki are also other shrines where the sangat visits on this holy day and round the year.Ahead of the gurpurab, nagar kirtans were taken out today. One nagar kirtan was also taken out by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal where in a palanquin of Guru Granth Sahib decorated with strings of flowers went past several villages.The participating jathas recited hymns spreading across the guru’s message and teachings among members of the community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/satguru-nanak-pargateya-spiritual-journey-of-gurdwaras-in-sultanpur-lodhi-339928
19-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Punjab CM, 3 ministers pay obeisance at Kartarpur Sahib||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, November 18A day after the Kartarpur corridor was officially reopened, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi accompanied by his family and Cabinet colleagues paid obeisance at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Narowal district of Pakistan today.Free travel for devotees in state buses: CMCM Charanjit Singh Channi said devotees with valid permits for travel to Kartarpur Sahib will be allowed free travel in the state government buses on the day of their travel. Channi also urged the Indian and Pakistan governments to simplify the process of granting permission. While a visa is not required, passport details get uploaded onto the immigration software of both countries.Wadala’s son not on first list of visitorsThe ministers who accompanied Channi were Manpreet Singh Badal, Vijay Inder Singla and Rana Gurjeet Singh. An hour before the CM arrived at the Integrated Check Post (ICP), state BJP president Ashwani Sharma led a 21-member delegation to the shrine. Sharma said: “It was the BJP that facilitated the reopening of the passage.” Those part of the delegation included Harjeet Grewal, Tikshan Sud, Jeewan Gupta, Subhash Sharma and KD Bhandari. The CM said he was fortunate to be part of the occasion. “The long-pending ‘ardas’ of the Sikh sangat has finally paid off. At the shrine, I prayed for the well being of the people of Punjab,” he said, adding parties should refrain from engaging in credit war.Parties are making use of the occasion to enhance their poll prospects. Meanwhile, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa will lead a 12-member official delegation tomorrow. On November 20, a group led by Deputy CM Om Parkash Soni and comprising among others PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, Pargat Singh, Aruna Chaudhary, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Harish Chaudhary will leave for Kartarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-3-ministers-pay-obeisance-at-kartarpur-sahib-339967
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP team denied nod to visit Kartarpur Sahib on Gurpurb, cries hoarse||A delegation of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has been denied permission by the central government to visit the Kartarpur shine on Gurpurb. The party has termed this part of a tacit understanding between the Congress government and theCentre.Party’s state affairs incharge Raghav Chadha said only CM Channi and his men were allowed to visit. “The match fixing between Modi and Channi has surfaced yet again,” he said.An application for approval to an AAP delegation, under the leadership of state president Bhagwant Mann, was given, but it was denied political clearance.AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal too expressed anguish, saying it was wrong to deny permission to anyone to go and pay their obeisance in the “Guru Ghar” on the occasion of Gurpurb.“Such politics is not good for the country or society,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-team-denied-nod-to-visit-kartarpur-sahib-on-gurpurb-cries-hoarse-339968
19-11-2021||Adelaide||In a first, Guru Granth Sahib Parkash Utsav inside South Australian parliament||For the first time in the history of South Australia, the fourth-largest Australian state, Guru Granth Sahib’s Parkash Utsav took place inside parliament. The 522nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev is being celebrated in different parts of the world.Also read: Satguru Nanak Pargateya: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Sultanpur LodhiProud momentThis year is indeed special as we have the holy scripture, Guru Granth Sahib, here in South Australian parliament. It is indeed a proud moment for us. -- Russell Wortley, Australian Labor PartyRussell Wortley, Member of the Legislative Council and Australian Labor Party hosted the event. Addressing the gathering that comprised distinguished members of the Indian community as well as South Australian politicians, Wortley said: “I have attended many of gurdwara prayer services, festivals, programmes and even weddings. I feel I have some connection with the Sikhs — the brave, the warriors, the saviours!”“The teachings of Guru Nanak of ‘say your prayers and share your meals’ has impressed me a lot. I see you all cooking and sharing meals at the gurdwaras, carrying the message in your heart. How good is it that you provided meals at the time of crisis to people in need in the recent bushfires in Australia,” said Wortley.He joined in the prayers along with his wife and Member of Parliament, Dana Wortley. Also present on the occasion were Dan Cregan, Speaker, South Australian House of Assembly; Steve Georganas, Federal Member for Adelaide and Peter Malinauskas, Leader of Opposition and Member of the Australian Labor Party.The Panj Pyare (five beloved ones) escorting Guru Granth Sahib from outside parliament, from the historic steps to the indoor hall was a unique sight with many parliamentarians and members of the public watching the unique ceremony.This first-ever Parkash Utsav ceremony was followed by kirtan and prayers with the aim to spread Guru Nanak’s message. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-a-first-guru-granth-sahib-parkash-utsav-inside-south-australian-parliament-339969
19-11-2021||Amritsar||Centre draws plan for 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur||The central government has decided to hold all programmes dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, including raising of memorials, as per the SGPC’s suggestions.This was conveyed by Govind Mohan, Secretary, Ministry of Culture, while holding a meeting with Sikh scholars and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Thursday. Scholars Simarjit Singh Kang, Dr Inderpal Singh, Amarjit Singh, Dr Sukhbir Singh and Dr Jogeshwar Singh were present during the meeting besides an SDM-level official.Mohan apprised the SGPC president of the plans drawn up by the government for the 400th Parkash Purb. He categorically announced that the government decided to hold all programmes dedicated to the historic Gurpurb to be done as per the suggestions of the SGPC.The SGPC president assured the central government delegation of full support during all events.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-draws-plan-for-400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-teg-bahadur-339970
19-11-2021||Amritsar||Nagar kirtan in Amritsar ahead of Guru Nanak Gurpurb festivity||A day before the 552nd Gurpurb of Guru Nanak Dev, a nagar kirtan was taken out here on Thursday. Sikh sangat from across the nation and the world participated in the procession which passed through various traditional markets of the walled city. Under the patronage of Guru Granth Sahib, which was placed in a decorated golden palanquin, and led by Panj Pyare, the SGPC organised the nagar kirtan in association with various religious societies and the sangat.— TNSAlso read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranSatguru Nanak Pargateya: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Sultanpur LodhiAmritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinction||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nagar-kirtan-in-amritsar-ahead-of-guru-nanak-gurpurb-festivity-339971
19-11-2021||---||Oppn targets govt over loan waiver||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 18A day after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced the acceptance of almost all demands of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), except for the loan waiver, the Opposition today targeted the Congress government for allegedly not remaining true to its word on the promise it made to the farming community in the last Assembly elections.Fulfil promiseThe Congress had promised a complete loan waiver. Farmer unions should tell it to remain true to its word — Sukhbir Badal, SAD ChiefFarmers betrayedThe farm debt has increased from Rs90,000 crore to Rs1.5 lakh crore, but the govt has forgotten its promise. — Harpal Singh Cheema, AAPShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said farmer organisations could never be satisfied as long as the Congress government did not implement a complete farm loan waiver as promised by it.He was speaking at a function here during the course of which Congress intellectual cell president Anish Sidana joined the party along with his entire team. Badal appointed him his political adviser for urban areas.Badal said the farming community was still awaiting implementation of the complete loan waiver promise. “The Congress even took a holy oath on the Gutka Sahib on the issue. Even Chief Minister Charanjit Channi was party to this commitment. Farmer unions should also tell the Congress to remain true to its word.” About the special task force (STF) report in the High Court, he said “no one is stopping the Punjab Government from nabbing the drug lords”.AAP leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the Congress government’s policies and intentions were against the interests of Punjab.He said the government on January 19, 2017 had claimed to waive the entire loan of about Rs 90,000 crore of the farmers and labourers; the debt has now increased to about Rs 1.5 lakh crore. This includes loans raised from government, cooperative and private banks as well as from the unorganised sector.He said for this promise, forms were also filled from the farmers and labourers, but as soon as the government was formed, the Congress shied away from its promise. Had the government released subsidy worth Rs 300 crore of subsidy on time, it would have helped farmers, he added.“Due to the ill-intentioned policies of the governments for three decades, today Punjab is being compelled to not only contemplate, but also worry about the measures to save agriculture,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oppn-targets-govt-over-loan-waiver-339972
19-11-2021||---||Drug case: State opposes Bikram Majithia’s plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 18A day after senior Akali leader and MLA Bikram Singh Majithia sought directions for being made party to the ongoing drugs menace case after alleging attempts by his political opponents to target him, the state of Punjab today opposed the plea.Delay tactics: AAPState AAP chief Bhagwant Mann termed the petition filed by Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia in the multi-crore drug case as an attempt to delay the matter ahead of the Assembly electionsAs the matter came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil, former Advocate General APS Deol opened the arguments and told the court senior advocate Dushyant Dave would be representing the state in the matter.Seeking the rejection of his plea, the state told the Bench the matter was pending in the HC since 2013, but Majithia wanted to become a party now when the case was heading towards a conclusion. As such, his application was required to be dismissed.Appearing on Majithia’s behalf, senior counsel RS Cheema with Arshdeep Singh Cheema told the court he should be given an opportunity to present his side.The state, during the course of hearing, demanded the opening of sealed reports in the matter for enabling the government to take further action on them. The Bench has now fixed the case for December 6 for further hearing in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-case-state-opposes-bikram-majithias-plea-339973
19-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Norms in place, but erring farmers have field day||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 18In the absence of any strict action, farm fires continue to ravage the environment despite alternatives and several government schemes in place to support farmers.Also read: 7 challans, 1 FIR against 4K stubble burning cases in MuktsarSome prefer to use other techniques to manage stubble without burning, but the majority of farmers continue to demand financial aid of at least Rs 200 per quintal of stubble. “If the government is serious about managing stubble without burning, it must provide at least Rs 200 per quintal to farmers. Otherwise, we have no option, but to burn stubble,” said Karminder Singh, a protesting farmer in Sangrur.But many others, while talking to The Tribune from various villages, said they had not burnt stubble for the past many years. Many have been preparing bales of hay, while others are sowing wheat by using super seeder, happy seeder and other machines.“Besides saving money, many of us have succeeded in improving the fertility of our land by managing stubble without burning,” said Jagdeep Singh, a farmer from Kanoi village.The government has been providing various machines to Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs), Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) and panchayats on 80 per cent subsidy and to individuals on 50 per cent subsidy. Marginal farmers are allowed to use the machinery allotted to panchayats and societies for free by paying just for the diesel used.The determination of many farmers against stubble burning coupled with the government support through various schemes has been generating good results. But still the state is engulfed by a blanket of smoke during harvesting season every year as authorities are allegedly not taking required legal action against the defaulters.“The management of stubble without burning first needs strong determination, while the use of machinery is secondary. I know many farmers who are managing stubble even without proper machinery. Apart from providing required machinery, the government must also take strict legal action against those causing pollution by burning stubble,” said Dr AS Mann, president, Scientific Awareness Forum, Sangrur.Despite repeated attempts, Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha could not be contacted for comment.“Things have been improving as farmers have started understanding the importance of stubble management without burning. The Agriculture Department has been providing all possible help to them,” said Jagdish Singh, Joint Director, Agriculture (Engineer).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-in-place-but-erring-farmers-have-field-day-339974
19-11-2021||Muktsar||7 challans, 1 FIR against 4K stubble burning cases in Muktsar||As many as 4,197 stubble burning incidents have been witnessed in Muktsar between October 15 and November 16, but just seven challans and one FIR has been registered to date. Further, not even a single farmer has paid the penalty yet.Meanwhile, the Malout city police have registered an FIR against a farmer of Chhapianwali village for allegedly burning stubble on Tuesday. Manmohit, SDO, Punjab State Pollution Control Board, said: “In every village, nodal officers are appointed. On every 8-10 villages, a cluster incharge is appointed. They give daily report to tehsildar/SDM, which is sent to the DC.” He refused to comment on issuance of just seven challans and registration of one FIR. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-challans-1-fir-against-4k-stubble-burning-cases-in-muktsar-339975
19-11-2021||Ludhiana||Court orders arrest warrant against Simarjeet Singh Bains||A local court ordered issuance of a non-bailable arrest warrant against Lok Insaaf Party chief and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains along with six others in a rape case registered on the complaint of a 44-year-old woman. On November 12, the court of Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Kaur had ordered issuance of a bailable arrest warrant against the MLA and others after the local police filed a chargesheet against them. As none of the accused appeared in court today, the order for non-bailable arrest warrant was issued. The FIR was registered on the orders of Additional CJM Harsimranjit Singh in July.The woman had written to the Commissioner of Police seeking an FIR. She later moved a local court, which turned down the plea. She filed a revision plea in the court of Additional Sessions Judge, who set aside the order. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-orders-arrest-warrant-against-simarjeet-singh-bains-339976
19-11-2021||Muktsar||Ready to perform any party duty, says Parkash Singh Badal||Finally becoming active again on his home turf Lambi, SAD patriarch and former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal has said he is ready to perform any duty that the party will assign to him.On Thursday, he visited a college at Badal village and honoured Arjuna awardee Olympian boxer Simranjit Kaur. On Wednesday, he attended the first death anniversary of SGPC member-cum-senior SAD leader Dyal Singh Kolianwali.Since the outbreak of Covid pandemic, 93-year-old Badal has mostly remained indoors and attended just a few public programmes. For the past some time, he had however started meeting public at his residence after following the Covid protocols. Badal has now announced that he would tour the area just like the past. “Earlier, the doctors had advised me not to travel. However, now I will tour the area and whatever duty party will assign me in future, I will perform that,” said Badal.” However, when asked about his candidature from Lambi, Badal said, “I am just a worker of the SAD and can’t comment on it.”From the Congress, PCC general secretary Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana is in the race for ticket from Lambi. He has increased his political activity in the area. From the AAP, Gurmeet Singh Khudian is working on the ground. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-perform-any-party-duty-says-parkash-singh-badal-339977
19-11-2021||---||Kejriwal’s ‘Mission Punjab’ begins tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 18The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will start the ‘Mission Punjab’ from November 20. State AAP president and MP Bhagwant Mann said in view of the Punjab Assembly elections, the Aam Aadmi Party has started its preparations vigorously and as a part of this, Kejriwal will be on a daylong tour to Moga on November 20.Will change stateToday, I met The Great Khali, a wrestler who has made India famous all over the world. He liked the work done on water, electricity, schools and hospitals in Delhi. Now, we have to do all this work in Punjab too. We will change Punjab together. — Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi CM Mann said the AAP was campaigning from cities to villages ahead of the state Assembly elections and was preparing a comprehensive roadmap by holding various meetings; which will later be added to the party’s manifesto. He further said the Kejriwal would be mostly on the Punjab tour in the next one month and will visit several places. As part of the ‘Mission Punjab’ programme, Kejriwal will also visit several villages, where he will listen to the problems of residents, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwals-mission-punjab-begins-tomorrow-339978
19-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala Mayor faces no-confidence notice, says will prove majority||Councillors of the Patiala Municipal Corporation today said they had no confidence in Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma. As such, 42 councillors (of 60) have demanded his resignation and asked him to call a general house meeting to prove majority.The Mayor in turn trained guns at Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, accusing him of instigating the councillors. He said he would prove majority in the general house. Insiders suspect horse-trading from both sides.The ‘rebel’ councillors held a meeting with Congress general secretary Harish Chaudhary and Mohindra in Chandigarh for over two hours. A parallel meeting was organised at MP Preneet Kaur’s New Moti Bagh Palace, where, sources said, over 17 councillors were present.The councillors in their no-confidence notice to the Mayor, a copy of which was forwarded to other officers and the CM, said: “Almost all members of the House have lost confidence in you. It would be appropriate for you to resign on moral grounds.”Talking to The Tribune, councillor said: “We have lost confidence in the Mayor due to his ‘anti-party’ activities. We stand with the party and will accept its decision. Nearly 40 were present at the meeting in Chandigarh today.”On his part, Mohindra said: “The party high command had given a go-ahead to the councillors to take their decision for the betterment of the city. Now, the onus is on him (Sharma) to call a meeting.”Sharma accused the minister of instigating the councillors to ensure a party ticket for his son from his constituency. He said: “Mohindra acted as a dictator in 2020 also when he shifted 26 wards from the MC to the Improvement Trust. Councillors’ rights were stolen.” Rejecting the councillors’ demands, he said: “I will prove majority in the general house.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-mayor-faces-no-confidence-notice-says-will-prove-majority-339979
19-11-2021||---||Now, Sonu Sood meets Sukhbir Badal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 18Actor-turned-social worker Sonu Sood met SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal late this evening, adding suspense on which party he would align with ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections.Earlier, Sonu had announced his sister Malvika would contest from Moga, but had not disclosed the party she would represent. Sood is apparently meeting various party leaders to weigh the options. In August, he had met AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal in New Delhi and agreed to be an “ambassador” for a youth initiative. A few days ago, Sood met Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.An Akali spokesperson declined to comment on the discussions held at the meeting. Sukhbir tweeted a photo with Sood, saying: “Met @SonuSood in Chandigarh & had an engaging conversation about his charitable initiatives. I laud his generous spirit, he has helped thousands of needy people.”The Akali Dal has already announced its nominee for Moga. However, the party is yet to decide its candidate for 14 other seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-sonu-sood-meets-sukhbir-badal-339980
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Maternal death rate rose to 150 in Punjab during pandemic||Thanks to all the healthcare services diverted to Covid, Punjab is now witnessing reversal of all achievements made on maternal mortality rate (MMR). The Health Department’s internal analysis of first six months of the current fiscal (April-Sept) reveals the MMR in first six months was around 150 (death of mothers after 1 lakh live births), against last year’s 129.In the first six months, there were 357 maternal deaths against 1.82 lakh live births. According to officials, the current increase in the MMR is due to Covid. “Firstly, all the healthcare services were diverted towards Covid care. Secondly, the mortality due to Covid among pregnant women was also high,” said Dr Inderdeep Kaur, state’s programme office for mother and child health. This year, 75 pregnant women who died were Covid-positive. Fatehgarh Sahib is the worst-affected with MMR increasing to 413 and SAS Nagar the best with just 83 MMR. Analysis reveals 2017-18 was the worst year when the MMR was 159. Dr OP Gojra, Director, Family Welfare, said a campaign had been started to sensitise the worst-affected districts and the required measures had been taken. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maternal-death-rate-rose-to-150-in-punjab-during-pandemic-339981
19-11-2021||Faridkot||19 lose claim on Sikh minority quota seat over shorn hair in Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College||For 40 MD/MS Sikh minority quota seats in Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College (SGRDMC), Amritsar, the college authorities have declared 87 out of the 277 applicants eligible for admission. While 171 applicants did not report during their physical verification, the claim of 19 applicants was rejected as they had allegedly shorn their hair.SGPC-owned SGRDMC has 79 MD/MS seats and 40 are reserved under Sikh minority quota. To get admission on these seats, there is a precondition for maintaining “Sikh Swarup”. Days before the starting of counseling to make admission on 672 MD/MS seats in seven medical colleges in the state, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) had received applications from 277 candidates who claimed to be Sikhs. The BFUHS had sent this list to SGRDMC to verify their claim. When called for physical verification, 171 applicants did not report, while 19 were found to have shorn hair, making them ineligible. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/19-lose-claim-on-sikh-minority-quota-seat-over-shorn-hair-in-sri-guru-ram-das-medical-college-339982
19-11-2021||Abohar||Abohar: Health workers go on strike, vax drive stalled||Health workers, serving under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) for a long time at the Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital and the Community Health Centre at Seetogunno, started an indefinite strike today, seeking regularisation of services.They staged a dharna and raised slogans against the government and the Health Department. Doctors, health workers, ANMs and other workers serving under the NRHM kept the work stalled, due to which patients faced inconvenience. The strike affected the vaccination and Covid sampling work too.Health inspector Tehal Singh said the government had announced the regularisation of services of about 36,000 temporary employees, but the NRHM employees had been ignored. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-health-workers-go-on-strike-vax-drive-stalled-339983
19-11-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar Improvement Trust mulls bypass on pvt land, MC denies ‘public street’ tag||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 18The Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) is planning to construct a four-lane bypass to link the UBDC Road with the Bhagtanwala grain market through private fields at Bhagtanwala.It got the approval to construct a railway under-bridge (RUB) from the Indian Railways and a tender has been floated to construct the road without acquiring the land. The Trust will spend Rs 41.73 crore on the project on the private road and property owners reportedly offered the land to the AIT free of cost.However, when the AIT wrote to the Amritsar Municipal Corporation, requesting it to declare the proposed road as a public street, recently transferred MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi denied the permission. Instead, he submitted a detailed report to the Director, Local Government, about the alleged mala fide intentions behind the project. It is being observed that the refusal by the Commissioner is the “reason for his transfer”.Former Congress leader and activist Mandeep Singh Manna alleged that the AIT got the approval from the Railways after concealing the fact that the road was being constructed on private land. He alleged that close relatives of a local MLA owned a major chunk of the land around the proposed road and the cost of the land would multiply several times after the construction of a four-lane road. Manna smelt a rat in the proposal and wrote to several government departments and CM Charanjit Channi about the alleged scam.“It is a Rs 400 crore scam as mafia bought land from farmers at Rs 30 lakh per acre and will sell it for Rs 3 crore per acre by developing a private colony. When AIT is spending on private road, they have to develop a township,” alleged Manna. AIT Chairman Damandeep Singh said, “The MC has rejected our proposal to consider the road a public street. Now, the matter is hanging fire.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-improvement-trust-mulls-bypass-on-pvt-land-mc-denies-public-street-tag-339984
19-11-2021||---||Sukhpal Singh Khaira sent to judicial custody||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 18An Enforcement Directorate (ED) court today remanded Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira in judicial custody in the money laundering case. The next date of hearing has been fixed for December 2.Khaira was produced in the court after completion of his seven-day ED remand. The ED demanded an additional seven-day remand, but the defence counsel opposed it, saying the agency had failed to get anything incrimination from Khaira and that there was no reason for an extension.Khaira claimed a political conspiracy had been hatched against him to demoralise him. He claimed the BJP was already against him, but hidden elements in the Congress had now conspired to defame him, adding he would “expose” them at the right time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhpal-singh-khaira-sent-to-judicial-custody-339985
19-11-2021||Chandigarh||Return cops put on other duties: Punjab Police to officials||The issue of policemen deputed on unauthorised security of officers to allegedly do their household chores has come to the fore again.A fortnight after Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa issued orders to return such men to their original cadre, several officers were yet to comply. This came to light with a senior official of the Punjab Police Headquarters issuing a warning to officers for keeping such staff and returning them immediately. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/return-cops-put-on-other-duties-punjab-police-to-officials-339986
19-11-2021||Tarn Taran||Patti shooting: 4-day remand for 2||A day after two persons involved in the illegal drugs trade were shot in Patti, the two arrested members of the rival gang were produced in a local court, which remanded them in police custody till November 22. Lakhbir Singh and Vinod Kumar allegedly shot Jagdeep Singh Manna of Patti and Anmol Singh Maula of Buraj-Ra-ke, and injured Gursewak Singh of Pringri. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patti-shooting-4-day-remand-for-2-339987
19-11-2021||Mansa||Amend sixth pay panel report, demand engineers||Dy Registrar promoted on SC panel’s interventionChandigarh: IK Gujral Punjab Technical University has promoted its Deputy Registrar from the date due four years ago, besides providing him consequential benefits, following the intervention of the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes, said Gyan Chand, a member. TNSSirhind feeder canal closedChandigarh: The Sirhind feeder canal will remain closed from November 22 to December 27. An official spokesperson of the Water Resources Department said the canal would remain closed for works of relining for 36 days. A notification has also been issued in this regard. TNSCar fished out of canalAbohar/Sriganganagar: A team of the State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF), with the help of professional divers, fished out a car that had skidded into the Indira Gandhi canal on Monday in Hanumangarh near Abohar. A viral video had attracted the attention of the administration to the incident. OCGuv to inaugurate park todayChamkaur Sahib: Governor Banwarilal Purohit will inaugurate "Dastaan-e-Shahadat" theme park, built to commemorate the sacrifice of elder Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh, and the heritage street here on Friday. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who reviewed the arrangements in this regard here recently, said the Governor, along with religious and political leaders, would also participate in a nagar kirtan (procession) to be taken out on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amend-sixth-pay-panel-report-demand-engineers-339988
19-11-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu part of third jatha to Kartarpur Sahib, CM Channi deflects blame||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 18Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi led an official delegation to Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan on Thursday. He was accompanied by his family members and some Cabinet colleagues and MLAs. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Sidhu, who was instrumental in the opening of the Kartarpur corridor in November 2018, was not part of the delegation.Much to his surprise, Sidhu was told late Wednesday night that he was on the third list of VIPs visiting the shrine on November 20, a day after Gurpurb. When contacted, his media adviser Jagtar Sidhu said the form to secure permission was filled well in time. “That the PPCC chief was not included in the first official delegation is a matter between the Centre and the Punjab Government. Only they can explain the reasons,” he said.The Chief Minister’s office later in the day said a list of 50 VIPs, including Sidhu, PPCC working presidents and senior MLAs, was sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on November 16 evening. Citing security concerns, the Centre refused to allow all VIPs to visit Kartarpur Sahib on the same day, dividing the VIPs into three groups. Sidhu will be visiting Sultanpur Lodhi for Gurpurb celebrations.Among those who accompanied CM Channi today were Manpreet Badal, Rana Gurjeet Singh, Vijay Inder Singla, Harpartap Ajnala and Barindermeet Pahra. Close relatives of Channi and ministers, who did not require clearance from the MHA, were also part of the delegation. On Friday, a 15-member delegation led by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, ministers Tript Bajwa, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Randeep Nabha and Raj Kumar Verka besides some Members of Legislative Assembly will pay obeisance at the shrine.On November 20, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief along with working president Kuljit Nagra, Congress’ Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary and other ministers and legislators will visit the shrine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-part-of-third-jatha-to-kartarpur-sahib-cm-channi-deflects-blame-339895
19-11-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sonu Sood meets Sukhbir Badal in Chandigarh amid plans of sister contesting election in Punjab||Amid speculation that Sonu Sood sister is foraying into politics, the actor on Thursday met SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.Also read: Actor Sonu Sood’s sister to contest from Moga in Punjab Assembly pollsThe meeting was confirmed by Sukhbir as he tweeted: “Met @SonuSood in Chandigarh & had an engaging conversation about his charitable initiatives. I laud his generous spirit, he has helped thousands of needy people.”Met @SonuSood in Chandigarh & had an engaging conversation about his charitable initiatives. I laud his generous spirit, he has helped thousands of needy people. pic.twitter.com/RdfvT8lieQ  The philanthropist had earlier said his sister Malvika would be joining politics, but added he has no such plans for himself. Malvika later said she will contest the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls from Moga. Sood, who is from Moga district, said his sister has done a lot of amazing work in the past. “We today officially want to say that Malvika will certainly come to serve Punjab,” the actor had said. Asked about joining any political party, Sood said no decision has yet been taken in this regard. It is a very big decision in life. I think Malvika is strongly rooted in Moga… For me (joining politics), I have not thought of it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonu-sood-meets-sukhbir-badal-in-chandigarh-amid-plans-of-sister-contesting-election-in-punjab-339860
19-11-2021||---||Centre 'denies' AAP leaders permission to visit Kartarpur Sahib on Gurpurb||Chandigarh, November 18A delegation of the Aam Aadmi Party has been denied permission by the Centre for visiting the Kartarpur Sahib Gurudwara on Gurupurab day on November 19.The party has termed this as a part of a tacit understanding between Punjab’s Congress government of Charanjit Singh Channi and the Modi government.Reacting to this, Punjab affairs in-charge Raghav Chadha, said that only CM Channi and his men were allowed to visit.“The match fixing between Modi and Channi has surfaced yet again,” he said.AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal, too, expressed his anguish, saying that it was wrong to deny permission to anyone to go and pay their obeisance in the “Guru Ghar” on the occasion of “Gurpurb”.“Such politics is not good for the country or the society. Nobody should be stopped from performing ardas”, he said.Kejriwal on Thursday tweeted that the Centre has denied  permission to Punjab AAP MLAs, Sangrur MP and state president Bhagwant Mann and Delhi MLA and state co-incharge Raghav Chadha to visit Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan.गुरु पर्व के दिन गुरु महाराज जी के दरबार में माथा टेकने से रोकना तो बहुत ग़लत है। ऐसी राजनीति देश और समाज के लिए अच्छी नहीं है। गुरु महाराज जी के दरबार में माथा टेकने और अरदास करने से तो किसी दुश्मन को भी नहीं रोकना चाहिए। https://t.co/PMFZRp49De||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-denies-aap-leaders-permission-to-visit-kartarpur-sahib-on-gurpurb-339846
19-11-2021||Rajneesh Lakhanpal||Court orders arrest warrants against MLA Simarjeet Bains, others in rape case||Legal CorrespondentLudhiana, November 18The Court of Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Kaur has ordered to issue non-bailable warrants of arrest against Lok-Insaaf party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains, MLA from Atam Nagar constituency, and six others in a rape case registered on the complaint of a 44-year-old woman.On November 12, the court has ordered issuance of bailable warrants against the MLA and other accused after the filing of chargesheet against them by local police. But none of them appeared before the court today, which led to issuance of arrest warrants.The FIR was registered with the orders of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Singh in July 2021. But none of the accused has been arrested till today.Even after the court orders, the local police took considerable time in registering the FIR. The Shiromani Akali Dal leaders, including Harish Rai Dhanda, had demonstrated against the police. Then the FIR was registered.On Novmber 16, 2020, the woman had moved an handwritten application to the Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, for registration of FIR against MLA Bains, Kamaljit Singh, Baljinder Kaur, Jasbir Kaur alias Bhabhi, Sukhchain Singh, Paramjit Singh alias Pamma, Gogi Sharma of Ludhiana. She sat on a dharna for a long period outside Commissioner of Police office seeking justice.But when no FIR was registered, the woman moved to a local court seeking directions for registration of FIR. But the Court of Judicial Magistrate Palwinder Singh did not agree with the contentions of woman.Against that order, the woman had filed the revision petition before the Court of Additional Sessions Judge Raj Kumar Garg, who had set aside the order of the lower court with the directions to reconsider and pass fresh orders.In its complaint, the woman has alleged that she came into contact with MLA in a property dispute case but she was allegely trapped.The woman had alleged that taking advantage of her social and economic vulnerability, Bains raped her repeatedly on the pretext of helping her. She also alleged that the MLA’s brother also started making repeated calls and numerous WhatsApp messages soliciting physical relationship with her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-orders-arrest-warrants-against-mla-simarjeet-bains-others-in-rape-case-339836
