20-11-2021||Batala (Gurdaspur)||Remain cautious till farm laws repealed: Channi to farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday asked farmers to be cautious till the Centre’s farm laws are repealed, saying Prime Minister Narendra Modi has just made an announcement on it.The PM on Friday had announced that his government had decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year.“Prime minister Narendra Modi has just made an announcement regarding repealing of farm laws and Punjabis especially farmers need to be cautious until the farm laws are formally repealed,” said Channi after laying the foundation stone of a sugar mill here, according to an official release.Channi on Saturday said conspiracies are being hatched to derail progress and prosperity of Punjab, adding that those who are welcoming the announcement of the PM are a part of this.He said repealing of laws is baseless until the guarantee of minimum support price for crops is not given.“The Punjabis must not sit idle but have to be extra vigilant until the entire process is completed,” he said.Attacking those who are welcoming the PM’s announcement, Channi asked them to explain the reason to rejoice as Punjab has lost more than 700 sons and daughters during the struggle.He said it is shameful that for the sake of their “vested political interests” some political leaders are bent on sacrificing the interests of the state.Channi said state government will construct a memorial to those who died during the course of the agitation.Channi also accused the Shiromani Akali Dal of being the “chief architect” of the laws, saying they had brought one such bill in thr Punjab Assembly, which became basis for the Union government to introduce the laws now.He alleged that the Akalis were “hand in glove” with the BJP in bringing the “draconian laws”.The CM said an “elite and unholy nexus” of politicians across party line had excluded power from common man just to “loot” Punjab.He said now this nexus has been broken and the power is with the common man.Channi claimed that the backbone of transport mafia allegedly operated by the Badals has been broken.Now, permits of buses will be given to jobless youth for making them gainfully self-employed, he stated.Now, it is the turn of the cable mafia and things will be streamlined, he said.At Beas in Amritsar, Channi dedicated a state-of-the-art building of newly constructed sub-tehsil complex.Channi said the role of religious organisations in state’s holistic development had always been remained commendable.Expressing gratitude to Radha Soami Satsang Beas for creating such a modern infrastructure, Channi said now more than 70,000 residents of nearly 30 villages would be directly benefitted from this facility.He said the complex would ensure the delivery of administrative works and requisite documents including registration of land.Radha Soami Satsang Beas has donated a newly built Sub Tehsil Office to the government of Punjab.The fully furnished complex has a total 34 rooms, including court rooms of sub tehsildar. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remain-cautious-till-farm-laws-repealed-channi-to-farmers-340746
20-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala cleanest in Punjab, Mohali bags second spot||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 20Patiala has been adjudged the cleanest city in Punjab in the ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’. Swachh Survekshan is an annual survey of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation in cities and towns across India.SAS Nagar (Mohali) was adjudged second, while Bathinda grabbed the third position in the state in the category of Urban Local Body (ULB) having a population between 1 and 10 lakh. Patiala has secured 58th position in the All India Rank with 3713.78 points.Improving its ranking as compared to last year, Patiala has upped its ranking from 86 in 2020 to 58 this year.As to different parameters, the city scored 1995 points in service level progress, 1218 in citizen feedback, and 500 in certifications.Commenting on the achievement, Patiala Mayor, Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, said that it was the result of the contribution made by residents of Patiala and the hard work of workers of Patiala Municipal Corporation (MC).Mayor said, “We have been improving ranking every year. From 411 in 2017, we are now at 58th in the country and first in Punjab. It was a collective effort of every city-dweller and workers of Patiala Corporation. Besides, councillors played an important role by creating awareness among people in their respective wards.”The mayor informed that 106 semi-underground bins — at 37 places in the city — had been pitted while six Material Recovery Facility (MRF) Centres were constructed. Besides, MC had already constructed 450 composting pits across the city, he added.Meanwhile, Congratulating all the residents of Patiala city, Vineet Kumar, Patiala Municipal Corporation Commissioner, said, “With this achievement, the responsibility of every citizen has also increased. Everyone should make efforts to improve the ranking – further.”In the zonal ranking for the north zone, from towns with ULBs having a population from 50,000 to 1 lakh, Rajpura town has been declared cleanest. Moonak town of Sangrur has been declared cleanest in North Zone in the category of ULB having population less than 25,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-cleanest-in-punjab-mohali-bags-second-spot-340737
20-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Youth who spent Rs 12 lakh to send fiancee abroad commits suicide as latter ditches him||Hoshiarpur, November 19 Members of a Satour village family, who had sent their son’s fiancée to Canada after spending Rs 12 lakh on her, suffered a major setback when their younger son committed suicide. Disturbed after being ditched by his fiancé and her family, he ended his life by hanging himself on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. On the complaint of the victim’s family, the Hariana police have registered a case against five accused, including the accused woman, her mother and sister, uncle and her aunt for abetting suicide. According to the information, Gurmail Singh, a resident of Satour village, has lodged a complaint with the police that his son Sukhrajdeep Singh, alias Jota, (23) did diploma in mechanical engineering after passing Class XII. According to him, Rani, a resident of his village, sent the marriage proposal of her niece Amandeep Kaur, daughter of Satish Kumara, a resident of Bahadarpur in city to the family. After this, they spent about Rs 12 lakh to send the girl abroad. The complainant said his son had dropped Amandeep Kaur at Delhi airport while sending her off to Canada in 2019.After this, the conversation between the both continued on phone. According to him, after this, when Amandeep Kaur got a work permit in Canada, she stopped talking to his son.Gurmail Singh said after this, he went to the girl’s family in Bahadarpur, where the girl’s family threatened them and said they don’t have any relationship with them now. He told the police that disturbed over this; his son suddenly went missing last night and even after many efforts, could not be found. This morning, with the help of his mobile location, they reached Sajjana village and found his son’s body hanging with a girder in a tubewell room. The victim’s family demanded a strict action against the accused.The police have booked the five accused in the case registered against them under Sections 306, 506 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-who-spent-rs-12-lakh-to-send-fiancee-abroad-commits-suicide-as-latter-ditches-him-340634
20-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||'Farmers' sacrifice not in vain'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19Sukhdeep Kaur, 17, and Harwinder Singh, 14, are celebrating the Centre’s move on farm laws. This is the first celebration in their small house at Chahlanwali village of Mansa in the past one year.Finally, relievedThe withdrawal of farm laws gives us closure. I am convinced that my husband's sacrifice has not gone in vain. — Manjit Kaur, Mansa ResidentTheir father Dhamma Singh, all of 45, died on November 27 last year, while he was on his way to Delhi with a group of farmers. “I am saddened that all those who sat on the dharna at Tikri or Singhu will return and my husband won’t. But the repealing of laws gives us closure. We are convinced that Dhamma’s sacrifice has not gone in vain,” says Manjit Kaur, the mother of the two teenagers. The siblings say their father fought for the economic rights of the farming community, which no longer face the threat.As The Tribune got in touch with families of “shaheed farmers” (so termed by farmers’ unions), the exuberance was apparent. Gurwinder Singh of Ramnagar Bhattal village, who lost his father Dhaksa Singh in the struggle, says, “We will hold a special ardas and langar for my deceased father when the Centre will actually repeal the laws. His and other farmers’ sacrifice led us to victory.”In Dhaner village of Barnala, Ravinder Kaur says she is cooking a special meal for her family. Her father-in-law, Kahan Singh Dhaner, was one of the first “martyrs” of the struggle. “We had a black Diwali. But today is the day to celebrate,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-sacrifice-not-in-vain-340549
20-11-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Congress will now have to restrategise||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19Having stumped the Opposition by playing the Dalit Sikh card by elevating Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab Chief Minister only months ago, the Punjab Congress is back to tweaking its election strategy after the PM’s announcement today.Tough battleCM Channi claims nothing will change with Captain in fray, but analysts say farm laws' withdrawal will make Cong’s poll battle tougherSenior party leaders say in the event of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh opting for a seat-sharing agreement with the BJP and the breakaway Akali Dal, the Congress could well be in trouble.Though it remains to be seen whether Punjab’s farm unions will float a party or decide to back one, observers believe that the withdrawal of farm laws is bound to change the political scenario in the state. “Captain will eat into the Congress vote share by wooing candidates who are denied the party ticket. The Congress will have to keep its flock together,” said a rather worried party leader.Punjab Pradesh Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu has already said it is not necessary that all sitting MLAs may be given the ticket as “winnability” would be the main criterion. Though CM Channi claims nothing would change with Captain in the fray, analysts say the withdrawal of the farm laws would make Congress’ electoral battle tougher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-will-now-have-to-restrategise-340555
20-11-2021||---||No smooth sailing for Punjab BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19Even repealing of farm laws may not make things easy for the BJP in Punjab as people of the state had to pay “a heavy price” during the struggle.Forgive and forgetThere should be no politics on this... Now, all of us should ‘forgive and forget’ and create an environment free of tension. Arun Narang, BJP  MLA Soon after the announcement by PM Narendra Modi, the BJP’s state unit called him a “pro-farmer” leader. Party’s state general secretary Jeevan Gupta said, “Punjabis are indebted to the PM for his magnanimity and statesmanship.”However, the narrative on the ground is much different. There appears to be a general consensus that the farmers’ struggle forced the government to repeal the laws.“Had the PM been so concerned about the welfare of farmers, he would have repealed the laws much earlier and helped save over 600 lives,” says Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the BKU (Dakaunda). He claims the laws were repealed not because PM Modi’s love for farmers, but the BJP was staring at defeat in the upcoming elections in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Jagtar Singh, a journalist and a political commentator, said, “There seems to be no end to the hostility towards the BJP leaders in Punjab.”The BJP faced a crushing defeat during the local body elections held in February this year. Just 48 candidates of its over 1,000 candidates could win.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-smooth-sailing-for-punjab-bjp-340556
20-11-2021||---||Akalis relieved, but truck with BJP unlikely||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is relieved at the withdrawal of the central farm laws as farmers had blocked their campaign meetings a number of times.Focus will now be on other issuesWithdrawal of farm laws will surely change the discussion in the run-up to the polls. There will be focus on other issues now Prem Singh Chandumajra, SAD Senior Vice-PresidentHowever, it may be too late for the party to renew alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was broken over the farm laws last year.The SAD has already forged an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). The BSP is fielding candidates in 20 of the 117 seats, while the SAD has announced 83 candidates out of its share of 97. It will require a major political jugglery within the party and with the alliance partner should the Akalis decide to form a new partnership with the BJP.Moreover, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh has already announced his new party to contest the state elections with the BJP. It is highly unlikely the Akalis will have a partnership in an alliance where the former Congress CM was also involved. Both Akalis and Captain have been facing allegations of playing a “friendly match”.Party chief Sukhbir Badal has already “ruled out” renewing alliance with the BJP even if the farm laws were repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-relieved-but-truck-with-bjp-unlikely-340558
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP may be politically hit in Punjab||While the Aam Aadmi Party has welcomed the announcement by PM Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws, the end of the farmers’ struggle is likely to politically hit the party the hardest.Played sympathiserIt is AAP that has been extending support to the protesting farmers at the Delhi borders, where they have been staging protests for around a year now. This was done keeping in mind the Punjab Assembly elections to be held early next year.Even today, party’s Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann tried to raise issues like legal guarantee for the MSP on 23 crops, besides reminding them how they were insulted and labelled as “anti-national” by the BJP and how it was only AAP that continued to stand by the farmers.As soon as the issue of farm laws comes to an end, and the realpolitik steers towards issues like health, education, urban renewal, unemployment etc., the only option for the party will be to hard sell its performance in Delhi and the governance they have provided there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-may-be-politically-hit-in-punjab-340563
20-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||300 Punjab villages at forefront in farmers' agitation||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 19The longest protest against the three farm laws continues despite PM Narendra Modi’s announcement on their repeal as farmers want to see written orders in that regard before ending their protest.Unmatched passionI have been here since November 26 last year. Since I do not have both arms, my brother Kuldeep Singh is also here to help me. We will end this protest only after seeing written orders. — Nirmal Singh, ProtesterContinuing the struggle for such a long time stands testimony to the management skills of the residents of around 300 villages across Punjab. In fact, complete dedication of many families to farmers’ cause forms the backbone of such a long protest.Nirmal Singh (69), who does not have both arms, announced on Friday that he would not leave the protest site without seeing written orders for the repeal of the three farm laws.“I have been here since November 26 last year. Since I do not have both arms, my brother Kuldeep Singh is also here to help me. We will end this protest only after seeing written orders,” Nirmal Singh told The Tribune over the phone from Tikri border.Chajjali village farmer Gurjant Singh, whose uncle died during the protest, said his family never skipped the agitation even for a day despite losing their family member.“My father has been at New Delhi border, my brother and I also attend the protest regularly. I request union leaders that they should not end this protest without seeing written orders as regards repealing the farm laws,” he said.Though all villages are contributing to the best of their capacity, there are around 300 villages across Punjab that have been at the forefront. Call it their enthusiasm for protest against the central farm laws or their anger against the BJP government, villagers are still contributing money, ration, milk, clothes and other essentials whenever a call is given through the public address system of the village gurdwara.“The contribution of each farmer is priceless, but there are around 300 villages across Punjab, which are contributing above expectations. We have adequate stock of ration and funds are also coming without any problem,”said Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary of the BKU (Ugrahan).Apart from contributing for the protests at the Delhi border, residents of these villages have also been arranging milk and ration for protests being organised at toll plazas etc.“Many villages have also maintained attendance registers. Whenever any team leaves for New Delhi, we note down their names in the register,” said Harjinder Singh, a farmer leader from Gharachon village.“Many had predicted decline in protesters’ count during the harvesting of paddy, but the support of all families proved it wrong. Many women from these villages came to the forefront during that period,” said Harjinder Singh, another farmer leader from Lehra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/300-punjab-villages-at-forefront-in-farmers-agitation-340564
20-11-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab adds another chapter in its long tradition of peasant struggles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20Last year, a young farmer leader at the Tikri border motivated the farmers saying “we have to continue the struggle so that we don't forget how to fight”, citing the folktale of a farmer who refused to stop tilling the land despite there being famine for 12 long years.Also read: Centre takes back 3 farm laws, Modi announces in address to the nationDespite split after split in organisations, state repression, agrarian crisis and a wave of suicides, struggle was one thing the farmers of Punjab never forgot in the past more than 100 years. Defining momentsContinuing the tradition, the current farmers’ movement has added another glorious chapter to the long history of Punjab’s peasant struggles during the colonial rule and independent India.   Farmers’ struggle under colonial rule in Punjab started in 1907 with the ‘Pagri Sambhal Jatta’ movement against the three acts - the Punjab Land Alienation Act, 1900; the Punjab Land Colonisation Act, 1906; and the Doab Bari Act.Mridula Mukherjee, a historian known for her seminal work on Punjab's peasant movements, recounts in her book, 'Peasants in India's Non-Violent Revolution', how "the agitation of 1907 demonstrated to the government the potential of agrarian grievances becoming major issues". The colonial government ultimately had to repeal the three laws.Even after the British left, farmer movements continued. "Punjab has seen several rounds of mass mobilisation of farmers in the post-Independence era. Each round had its own distinct characteristics and issues of struggle. Mass mobilisations of farmers have always been in response to specific issues and have left a distinct mark on rural society," says economist Sucha Singh Gill.Also read: ‘Victory for farmers’: Punjabi MPs in UK, Canada hail repealing of three farm lawsThe first major struggle after Independence was PEPSU tenants' struggle in Bathinda, Sangrur and Patiala led by Lal Party from 1948-52. This struggle for land to the tiller ended with the landless becoming the landowners in 1952. It was followed by Anti-Better Levy struggle launched by the Communist Party of India during Partap Singh Kairon's government, against tax imposed on farmers for using the irrigation water flowing from the Bhakra Nangal dam. Later, an agitation for higher procurement prices for wheat and paddy led by Bharti Kisan Union was led mainly by rich peasants. This struggle from 1978-84 made several old organisations irrelevant.  But the current struggle, Gill says, was much different from the past ones. "Earlier, struggles were largely for sectional demands. This has pushed boundaries in every aspect, like expanding out of Punjab, the way it had every section of society, like women leading the movement, writers helping with their writings, intellectuals doing the research, and labourers standing in solidarity. With this struggle they have truly reclaimed the lost republic," he says. Rajinder Singh, a young farmer leader, sees continuity in all these struggles. “In 1907, the colonial rulers were forced to repeal the three laws. Now the current dispensation had to do so,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-adds-another-chapter-in-its-long-tradition-of-peasant-struggles-340565
20-11-2021||---||Punjab to raise memorial to deceased farm protesters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday announced a memorial to the farmers who died in the year-long protests against the controversial farm laws.Channi said his government would choose the site after consulting the farmers’ unions. “The Centre’s decision to withdraw the farm laws is a victory for democracy. The memorial will have names of all those who died during the stir. It will be a tribute to the sustained movement that shook the Centre. The success is outcome of the long and zealous struggle of the farmers and will be scripted in the annals of history,” he said.Sources said even as the Punjab Government’s move was being seen as an attempt to take credit for the success behind the farmers’ stir, the Congress had been supporting the farmers all through their movement.Channi demanded a compensation package from the Union Government for over 700 farmer families who suffered loss of life and property. He also demanded a law guaranteeing minimum support price to farmers to be tabled in the forthcoming winter session of Parliament. “The state has already provided government jobs and Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased farmers,” he said.He termed the Centre’s decision to repeal the laws as a much delayed but welcome step. Had the P taken this decision earlier, several precious lives would have been saved, he said. Channi asked the PM to immediately announce a financial package for farmers and labourers reeling under debt. He also asked the Centre to make its stand clear on MSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-raise-memorial-to-deceased-farm-protesters-340500
20-11-2021||Manav Mander||Small farmers spared, say economists on rollback||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 19Though the government said the three agricultural laws would open up new avenues for farmers and increase their income, farmers disagreed, saying the laws would have made them vulnerable to private traders. The Tribune talked to a few experts and farmers after the Prime Minister announced to repeal the laws today.Dr Sukhpal Singh, principal economist (agriculture marketing), Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), said besides economic, the laws had social and cultural implications. He said these laws were dangerous for the community as ownership farming would have got finished and the farmer would have been reduced to a wage labour.“People in Punjab do not want more money but they need ownership of the land. Farmer is recognised in Punjab by the land he owns,” he said. He said under the new laws, production would have been controlled while even under the Green Revolution production was never controlled.Laws threatened land ownershipBesides economic, the laws had social and cultural implications. Ownership farming would have been finished and a farmer would have been reduced to a wage labourer. —Dr Sukhpal Singh, Principal economist, PAUMSP would’ve become irrelevantThe farming community was worried as the central agricultural laws would have made the MSP system irrelevant. Farmers were not assured of income from their farming. —Paramjeet Singh, Farmer from powat villageDr Kamal Vatta, Professor and Head of the Department of Economics and Sociology, PAU, said these laws were not beneficial for the farming community of Punjab and should have been repealed earlier. He said these would have brought a weakened MSP regime and farmers’ income, which was already stagnant, would have only got worse under the new regime.“The government was talking about diversification but no law was made or no efforts were made to promote other crops. There were no special benefits for small farmers. Instead, they were to lose the ownership of their land,” he said. Former PAU Vice-Chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon said the agitation would have a long-lasting effect on society. “Democracy has won today,” he said.Paramjeet Singh of Powat village in Machhiwara, who grows various crops, including wheat, rice, maize, sugarcane, turmeric, vegetables, fodder crops and fruits, and has won several awards at the national and state levels, said new laws would have handed agriculture to a few corporates and the farming community was happy with today’s decision.“Even before farmers, common public would have been affected if the laws would not have been repealed. The farming community was worried as the new laws would have made the MSP system irrelevant and farmers were not assured of income from their farming,” he said.Manpreet Singh Grewal, president, Natural Farmers Association, said the laws were dangerous for small farmers as mandi system would have been finished. “Farmers were worried about MSP and it should have been fixed for other crops as well. Repealing of farm laws is a good decision,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/small-farmers-spared-say-economists-on-rollback-340416
20-11-2021||chandigarh||Landmark move to alter socio-political discourse||The promise to repeal the three farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi today has brought a big relief for farmers in Punjab. This also brings down curtains on their yearlong struggle.Farmer unions, who had been at the forefront of organising one of the biggest struggles, say that this is a big win for them as the government had been forced to accede to their demands. “A united struggle by all unions led to this win, where the Delhi Durbar had to repeal the black farm laws,” Dr Darshan Pal, a Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader, told The Tribune.Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, vice-president, Kirti Kisan Union, said though the human cost of the struggle was too high, it was still a victory for the struggling farmers, who had been forced to leave their fields and protest on roads, but they were still seeking an assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) of crops. “This became a people’s movement and is a victory of their resistance against corporatisation of agriculture, which would have affected food prices and thus each person,” he said.Farmers are relieved as the “economic threat” perceived by them through the three laws is over. Gurbakshish Singh, a farmer from Bimbar village near Nabha, said farmers were happy at the decision. “It will ensure economic stability for us,” he said.Eminent economist RS Ghuman said: “Der aaye durust aaye (even if the announcement has come late, it is good). The gravity of agrarian crisis will be halted and could reduce if the MSP is also made legal right of farmers.”Dr Parmod Kumar, eminent sociologist, said the development would lead to qualitative change in the socio-political discourse. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/landmark-move-to-alter-socio-political-discourse-340417
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Malout farmer dies at Tikri||For a year, farmer Jaswinder Singh of Nandgarh village in Malout had been sitting in protest at the Tikri border. An activist of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Kadian), Jaswinder had reportedly told his family he would not return home till the laws were repealed.Today, when the announcement came, he was elated at the farmers’ victory and was looking forward return home. His son went to meet him at the border, but Jaswinder died and his body was sent home. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malout-farmer-dies-at-tikri-340418
20-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Kartarpur Corridor: 250 devotees turn up for darshan||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, November 19Contrary to the expectations of the officials manning the Integrated Check Post (ICP), 250-odd devotees turned up to cross the Kartarpur corridor on the birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev.The visitors included the Punjab Government’s official delegation led by Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and the one led by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur. State AAP chief Bhagwant Mann along with followers went to the raised platform, also known as the Darshan Sthal, from where they viewed Gurdwara Darbar Sahib across the border through binoculars. The platform was installed by the BSF to facilitate viewing of the shrine in 2004.Officials claim they were expecting “thousands”. However, the restrictions put in place, particularly those pertaining to security and the mandatory requirement of a passport, meant today’s event turned out to be a damp squib. “Our forecast on Gurpurab was at least 3,000 devotees but we fell short of it,” said an official at the ICP.Randhawa was at the ICP when he heard about the news of repeal of the farm laws. “I congratulate the Modi government for taking back the laws,” he said.Meanwhile, in a relief for pilgrims, the Pakistan government has waived the provision of giving them 10-day notice in advance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kartarpur-corridor-250-devotees-turn-up-for-darshan-340419
20-11-2021||Sultanpur Lodhi||Navjot Singh Sidhu pays obeisance at Sultanpur Lodhi||Having been shifted to the third list of delegates scheduled to visit the Kartarpur gurdwara, Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today paid obeisance at the historical Gurdwara Ber Sahib and Gurdwara Hatt Sahib here on the occasion of Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev.After visiting the gurdwara along with party MLA Navtej Cheema, Sidhu took a jibe at Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, saying: “Those finding shortcuts like instant coffee and making 500 promises in two months but are unable to fulfil even two are actually going much beyond their limit.”He said: “A new Punjab cannot be built on falsehood or facade. I have come to seek blessings here so that I am able to live up to Guru Nanak’s teachings and be able to carve out the right path.”On the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor, he said it had paved the way for a number of new possibilities. “If I get a chance to be there, I will surely talk about the real way to drive Punjab forward.”On the PM’s announcement, he said: “It is good if someone realises his mistake, accepts it on Gurpurb... Punjab accepts his apology. No one should try to take credit for this, for it entirely goes to the ‘satyagrah’ of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.” On the state’s role ahead for the farmers, he said: “We need to give a proper roadmap to make agriculture stand out again. When the farmers return, their real challenges will start.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-pays-obeisance-at-sultanpur-lodhi-340420
20-11-2021||New Delhi||Golden Temple model at Dubai Expo||A replica of the Golden Temple was unveiled on Friday on the occasion of Gurpurb of the first Sikh Guru, Guru Nanak, at Dubai Expo-2020 at the India Pavilion.Vikramjit Singh Sahney, International President of World Punjabi Organisation, who is also a member of the Steering Committee of India Pavillion, said the model was unveiled by Indian Ambassador Pawan Kapoor where Aman Puri, Consul General of India in Dubai, Surender Singh Khandari, President Guru Nanak Durbar, and Surjit Singh, President WPO-Abu Dhabi were also present.Sahney said the installation of the model of Golden Temple at the Dubai Expo would spread the Guru Nanak’s message of universal brotherhood, peaceful co-existence, and tolerance to lakhs of visitors who visit here every day.He also thanked PM Narendra Modi and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal for the installation of the model in India Pavilion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/golden-temple-model-at-dubai-expo-340421
20-11-2021||---||Sikh history theme park thrown open to public in Chamkaur Sahib||Chamkaur Sahib, November 19Amid gaiety and fervour of Gurpurb celebrations, Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit, along with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, dedicated ‘Dastaan-e-Shahadat’ theme park, to the people here today.The Rs 55-crore theme park, has been built in the memory of Guru Gobind Singh’s elder Sahibzadas — Baba Ajit Singh and Baba Jujhar Singh — and 40 others who were martyred while fighting Mughals at Chamkaur Sahib.A Rs 6-crore heritage street, built near Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib, was also inaugurated on the occasion.In his address, the Chief Minister said with the completion of the state-of-the-art theme park project, people visiting the place from different parts of the country and world would be apprised of the saga of “Kacchi Garhi”.Dwelling on the concept of the park, the Chief Minister said the soil of Chamkaur Sahib was soaked with the blood of brave warriors, who made unparalleled sacrifices and displayed heroic deeds during their battle against the Mughals.The Chief Minister also complimented his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh for initiating the project during his previous tenure. The Governor and Chief Minister visited the 11 galleries at the theme park, which effectively showcase Sikh history and glorious heritage from the first Sikh Guru to legendary Sikh warrior Baba Banda Singh Bahadur. The dignitaries also witnessed audio-visual presentation on Sikh history during their visit to the galleries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-history-theme-park-thrown-open-to-public-in-chamkaur-sahib-340436
20-11-2021||---||Deepinder Singh Patwalia takes over as Punjab Advocate General||Chandigarh, November 19After much ado and rigmaroles, the Punjab Government today went back to its initial decision to appoint senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia as the state Advocate General (AG). The post had fallen vacant after senior advocate APS Deol stepped down following objections by a senior leader of the ruling party.Twists and turnsWith the appointment, Patwalia has kept up the family tradition of standing up for justice. He is the son of a retired Supreme Court judge, Justice Kuldip Singh, and brother of a Punjab and Haryana High Court’s former judge, Justice Paramjit Singh Patwalia. Designated senior advocate more than seven years ago, he is the youngest AG for the state in the recallable past.Patwalia has been practising on the constitutional side and has largely been dealing with service matters and even criminal cases. He had appeared before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on behalf of IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa in a case revolving around the appointment of another IPS officer, Dinkar Gupta, as the Director General of Police.Patwalia, who took charge as the AG this evening, was the first to be offered the post by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in September. This came after senior advocate Atul Nanda resigned following the change of guard in the Congress and Channi replacing Capt Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister.Available information suggests the government in a last-minute turnaround reportedly cleared the name of senior advocate Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu for the post. But it eventually appointed APS Deol, who at one point was the counsel for former top cop Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umaranangal — both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.Deol’s appointment courted controversy as the incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015 have always been considered politically sensitive. Under attack, Deol resigned from the post last month before being engaged in a war of words with Sidhu. Deol publically accused Sidhu of disseminating misinformation to achieve political benefit over his political colleagues.Deol also blamed him for obstructing the functioning of the state government and the AG’s office. Sidhu, in turn, used a long thread of 12 tweets to slam Deol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deepinder-singh-patwalia-takes-over-as-punjab-advocate-general-340455
20-11-2021||---||Decision on Punjab CM only after elections, says Harish Chaudhary||Jalandhar, November 19Stressing the Congress will fight the upcoming state Assembly elections under the collective leadership, Punjab Congress affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary today remained non-committal on making Charanjit Singh Channi Chief Minister again if the party comes back to power.On his maiden visit to the district to know the pulse of the local Congress leaders, he said: “Leaders who are performing well will be given extension if the Congress forms the government after elections. Ticket will be given purely on merit.”Credits Jal MLAs for change at helmWhen asked if Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will be given an extension, Chaudhary deflected the question by saying the CM was doing good work and the party would fight elections under the collective leadership. “After Beant Singh, it is Channi who is a common man and running the state in an exemplary manner,” he said.Will be people’s choiceThe collective leadership is in focus for the upcoming elections. The CM face will be from the popular choice of the people who will be selected after the elections. —Harish Chaudhary, Punjab congress affairs inchargeIn no mood to reveal the party’s cards on the chief ministerial face, he said, “The collective leadership is what will remain in focus for the upcoming elections. The CM face will be from the popular choice of the people which will be selected only after the elections.”On Captain Amarinder Singh, he said: “It was two years back that decision to change the leadership in Punjab was taken but it was delayed due to Covid outbreak. Nobody from the party ever criticised Capt Amarinder Singh as there is something known as party discipline,” he said.When asked about PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu always raising party issues on social media platforms, the party affairs incharge was unable to give any satisfactory reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decision-on-punjab-cm-only-after-elections-says-harish-chaudhary-340456
20-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Canadian Sikhs help flood-hit in British Columbia||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 19After massive floods devastated the British Columbia province in Canada, the Sikh community has come out in support of the affected people by way of providing food and other essential commodities to people.Volunteers from Surrey's Dukh Nivaran Sahib Gurdwara are pulling out all the stops to make sure people stranded by washouts, mudslides and floods don't go hungry. They are even renting out a helicopter to deliver meals and other supplies to affected communities.In Surrey, volunteers at Gurdwara Dukh Nivaran Sahib cooked more than 3,000 meals for travellers who were stranded in Hope because of the double mudslides that came down on Highway 7. The meals were shipped by a helicopter as per volunteer Amarjit Singh Dhadwar.Dhadwar, a former truck driver, says his friends called him and told him they were stuck, so he and other volunteers swung into action. "It's in our blood. The Punjabi and Sikh community is always ready to help others.” Narinder Singh Walia, the gurdwara's president, said, “There are so many people stuck due to floods and landslides, they have no food. We are trying to reach them with food and blankets and other stuff. Volunteers at the gurdwara say the air operations will continue until roads are passable, and then deliveries will continue by truck."Khalsa Aid Canada volunteers in Kelowna, Kamloops and in Metro Vancouver are cooking meals for stranded truckers in Princeton and sending supplies to Hope and Spences Bridge. Baljit Lally, the Lower Mainland coordinator for Khalsa Aid, said when they heard the food was running out for 200 truckers stranded near the Hope airport, they reached out to the Khalsa Darbar temple in Vancouver that mobilised volunteers from to cook meals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canadian-sikhs-help-flood-hit-in-british-columbia-340457
20-11-2021||---||Of 35 lakh jabbed in Ludhiana, just 11 lakh women||Ludhiana, November 19In Ludhiana, less number of women has been vaccinated against Covid as compared to men.There is a 50 per cent gap in the gender ratio of those who have got themselves inoculated to date. According to the data shared by the Health Department, 35 lakh people have been vaccinated of which 24 lakh are males and only 11 lakh are females.Besides, there are 5.5 lakh people in Ludhiana who have skipped their due date for the second dose and there are still 3.5 lakh people left who have not received even a single dose till now.Despite repeated reminders being sent through SMS by the Health Department, they have not turned up for their second dose. The district administration and the Health Department now plan to cover this population under ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign. Around 80 per cent of this population has crossed 100 days since their first dose.Dr Puneet Juneja, nodal officer for Covid vaccination drive in Ludhiana district, said that dependency was the major factor responsible for a smaller number of females coming forward for vaccination. In addition, rumoured side-effects, lack of support and lack of knowledge about the vaccine were other factors responsible for the gap, the nodal officer said.“They generally wait for someone else to take them to the vaccination centre for inoculation. Women who run the house should not wait but go out and get jabbed,” he said.Under the campaign, field teams will be visiting people’s doorstep. They will also be calling up people and motivating them to get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/of-35-lakh-jabbed-in-ludhiana-just-11-lakh-women-340458
20-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala: Not many takers for door-to-door vaccination drive||Though the Health Department has already initiated the “Har Ghar Dastak” campaign to enhance the Covid vaccination, the coverage is still low.Health officials are said to have continuously been turned down by the beneficiaries. It has been learnt that beneficiaries, in the face of steep decline in Covid cases, have become non-serious about inoculation. In some instances, they are even lying about their whereabouts. Some are even found to be feigning diseases to avoid vaccination.Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said many beneficiaries avoided vaccination, saying they were suffering from viral infections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-not-many-takers-for-door-to-door-vaccination-drive-340459
20-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Drugs in 65 cases missing: Punjab Police to HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19In a shocking revelation, the Punjab and Haryana High Court was told that contraband in about 65 criminal cases had been stolen or had gone missing. A letter to this effect, purportedly written by Ludhiana Commissioner of Police on March 26, was placed before the High Court during the hearing of a case.Taking up a drugs-related case, Justice Amol Rattan Singh also pulled up the police for not showing correct manner of arrest “all too often”. The Bench said the system of checks and balances was “obviously missing” as only police officers were being made incharge of committees to oversee the disposal of drugs.‘No check in place’Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted this was possibly why the committees were not meeting as often as they were required to for ensuring the destruction of contraband that was no longer case property. “Actually, the committee would need to be headed by a senior IAS officer so as to try and ensure that the contraband is not misused,” the Bench observed.Justice Amol Rattan Singh also directed State counsel Gaurav Garg Dhuriwala to bring the matter regarding the letter to the notice of the High Court judges’ committee constituted by the Chief Justice pursuant to orders passed by the Supreme Court on the issue of contraband disposal. Advocate Ishan Gupta was also asked to assist the court.In his detailed order, Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted that the letter, possibly addressed to the Additional Director-General of Police, Special Task Force, had been produced before the court in connection with another matter. Its copy had been given to the State counsel appearing in the case for confirmation.Justice Amol Rattan Singh added it was required to be specifically stated by the court and was not a general observation that every now and then, a matter cropped up where it was seen that “persons were being shown to be arrested from different places with contraband shown to be recovered from them”. But as per videographic evidence presented before the court for those petitions, they were shown to be picked up from their homes or different places at completely different times and even dates.“The impression that this court has gathered over the years is that possibly most of those persons shown to be arrested may be persons who are actually indulging in buying/selling of contraband or are at least suspected of doing so. However, the manner of arrest is all too often not shown to be correct and in fact is shown to be in a completely different manner to the actual arrest, simply because the investigating agency decided to adopt ‘short cuts’…,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-in-65-cases-missing-punjab-police-to-hc-340460
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal defers ‘Mission Punjab’ by two days||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s ‘Mission Punjab’ tour, scheduled to start from Moga from November 20, has been postponed for November 22 as party volunteers will participate in the celebrations of the farmers over the withdrawal of the three laws.The AAP saluted the 700 farm martyrs who sacrificed their lives and fought for more than a year for the cause. In a statement, it was said history would remember the struggle on every front. “It is the victory of farmers’ courage, passion and hope, the victory of every family that, regardless of day and night or sun or rain, fought with harsh weather to secure the future of Punjab,” said the AAP.Kejriwal along with party’s state president and MP Bhagwant Mann congratulated the people of Punjab and the entire country as AAP volunteers expressed happiness by distributing ‘laddoos’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-defers-mission-punjab-by-two-days-340461
20-11-2021||Muktsar||Depressed by deaths of kin due to Covid, Lambi farmer kills self, daughter||Depressed over the recent deaths of his mother and wife due to Covid-19, a 50-year-old farmer from Mahuana village in Lambi segment allegedly shot dead his daughter and then committed suicide at his residence here today.A suicide note was recovered from the spot, in which Jagwinderpal Singh Jaggi stated that he was depressed. Inspector Amandeep Singh, SHO, Lambi police station, said, “We have started investigations. Jaggi was depressed after his wife and mother died due to Covid. He first shot his daughter and then shot himself today with his licensed weapon at his residence.”The deceased girl has been identified as Vishavdeep Kaur (25). She was taken to a hospital in Ludhiana, but died there. Sources said Jaggi was also taken to a hospital in Bathinda, where he was declared brought dead. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also visited the hospital in Bathinda, where Jaggi’s body was kept.“On hearing the gun shots, neighbours reached their house and found the bodies lying in a pool of blood. The suicide note and the licensed weapon of Jaggi have been recovered. No one is left in the family now,” said Jaspal Singh, DSP, Malout.He added, “When Jaggi’s mother and wife died of Covid earlier this year, he too had tested positive. He, however, survived that time. Since then, he has been upset.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/depressed-by-deaths-of-kin-due-to-covid-lambi-farmer-kills-self-daughter-340462
20-11-2021||Bathinda||Release relief for pest-hit Punjab cotton growers: BKU||Citing delay in providing compensation for the cotton crop damaged by pink bollworm, the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) held a demonstration outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Bathinda.Farmers also sought to expedite the process to display lists of affected farmers and farm labourers who would be compensated at villages and also provide uninterrupted supply of DAP. Protesting farmers raised slogans against the government and the district administration and demanded that their problems be resolved on a priority basis. Later, a meeting of BKU representatives and the Bathinda DC was held where the latter assured of working towards resolving their problems.Shingara Singh Mann, president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “On providing compensation to the affected cotton farmers, the administration has informed us that a majority of modalities have already been worked out and it would be released soon. We were given assurance that a workable solution would be introduced in the matter of farm labourers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-relief-for-pest-hit-punjab-cotton-growers-bku-340463
20-11-2021||Amritsar||Four days on, Amritsar gangwar accused Gopi Mahal yet to be nabbed||Even after four days of murder of a woman in Chogwan gangwar here, gangster Abhiraj Singh, alias Gopi Mahal, is still at large. The deceased, Paramjit Kaur, was the mother of another gangster Gagandeep Singh, who sustained bullet injuries in the incident. His condition is serious and is under treatment at a private hospital here.Though the police claimed that they had got the clues about the whereabouts of the accused and that raids were on to nab them, there had been no success in arresting them. Besides, Gopi Mahal, the police have booked Amarbir Singh of Mahal village and Gurjant Singh of Chogwan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-days-on-amritsar-gangwar-accused-gopi-mahal-yet-to-be-nabbed-340464
20-11-2021||Abohar||22,000 sedative tablets seized||Muktsar locals seek rail linkMuktsar: Muktsar residents have written to the Minister of Railways to lay a railway track between Kotkapura and Moga, which will connect several towns with Chandigarh. “The railways had conducted a survey in 2017 to lay a track between Kotkapura and Moga, but due to buses plying on this route, it could not be laid,” said Sham Lal Goyal, president, Muktsar National Consumers Awareness Group. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/22-000-sedative-tablets-seized-340465
20-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Senior advocate DS Patwalia is Punjab's new Advocate-General||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19After much ado and rigmaroles, the Punjab Government on Friday went back to its initial decision to appoint senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia as the state Advocate-General. The post had fallen vacant after senior advocate APS Deol stepped down following attack by a member of the government that appointed him.Patwalia, with his appointment, has kept up the family tradition of standing up for justice. He is the son of retired Supreme Court Judge, Justice Kuldip Singh, and brother of Punjab and Haryana High Court’s former Judge, Justice Paramjit Singh Patwalia. Designated senior advocate more than seven years back, he is the youngest Advocate-General for the state of Punjab in the recallable past.Patwalia has been practising on the constitutional side and has largely been dealing with service matters and even criminal cases. He had appeared before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on behalf of IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa in a case revolving around the appointment of another IPS officer Dinkar Gupta as the state Director-General of Police.       Patwalia, who took charge as the Advocate-General this evening, was the first to be offered the post by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in September. It was after senior advocate Atul Nanda resigned following the change of guard in the Congress and Channi replacing Capt Amarinder Singh as the Chief MinisterAvailable information suggests the government in a last-minute turnaround reportedly cleared the name of senior advocate Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu for the post. But it eventually appointed APS Deol, who at one point of time was the counsel for former top-cop Sumedh Singh Saini and IG Paramraj Singh Umaranangal — both accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.Deol’s appointment courted controversy as the incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015 have always been considered politically sensitive. Facing attack, Deol resigned from the post last month before being engaged in a war of words with Sidhu. Deol publically accused Sidhu of disseminating misinformation to achieve political benefit over his political colleagues. Deol also blamed him for obstructing the functioning of the state government and the AG office. Sidhu, in turn, used a long thread of 12 tweets to slam Deol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-advocate-ds-patwalia-is-punjabs-new-advocate-general-340288
20-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||‘Victory for farmers’: Punjabi MPs in UK, Canada hail repealing of three farm laws||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 19Punjabi NRI MPs and MLAs have termed the announcement made by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union Government to repeal the three farm laws as victory for farmers.UK MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi tweeted: “Given #FarmersProtest valiant struggles, glad the controversial farm laws being repealed. Sections of media and establishment busy labelling farmers and those standing in solidarity with them as terrorists and separatists may well want to apologise”.Another UK MP Preet Kaur Gill said in a tweet:“Huge victory for Sikh farmers and Indian farmers unions, who had fought hard for the repeal of what they called the “black laws’. The largest social movement in the world has affected change as Narendra Modi now commits to repealing laws”.UK MP Seema Malhotra tweeted: “This hugely welcome news that India will be repealing its three controversial farm laws, more than a year after the start of widespread protests against them is a huge victory for the farmers and families who protested against them and sacrificed so much”.In another tweet, she said: “Thank you to the farmer families and communities affected by the proposed changes who raised their concerns and supported the farmers - and the brave journalists and campaigners who stood with them”.Punjabi Canadian MLA and Parliamentary Secretary for Anti-racism Initiatives Rachna Singh tweeted photo of a ‘breaking news’ stating India’s PM repeals farm laws that sparked massive global protests. The photo reads “A huge win for the #FarmersProtest !”.Canadian MP from Brampton North Ruby Sahota retweeted the tweet of Kisan Ekta Morcha: “And it’s a WIN, after long 1 year!! Modi Govt decides to repeal  all 3 farm laws- says PM Modi Unity & Justice Is onIts Way to Success”.British MP Valerie Vaz tweeted: “The repeal of the farm laws is brilliant news Today is Guru Nanak Sahebjee’s Birthday”.UK MP from Warley John Spellar tweeted: “Great news from India as heroic protests by Sikh farmers force U-turn on farming laws”.Another MP from Wolverhampton South East Pat McFadden tweeted: “This decision will mean a lot to many in the UK who felt deep solidarity with the farmers protesting in India, including many constituents in Wolverhampton South East”.These Punjab-origin UK and Canadian MPs and MLAs have been supporting the farmers’ protest since its start. They had also condemned the use of water cannon and police force on farmers when they were marching towards Delhi for the protest last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/victory-for-farmers-punjabi-mps-in-uk-canada-hail-repealing-of-three-farm-laws-340281
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi announces memorial for those who lost their lives during farmer protests||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced a memorial for the farmers who died in the year-long protests against the controversial agriculture laws that the central government withdrew on Friday.Channi said his government would decide on a site after consulting farmer unions.  The move is seen as the Congress government’s attempt to take credit for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to withdraw the controversial laws.Additionally, Channi demanded a compensation package from the central government for the 700 plus farmers who lost their lives during the protest and a law guaranteeing minimum support price for farmers tabled in the forthcoming winter session of Parliament.It remains to be seen whether the announcement to withdraw the three central farm laws was a political stunt for the upcoming assembly elections, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-announces-memorial-for-those-who-lost-their-lives-during-farmer-protests-340272
20-11-2021||Vishav Bharti||Victory for Punjab farmers comes at the cost of 669 lives||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19The victory for farmers after a year-long struggle at the Delhi borders has come at a heavy price as 669 lives were lost.  Hailstorm or heat wave, multiple waves of Covid or dengue outbreak, cruel roads or reckless drivers, they braved it all for 360 long days.Centre takes back 3 farm laws, Modi announces in address to the nationWill stay put on Delhi borders till Parliament session ends, say Samyukta Kisan Morcha leadersBKU (Ugrahan) welcomes govt's decision to repeal farm laws"We are farmers, we see nature in much more cruel form in our fields every day so it doesn't bother us," says Murthal-based Ravinder Singh, president, Bharti Kisan Panchayat, who has been sitting at the Singhu border since November 27 last year.    Casualties started for Punjab when preparations for the Delhi march were on in full swing last year. The first such casualty took place on November 24 last year when a large group of farmers was covering tractor-trolleys with waterproof sheets at Mehal Kalan in Barnala.Kahan Singh, an activist of the BKU (Dakaunda) from Dhaner village, was hit by a car on the roadside where trollies were parked and died on the spot. “Kahan Singh was the first martyr of the Delhi morcha,” says Manjit Dhaner, BKU (Dakunda) leader.  More names, those of the old and young, men and women, since kept adding to the list. The reason behind the deaths kept changing; run over by recklessly driven trucks, falling from tractor trolleys, dying from harsh cold, dengue or Covid.  "Even nature was not kind to us. But our struggle will go down as a monument to our  sacrifice. The coming generations will know that only struggle can defeat the undefeatable, achieve the unimaginable," says Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala of Kirti Kisan Union.Between November 24, 2020 and November 19, 2021, 669 farmers or farm labourers died during the struggle, says Bengaluru-based writer Amandeep Sandhu, who has been keeping a track of the 'martyrs' of Delhi morcha from the beginning."Please tell me how do I make sense of how the 'powers that be' treat Punjab? For a whole year, the Centre did not pay heed to the protests," he wrote recently on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/victory-for-punjab-farmers-comes-at-the-cost-of-669-lives-340221
20-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna ||Centre's repeal announcement brings relief to Punjab farmers||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 19 The promise to repeal the three farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday has brought a big relief and cheer to the farmers in the agrarian state of Punjab. This also brings to an end the long struggle waged by the farmers against the three laws. Victory for Punjab farmers comes at the cost of 669 livesWhile the farmer unions, who had been at the forefront of organising one of the biggest struggles, say that this is a big win for them, as the government has been forced to accede to their demands, the farmers in the state are relieved as the “economic threat” perceived by them through the three laws is over. Will stay put on Delhi borders till Parliament session ends, say Samyukta Kisan Morcha leadersBKU (Ugrahan) welcomes govt's decision to repeal farm lawsGovt has to bring bill to repeal three agri laws: ExpertsDarshan Pal, a senior leader of Samyukt Kisan Morcha - the umbrella body of 32 farmer unions formed to spearhead the struggle - told The Tribune, “We are proud of our united struggle’s win. The government had to bend and repeal the laws. We feel sad that it took so many lives, before the laws were finally taken back.” Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, vice president of Kirti Kisan Union, termed the development as a big win for the struggling farmers of the country, saying it was only because of launching a united struggle that they had managed to make the Centre repeal the laws. “A meeting of the SKM will be held shortly to discuss all issues, including seeking assurance on MSP from the Centre,” he said. Till date 665 farmers have lost their lives in the ongoing struggle. An economic profiling of the deceased farmers was done in a study by economists associated with Punjabi University recently, and it found that majority of those who died were small and marginal farmers. The study by economists Lakhwinder Singh, a former Professor at Punjabi University, and Baldev Singh Shergil, an assistant professor in the university’s Talwandi Sabo campus, has concluded that the average size of landholding of the deceased farmers is 2.94 acre. If the landless farmers, who cultivated the contracted land are taken into account, the average size of landholding of the deceased drops to 2.26 acre, concludes this study. PM's farm announcement a huge relief for BJP-JJP govt in HaryanaFarmers at Tikri border happy at repeal announcement but in no mood to budge till formalities are completedWithdrawal of farm laws impelled by 'fear of elections': ChidambaramTalking to The Tribune, Gurbakshish Singh, a farmers from Bimbar village near Nabha, said farmers like him were very happy at the decision to repeal the laws. “It will ensure economic stability for us,” he said.Reacting to the announcement, state Agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha said that he welcomed the decision of the Union Government to take back the three laws. “I thank the Prime Minister for listening to the long-standing demand of the farmers. I also demand that the Union Government compensate the families of farmers who died during the protest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centres-repeal-announcement-brings-relief-to-punjab-farmers-340218
