21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Punjab sees 27 fresh cases||Punjab on Sunday reported 27 fresh coronavirus cases, which took the state’s infection tally to 6,02,980, according to a medical bulletin. Meanwhile, no Covid death was reported in the state, which so far has reported 16,584 fatalities. Fatehgarh Sahib reported 11 cases, followed by four each in Jalandhar and Pathankot and two in Hoshiarpur. The number of active cases dropped to 279 from 290 on Saturday. Thirty-five more people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,86,117, as per the bulletin. Union Territory Chandigarh reported six Covid-19 cases, taking its total count to 65,406.No death was reported in Chandigarh as the fatality count stood at 820. The number of active cases in the city was 30 while the number of cured persons was 64,556. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-punjab-sees-27-fresh-cases-341100
21-11-2021||Mohali/Hoshiarpur||Fight not over, govt must formally repeal farm laws, give legal guarantee for MSP, say Punjab villagers||For 62-year-old Bhupinder Kaur, who has been part of demonstrations against three central farm laws since last year, the fight is far from over, even after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement that they will be repealed.The fight will not be over till the laws are formally repealed in Parliament and farmers' demand for legal guarantee of Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops is fulfilled, said Kaur as she, along with other elderly women from Chilla village in poll-bound Punjab's Mohali district, prepared ‘langar' at a local gurdwara.The prime minister in his address to the nation on Friday announced repeal of the laws and that the constitutional formalities to revoke the laws would be done during the winter session of Parliament, which begins on November 29.Kaur's views were echoed by others as they discussed the year-long protests against the laws while preparing food at a ‘langar'.Formally roll back the laws in Parliament and give legal guarantee of MSP on crops, these are the demands, they said, adding that families of farmers who lost their lives in protests, which began last year, must be given compensation.The prime minister's announcement was welcomed on Friday by farmers' unions spearheading the agitation but they said protests would continue till the measures are repealed in Parliament and MSP got legal guarantee.Chilla village has a population of around 2,000, and villagers, who are not aligned to any farmer outfit, are actively participating in the agitation against the laws at the Singhu border, attending it in batches.The Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana was the fountainhead of the farmers' protest, which started last year in November, two months after enactment of the laws. From there the movement gradually expanded to the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and other sites.The women of Chilla village, along with their children, also stand near a traffic light point every day to muster support for protesting farmers.Similarly, residents of nearby villages of Manauli, Bhago Majra, Sante Majra, Chhota Raipur and Bada Raipur have also been going to protest sites on Delhi's borders.Bhupinder Kaur, who also has been going to the Singhu border regularly, told PTI: “Till the three farm laws are repealed in Parliament, our struggle continues.”Malkit Kaur, who, along with some other women, was chopping vegetables for the langar, was sceptical about the PM's statement saying the government should formally roll back the laws.On Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had asked farmers to be cautious till the farm laws were repealed, saying Prime Minister Modi has made only an announcement on it.However, the announcement on Guru Nanak Jayanti was enough to get villagers in Chilla to celebrate.“Somebody called me up and said congratulations. I thought it would be for Gurpurab but when he told me about repealing of the laws, I left my meal midway and went straight to the gurdwara and announced to the villagers that we had won,” Baba Sukhchain Singh, head of the gurdwara at Chilla village, said. Singh said it was a fight for existence and collective support of the people proved that they could stand against government decisions which were not acceptable.He claimed that farmers had enough ration to stay at Delhi's borders till 2024.Jagtar Singh Gill said people, especially in rural areas, would remember that it took one year for the BJP-led government to repeal the laws. The anger against the BJP would not subside soon, he said.“Farmers will also not forget that they were called terrorists, Khalsitanis, etc,” said Gill, claiming that “700 farmers died during the agitation”.On the Punjab Assembly polls, slated early next year, Gill advocated the idea of farmers to take an electoral plunge.Singh said villagers, including women, would go in large numbers to Delhi's border on the completion of one year of the struggle.In Hoshiarpur, farmers continued with their protests, demanding a law for legal guarantee for MSP and compensation to families of farmers who died during the stir.Farmer Kuljinder Singh Ghuman of Jatpur village said the announcement to repeal the laws is a big success not only for the farming community but also for the common man.Jangveer Singh of Rasoolpur village said had the farm laws been withdrawn earlier, there would not have been so many deaths.In Amritsar, panchayat member Heir Sarbjit Singh said, “Farmers are extremely happy with the announcement of repealing of the three central farm laws.”Another farmer, Gurjinder Singh, who has 35 acres of land near Raja Sansi, said the government should have repealed the farm laws earlier. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fight-not-over-govt-must-formally-repeal-farm-laws-give-legal-guarantee-for-msp-say-punjab-villagers-341054
21-11-2021||New Delhi||Pakistan waives 10-day advance list for Kartarpur till November 30||Pakistan has decided to continue with easier norms for visiting the Kartarpur Corridor. The relaxation on 10 days advance information about the arrival of Sikh pilgrims for visiting Kartarpur Gurdwara will remain in force till November 30. After India’s sudden announcement of the opening of the Corridor, Pakistan had decided to waive this requirement as it would have meant a wait of 10 days before the first pilgrims arrived.Pakistan said the decision has been taken as a sign of respect for the religious sentiments of the Sikh Yatrees and indicated that the requirement for 10 days of advance intimation will be enforced from December 1 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-waives-10-day-advance-list-for-kartarpur-till-november-30-341029
21-11-2021||---||Tributes paid to women martyrs of farm struggle||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20With fiery speeches on “Farmers’ Struggle and Earth Democracy”, the first national convention of the Punjab Women Collective, comprising 11 organisations, paid a befitting tribute to women martyrs in farmers’ struggle, at Punjab Kala Bhawan, Sector 16, here, today.Environmental activists Dr Vandana Shiva and Medha Patkar, along with writer-activist Dr Navsharan Kaur, were the key speakers of the event, while Devi Kumari, Jasbir Kaur Nat and Paramjit Longowal elaborated on “women leading the struggle from zero”.At the convection, Vandana Shiva, who is often referred to as “Gandhi of grain” for her activism on anti-GMO movement, while talking to The Tribune, said: “Green revolution ‘chemicalised’ Punjab. The state must do agriculture as Guru Nanak would have liked. Organic is not a luxury, it’s our duty. Half of India cannot pay for its food. So, half of India should be supported by public distribution system (PDS). It should be the national langar. The attack on the PDS by the World Bank was intense. Globalisation of agriculture and agricultural revolution don’t go together.”Stating her UN report and books on women in agriculture, Shiva said: “The politics of gender divide is closely linked with the politics and economics of poison agriculture.”Medha Patkar, who is the founder of the Narmada Bachao Aandolan in three Indian states, assured the audience that the sacrifice of those who died during the farmers’ protest will not go in vain.“Over 600 people died protesting against the three laws. But I have been able to see how the crowds came together and stood united against the laws. This protest brought people of all religions and castes together. It was at the farmers’ mahapanchayat in UP where slogans of Hindu-Muslim brotherhood were raised from one stage. It was in this movement where guru ka langar broke all social barriers and everyone ate together,” she said.Dr Navsharan Kaur, a human rights practitioner, who has written books and researched on agriculture for 10 years now, said: “The plight of women has often been ignored. One refers to farmers as ‘kisan bhaiyo, not kisan behno’. It’s important to understand that women with land and landless women face agrarian crisis differently. About 80 per cent land in Punjab is under wheat and paddy, which is fairly mechanised. Women have been replaced by machines, but at the same time, they haven’t been given any alternative employment too. The villages are often disconnected and safety is an important issue. This makes farming a tough field for women. Yet, the women kept this protest going strong. They even had a woman panchayat. We have come a long way.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tributes-paid-to-women-martyrs-of-farm-struggle-340871
21-11-2021||Muktsar||17 held with 20 stolen bikes||4-gm heroin seizedSangrur: The police have arrested a woman and seized 4-gm heroin from her. “We have arrested Kiran Kaur and confiscated 4 gm of heroin from her,” said ASI Parmjit Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17-held-with-20-stolen-bikes-340761
21-11-2021||Bathinda||Protest over inflation in Bathinda||Members of the Janwadi Istri Sabha and the All India Pragtisheel Istri Sabha held a protest rally against skyrocketing prices of essential commodities.The protest was carried out on a call given by the Punjab Bachao Sanyukt Morcha. The protesters raised slogans against the Centre and demanded that the government must find a solution to keep inflation under control. Randeep Kaur, a member of the sabha, said, “Prices of almost all essential commodities, including edibles, petrol and cooking gas have skyrocketed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-over-inflation-in-bathinda-340762
21-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Two held for throwing mobile phones into jail||Ferozepur, November 20The police have arrested two persons, including a sweeper working at the Ferozepur Central Jail, for allegedly throwing mobile phones inside the jail premises. The accused have been identified as Rajiv Kumar (sweeper) and Sandeep Kumar, alias Subbi, a resident of the cantonment.Ferozepur Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harmandeep Hans said they have registered an FIR following the recovery of mobile phones from the jail premises. The SSP said during techical inspection of recovered mobile phones, it came to the fore that these cell phones were thrown by Rajiv Subbi. “The complaints were received against Rajeev earlier as well. He was transferred to the Bathinda Central Jail recently,” said the SSP.“The police have registered a case against the accused. More revelations are expected in this case,” said Hans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-for-throwing-mobile-phones-into-jail-340763
21-11-2021||Abohar||Swachh Survekshan: Abohar ranks 5th in Punjab||Ranked 428th among 434 cities during Swachh Survekshan 2017, Abohar has made a remarkable improvement and secured 105th position in Swachh Survekshan 2021. In 2020, Abohar was placed at 380th position. This year, the municipal corporation stood 5th in the state, while last year it ranked 13th. After the declaration of results by the Central Government, there was a wave of happiness among residents.Locals gave credit to ‘Apna Abohar, Apni Abha’ campaign, besides the MC staff that had organised special cleanliness camps every Saturday and added wall paintings and saplings plantation to the drive.“The support provided by locals who painted walls and roadside trees, besides curating lawns played a major role,” said campaign chief. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/swachh-survekshan-abohar-ranks-5th-in-punjab-340764
21-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Grenade recovered  from Ferozepur||Ferozepur, November 20The Ferozepur police have recovered a hand grenade, which was apparently concealed beneath the ground in forest area of Shekhwan village. As per information, the forest staff spotted a tiffin box in which the hand grenade was reportedly kept. Later, the forest officials informed the police, following which Senior Superintendent of Police Harmandeep Singh Hans along with his team rushed to the spot and cordoned off the entire area.The SSP said, “It seems to be a live hand grenade, however, the things will get clear once the bomb disposal squad reaches the spot to diffuse the same.”The SSP did not rule out any subversive angle, but said it was too premature to say anything before conducting thorough investigation into the matter.It is pertinent to mention that two instances of recovery of tiffin bombs have come to the fore in recent times in the area. Even a blast in motorcycle took place outside the bank in Jalalabad of Fazilka district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/grenade-recovered-from-ferozepur-340765
21-11-2021||---||Beware of tricksters, medical University Vice-Chancellor tells job applicants||Faridkot, November 20Two days after 1.5 lakh applicants appeared for the written test of ward attendants (800 posts), Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Tuesday alerted the candidates about some unscrupulous elements.Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, said, “These tricksters, flaunting their political and bureaucratic connections, are allegedly alluring the gullible candidates with surety of their selection by paying ‘kickbacks’.These elements are approaching many candidates with promise of affecting the result by undue influence or with money power.”We have received numerous verbal complaints in this regard, he said.“All the candidates have been informed that evaluation will be done through high-quality scanners, which have been called from Karnataka. We are hopeful of declaring the result in the next one week. It’s for the first time that the university has taken one week time to declare the results at this level. All answer sheets have been scanned through scanners,” said the Vice-Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/beware-of-tricksters-medical-university-vice-chancellor-tells-job-applicants-340766
21-11-2021||---||Sukhwinder Singh state singer, accorded Cabinet rank||Chamkaur Sahib, Nov 20Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has accorded the state singer status to Sukhwinder Singh. CM Channi also announced the title of “Shiromani Punjab Sahitkar” for Punjabi poet and writer Surjit Patar. Both have been given the rank of a Cabinet minister as well.The Chief Minister, who was the chief guest at an event organised to mark the opening of Dastaan-e-Shahadat, a museum to commemorate the sacrifice of the two elder Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh, said the two awardees had made a huge contribution towards promoting the Punjabi language and culture of Punjab.Sukhwinder’s voice and Patar’s scripts had been used while preparing several screen shows for visitors to the museum. The CM said the aim of the musical evening was to present the playback singers, music directors, screenplay writers, and others instrumental in bringing alive the concept before people and honour them. He also acknowledged others singers, including Harshdeep Kaur, Jaspinder Narula, Durga Rangila, Manjider Mani and late Diljan, whose voices had been used to bring the galleries to life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhwinder-singh-state-singer-accorded-cabinet-rank-340767
21-11-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||18 bogus companies created to claim Rs 13.78 crore GST refund||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 20The Central Goods and Services Tax Commissionerate (Ludhiana) has unearthed a racket involving fake input tax credit (ITC) and Goods and Services Tax (GST) refund to the tune of Rs 13.78 crore. The accused had created 18 fake firms across the country for this purpose.On the complaint of Rohit Meena, Inspector(preventive), CGST, a case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy has been registered against six persons, including Narinder Chugh (kingpin), a resident of Sainik Farms, Delhi; Satish Sharma (accountant); Rohit Kumar Gupta (responsible for carrying out banking operations); Ankur Garg (chartered accountant), Aman Saggar (managing banking operations) and Ram Bilas Yadav.The CGST officials said Chugh along with his accomplices was operating 18 firms out of which 12 were located in Punjab and the remaining in Delhi and Haryana.These firms were involved in passing/availing the ITC without actual supply of goods and monetising the same by availing the GST refunds.The accused had also indulged in availing export benefits without meeting export requirements. They also availed input tax credit amounting to Rs 8.97 crore and its monetisation through the GST refund to the tune of Rs 4.80 crores (total Rs 13.78 crore). The District Attorney( Legal) in his opinion said the accused had caused huge monetary loss to the exchequer by issuance of fake GST bills involving fraudulent availment of the ITC.Assistant Sub-Inspector Didar Singh (Investigation Officer) said no arrest has been made in the case so far.Modus operandi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-bogus-companies-created-to-claim-rs-13-78-crore-gst-refund-340768
21-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t impose composite civil imprisonment for more than a month in single stroke: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a court cannot impose composite civil imprisonment for more than a month in a single stroke in case of default in payment of maintenance arrears/allowances under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The ruling by Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul came on a revision petition filed by a man assailing an order passed by a family court on an application moved under Section 125(3) of the CrPC. The petitioner, vide the impugned order, was directed to undergo a composite sentence of 12 months’ civil imprisonment for default in payment of maintenance allowance for 66 months.The counsel for the petitioner vehemently urged that the family court gravely erred while passing the impugned order without appreciating that composite sentence could not have been ordered for default of payment of arrears.It was also submitted that the petitioner was sentenced to civil imprisonment on March 16, 2020, soon after the passing of the impugned order. But he was released on parole following the Covid-19 outbreak. He was, subsequently, directed by the jail authorities to surrender, which he did on October 10. Since then he was confined in a prison.Justice Kaul asserted the question for determination was whether a court could in exercise of its powers under Section 125(3) impose composite civil imprisonment in case of default in payment for more than one month in a single stroke.Referring to the provision, Justice Kaul asserted its perusal left no manner of doubt that the court could impose a maximum sentence of one month only for breach of payment of maintenance for each month, unless the payment of the arrears was made sooner.Justice Kaul added the Supreme Court while dealing with a similar question held in no uncertain terms that the magistrate’s powers were restricted and sentence exceeding the maximum i.e. one month could not be imposed for default. If at all the default persisted even after the expiry of one month, the only remedy available to the aggrieved party was to approach the magistrate concerned again after the expiry of a month for enforcing her claim of maintenance for sending the delinquent husband to civil imprisonment.“Therefore, what flows from the case is that the defaulter can under no circumstances be ordered to undergo composite civil imprisonment for a period beyond one month irrespective of the fact that the arrears etc. claimed in a single application by the aggrieved party may be for more than one month,” Justice Kaul added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-impose-composite-civil-imprisonment-for-more-than-a-month-in-single-stroke-high-court-340769
21-11-2021||Manav Mander||FARM FIRES: Burning friendly pests leaves crops disease-prone||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 20Stubble burning not only spreads air pollution but also has huge impact on the soil health.Experts say crop residue burning kills the bacterial and fungal population, which is critical for fertile soil. “As a result, crops become more prone to diseases due to loss of friendly pests and its adverse effect includes emission of greenhouse gases that contributes to global climate change,” said Dr RK Gupta, principal soil chemist at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).On an estimate, one tonne stubble burning leads to loss of all soil nutrients, organic carbon, 5.5 kg nitrogen, 2.3 kg phosphorus, 25 kg potassium, 1.2 kg sulphur and 400 kg carbon. In Punjab, nearly 20-22 million tonne paddy straw is produced from 3 million hectares of area under paddy cultivation. In north-western states of India, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, about 90-95% of area under paddy is followed by wheat crop.“Generally, farmers don’t incorporate rice straw into soil due to small period left for its decomposition along with high cost involved in its incorporation. The practice of burning rice straw causes air pollution in addition to degradation of soil health. The heat from the fire penetrates one cm into soil, which leads to rise in temperature to 33.2-42.2 degree Celsius. It leads to killing of bacterial and fungal populace, which is considered critical for soil fertility,” Gupta said.He said burning of crop residue also damaged soil’s organic quality and other microorganisms present in the upper layer of the soil. “Due to loss of friendly pests, the wrath of enemy pests has increased and as a result, crops are more prone to diseases. The soluble capacity of the upper layer of soil has also been reduced,” he said.Dr OP Choudhary, head, soil science, PAU, said burning of paddy straw resulted in significant reduction in the population of major groups of microorganisms — bacteria, fungi, actinomycetes, phosphate solubilising microorganism, potassium solubilising microorganism and cellulose degraders immediately after burning.“The microbial enzymes and other soil health parameters show a transient decrease after burning and the microbial population and enzyme activities involved in biomass recycling cannot recover even after 60 days due to unavailability of substrates. This leads to deleterious effects on soil health,” Choudhary said.Ways to use stubble||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-fires-burning-friendly-pests-leaves-crops-disease-prone-340770
21-11-2021||New Delhi||BJP alleges Navjot Singh Sidhu called Imran Khan ‘bade bhai’||PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s “Imran Khan is my elder brother” remark during his Kartarpur visit has invited criticism from the BJP.A purported video of Sidhu being welcomed by a Pakistani official on behalf of the Pak PM has gone viral. He is heard telling the officials: “Imran Khan is like my elder brother and I love him a lot.”At a press conference here, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said: “Sidhu has said this about Imran Khan on Rahul Gandhi’s nudging. This is a serious matter for Indians.” Congress MP Manish Tewari also flayed the comment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-alleges-navjot-singh-sidhu-called-imran-khan-bade-bhai-340826
21-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Open borders for trade, says Navjot Singh Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, November 20Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today led a delegation comprising three ministers and several MLAs to Kartarpur Sahib even as he made a fervent plea to the PMs of India and Pakistan to open borders to facilitate trade.“There is a tremendous potential for trade and religious and medical tourism,” he said, addressing the media on his return. Reminiscing his days as a cricketer, he observed: “When India and Pakistan cricket teams played a match, we shook hands and hugged one another before slugging it out in the field. What stops our politicians from doing so?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/open-borders-for-trade-says-navjot-singh-sidhu-340827
21-11-2021||Vijay C Roy||Farmers' stir brunt: 15 lakh traders suffered Rs 75,000 cr loss, retail giants hit hardest, says CAIT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20Last year, modern retailers approached then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and sought his intervention for smooth functioning of business.In June this year, a group of building owners who have rented out their premises to Reliance Industries for operating its various businesses across Punjab sought the state government’s intervention for reopening of their stores, which were laid siege to by protesting farmers. In September, Flipkart Wholesale decided to shut its 50,000 sq ft cash and carry store “Best Price Wholesale” in Bathinda after it remained closed for months due to farmers’ agitation.Paid extra costDue to road blockades, retailers had to pay extra logistics cost ranging between 10% and 30%, which was subsumed in input cost, making the goods costlier. Ravinder Singh, retailer from AmritsarThese examples indicate that the trading activities in Punjab bore the brunt of farmers’ protest. According to the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), around 15 lakh traders in Punjab, besides modern day retailers like company-owned multi-branded stores, were affected by protests directly or indirectly.Harkesh Mittal, state president (Punjab chapter), CAIT, said the trading community suffered a loss of around Rs 75,000 crore due to the protest as many modern day retail stores were still shut in the state.“The loss is attributed to the protests, bandh and restricted movement of goods due to road blockades and many a time the suspension of railways services. Further, due to road blockades, limited number of traders from other states travelled to Punjab to place orders for goods such as hosiery items, apparels and sports goods that also resulted in loss of business,” Mittal said.“Due to road blockades, retailers had to pay extra logistics cost ranging between 10 per cent and 30 per cent, which was subsumed in input cost, making the goods costlier,” said Ravinder Singh, a retailer from Amritsar. Though retailers heaved a sigh of relief on Friday after the government decided to repeal the farm laws, the losses they incurred could not be underestimated.A large number of store and building owners who have rented out their premises to Reliance Industries are still clueless about the commencement of business. Reliance has around 275 stores in Punjab, all of which are shut.They claimed to have been facing severe financial crisis as they had not been getting any rental income for the past one year. “Our losses are running into crores as the buildings are on loans and we have to bear the burden of huge EMIs. As per the agreements, no rental payment can be made in case there is no billing or store is closed due to agitation, etc,” said Prabhnoor Singh Walia from Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-stir-brunt-15-lakh-traders-suffered-rs-75-000-cr-loss-retail-giants-hit-hardest-says-cait-340771
21-11-2021||---||AAP frowns on Navjot Singh Sidhu’s Pak comment||Chandigarh, November 20AAP state affairs co-in-charge and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha has termed the praise showered by PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Pakistan and its PM Imran Khan as “worrying”. According to Chadha, “this love of Channi and Sidhu for Pakistan is dangerous for the internal security of the country and Punjab”.In a statement today, Chadha said Punjab was a border state, and its police and the BSF had been catching drones, tiffin bombs and intoxicants (heroin) sent from across the border time and again. He said the ruling party talked about opening the border, but if it was done so at this juncture, inflow of drugs and weapons from Pakistan would increase four times. It was unbecoming on part of the CM and Congress state president to make such statements, he added.Govt misleading on PPAs, says cheema||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-frowns-on-navjot-singh-sidhus-pak-comment-340772
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress: Why Modi govt failed to bring ordinance?||Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa has questioned PM Narendra Modi on his statement regarding repealing the farm laws in the coming Parliament session.Bajwa in a tweet said: “I am surprised the Centre did not take the ordinance route and repeal these laws immediately, and then bring accompanying legislation in the session. After all that is the norm for every other Bill, why not for farm laws too?”Try PM for deathsCriminal proceedings should be initiated against Modi for not only causing death of farmers in the agitation, but also causing loss to Punjab’s economy. Brahm Mohindra, ministerFormer PCC chief Sunil Jakhar said: “The announcement to withdraw the farm laws was made not because the PM cares, but because a power-drunk govt took on the descendants of Guru Gobind Singh.” He also hit out at the Badals, claiming: “Before they run to thank Modi for repealing the laws, Parkash Badal should lead the Akali leadership in apologising to the farmers and Punjab for formulating and later supporting these very laws.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-why-modi-govt-failed-to-bring-ordinance-340773
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Invited by Charanjit Channi for talks, labour unions defer protest||After the invitation of a meet with CM Charanjit Channi, the Mazdoor Morcha (a group of around a dozen labour organisations) has postponed their agitation against the government.Earlier, the government had invited them twice for a meeting with the CM, but they refused to meet. Following this, the organisation had given a call to burn effigies of the CM on November 21. The government has fixed a meeting in Chandigarh on November 22.The Mazdoor Morcha has been protesting for the past several months for their long pending demands, including allotment of residential plots, complete debt waiver, assured public distribution system, employment and allotment of one-third share of panchayat land to geniune Dalits.On October 29, after a protest in Mornida, the government had invited them for a meeting with the CM’s Principal Secretary to resolve the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/invited-by-charanjit-channi-for-talks-labour-unions-defer-protest-340774
21-11-2021||Bathinda||Won’t end protest till legal guarantee on MSP: Farm union||The farm agitation will continue until the Centre gives a legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) on farm produce, said Balkaran Singh Brar, state president, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, at a joint meeting of the union with the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha here today.He exhorted farmers to reach the Delhi border in large numbers to take part in protests planned to mark the anniversary of the farm agitation and a subsequent march to Parliament on November 29. Addressing mediapersons, Brar said: “Although the government has announced withdrawal of the farm laws, there is no announcement on MSP. Until the government gives an assurance, the agitation will continue.”Jasbir Kaur, a leader of the Khet Mazdoor Sabha, said: “Funds for MGNREGA workers must be increased and labourers be given 5 marla plots. Law must ensure pension to farmers and labourers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-end-protest-till-legal-guarantee-on-msp-farm-union-340775
21-11-2021||Batala/Amritsar||Need to be vigilant till Parliament repeals laws: Punjab CM||CM Charanjit Channi sounded a note of caution on PM Narendra Modi’s decision to repeal the three farm laws, claiming “the farming community needs to be cautious until the repealing process is formally done with in the winter session”.In Batala to lay the foundation stone of a sugar mill, the CM claimed “those who were hailing Modi’s announcement are part of a conspiracy being waged against Punjab”.He added he didn’t see any logic in doing away with the farm laws unless the MSP was guaranteed. “The Akalis and BJP are hand in glove. The BJP, SAD and AAP leaders are like double-mouthed snakes out to destroy the peace and prosperity of Punjab,” he said.In Amritsar, Channi said a panel for appointing the DGP had already been sent to the UPSC and the selection would be made accordingly. During an event to dedicate a sub-tehsil complex at Beas, he said issues related to the state would be addressed one by one, with focus now on ‘cable network’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-to-be-vigilant-till-parliament-repeals-laws-punjab-cm-340776
21-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers andolan blurred caste, political lines, united all||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 20Farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws has brought people together as rising above party lines, they were united and contributed funds, food and other essential items for those sitting at the protest sites across the state.The sincerity in every protester appears to have fuelled the movement into one of the largest protests against an elected government in India. Almost every village participated in a show of support. Those who couldn’t go to Delhi erected black and farmer flags on their terrace and balcony and sent essential items to the protest sites.A protest that started in Punjab grew into a countrywide movement in which farmers’ groups set aside their differences and collaborated to take on the government. The way farmer unions worked in villages to mobilise people by making them aware about the ill-effects of these laws, people from all around the villages stood up to save their land, blurring multiple caste and community contradictions.Women participation points to yet another major break in patriarchal relations. Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary, BKU Ugrahan, said: “This agitation will be remembered as it brought people across castes and political lines together. Everyone had just one target: Getting farm laws repealed.”Also read: Haryanvi-Punjabi bonhomie amid dissent steals show||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-andolan-blurred-caste-political-lines-united-all-340777
21-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Women played pivotal role in stir’s success||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20Women in Punjab’s rural hinterland are as much to be congratulated as their men folk for the success of farmers’ yearlong struggle. For, this is the first time that such massive women participation had been seen in any socio-political movement in the state.Women, especially among the farming community, have traditionally remained confined to their home. The farmers’ struggle brought them out of their home and they either stood with the men at the Singhu and Tikri borders or stayed put in villages, managing fields on their own and participating in the 108-odd pucca dharnas across Punjab.Among thousands of women who marched to Delhi, 35 died, majority from Malwa region. A seminar by Samyukt Nari Manch (Punjab Women Collective) to honour the participation and “martyrdom” of the women protesters was held today, where eminent women, including Dr Vandana Shiva and Medha Patkar, participated. Explaining how difficult it was to get the women out of their comfort zone, Harinder Bindu, a prominent leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), told The Tribune that she had realised quite early that women participation in the protests would be important. “When the ordinances were issued, our union leadership realised that it would be a long struggle and would not be possible without women participation. We started energising them. They agreed and we took hundreds of women to the protest sites,” she said.Paramjit Longowal, general secretary, Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, said the women participation would finally erode the gender bias in rural areas. “I visited villages and told them how Dalits would be hit the hardest as the corporates would first take away the village common land. This clicked and they came out in huge numbers,” she said.“It was not easy,” Jasbir Kaur Natt, a prominent woman leader of the protest (owing allegiance to Punjab Kisan Union) told The Tribune. “But the cause was just too phenomenal and each one had to do their bit. At the protest sites, the gender divide did not exist. It is this unity, cutting across religion, caste, economic status and gender that had ultimately led to the government bowing before the will of the people,” she said.Jagdish Kaur, 72, can barely walk but remained the most prominent face of the protest outside Adani Logistics Park at Kila Raipur since January 1. “I could not go to Delhi. But I did not miss sitting on the morcha in Kila Raipur for a single day. My friend, Mohinder Kaur, died during the protest. I felt morally obliged to protest till the laws were withdrawn. The price we paid for it is too high. But our next generations will remember this and we hope they live peacefully,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-played-pivotal-role-in-stirs-success-340778
21-11-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Ours is a long-drawn battle, says Joginder Singh Ugrahan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced repealing the contentious farm laws, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the farmers had won only a small battle and that they were prepared for a long haul to get their due.“We will fight it out till we get justice for the farmers killed under the car of a minister’s son in Lakhimpur Kheri. We will fight for assured MSP and till the government stops facilitating the corporate sector through the back door. We will also fight for compensation to families of farmers who committed suicide,” Ugrahan said.Also read: Won’t end protest till legal guarantee on MSP: UnionA former Army man, Ugrahan maintained that it was only because the BJP feared a backlash in the coming Uttar Pradesh elections that it had decided to take back the agricuture laws. “I cannot make any announcement on the future of the agitation. We are associated with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) which will decide the future course at a meeting on November 30,” he said.Will fight onWe will fight it out till we get justice for the farmers killed under the car of a minister’s son in UP. We will fight for assured MSP and till the govt stops facilitating the corporate sector through the back door. Joginder Ugrahan, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) PresidentUgrahan said his group would neither join any political forum, nor support any political party during the elections. “Our workers can decide on whom they want to support or campaign for. We are aware that certain leaders who are a part of the SKM could join or support some political parties. Our front will not enter the political arena,” he stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ours-is-a-long-drawn-battle-says-joginder-singh-ugrahan-340779
21-11-2021||Sangrur||Farmers' agitation anniversary: Village-level meets to drum up support for march to New Delhi||Farmers have started holding meetings at villages here to mobilise residents to march to New Delhi for the anniversary of the agitation.Announcements are being made at gurdwaras. Besides, farm unions have launched campaigns on the social media to share information about their plans. Farmers of 14 villages on Saturday met at Mastuana Sahib and decided to leave for New Delhi on November 24 on tractors. During protests at Sangrur, Lehra and other places, leaders asked people to leave for Delhi. They would hold more meetings at the village level in the coming days. “We would stay there till the final announcement is made on the future of the agitation,” said Kuldeep Joshi, a BKU Dakaunda leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-anniversary-village-level-meets-to-drum-up-support-for-march-to-new-delhi-340780
21-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Farmers victorious: Mobilisation drive on for agitation anniversary||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 20A huge mobilisation of farmers on the lines of those seen in the past, including that on January 26, is expected at the Delhi border on the first anniversary of the Kisan Andolan on November 26.The call has only been intensified in the wake of the declaration by the PM to withdraw the three farm laws yesterday. On the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the respective member-farm outfits to their cadre, cavalcades and jathas of farmers have begun heading to the Delhi border again.PM’s statement not enoughThe government should know the andolan won’t just end with a mere statement by the PM. The statement should be backed by action. Manjit Singh Rai, BKU Doaba ChiefWhile some unions have assigned duties to circle and district heads, others have called for at least 500 farmers from the state heading to Delhi each day. Farmers in huge numbers will stay put at the Delhi border until the three farm laws are formally withdrawn in Parliament.In the preliminary SKM meet held today, the unions also discussed legislation on the minimum support price (MSP) as a key demand.Manjit Singh Rai, president, Bharti Kisan Union Doaba, said: “We are calling everyone to come in trolleys just the way we started the stir. The protest at the Delhi border will continue the way it had started till the time the government agrees to our every single demand. Other demands — key being MSP — will also be discussed. District and circle-wise duties have been assigned to mobilise farmers. Thousands of farmers will arrive between November 26 and 28 from our Union alone.”Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), said: “We are not returning back based on just PM’s statement. Until we have the document signed by the President that the three laws have been repealed, we are not budging. All members have already been asked to head to the Delhi and jathas have started arriving. A huge gathering of farmers has been planned for November 26 as well as the first day of the winter session of Parliament, when the government is expected to formally repeal the laws. From November 24 to 26, many more farmers will be arriving.”Balwinder Singh, president, Majha Kisan Sagharsh Committee, said: “The government must formally repeal the laws and constitute a committee on the MSP. Farmers will stay at the border until they are convinced of action on both issues. We have asked our members to head to Delhi for the anniversary and the Parliament session on November 29.”Two-day ‘Rail Roko’ from December 13Amritsar: The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has announced two-day ‘Rail Roko’ from Dec 13, saying most of their demands remained unfulfilled. A gathering at Udonangal village on Saturday mobilised people for the Nov 26 rally at the Singhu border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-victorious-mobilisation-drive-on-for-agitation-anniversary-340781
21-11-2021||New Delhi||For India, Imran is ‘cat’s paw’ of Pakistan deep state: Manish Tewari dig at Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘bada bhai’ remark||Taking a swipe at Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sindhu for purportedly calling Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan “bada bhai”, party leader Manish Tewari Saturday said Khan could be anybody’s elder brother but for India, he is that “cat’s paw” of the Pakistan deep state that drones arms and narcotics into Punjab and sends terrorists on a daily basis to Jammu and Kashmir.A video of Sidhu, during a trip to Kartarpur Sahib on Saturday, being welcomed by a Pakistani official on behalf of Khan has gone viral in which the Congress leader is purportedly heard saying Khan was like a “bada bhai” to him and that he loved him a lot.Taking to Twitter, Tewari tweeted, “@ImranKhanPTI may be anybody’s elder brother but for India he is that cat’s paw of Pak Deep State ISI-Military combine that drones arms & narcotics into Punjab & sends terrorists on a daily basis across LOC in J&K”.“Have we forgotten martyrdom of our soldiers in Poonch so soon,” the MP from Anandpur Sahib said.India had recently opened the Kartarpur Sahib corridor, and a number of pilgrims from Punjab, including politicians, have visited the place on the occasion of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-india-imran-is-cats-paw-of-pakistan-deep-state-manish-tewari-dig-at-navjot-singh-sidhus-bada-bhai-remark-340711
21-11-2021||Lahore||Navjot Singh Sidhu bats for trade, 'new friendship chapter' between India and Pakistan as he visits Kartarpur||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday visited the revered Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan and offered prayers and stressed on "opening of a new friendship chapter" and trade between the two countries, days after India reopened the visa-free Kartarpur corridor for Sikh pilgrims.READThe Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, with the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district in India's Punjab state. The 4 km-long corridor provides visa-free access to Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit the Darbar Sahib.The pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March last year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Kartarpur corridor was reopened on Tuesday for pilgrims.“In the name of Baba Guru Nanak, a new chapter of friendship between the two countries should begin," Sidhu told journalists upon his arrival at the Kartarpur Sahib."After the World wars in which millions of people lost their lives, if Europe can open borders on one-visa, has one passport and one currency, why not in this region of ours where we have figures like Bhagat Singh and Maharaja Ranjeet Singh who are revered by everyone?” he asked.Sidhu said he wants mutual love between India and Pakistan."There is a need to open windows in the walls erected in 74 years (between India and Pakistan),” he said, stressing the opening of trade between the two countries."There should be trade between two countries," the cricketer-turned-politician said.Sidhu thanked Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan for taking a step to open the corridor.“I am thankful to PM (Imran Khan) for taking the first step and on the other side (India) responded with two steps. I had already said that those favouring the  'laanga' (corridor) would have blessings and those opposing it had no value,” he said.When Kartarpur Corridor Project Management Unit CEO Muhammad Latif welcomed the former Test cricketer at the zero point and extended best wishes to him and his delegation on behalf of the prime minister, Sidhu said: “Imran Khan is my elder brother. I am greatly honoured. He (Khan) gave us a lot of love.” Sidhu visited the complex and also offered religious rituals. He and his delegation members were offered 'langar' (food) made from the wheat and vegetables of the fields, which Guru Nanak Dev used to look after.According to Latif, over 300 Indian Sikhs visited the Kartarpur Sahib on Saturday the fourth day of the reopening of the route which was suspended for some 20 months following the Covid.Earlier this week, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi along with 37 others, including his Cabinet ministers, and Jagir Kaur, president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), had visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib.Some 2,500 Indian Sikhs who have come to Pakistan via Wagah border on the occasion of the 552 birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev will also visit the Darbar Sahib.In November 2019, Prime Minister Khan formally inaugurated the Kartarpur Corridor as part of the commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak at a colourful ceremony, paving the way for Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit one of their religion's holiest sites in Pakistan without needing a visa.Sidhu's press conference also comes on a day when he kicked up a new controversy when he referred to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan as "bada bhai". — Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-bats-for-trade-new-friendship-chapter-between-india-and-pakistan-as-he-visits-kartarpur-340710
21-11-2021||New Delhi||BJP slams Congress over Sidhu’s ‘bada bhai’ address to Imran Khan||The BJP on Saturday hit out at the Congress after its Punjab unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu reportedly called Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan his “elder brother” during a trip to Kartarpur Sahib, alleging the opposition party sees terror groups like IS and Boko Haram in Hindutva while it finds a “bhai jaan” in Khan.A purported video of Sidhu being welcomed by a Pakistani official on behalf of Khan has gone viral in which the Congress leader is heard saying Khan was like a “bada bhai” to him and that he loved him a lot.It is a serious matter of concern for India, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said as the ruling party seized on the issue to target the Congress.He claimed that there was a larger design at work, and Sidhu’s comments were linked to a number of Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, criticising Hindutva.Referring to Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s statement in his latest book, Patra said the opposition party sees terror groups such as the ISIS and the Boko Haram in Hindutva while it finds a “bhai jaan” in Khan.It is being done for appeasement politics as the Congress still believes that there is a section in India which will be happy with praise for Pakistan. There are no such people in India though, Patra added.He noted that Sidhu had praised Khan and Pakistan earlier too and had hugged its army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa during an earlier trip to the neighbouring country.Noting that Punjab is a border state where Pakistan tries to foment troubles, Patra said it needs a mature and patriotic leadership.Sidhu is not right for India and Punjab deserves better than him, he said.Pakistan’s foreign minister had recently described Hindutva as a threat to global security, and he had borrowed the term from Rahul Gandhi, the BJP leader alleged.To a question about Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi writing a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the farmers’ issue, Patra shot back and asked if she also considers Khan an elder brother like Sidhu as she had in the past called the Punjab leader her brother.Sharing the video, BJP IT department head Amit Malviya tweeted, “Rahul Gandhi’s favourite Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan his “bada bhai”. Last time he had hugged Gen Bajwa, Pakistan Army’s Chief, heaped praises. Is it any surprise that the Gandhi siblings chose a Pakistan loving Sidhu over veteran Amarinder Singh?”                  India had recently opened the Kartarpur Sahib corridor, and a number of pilgrims from Punjab, including politicians, have visited the place on the occasion of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-slams-congress-over-sidhus-bada-bhai-address-to-imran-khan-340692
