22-11-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi fixes monthly cable TV rate at Rs 100||Declaring a war against the cable mafia, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced to fix the monthly rate of a cable TV connection at Rs 100 to eliminate cartelisation across the state.Addressing a public gathering here, Channi categorically said people are being unnecessarily harassed by the cable mafia by levying hefty charges which would not be tolerated anymore in future.Channi said all such businesses of transport and cable are owned by the Badal family and now the people need not to pay more than Rs 100 per month, adding strict action would be taken against those not adhering to the new rates.“If anyone harasses you, inform me,” Channi said.He also announced that all illegal bus permits would be revoked and in turn allotted to the unemployed youth.The chief minister also announced that in the next 10 days, the services of all ‘safai sewaks’ working in the municipal councils and corporations would be regularised and there would be no condition of 10 years of service, besides scrapping contract system for recruitment.He reiterated that the state government is fully committed for the welfare of the poor and ensuring holistic development of the state and its prosperity. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-fixes-monthly-cable-tv-rate-at-rs-100-341514
22-11-2021||---||Charanjit Channi, Navjot Sidhu put up a united front as they come together at workers’ meeting in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 22Putting forward a united face of the Congress party, both CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu came together during the workers’ meeting in Ludhiana on Monday.Before workers’ meet, Channi distributed appointment letters to the kin of those who had died during the farmers’ protest, at the PAU and then met members of auto drivers’ association on Gill Road and shared a cup of tea with them.Addressing the workers’ meeting, Navjot Sidhu said, “Industrial revolution came in Russia and China but for development of Punjab, we will have to end the Mafia Raj.” He said the Punjab Assembly election would be fought on moral principles and the honest would win.Addressing the workers’ meeting, Charanjit Channi said, “Women do not need reservation; they need their due share which will be given by the Congress in every possible manner.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-channi-navjot-sidhu-put-up-a-united-front-as-they-come-together-at-workers-meeting-in-ludhiana-341480
22-11-2021||Mumbai||Delhi gurdwara committee submits complaint against Kangana Ranaut seeking FIR over ‘derogatory’ language||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Monday submitted a complaint seeking registration of an FIR against film actor Kangana Ranaut in Mumbai alleging that she had used derogatory language against Sikhs in her social media post.A Khar police station official said a complaint was received from the DSGMC and they were looking into it.He said a delegation led by Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the DSGMC, submitted the complaint against Ranaut.In the complaint, the DSGMC said Ranaut had intentionally portrayed the farmers’ protest as a Khalistani movement and also dubbed the Sikh community as Khalistani terrorists.It claimed that she had recalled the massacre of 1984, the official said, quoting the complaint.The DSGMC demanded that an FIR be registered against Ranaut under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and other sections of the IPC. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-gurdwara-committee-submits-complaint-against-kangana-ranaut-seeking-fir-over-derogatory-language-341475
22-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Capt Amarinder Singh will lose his security deposit, says transport minister Raja Warring||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 22Hours after former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced to contest the upcoming Assembly election from his home constituency Patiala, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Monday said the former CM would lose his security deposit even if he contested from his stronghold. Warring, who was at the PRTC headquarters here to attend the taking over of new PRTC chairman Satvinder Singh, said Amarinder had already enjoyed a lot as chief minister and should give up the idea of contesting elections any more.Warring said, “Nazare laye ne ohna ne (Captain has already enjoyed) as chief minister. He will meet the same fate as he had when he formed another party earlier. Blame me in case he doesn’t lose his security deposit.”Warring also blamed Amarinder for “not giving me” the opportunity to work—by not making him a minister. "I desperately kept waiting for four and a half years, but he didn't give me the opportunity to work. Had he given me the chance I would have generated a lot of revenue for the state."Comparing Amarinder with Chief Minister Charanjit Channi, Warring said, “Channi doesn't sleep and Captain doesn’t wake up. Channi is working day and night for the people and has already touched the hearts of people with his hard work and humility.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-will-lose%C2%A0his-security-deposit-says-transport-minister-raja-warring-341465
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh to contest from Patiala Assembly seat||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced that he would contest from Patiala seat in the 2022 Assembly elections.“I will fight elections from Patiala only,” he posted on his 'Punjab Da Captain' Facebook page on Saturday.“Patiala has been with us for the last 400 years and I will not leave it for the sake of (Navjot) Sidhu,” he added.The Patiala Assembly seat has been the family bastion of the former chief minister. He had represented the seat four times - 2002, 2007, 2012 and 2017.Amarinder had resigned as MLA in 2014 after being elected from the Amritsar Lok Sabha seat. His wife Preneet Kaur then contested from Patiala and represented the seat for three years.He had also in April dared Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu to contest from Patiala, saying the latter would lose his security deposit.Amarinder resigned as the Punjab chief minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with Sidhu.Charanjit Singh Channi had replaced Amarinder.After his unceremonious exit from the state government, Amarinder had said that he would pit a strong candidate against Sidhu in the 2022 assembly polls to ensure his defeat.Amarinder, who named his political party as the Punjab Lok Congress, is hoping for a seat arrangement with the BJP for the upcoming elections. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-to-contest-from-patiala-assembly-seat-341446
22-11-2021||Kurinji LS & Srish Prakash||Reorient govt policies to end stubble burning||THE first fortnight of November witnessed a surge in cases of crop residue burning across Punjab. The number of farm fires in the state jumped from just over 200 in September to over 16,000 in October and a staggering 76,000 by November 20. This spike, coupled with unfavourable meteorological conditions such as northwest winds, low wind speeds, declining temperatures and emissions from local sources, has deteriorated air quality in North India, including Punjab, to alarming levels.In the past few years, Central and state governments have taken several measures to discourage farmers from burning stubble. These range from the promotion of in-situ and ex-situ crop residue management to an outright ban on burning. In-situ management involves incorporating the residue back into the soil using Crop Residue Management (CRM) machines or through composting techniques. In ex-situ management, the residue is collected and supplied for other applications such as boiler fuel in industries and power plants, and in packaging material, among others. However, it is evident that these measures have failed to dissuade farmers from burning residue.As the current kharif harvest season comes to an end, it is important that our policy-makers engage in a rigorous analysis of the reasons that kept the fields on fire yet again. While some of the measures taken by the Central and state governments are laudable, there are shortcomings within the existing solutions. Overcoming these challenges requires a combination of technologies and incentives. So, what could be done to improve the efficacy of the existing policies?Ensure that existing CRM machines are operated at their maximum capacity. Financial assistance from the Union government through the ‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for In-Situ Management of Crop Residue’ scheme has led to a spurt in the availability of in-situ machines such as Happy and Super Seeders in Punjab. These are tractor-towed machines that plough the stubble into the ground and sow wheat. A recent study by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) indicates that the current stock of over 13,000 Happy and 17,000 Super Seeders can cover 66 per cent of the 25.81 lakh hectares under non-basmati paddy this year. However, most of these machines are likely to remain underutilised due to farmers’ unproven fears about the yield of wheat sown by these seeders and inefficient rental models. The deployment of these machines also faces logistic barriers. Two-thirds of these machines are owned by custom hiring centres (CHCs) and renting them from a CHC is an economically viable option for the 33 per cent small and marginal farmers of Punjab. By enhancing the subsidy on these machines to 80 per cent for farmer groups compared to 50 per cent available for individuals, the scheme also nudges buyers to approach CHCs. But these machines are unable to cover the designated geography due to inefficient logistic management, lack of manpower and delays in transportation. Farmers are often unsure of the timely arrival of the rented machines. This pushes them to either own a CRM machine or resort to burning the stubble. At present, there is no data on the deployment and usage of these machines; this makes it difficult to analyse their adoption rate. The government should mandate CHCs to maintain the operational record of these machines. This should include the name, contact details, landholding and rental dates of the farmers who rent these machines.The state should use simple yet reliable technologies to popularise CHCs. The government’s emphasis has been on mobile applications such as FARMS and Ikhet to improve rental access to these machines. However, with the Central government’s FARMS app being used just 21 times between September 2019 and September 2021 in Punjab, there is little evidence that such platforms work. During our interactions with the farming community in the state, we noted limited awareness about these apps. We suggest that the government should launch campaigns to popularise these apps and familiarise farmers with their interface. Further, the state government must broadcast the contact details of CHCs at the block level via text messages and WhatsApp which have much higher acceptance.The state should look at the prospect of providing operational subsidies to small and marginal farmers. The steep rise (60 per cent since March 2020) in diesel prices has increased the operational cost of these CRM machines by up to 8 per cent this year. High fuel prices are proving to be a hurdle to the sustained use of these machines. Given the state’s inability to alter fuel prices substantially, we suggest direct benefit transfers to farmers who use these machines to compensate for the rising fuel prices. The state can utilise its network of panchayats, patwaris, agricultural officers and specially designated officers to identify and compensate users of these machines.The state should ensure that ex-situ utilisation capacity is increased swiftly. Ex-situ crop residue management is highly acceptable among farmers as it does not alter their farmland and provides scope for additional income. The state has 11 biomass-based power plants with a capacity to manage 0.88 million tonnes of residue annually. This amounts to less than 6 per cent of the residue generated this year. The state was to commission two biomass power plants and two bio-CNG plants in the current year, and one bio-ethanol and four bio-CNG plants in late 2022 and 2023. These projects will increase the crop residue utilisation capacity to around 1.5 million tonnes per annum. However, these projects have faced delays. Ex-situ management also suffers from the lack of balers, storage capacity, supply chain actors, and skilled workforce to aggregate, store and supply the residue efficiently. The state needs to expedite the construction of new ex-situ facilities and incentivise such projects through various forms of subsidies to protect their competitiveness with other sources of energy.The state government must provide matching incentives for diversifying away from the paddy-wheat monoculture. The long-term solution lies in diversifying away from paddy, which has led to a precipitous decline in the water table across the state and adds a significant burden to the exchequer in the form of electricity subsidies. Our interaction with farmers indicates that current price signals, marketing and procurement for crops other than paddy are not lucrative enough to support a transition away from paddy. Farmers who have experimented with diversification in the past often switch back to paddy on account of poor market prices. The government must ensure that farmers who diversify away from paddy are protected from the price volatility of the free market. This could take the form of input subsidies, Minimum Support Price or an insurance-like scheme.Paddy residue burning has been a decades-old practice and the inadequacy of existing policies needs to be addressed swiftly. This issue needs collective action from various stakeholders within and beyond Punjab. Instead of breathing a sigh of relief after the conclusion of stubble burning this year, we must reflect on the learnings and prepare for the next one.Kurinji is a Programme Associate and Prakash is a Consultant at the Council on Energy, Environment and WaterSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reorient-govt-policies-to-end-stubble-burning-341442
22-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Start ‘jan andolan’ to save Sutlej, Mattewara forest, Buddha Nullah: Medha Patkar appeals to people||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 21Noted social activist and environmentalist Medha Patkar on Sunday gave a message to people to start ‘Jan andolan’ to save the Sutlej, Mattewara forest and Buddha Nullah.Patkar (66), who has led the ‘Narmada Bachao Andolan’ to save the Narmada for 32 years, along with members of a public action committee (PAC) visited the Mattewara forest area and the Sutlej banks on Sunday. She raised questions over the state government’s plan to set up a modern industrial park at an eco-sensitive site near the forest and river bank.Patkar raised the slogan ‘Jungle Bachao, Desh Bachao’ at Mattewara. She also launched the ‘Sutlej Bachao, Punjab Bachao’ campaign in the presence of PAC members who have been protesting against the proposed modern industrial park site.She interacted with residents of Sekhowal who have been protesting against the proposed industrial park to be set up near the forest and the Sutlej. They were dependent on the village land that has been acquired for the industrial park.She was also surprised to see big heaps of sand along the Sutlej. Patkar demanded a probe to find whether the mining was done illegally or legally there.She said they were working to protect the Narmada as they consider it their mother and the Sutlej in Punjab deserves the same level of respect and protection. It was also a source of drinking water for millions. She asked people to raise their voice to save their river.The social activist also visited Dhanansu village today and raised questions as a large pipe for discharging waste from a hi-tech industrial valley has been linked with the Buddha Dariya. The PAC members said no effluent treatment plant had been set up in the valley so far.Patkar was also shocked to see the black polluted water being released into the drain from the STP at Jamalpur here.Sharing the success of jan andolans, she advised people to sit on andolan till the nullah is made pollution-free. She advised them to question their elected representatives regarding these issues.She assured to raise the issue of environment protection of the state in the meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha as well.She said the state government should conduct a discussion on the issues and clear its stand.Meanwhile, Patkar launched a ‘Green manifesto’ and website www.greenmanifesto.info which outlines major environmental concerns of citizens and aims to persuade all political parties of Punjab to give prominence to such environmental issues in the upcoming 2022 state Assembly elections.Giani Kewal Singh, ex-Jathedar of Sri Damdama Sahib, welcomed Medha Patkar to Punjab. Members of the public action committee Col CM Lakhanpal (retd), Kapil Dev, Jaskirat Singh, Kuldeep Singh Khaira, Mahinder Singh Sekhon and others shared their concerns and demanded from the government to cancel its plan to set up the industrial park near Mattewara and Sutlej. They also demanded complete transparency in the Rs 650-crore Buddha Nullah Rejuvenation Project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/start-jan-andolan-to-save-sutlej-mattewara-forest-buddha-nullah-medha-patkar-appeals-to-people-341370
22-11-2021||Indervir Grewal||Trainees return to Punjab’s stadiums||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21After lying empty for the better part of the last two years, the Punjab government’s stadiums are buzzing with activity once again. Sent home in March 2020 after the Covid-19 pandemic first hit India, the trainees at the centres run by the Sports Department and the Punjab Institute of Sports (PIS) have “finally” returned; and none could be happier than the coaches.“The children have finally returned,” Vikram Singh, athletics coach at the PIS Mohali centre, said with a sigh of relief. “It was a strange feeling walking into empty stadiums,” added Vikram while being greeted by his trainees.The training centres were reopened for about a month early this year. “But before we could make any real progress, the centres were shut down again due to Covid-19,” Vikram said.There is a palpable mix of excitement and relief among the coaches and their trainees. “Feels great to be back,” said 19-year-old javelin thrower Sheetal.Starting from zeroBut there is also a sense of frustration. “We have to start from zero again,” Sheetal said as her smile disappeared.While the centres were shut, the young athletes trained at their hometowns. “I was training at my village,” added Sheetal, who belongs to Haryana’s Bhiwani district. “I also had a couple of sessions per week with coach (Vikram) at a training centre in Fatehabad,” she added.Some trained on their own, while others, such as 17-year-old hockey goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh from Gurdaspur district, sought the help of their local coaches. During tournament season, some athletes returned to train with their coaches but had to rent rooms outside the hostel facility. Many coaches also took in athletes during this time. The department also started online coaching during this period.Challenges aheadDespite these initiatives, the pandemic-forced shutdown drastically affected the trainees’ progress. “Maintaining a proper diet is a big factor, so their fitness levels suffered,” said Gurdeep Singh, hockey coach at the Mohali centre. “We tested the fitness parameters of the hockey trainees a couple of days back and the levels have fallen drastically. The trainees are either overweight or underweight,” added Gurdeep.The coaches said that other aspects such as technical skills and game sense have also declined. “Even though we prepared video sessions for training and also analysed the clips sent by the trainees, it was never going to be the same as live coaching,” said Vikram. “Even if you could make them work on their fitness, correcting technical flaws was not really possible over video,” he added.It was even harder in team sports like hockey or contact sports like boxing. “You cannot teach game tactics without creating match situations,” Gurdeep said.The lack of proper training facilities and equipment also played a part in the decline. Goalkeeper Gurpreet said he had to train on grass. “There is no substitute for training on synthetic turf,” he said.The challenges ahead are tough, especially as the senior trainees will also require rectification, the coaches said. “The newcomers learned much quicker by looking at the senior trainees. It also helped in a smooth transition,” Gurdeep said. “Now we will have to inculcate the correct habits into the seniors as well. Covid has disrupted our system that took years to come together,” he added.However, the coaches are pumped up on getting the system back on track. “The challenges only motivate me further,” said Dronacharya Award winner BI Fernandez, senior boxing coach at Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trainees-return-to-punjabs-stadiums-341365
22-11-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Fruit import up as Afghanistan reopens Chaman border||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 21Amid uncertain situation prevailing in Afghanistan after being taken over by the Taliban, there seems no hitch when it comes to exporting items from the landlocked country.After dry fruit and fresh vegetables, now fresh fruits including sharda (a kind of melon), pomegranate, apple and grapes are being imported through the Integrated Check Post (ICP). Over 70 trucks cross over to India from the ICP every day.The holy city is connected to the Central Asian countries such as Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan via Pakistan by road. While it has an international airport and an international bus terminal offering bus services between India and Pakistan, there is policy paralysis to harness it to its true potential. Arvinder Singh, a wholesale fruit traderOfficials of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) and the Central Warehousing Authority, both engaged in operating the ICP situated at Attari village, nearly 36 km from here, said the number of trucks laden with dry fruits, fresh fruits, spices, a cereal and others have shot up after the Afghanistan government opened Chaman border over a fortnight ago.Earlier, they said, only two border posts of Torkham and Baldok were opened. Both of these are marked by their inhospitable terrain that brings down the pace of movement of trucks, mostly overloaded.Apart from fresh fruits, moong daal, onion, cumin seeds and a variety of dry fruits are being imported. Arvinder Singh, a wholesale fruit trader, said the entire fresh fruit lot was being imported by Delhi-based importers and then distributed in the markets of northern India.He said the government did not focus on developing the local wholesale fruit and vegetable market into an international fresh farm fruit and vegetable trading hub. The holy city is connected to the Central Asian countries such as Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan via Pakistan by road.“While it has an international airport and an international bus terminal offering bus services between India and Pakistan, there is policy paralysis to harness it to its true potential,” Singh said.Factfile||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fruit-import-up-as-afghanistan-reopens-chaman-border-341183
22-11-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu sees plot to end MSP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21Claiming that his “Punjab model” alone would work, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today asked Channi-led government in Punjab to protect small farmers as he saw a “sinister design” to hand over procurement and storage to private players.In a tweet, he warned: “Centre’s sinister plan to end MSP, end food security for the poor, end government procurement and end PDS will continue... it will now be hidden and more dangerous.” Sidhu also stressed the MSP was a bigger issue as it was the lifeline of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-sees-plot-to-end-msp-341242
22-11-2021||---||Save farmers from corporates: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Chandigarh, November 21Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the withdrawal of the three farm laws, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu has asked the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led government to protect small farmers from corporate takeover, as he saw Centre’s “sinister design” to give procurement, storage and retail to private players.In a tweet today, the PCC president said: “As we rejoice in our victory against Centre’s three black laws... our real work has just begun. Centre’s sinister plan to end the MSP, end food security for the poor, end government procurement and end the PDS will continue without the farm laws, it will be now hidden and more dangerous.”Watch out for sinister planToday, as we rejoice in our victory against the three black laws... our real work has just begun. The Centre’s sinister plan will be now hidden and more dangerous. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefPointing out that despite demand from various corners to bring in legislation on the minimum support price, Sidhu said there was no word from the Centre on the MSP legislation.He said to protect the small farmers, his “Punjab Model” was the only way. He has already demanded from the state government a roadmap for the revival of farming in Punjab. Sidhu has stated the MSP was a bigger issue than the farm laws, as it was the lifeline of Indian farmers. “If the central government genuinely wants to fulfil their promise of doubling the farmers’ income or accepting the C2 formula of Swaminathan report, then they should accede to this demand,” the PCC chief had earlier said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/save-farmers-from-corporates-navjot-singh-sidhu-341195
22-11-2021||---||No end to hostility towards BJP in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 21As the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) looks to project Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to withdraw the three farm laws as his love for Punjab and farmers, there seems to be no love lost between the party leaders and protesters.Farmers led by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) have been staging protests outside the residences of BJP leaders at several places across the state for more than a year now. Sources said after the announcement by PM Modi on Friday, the BJP’s top leadership instructed local leaders to make “truce” with protesting farmers by offering them sweets and congratulating them. Subsequently, the local leaders tried to approach the farmers but they were turned away.In one such incident, sources said, on the directions of party’s state general secretary Dinesh Kumar, two leaders from a Malwa district approached farmers protesting in front of the house of a district president with sweets and the message that “Modi ji was never against farmers”.However, the farm leaders questioned the saffron party on its silence on the 700 lives lost during the agitation. The farmers said they would buy sweets and distribute these once the laws were repealed in Parliament.Over the past one year, farmers have targeted BJP leaders across the state. At several places, party leaders were heckled and attacked by protesting farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-end-to-hostility-towards-bjp-in-punjab-341196
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mazdoor Morcha threatens rail blockade in Punjab||Upping the ante against the government, labour organisations in Punjab have threatened to intensify their agitation if an appropriate solution isn’t found to their demands.For the past several months, the Mazdoor Morcha has been protesting to press for their demands of allotment of residential plots, debt waiver, assured public distribution system, assured employment and allotment of one-third share of panchayat lands to genuine Dalits, etc.Earlier, the government had twice invited them for a meeting with the Chief Minister, but later backed out. Following that, the organisation had given a call to burn his effigies on Sunday. However, when the government extended an invitation of a meeting with CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday, the protest was put on hold. The CM has called a full panel meeting to look into the demands of the labour organisations.The organisations have said if an appropriate solution was not found, they would intensify the stir and burn effigies of the CM from December 7 to 9 across Punjab and stop trains from 12 noon to 3 pm on December 13. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mazdoor-morcha-threatens-rail-blockade-in-punjab-341197
22-11-2021||Vijay C Roy||Already reeling under Covid, Punjab manufacturers take Rs 50K-cr hit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21Four bandhs, suspension of good trains for nearly two months, cancellation of export and domestic orders due to delayed supplies and increased transportation cost through road network were among the few major reasons that adversely affected the manufacturing sector in Punjab.According to experts, the industry suffered turnover loss worth Rs 50,000 crore as the farm protests happened at a time when the economy was barely recovering from the Covid-induced lockdown and restrictions on movement. There are over two lakh MSMEs and large units in Punjab. In November last year, then Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora claimed that industries suffered financial loss of Rs 22,000 crore because of the suspension of goods trains.Major reasonsThe containers were sent via road to Mundra port in Mumbai. Similarly, the containers meant for Punjab were being brought in by trucks instead of trains. This caused huge loss to the industry.Damage irreparableThe damage to the industry is irreparable as the logistics cost increased with containers being sent through trucks. Rs 450 crore was paid extra on account of increase in freight. — SC Ralhan, Former president, Federation of Indian Export OrganisationsBadish Jindal, national president, All Industries & Trade Forum, estimates that the total accumulated turnover loss to the industry would be around Rs 50,000 crore to date. Elaborating, Jindal said: “Since September last year there were four bandhs that caused a turnover loss of Rs 40,000 crore. Similarly, exporters paid hundreds of crores extra for importing raw material and exporting finished material to ports via road network as train services were disrupted. In addition to this, cancellation of export and domestic orders also resulted in losses.”In one year, the industry, suffered a loss of Rs 2,500 crore due to jams and increased freight. “During the rail blockade, the companies lost their foreign buyers as the material couldn’t be dispatched on time,” Jindal said. Even during the fourth edition of Progressive Punjab Investors’ summit, Prakash Hinduja of Hinduja Group expressed concern over the agitation and hoped that it would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/already-reeling-under-covid-punjab-manufacturers-take-rs-50k-cr-hit-341199
22-11-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab gasps for breath as air quality worsens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21For generations, Parshotam Singh’s forefathers had been eking out a living from a small patch of land located on the India-Pakistan border. This 72-year-old resident of border village Shukar Chak in Tarn Taran had to leave the centuries-long profession, something he loved, due to stubble burning and respiratory issues.“When stubble is burnt, I cannot step outside the house. Going out means inhaling the smoke that can cause endless breathlessness and cough,” he said, adding: “Though change has been spotted in villages, a majority of the farmers prefer burning, which causes trouble for those with respiratory issues.”After being diagnosed with respiratory allergy two decades ago, he was forced to quit active farming and gave his land on lease.Site doesn’t matterGeography plays no role as we get almost equal number of patients from the countryside and cities… Though there are not many studies to explain the trend of respiratory problems triggered by stubble fires, there had been an increase in the past two decades. —Dr NS Neki, Govt medical college, AmritsarDr SK Jindal, former head, Department of Pulmonary Medicine, PGI, Chandigarh, said he had noticed that the number of patients facing respiratory issues had doubled in the emergency as well as OPDs in the past five decades.“If we inhale air containing fog, smog or smoke components, they directly get into lungs. This irritates and creates hypersensitivity. Those who are already suffering from asthma bronchospasm (a sudden constriction of the muscles in the walls of the passageways of lungs), it becomes difficult to breathe,” he said.Punjab witnessed a sudden rise in the number of cases of breathing distress, purportedly owing to the poor air quality last week.Dr Sumeet Singh, nodal officer, National Programme for Climate Change and Human Health, said: “Cases of acute respiratory incidence rose from 10 to 20 when Patiala witnessed the AQI of 334 (very poor).”Around 97 cases of breathing distress were reported in the emergency wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital from November 9-15.Meanwhile, experts blamed the stubble burning for the worsening AQI. “Geography plays no role as we get almost equal number of patients from the countryside and cities,” said Dr NS Neki, Professor Medicine, Government Medical College, Amritsar.“Stubble burning usually takes place in October and November. Harmful gases cause irritation in eyes and skin, throat, trachea, bronchi and lungs, resulting in allergic bronchitis, acute bronchitis, exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, emphysema, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung cancer in addition to various cardiovascular diseases and stress issues,” he said.Though there are not many studies to explain the trend of respiratory problems triggered by stubble fires, there had been an increase in the past two decades, Dr Neki said.(With inputs from Manmeet Singh in Amritsar & Karam Prakash in Patiala)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-gasps-for-breath-as-air-quality-worsens-341200
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Black wheat catches Punjab farmers’ fancy||Loaded with “more nutrition” than the traditional variety, black wheat — developed by the National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI), Mohali — has caught the fancy of farmers of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh etc. Experts claim that it is rich in anti-oxidants and helps in delaying ageing and reducing cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and other disorders.Having received an overwhelming response from the farming community from across the region, NABI expects that the area under cultivation would cross over 1,000 hectares in this season.“Black wheat tastes similar to normal wheat but it has additional health benefits. The benefits are due to the colour-producing anthocyanins. Anthocyanins are anti-oxidants that prevent oxidative damage and help in delaying ageing, reducing cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and other disorders. Anthocyanins also have a pre-biotic effect that keeps our gut bacteria happy, that in turn make human body healthier. Black wheat reduces protein losses during cooking,” said Dr Monika Garg, a scientist at NABI and developer of coloured wheat.Compared to the traditional wheat, the yield of black wheat is lower by 20 per cent. However depending upon the marketing, it can fetch anywhere between Rs 30 kg to Rs 200 per kg to farmers.NABI first started giving its specialty wheat seeds (purple and black) to companies in 2016 for its commercialisation. Its production, since then, is increasing 10 times every year, according to Monika. Several companies have started selling its atta at online stores like Indiamart, Amazon etc. “In addition to the store sale, this year, NABI is giving seeds to all interested persons. Farmers like growing it in organic way and using it for self-consumption. Its processed products like biscuits are also catching up,” she added.NABI is continuously working for the fine improvement of coloured wheat. Through continuous research efforts, it has developed new black wheat lines, with soft grain texture that are more suitable for biscuits and cakes, lines with smaller grains, lower glycemic index and blood glucose maintenance properties. Commercial production of new lines will start in the coming years.Black wheat atta is also being distributed to malnourished kids under the malnutrition removal POSHAN Abhiyan and ICDS by the Department of social welfare, women and child development, Chandigarh Administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-wheat-catches-punjab-farmers-fancy-341201
22-11-2021||---||Posted as language officers, Punjab teachers fume||Faridkot, November 21The state government’s move of deputing language officers in 15 districts has deprived about 2,000 school students of their Punjabi language teachers.In its move to implement the State Language Act, the state government last week had announced to depute 15 district language officers (DLOs). However, instead of making new recruitment, the Higher Education and Languages Department has chosen 15 Punjabi teachers from 10 districts and issued orders to post them as DLOs on deputation. Among these 15 teachers, ordered to be posted on deputation as DLOs, three are from Faridkot, two from Fazilka, Bathinda, and Patiala (each), and one each from Mansa, Kapurthala, Moga, Ferozepur, Mohali and Ludhiana districts.Illogical moveAt a time when the annual examinations are approaching, depriving students of their subject teacher seems to be illogical. The government could have made direct recruitment on these posts. — Surinder Kumar Puari, Head, Government school teachers’ unionWhile the School Education Department has issued directions to the District Education Officers (DEOs) to relieve these teachers from their present post of lecturers in the Government Senior Secondary Schools for their posting as DLOs, some of these teachers are reluctant to join at faraway places.“At a time when the annual examinations are approaching, depriving students of their subject teacher seems to be illogical. It would have been better if the government made direct recruitment on these posts or made some alternative arrangement in case of deputation of teachers,” said Surinder Kumar Puari, state president, Government School Teachers’ Union, Punjab.The DLO posts had been lying vacant for the past about 25 years. The last recruitment was carried out in 1996. Since then, the vacancies kept cropping up upon retirements but were not filled in the department that came into existence on January 1, 1948.In 2008, the Punjab Government had also enacted the Punjabi Language Act to ensure the mandatory teaching of Punjabi from Class 1 onwards in all schools of the state. The Language Department was established to promote Punjabi in the state to ensure all official works were done in Punjabi in all government offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/posted-as-language-officers-punjab-teachers-fume-341202
22-11-2021||Faridkot||Finally, Punjab Govt releases Rs 54 cr for mid-day meal scheme||After 20 days of suspension of mid-day meals in most of the government and government-aided schools, the state government has released about Rs 54 crore as cooking cost to 19,700 schools.The schools get cooking cost at the rate of Rs 4.97 per student for primary classes and Rs 7.45 for upper primary classes per student from the state government. The cooking cost under the scheme involves purchase of cooking oil, pulses, vegetables and condiments. Under the national programme, 60 per cent of the cooking cost is shared by the Centre and 40 per cent by the state.Workers protest in Morinda“For about four months, there was no release of funds to schools. Outstanding dues of teachers in lieu of the Mid-Day Meal Scheme towards the school Education Department was over Rs 100 crore in the state,” said Surinder Kumar Puari, state president, Government School Teachers’ Union, Punjab.“About 17 lakh students in about 19,700 state government and government-aided schools in the state are served the meals. Due to the mounting outstanding dues, a large number of schools in the state had stopped cooking in the first week of November,” said Puari. “For September and October, the teachers continued to pool funds from their pockets but as the outstanding dues continued to mount, the teachers expressed helplessness in contributing funds from their pockets,” said Prem Chawla, senior vice-president of the union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finally-punjab-govt-releases-rs-54-cr-for-mid-day-meal-scheme-341203
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||No job letters from Tech Edu Dept, appointees approach Punjab CM Channi||Two years after the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) completed the recruitment process for the posts of Deputy Director in the Technical Education and Industrial Training Department, the department is yet to give appointment letters to successful candidates.Officials in the Technical Education Department have been dilly-dallying on the process to give appointment letters, despite having taken clarification from the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment and Minorities regarding the quantum of reservation and roster points of each category.After running from pillar to post, the affected candidates have approached Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, as he held the portfolio of Technical Education before being elevated. Birdawinder Singh, one of the successful candidate, said: “Despite the Social Justice department directing the Technical Education department to go ahead with the recruitment while reserving two seats for SC candidates and the remaining for general category candidates, certain vested interests in the department were delaying the selection process”.Previous representations to the Secretary, Technical Education, have not yielded results. “Five candidates, including two from the SC category, were recruited as per the policy,” said Birdawinder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-job-letters-from-tech-edu-dept-appointees-approach-punjab-cm-channi-341205
22-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Covid cases dip, few takers for vax in Sangrur, Malerkotla||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 21With Covid cases on the decline, Sangrur and Malerkotla residents are refusing to get vaccinated.Health authorities have started a door-to-door vaccination campaign as only 63 per cent residents in Sangrur district and 54 per cent in Malerkotla have received the first dose. However, merely 23 per cent in Sangrur and 18 per cent in Malerkotla have received the second dose till the end of this week.Both doses mustComplete vaccination is must if residents want to protect themselves from Covid. Our teams are visiting house to house and if anyone still has any doubt, they should get in touch with our officers. 0151Dr Parminder Kaur, Sangrur civil surgeonAs per details, with 88 per cent residents getting the first dose, Sunam block topped the chart in Sangrur district, followed by Sangrur (80 per cent), Dhuri (77 per cent), Bhawanigarh (73 per cent), Sherpur (63 per cent), Longowal (62 per cent), Kahrian (58 per cent) and Moonak (45 per cent).On the list of the second dose, Sangrur block is on the top with 52 per cent, Dhuri (41 per cent), Sunam (37 per cent), Bhawanigarh (22 per cent), Longowal (20 per cent), Sherpur (17 per cent) and Moonak (11 per cent).In total, 54 per cent of residents have received the first dose in Malerkotla district. With 68 per cent coverage, Amargarh tops the list, followed by Fatehgarh Panj Grayan block (55 per cent) and Malerkotla block (35 per cent).“When Covid cases were rising, residents were queuing up for vaccination. But these days, it has become difficult to convince them. In rural areas, the problem is more serious,” said a health official on the condition of anonymity.The complete vaccination has become a major challenge for the health authorities as many are still reluctant even after the visits of the health department teams under the “Har Ghar Dastak” campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-cases-dip-few-takers-for-vax-in-sangrur-malerkotla-341210
22-11-2021||---||Now, nominate heir for PF account online||Chandigarh, November 21As a majority of the working class population did not nominate their heir in Provident Fund savings, families of those who died of Covid had to run from pillar-to-post to get their savings.To facilitate the process of nominating heirs, the regional office of Employees Provident Fund Organisation here has launched an Aadhaar-based e-nomination, making claim settlements much easier.“The scheme has been launched as part of the “Bharat Ka Amrut Mahotsav” initiative. The Ministry of Labour has been mandated to start the e-nomination for subscribers, who just have to add their picture and those of their heir along with Aadhaar numbers. Even the claims can be made online by submitting their Aadhaar-linked phone numbers,” said PPS Maingi, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner.Maingi said as part of the drive to popularise the e-nominations, they had decided to hold facilitation camps in large establishments in the region. “Since Provident Fund still gives the highest rate of interest (8.5 per cent), it is the most preferred form of savings. Thus, all steps are being taken to make it user-friendly,” he added.It may be mentioned that as many as 7,000 establishments in this region are registered under the EPFO, with over 5.25 lakh contributors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-nominate-heir-for-pf-account-online-341212
22-11-2021||---||Kejriwal on ‘Mission Punjab’ today, may announce CM face||Chandigarh/Moga, Nov 21Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will embark on his ‘Mission Punjab’ tour from Moga on Monday.It is expected that he will finally announce the party’s chief ministerial face. With its MLAs either switching sides or already in talks with the rival political parties, Kejriwal is also expected to make some announcements regarding the party’s vision for Punjab.In view of the 2022 Assembly elections, AAP supremo under ‘Mission Punjab’ will visit various places in Punjab in the next one month and announce the party’s programmes for the state and its people.State AAP president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said from Monday, November 22, Kejriwal would come to Punjab on a two-day tour to launch ‘Mission Punjab’. He said during his two-day tour, Kejriwal would also make a big announcement for the state during the party’s programme in Moga on Monday. After this, he will take part in a meeting organised by the party in Ludhiana. On Tuesday, the AAP convener will attend a party’s programme after addressing a press conference in Amritsar.Meanwhile, AAP leaders in Moga said they had been approaching actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika Sood to meet Kejriwal. She has already expressed her desire to contest the Assembly elections. However, it is not yet confirmed whether she will meet the AAP supremo or not. Sonu Sood has left for Mumbai for a few days, dismissing the speculation of his possible meeting with the AAP convener.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-on-mission-punjab-today-may-announce-cm-face-341213
22-11-2021||---||Withdraw Padma Shri awarded to Kangana Ranaut: DSGMC||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 21The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has written to the President of India urging withdrawal of Padma Shri conferred on actress Kangana Ranaut for “spreading communal hatred and targeting one community (Sikhs) in particular, insulting farmers and freedom fighters”.DSGMC president and SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind saying Kangana had been “deliberately provoking the Sikhs with references to incidents of the 1984 genocide”. Sirsa said a DSGMC delegation would visit Mumbai on Monday to meet the Maharashtra Home Minister and lodge a complaint against Kangana at the Khar police station, and meet Deputy Commissioner of Police to ensure registration of an FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/withdraw-padma-shri-awarded-to-kangana-ranaut-dsgmc-341214
22-11-2021||---||Punjab’s nightingale Gurmeet Bawa no more||Amritsar, November 21Renowned folk singer Gurmeet Bawa passed away at a private hospital on Sunday following a prolonged illness, sending her fans and the music industry into mourning.She had been admitted to a private hospital for the past four days. Her body was brought to her house this morning. Her cremation will take place tomorrow.The 77-year old singer was popularly known as ‘mallika of hek’ and was among the few surviving legendary folk artistes. She had performed in 35 countries. Her longest ‘hek’ was recorded during a performance at Georgia. People fondly remember her for her renditions with folk instruments like chimta, tumbi and dholki. She was also the first female singer to perform on Doordarshan.People from music and art industries expressed shock at her demise. Her younger daughter Glory, also a folk singer, said she had received calls from Punjabi singers like Jasbir Jassi, Satinder Satti and others, expressing grief. She said her mother had ventured into the singing profession by breaking several social barriers.CM Charanjit Singh Channi expressed grief over her demise. “Shocked and saddened to hear the news of Gurmeet Bawa Ji's demise. Her contribution to Punjabi folk music is indelible. My sincere condolences, thoughts & prayers are with her family,” Channi posted on Twitter.Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Minister for Higher Education and Languages Pargat Singh also expressed sorrow over her demise. Randhawa said Gurmeet served Punjabi folk music for more than half a century with meaningful singing. Pargat said she served Punjabi mother tongue, culture and folk music. They also shared their grief with her family, loved ones and fans.Gurmeet was considered a nightingale of Punjabi folk singing. She was bracketed with legends of yore Parkash Kaur and Surinder Kaur. A Presidential Citation holder, she was conferred with ‘Punjab Gaurav’ award by the Punjab Kala Parishad.As per relatives and close family friends, Gurmeet had not been keeping well ever since her elder daughter Lachi Bawa passed away due to cancer in February 2020. Lachi, also a folk singer, was pursuing doctorate in Sufi singing. She had attended a meeting at Virsa Vihar in September where the assembled artist fraternity found her pale and weak.Acclaimed folk singer Puran Chand Wadali said her passing away had left a vacuum in Punjabi folk singing. “We jointly performed in several programmes. She distinguished herself with a long ‘hek’ which was visible during her signing of Jugni. She specifically used to tell me to let her sing Jugni,” he said.Punjabi language department had bestowed her with Shiromani Gayika award in 2008, Punjab Natak Academy with Sangeet Puraskar and government with the state award in 1991.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-nightingale-gurmeet-bawa-no-more-341215
22-11-2021||Amritsar||Publisher Kulwant Singh Suri passes away||Publisher Kulwant Singh Suri, son of legendary Punjabi song writer, novelist and freedom fighter Nanak Singh, died due to age-related illness in the early hours of Sunday. He had turned 89 on October 22.He is father of Navdeep Suri, retired Indian diplomat. His wife Attarjit Kaur Suri, who had penned over 20 books, died two years ago. Kulwant Suri was instrumental in discovering several Punjabi writers and poets, including Shiv Kumar Batalvi. He had published Ghalib in Punjabi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/publisher-kulwant-singh-suri-passes-away-341216
22-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Labour Dept spends funds on non-welfare schemes, activists fume||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 21The Labour Department has reportedly spent crores of rupees without the approval of the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board. Some of the payouts, stretching over the past 10 months, are said to have been made on the orders of the Chief Minister, who is the ex-officio chairman of the board. However, the chairman, individually, as per Section 20 of the BOCW Act, does not hold any financial powers to order the payouts.A labour activist said the practice had been going on for long and many payments were made under non-welfare schemes, which was illegal as per the Supreme Court’s recommendation, whereby workers’ welfare money couldn’t be spent on any other avenue.Got CM’s nodEverything has been done with approval of the CM. Besides, we are soon holding a board meeting to seek the approval. —Ravneet Kaur, Principal secretary, Labour departmentThe BOCW Welfare Board will soon be holding a meeting to get ex post-facto approval from the board for the expenses already made. The 28th board meeting will be held next week while the last meeting was held on January 22.Ironically, the Supreme Court, in February 2012, had directed that every welfare board would hold its meeting at least once in every two months and submit the minutes to the Secretary (Labour) of the respective government so that the implementation of the schemes could be reviewed periodically. The Labour Department claimed the meeting could not be held due to Covid.Ravneet Kaur, Principal Secretary, Labour Department, said, “I have recently joined the department. We will soon hold a board meeting to take the approval.”Vijay Walia, an activist, has already filed a written complaint to the Ministry of Labour and Employment alleging misuse and appropriation of powers and position of Punjab BOCW Welfare Board by the chairman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-dept-spends-funds-on-non-welfare-schemes-activists-fume-341217
22-11-2021||Gurdaspur||Punjab Diary: Silk Route conundrum||Keeping up pressureSangrur: BJP leaders have heaved a sigh of relief following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement to withdraw the central farm laws. Fearing change of heart, leaders of other parties have started asking farmers "not to rely" on the BJP leadership. In fact after the announcement, rival party leaders have suddenly gone into overdrive to ensure farmers do not take the heat off of the BJP. Many farmers have been regularly receiving calls from leaders of rival political parties reminding them about the losses they have suffered over the past one year of the agitation. At protest sites, such calls are often the centre of debate, while there are some who simply laugh about it.Intriguing absenceFatehgarh Sahib: Congress workers are perplexed at Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi giving the government function to inaugurate a milk plant, built at the cost of Rs 354 crore, at Bassi Pathana a miss and instead choosing to attend a private event for a film city project at nearby Makaronpur. The workers and political analyst ascribe this to the interest CM's brother is taking in the constituency as he has been attending political and social events to strengthen his base. Local MLA Gurpreet Singh GP, who had brought in a large number of party supporters for the function expecting a pat on the back from the CM, but that wasn't to be. Interestingly, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who attended the function, showered praise on the MLA for his work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-silk-route-conundrum-341218
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Revise power staff’s pay: AAP leader Aman Arora||AAP legislator Aman Arora has urged the state government to immediately redress the demand regarding the implementation of pay band of employees working in the electricity department.He said the power employees had been waiting for the implementation of the pay band for the past 10 years, but government had been indifferent to them. He said in 2011, the revised pay band of electricians was implemented on the posts above JE, but the employees working on the post of lineman, assistant lineman, SSA, UDC and LDC didn’t get anything. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revise-power-staffs-pay-aap-leader-aman-arora-341219
22-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda: 14-year-old sniffs ‘glue’ to get high, dies||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 21A 14-year-old boy died after inhaling a “solution”, used to repair tyres, in Bathinda on Saturday. Identified as Vikas, his body was recovered from the autorickshaw stand of the railway station.Vijay Goyal, president of NGO Sahara Jan Sewa, said after receiving information, volunteers of the organisation reached the spot and were told that Vikas was a beggar and addicted to the solution and cigarettes. It is learnt that many kids in slum areas are addicted to the “solution” as a substitute for drugs, owing to its easy availability and low cost.Substance abuseAcute poisoning with volatile substances usually follows the deliberate inhalation of vapour in order to become intoxicated. This phenomenon is known as glue sniffing, inhalant abuse, solvent abuse or volatile substance abuse. — Dr Vitul K Gupta, Health activistA child said: “Most of the children sniff tyre or rubber solution, which they get from the puncture repair guys. They rub it on a cloth and keep sniffing it throughout the day.” Dr Vitul K Gupta, health activist, said the abuse of volatile substances involved deep breathing via the nose and/or the mouth. “Re-breathing exhaled air may add to the effect if a plastic or paper bag is used to contain the abused substance. Cycle tyre repair cement contains Toluene and xylenes. Contact adhesives are usually poured into plastic bags such as empty potato crisp packets or paper bags,” he said.He said: “Four possible modes of death which may be related directly to volatile substance abuse have been suggested: Anoxia, vagal stimulation leading to bradycardia and cardiac arrest, respiratory depression and cardiac arrhythmia.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-14-year-old-sniffs-glue-to-get-high-dies-341220
22-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mandi Gobindgarh councillor’s husband booked on graft charge||The Mandi Gobindgarh Police have registered a case against Rajiv Verma, husband of a local councillor, under Section 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act on the complaint of Tarandeep Singh, a resident of Dalip Nagar area. An inquiry was conducted by the Vigilance Department while further investigation has been marked to the Amloh DSP.Tarandeep Singh alleged a year ago, a police case related to a quarrel was registered against him at the Mandi Gobindgarh police station but he obtained anticipatory bail from the High Court. He claimed on September 13, 2020, he, along with Rajiv Verma and three others, went to the police station to join the investigation. He alleged the then SHO took him to a room. In the meantime, Rajiv Verma came to him and demanded Rs 40,000 for his release.He said he arranged the amount, gave it to Verma and was released. He claimed he came to know from then SHO and police personnel that they neither demanded nor received any money from Verma. Sukhwinder Singh, DSP, said it was an old case and on the inquiry report of the Vigilance, a case had been registered. No arrests had been made yet. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mandi-gobindgarh-councillors-husband-booked-on-graft-charge-341221
22-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Coaching centre head held in fake degree case||Abohar, November 21The Rajasthan Police arrested Amar Setia (30), a resident of Riddhi Siddhi Enclave, in connection with a fake degree scam, which was reported seven months ago.The accused had been running a distance learning centre on the Abohar-Hanumangarh road. Dr Hanuwant Singh Rajpurohit, incharge, Rajnagar police station, said Setia reportedly admitted during preliminary investigation that he had arranged fake degrees (BA, BCom, DCA and BCA) for 60 persons between 2012 and 2017 through Madan Bhardwaj of New Delhi. These degrees were from Chander Mohan Jha University, Meghalaya, and Eastern Institute for Integrated Learning in Management University, Jorethang, Sikkim. A hunt has been launched to nab Bhardwaj.In September 2012, one of Setia’s acquaintances, Pradeep Saharan of Roranwali village, came to his office with Jodha Singh of Hanumangarh. They reportedly paid Rs 25,000 for a fake marksheet for Indira Khungar. The duo allegedly arranged fake degrees for10-15 persons of Hanumangarh district.Khungar, who allegedly got a government job in 2018 in the Education Department in Jhunjhunu district by using the fake degree, was arrested last week and facilitator Pradeep Saharan was arrested on November 19. Dr Rajpurohit said Saharan had been running a coaching centre in Hanumangarh from 2010 to 2013. He revealed during interrogation that Jodha and his wife Sunita Bhatti had called him to their house and asked to arrange a fake BA degree for their relative Khungar. He was reportedly paid Rs 25,000 for this work. He took Jodha to Abohar and settled the deal with Setia.Jodha has been serving as a chief of the Child Welfare Committee in Hanumangarh. He and his wife who served in the Education Department are on the run. Jodha had refuted the allegations three days ago. In July 2018, the degree of Khungar, who taught at Government Girls Upper Primary School, Pattusari (Jhunjhunu), was challenged. Superintendent of Police Sudhir Chaudhary has formed an SIT to investigate the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coaching-centre-head-held-in-fake-degree-case-341222
22-11-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Nigerian student ends life at varsity hostel||A Nigerian national studying at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) allegedly died by suicide in his hostel room on Saturday. The incident came to light when his friends informed about it to the authorities last evening.The police took the body of the deceased into custody and started inquest proceedings. Alex (25) was a student of computer science at Baba Buddha Sahib Bhawan at the GNDU complex. He allegedly ended his life by hanging with a ceiling fan.Sub-Inspector Gurmeet Singh said no suicide note was found from the hostel room. The victim’s friends expressed ignorance on why he took the extreme step. Gurmeet Singh said the Nigerian Embassy was informed about the incident and further action would be taken once his family members arrive here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-nigerian-student-ends-life-at-varsity-hostel-341223
22-11-2021||---||Ropar MCs excel in cleanliness rankings||Ropar, November 21In Swachh Survekshan 2021, Ropar district significantly improved its ranking, whereby municipal councils of the district bagged higher ranks in north India in different categories.Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said Nangal municipal council bagged the fourth rank among 200 civic bodies from north India in the category of 25,000 to 50,000 population. Similarly, municipal council of Morinda also bagged the overall fourth rank out of 720 municipal councils in the category of less than 25,000 population.The Ropar Municipal Council bagged the 12th rank in the category of population above 50,000 to one lakh out of 95 municipal councils of north India. Anandpur Sahib and Kiratpur Sahib nagar panchayat also secured the 23rd and 29th ranks, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-mcs-excel-in-cleanliness-rankings-341224
22-11-2021||Our Correspondent||6 kg heroin seized||Abohar, November 21The Border Security Force today seized 10 packets of contraband, suspected to be heroin, in Abohar sector.An official spokesperson said around 5.55 am, BSF personnel belonging to 181 Battalion noticed suspicious movement of Pakistan smugglers beyond the border fencing, near Jhangar outpost.Sensing threat, the troops challenged and opened fire at the smugglers in self-defence. During search, five packets of the contraband, weighing 6.060 kg, were recovered just short of the fencing, while another five were found beyond it.Blood strains were also found along the fencing. A suspected Indian national was apprehended with a motorcycle.Meanwhile, the Fazilka police claimed to have seized 110 gm heroin and Rs 5,200 from Lakhwinder Singh Lakha at the Badha terminal. A case had been registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-kg-heroin-seized-341225
22-11-2021||Ferozepur||35 mobiles seized from Ferozepur jail||Owing to stringent measures adopted by the central jail authorities, the recovery of mobile phones continues from the premises. In the past five days, 35 handsets have been recovered from the jail, which were allegedly tossed in from outside the jail wall.Surinder Singh, jail superintendent, said yesterday, during routine checking, a packet was recovered near one of barracks. “When checked, four mobile phones with battery but without SIM cards were recovered. The staff also recovered two charger cables and three headphones,” said Surinder Singh. “On October 19, the staff had recovered 17 mobile phones and on November 16, we had recovered 14 mobile phones,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/35-mobiles-seized-from-ferozepur-jail-341226
22-11-2021||Abohar||Peddlers keep cops on toes||A sudden rise in smuggling of poppy husk and other narcotics has put the police in Abohar, Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar on alert.In 2016, only 18 gm of smack was seized in Hanumangarh, whereas the seizure amounts to 2,500 gm this year to date. Most of the drug had been arranged from Delhi, revealed peddlers. Hanumangarh SP Preeti Jain said enhanced vigil in these areas was behind the heavy seizures made recently. The police have laid nakas on all roads that connect Rajasthan to Punjab and Haryana to check illegal activity. A police team seized 500 gm smack from Amrik Singh in Silwala village, which was arranged from a Mozambican in Delhi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/peddlers-keep-cops-on-toes-341227
22-11-2021||Abohar||Man held for stealing camera worth Rs2.5 lakh||A resident of Dhani Kadaka Singh here has been arrested for stealing a movie camera worth Rs 2.5 lakh. He was working as a helper in movies and video songs in the Punjabi film industry.Sriganganagar SHO Vishwajit Singh said Sajan Singh, a resident of Dhani Kadaka Singh in Abohar, stayed in a hotel in Sriganganagar last month with a fake Aadhaar card allegedly in the name of Harman Rai, a resident of Delhi. He reportedly engaged a freelance photographer Jai Narayan from Chittorgarh for Rs 10,000 to shoot a video last month. He took Jai Narayan for a movie. Sajan Singh slipped on the pretext of going to the washroom. He came back to the hotel and allegedly decamped with a bag containing camera worth Rs 2.5 lakh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-stealing-camera-worth-rs2-5-lakh-341228
22-11-2021||Sameer Singh||No vet at Bathinda's Bir Talab Zoo, leopard project stalled||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 21In the absence of a permanent veterinary doctor at Bir Talab Zoo in Bathinda, the project to bring a female leopard and other rare species of animals is lying in cold storage for the past over three years.The zoo was to get a female leopard from Chhatbir Zoo near Chandigarh last year but approval for it could not be granted owing to absence of a permanent doctor at the hospital, situated inside the Bathinda zoo. Earlier, the authorities had claimed that leopard could not bebrought in the wake of restrictions imposed during the Covid pandemic.There are three male leopards in the zoo. The authorities had written to the state Wildlife Department to provide a female leopard and one pair each of painted storks and hog deers but there is no headway in the project.Sources said there was a fully-equipped hospital inside the zoo premises but it was lying locked for the past many years. Whenever there is any medical emergency, the zoo authorities take assistance of veterinary doctors from the city, who have to travel long distances to reach the zoo and at times, animals requiring immediate medical intervention have to suffer.Even during breeding of animals, the zoo authorities face a lot of difficulty.Divisional Forest Officer, Bathinda, Swaran Singh said, “We were to receive a female leopard from Chhatbir Zoo but have not got it yet. We have written to the higher authorities regarding the permanent appointment of a veterinary doctor but there is no progress on that either.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-vet-at-bathindas-bir-talab-zoo-leopard-project-stalled-341229
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Lok Adalat may be held virtually||Amid apprehensions of another Covid wave, the Punjab and Haryana High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC) on Saturday made it clear that the National Lok Adalat, scheduled to be held on December 11, might be organised through virtual mode, if physical hearing was not possible. A High Court statement said the HCLSC was constantly adapting to the new norms in the face of the unprecedented situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lok-adalat-may-be-held-virtually-341230
22-11-2021||Abohar||3 killed in road accidents||Museum opens todayChamkaur Sahib: Dastaan-e-Shahadat, the museum inaugurated by Governor Banwarilal Purohit on November 19 in memory of two elder Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh, will be opened for public on Monday. The museum will remain open from 10 am to 4.30 pm and the visitors will be allowed to enter in groups of 40. It will take around 2 hours to watch different screen shows during the visit to 11 galleries. TNSWoman held with newbornSangrur: The Lehra police have arrested a Mansa woman and recovered a newborn from her possession. ASI Krishan Kumar said on a tip-off, they arrested Kamlesh Kaur and recovered the 11-day-old boy. “She claimed she had come here to hand over the child to a local with the consent of the infant’s mother. We have procured her two-day police remand and are conducting further probe,” he said. A case under relevant sections of the IPC and Juvenile Justice Act has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-killed-in-road-accidents-341231
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Centre’s ‘sinister’ design to end MSP, food security, PDS to continue: Navjot Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday alleged that even after the rollback of three farm laws, the Centre’s “sinister” plan to end assured price, food security for the poor, government procurement and public distribution system would continue.He also took on the BJP-led Centre, saying there had been no word from it on framing a law to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) for crops.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the government had decided to repeal the three farm laws.Sidhu on Sunday said, "Today, as we rejoice in our victory against the Centre's three black laws...Our real work has just begun. The Centre's sinister plan to end MSP, end food security for the poor, end government procurement and end PDS will continue without the farm laws. It will be now hidden and more dangerous."        In another tweet, the former cricketer said, "The Centre's design to give procurement, storage and retail to private capital is still ongoing... No word by the Centre for MSP legalisation. We are back to June 2020. Small farmers need Punjab government's support to protect them from corporate takeover -- Punjab Model is the only way."      Sidhu on Friday dubbed Modi's announcement of repealing the three farm laws a "step in the right direction", but had also stressed the MSP was a bigger issue than the farm laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centres-sinister-design-to-end-msp-food-security-pds-to-continue-navjot-sidhu-341065
22-11-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Punjabi singer Gurmeet Bawa dies at 77||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 21Punjabi singer Gurmeet Bawa passed away here on Sunday.She had not been keeping well for some time. Her health deteriorated recently and she was admitted to a private hospital here where she died on Sunday morning.She was 77.Bawa was known for her long ‘hek’ that she could hold for about 45 seconds. She was one of the singers known for singing ‘Jugni’ after Alam Lohar and was the first Punjabi female singer to sing on Doordarshan.Shocked and saddened to hear the news of Gurmeet Bawa Ji’s demise. Her contribution to Punjabi folk music is indelible. My sincere condolences, thoughts & prayers are with her family. pic.twitter.com/y2pj3gjBd5  Deeply saddened to know about the passing away of veteran singer Gurmeet Bawa Ji. The Shiromani Gayika awardee will always be remembered for glorifying Punjabi folk on int'l platforms. Legends never die, they continue to live in their works. My sincere condolences to her family. pic.twitter.com/ymQuSY06IQ  She was given the State Award by the Punjab government in 1991, Sangeet Puraskar by the Punjab Natak Akademi, the national Devi Ahilya Award by the Madhya Pradesh government in 2002 and the Shiromani Gayika Award by the Punjabi Language Department in 2008.People from music and art background mourned her passing away.    The cremation will take place on Monday.Her body has been kept at her house on Fatehgarh Churriyan road here. For the past four days, she had been admitted to a private hospital. Her body was brought home from the hospital on Sunday morning.She is survived by her younger daughter Glory, also a folk singer, youngest daughter Mishri, who is mentally challenged, and husband Kirpal Singh, who retired as a government teacher and is an authority on Persian literature.A decorated folk singer, she was considered the nightingale of Punjabi folk singing and was bracketed with legends of yore Parkash Kaur and Surinder Kaur. She had also received the presidential citation.According to family and friends, she had pined away after her elder daughter Lachi Bawa died of cancer in February 2020. Lachi, also a folk singer, was pursuing doctorate in Sufi singing. Gurmeet had not been keeping well since and had attended a meeting at Virsa Vihar in September where the assembled artiste fraternity had found her pale and weak.ਲੋਕ ਗਾਇਕਾ ਗੁਰਮੀਤ ਬਾਵਾ ਜੀ ਦੇ ਦੇਹਾਂਤ ਦੀ ਖਬਰ ਪਤਾ ਲੱਗਣ ਉੱਤੇ ਬਹੁਤ ਦੁੱਖ ਹੋਇਆ। ਗੁਰਮੀਤ ਜੀ ਦੇ ਤੁਰ ਜਾਣ ਨਾਲ ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ਲੋਕ ਗਾਇਕੀ ਨੂੰ ਨਾ ਪੂਰਿਆ ਜਾਣ ਵਾਲਾ ਘਾਟਾ ਪਿਆ ਹੈ। ਮੈਂ ਵਿਛੜੀ ਰੂਹ ਦੀ ਆਤਮਿਕ ਸ਼ਾਂਤੀ ਅਤੇ ਪਿੱਛੇ ਪਰਿਵਾਰ ਨੂੰ ਭਾਣਾ ਮੰਨਣ ਦਾ ਬਲ ਬਖ਼ਸ਼ਣ ਦੀ ਅਰਦਾਸ ਕਰਦਾ ਹਾਂ। #waheguru pic.twitter.com/tgXQOpVX43||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-gurmeet-bawa-dies-at-77-341034
