23-11-2021||---||HC directs Punjab govt to forthwith release Orbit Aviation buses||Chandigarh, November 23The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday directed the State of Punjab, the State Transport Commissioner and the Regional Transport Authority to forthwith release the buses of Orbit Aviation Private Limited.Directions were also issued to permit the petitioner to provisionally ply the buses. Orbit Aviation is believed to be Badals-run company.The directions by the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain came on the petition seeking the quashing of 30 impugned orders dated November 12 passed by the Regional Transport Authority on the ground of being arbitrary, against the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act and violation of the principles of natural justice.Appearing before the Bench for the petitioner, senior advocate Puneet Bali with counsel Surjeet Bhadu, Vaibhav Jain and Shivam submitted that the competent authority permitted the company to pay government dues of Rs 77, 15,061 in four monthly installments originally by order dated October 11.The petitioner paid the first installment. But the order on permission to pay an installment was revoked vide another order dated October 18. The petitioner was directed to pay the taxes in lump sum. The petitioner by November 15 paid entire tax up to November 30. But before that the petitioner’s permit was cancelled on November 12.Accepting notice issued by the Court, Punjab Advocate-General D.S. Patwalia pointed out that the petitioner did not pay a single penny after order dated October 18. It did not submit an application informing the government of intention to make full payment and did not even file an appeal against the order. The respondents were, as such, constrained to cancel the permit, in view of default in payment. The petitioner had made the payment thereafter. As such, its “bonafides were suspect”.The Bench asserted once the petitioner had been permitted to make the payment in installments, a notice was required to be issued for withdrawing the order. “It is not disputed by the Advocate-General now as matter stands the petitioner has paid the entire tax amount due till November 30. The matter has been adjourned to the week commencing after November 29. Since now the tax has been paid till November 30, we deem it appropriate to direct the respondents to release the buses forthwith and to permit the petitioner to provisionally ply them”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-directs-punjab-govt-to-forthwith-release-orbit-aviation-buses-341964
23-11-2021||---||Punjab colleges will get 1,100 new teachers by Nov 26: Pargat||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, November 22Punjab School and Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh today said the recruitment process of filling 1,100 vacant posts of teacher in Punjab colleges would be completed by November 26 this year. Minister promises structural reformsRecruitment of college teachers has been done after a record of three decades in the state as the previous governments didn’t give much importance to uplift the standard of education in Punjab, the minister said here, while inaugurating S Dilbagh Singh Government College Jadla in Nawanshahr, which was constructed at Rs 12 crore.Lauding the efforts of late S Dilbagh Singh, former Agriculture Minister, he said due to his visionary thinking, he had laid the foundation for the development of Nawanshahr by making it a district. Pargat further said during his 35-day tenure as minister, his goal was to upgrade the school and college education as well as sports infrastructure so that the young generation of Punjab could match the ever-changing challenges in the world.He said the problems of Punjab have aggravated due to sheer neglect by successive governments for the past 25-30 years. Earlier, he also inaugurated a new block at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Nawanshahr, built at a cost of Rs 66 lakh and also reviewed the ongoing construction work of a new block with a budget of Rs 4.5 crore. He lauded the school management for increasing its capacity from 1,100 to 3,000 and termed it as a role model for others. He also assured to consider the demand of Principal Sarabjit Singh for further structural reforms in the school.MLA Angad Singh said today his grandfather and late Agriculture Minister S Dilbagh Singh’s dream of opening a government college in a rural area in this constituency had come true. He thanked the panchayat of Jadla village for providing land for the college and also thanked the Higher Education Minister for his staunch support. The MLA informed that the new college has 12 rooms, four laboratories, an administrative block, a library, a canteen and a playground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-colleges-will-get-1-100-new-teachers-by-nov-26-pargat-341775
23-11-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Displaced shopkeepers  during Operation Bluestar to be rehabilitated after 38 long yrs||Tribune News serviceAmritsar, November 22Finally, after a long-drawn battle and 38 years’ wait, the 122 shopkeepers, whose properties were damaged in the Army action during Operation Bluestar, would be allotted shops at Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Mall Mandi.The victory has been made possible by the government’s decision to slash allotment rates from Rs 38,400 per yard to Rs 14,450 per yard.Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) Chairman Damandeep Singh said a meeting was held with the displaced shopkeepers on Monday and they have agreed to deposit Rs14,400 per yard. A total of 133 shops along with goods stored in these were damaged in the action.All along, the shopkeepers had not accepted the offer to get the shops at higher price maintaining that their livelihood was destroyed and they cannot afford to pay the high price.Apart from shops damaged in 1984, more properties were acquired during the Operation Thunderstorm in 1988 to develop the Galiara project. However, the owners of these properties were rehabilitated and given alternate shops at a reserved price of Rs1,000 per yard.The representatives of Bluestar Shopkeepers’ Sufferers’ Association and 1984 Bluestar (Tenants) Sufferers’ Association said they wanted the government to reduce the prices, but the long legal battle has already exhausted them.Parwinder Singh Arora of Bluestar Shopkeepers Sufferers’ Association said: “Over 70 per cent of the shopkeepers, who had suffered, are already dead and the remaining have grown too old.” He said the government officials stated that they cannot reduce the rates below Rs14,450 per yard, as it is the collector rate for registries.Jaspal Singh, president, 1984 Bluestar (Tenants) Sufferers’ Association said: “The government has now decided to allot 22 sq yard shops to each of them.” He said the shopkeepers belonged to three markets — Bazaar Muniaria, Shaheed Market and Thara Sahib Market — which existed prior to 1984.The shopkeepers added that the administration for this long had not helped them in any way except for a one-time payment of Rs5,000 even as their livelihood was lost. Long ago, the administration had also planned to allot khokhas made of steel plates in front of Dharam Singh Market, but later the project was also shelved due electricity accidently running through these iron sheets and causing damage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/displaced-shopkeepers-during-operation-bluestar-to-be-rehabilitated-after-38-long-yrs-341769
23-11-2021||Amritsar||Gurmeet Bawa’s mortal remains consigned to flames||Doyen of Punjabi folk music Gurmeet Bawa was given a tearful adieu by family members, relatives, Punjabi music industry and fans as her mortal remains were consigned to flames here on Monday.On the occasion, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla said her memory would be kept alive and he would write to the government for taking suitable steps in this direction.Folk singers, including Padma Shri Puran Chand Wadali, Satinder Satti, Satinder Bugga, Dalvinder Dayalpuri, Harpal Thattewala, Rachpal Rasila, Balwinder Jahangir and Sukhwant Chetanpuri, were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurmeet-bawas-mortal-remains-consigned-to-flames-341637
23-11-2021||---||Woman run over by car-borne youngsters in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 22A 35-year-old woman working as a labourer was crushed to death while reportedly trying to save her daughter from unidentified occupants of a pickup on the Kacha Bhagsar Road here on Sunday.The accused allegedly grabbed the victim by her hands and dragged her for some distance before crushing her under the wheels of the pickup.The family lodged a protest outside the Muktsar City police station on Monday by keeping the body on the road. Thereafter, the police added Section 304 of the IPC to the FIR, registered last night.The victim’s husband told the police his wife along with daughter was going towards the grain market for work when the occupants of the pickup tried to outrage the latter’s modesty. When his wife objected, they dragged her for some distance and crushed her under the wheels.The victim’s daughter claimed: “The accused tried to touch me and pass on a slip with something scribbled on it. They had been stalking me in the past.”Muktsar SSP Sarabjeet Singh said: “We have booked two persons on the statement of the deceased’s daughter, now added Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code to the FIR. One accused, Satnam Singh, who was driving the vehicle, has been arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-run-over-by-car-borne-youngsters-in-muktsar-341636
23-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Seeking regular jobs, NRHM workers climb atop Abohar tank||Abohar, November 22Employees working under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) at the Civil Hospital continued with their protest for the second week on Monday. The agitating staff has been at loggerheads with the government over regularisation of their services.Alleging that none of the officials concerned has come to listen to their grievances, some NRHM workers climbed atop the water tank and started raising slogans against the state government.Sensing the gravity of the protest, officials reached the spot and tried to pacify them. After an hour of sloganeering, the protesting workers came down and handed over a memorandum to Naib Tehsildar Avinash Chander, who assured them of their meeting with the Deputy Commissioner.Vipan Kumar, a member of the NRHM, said they were demanding a salary hike.The state government has announced to regularise around 36,000 adhoc workers, but those working under the NRHM were not been included in the draft-proposal.Anju Rani of the ASHA Workers’ Union said we have been working on a nominal commission for the last seven years. She said the government was not giving them regular salary.“We were promised an increase in honorarium, but the government was yet to fulfil the same,” she said.The Paramedical Staff Union said the NRHM workers continued providing their services even during the Covid wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seeking-regular-jobs-nrhm-workers-climb-atop-abohar-tank-341635
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Workers main strength: BJP||Union Minister of State for External Affairs Minister and co-incharge of election committee Meenakshi Lekhi today said the BJP would defeat the Opposition parties in the upcoming elections in Punjab.Attending meetings at the party headquarters here, she said the real strength of the BJP was its workers who worked tirelessly right at the booth level. She claimed the false promises would not translate into electoral victory. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/workers-main-strength-bjp-341634
23-11-2021||Bathinda||Vax drive hit as NHM staff continue agitation||As the National Health Mission (NHM) staff has been on a strike for the last one week on a call given by the NHM Joint Front, day-to-day functioning of health services, including Covid-19 vaccination, sampling, door-to-door activities and clerical work has got severly affected. As a result, patients have been forced to visit private labs in the city.Members of the NHM Joint Front have been demanding regular jobs and a slew of other amendments to the 6th Pay Commission recommendations. The staff working at different units under the Revised National TB Control Programme (RNTCP), Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK), Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) and the NHM accused the state government of ignoring their long-standing demand of regularisation of their services.Apart from medical services, clerical work has also been affected and numerous important reports could not be prepared and sent to the headquarters.Narendar Kumar, state convener, National Health Mission Joint Front, said, “Over 12,000 employees have been working under the NHM scheme in different capacities for the past 10 to 15 years. Our demand for regularisation is lying pending due to indifferent approach of the government. The state government must regularise the NHM staff among 36,000 contractual staff.”“We know that work is getting affected and patients are also suffering, but we are also helpless. Our strike will continue till our demands are not met,” said Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vax-drive-hit-as-nhm-staff-continue-agitation-341633
23-11-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Punjab Government admits security lapse, orders action||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22After several unsuccessful attempts over the past few months, terrorists, allegedly aided by Pakistan agencies and network in Canada, struck outside an Army camp in sensitive Pathankot district late last evening.The attack and delayed response have yet again brought to fore the vulnerability of this district, which borders Pakistan and terrorism-hit Jammu and Kashmir. While the incident took place around 9 pm on Sunday, security forces swung into action only after 10 pm.The area was cordoned off past midnight as initially it was suspected some youths were bursting crackers. The major alert seemed to have been sounded in the morning only.The state government has admitted to the security lapse. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the Home portfolio, in a statement said it had come to his notice adequate patrolling was not carried out at night. He directed all commissioners and SSPs to prepare a duty roster of gazetted officers in respective areas.“I can randomly check the location of the duty officer via video calling,” said Randhawa, adding strict action would be initiated against erring officers.Meanwhile, Principal Secretary, Home, Anurag Verma has issued letters to the DGP, ADGP (Law & Order), Commissioners and SSPs in this regard asking them to follow the directions of the Deputy CM in true spirit.On his part, Pathankot SSP Surinder Lamba said: “We have gained some important leads from the CCTV footage. Persons riding three motorcycles were seen in the footage. We are trying to find out which one hurled the grenade.” The region had seen two major attacks earlier, including one at Air Force Station, Pathankot, in January 2016 and the other at Dinanagar in August 2015. The attack comes ahead of the Assembly elections.Delayed response||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-admits-security-lapse-orders-action-341632
23-11-2021||Sangrur||Jassi case hearing fixed for Dec 10||A local court has fixed December 10 as the next date of hearing of the 2000 Jassi murder case. Jaswinder Kaur, a Canadian citizen, was murdered after she married against the wishes of her family.“A Sangrur court fixed December 10 as the next date of hearing,” said advocate Ashwani Chaudhary from the prosecution side today. On November 3, the cross-examination of victim’s husband Mithu was completed.Jassi had married Mithu in March 1999 against the wishes of her family. In June 2000, contract killers had allegedly attacked the couple near Narike village, under the Amargarh police station in Sangrur, killing Jassi on the spot. The body was subsequently dumped into a canal, while Mithu survived with serious injuries. The police had initially booked nine persons under Sections 307 and 364 of the IPC, but added 302 to the FIR after the recovery of the body. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jassi-case-hearing-fixed-for-dec-10-341631
23-11-2021||---||SGPC demands Kangana Ranaut’s arrest||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 22The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has demanded immediate arrest of actor Kangana Ranaut for her “anti-Sikh remarks”. This comes a day after veteran BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla said the actress had “lost her mental equilibrium”.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur demanded that the actress be arrested immediately and a case registered against her for hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community. She said a team of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee was in Mumbai to initiate legal action against the actor and the SGPC stood by it.Condemning Kangana’s remarks, the SGPC president said the actor had been deliberately posting objectionable posts against the community, which could have serious ramifications. She said Kangana had condemned the repeal of three laws on farming, calling Sikhs “terrorists” and praising the action of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1984 in her social posts. She said Kangana might not have read the Sikh history of the sacrifices made for the freedom of the country.In a statement issued here on Sunday, Chawla had asked the Narendra Modi government to ascertain the “mental state and intellectual level of a person before awarding Padma Shri”.Condemning Kangana’s statement that India got its “real freedom” seven years ago, while the Independence in 1947 was given in a “begging bowl”, the BJP veteran leader said the actor had forgot that the Prime Minister along with the entire country was celebrating the 75th year of Independence as “Amrit Mahotsav”. She said Kangana had lost her mental equilibrium after receiving a red carpet reception at the Raj Bhavan in Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh.‘Actor has lost mental balance’Veteran BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla on Sunday said the actress has “lost her mental equilibrium”DSGMC files plaint with Mumbai Police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-demands-kangana-ranauts-arrest-341630
23-11-2021||Abohar||Wheat on 400 acres damaged in flooding||Around 400 acres of recently sown wheat and mustard crop got submerged due to a breach in a canal near Alamgarh village.As the Water Resources Department took time to stop water supply and start work to plug the breach, irate farmers parked their vehicles on the highway and disrupted traffic.The agitating farmers said due to laxity of the authorities, the breach widened to 50-ft and gushing water entered the surrounding fields and orchards. The blockade was lifted in the evening after Tehsildar Jaspal Singh Brar reached the spot and assured to get the plugging work started by Tuesday. He said a detailed report for compensation would be submitted to the administration. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-on-400-acres-damaged-in-flooding-341629
23-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Ensure passing of formal orders extending remand of all undertrials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a trial court in future was required to ensure the passing of formal orders extending remand in case of all undertrials. The direction came just about a fortnight after the high court made clear its intent to examine whether an accused was entitled to bail if the trial court did not pass a formal order extending judicial or police remand when the hearing was adjourned/postponed.Justice Amol Rattan Singh, at that time, had observed almost every single undertrial would have to be admitted to bail by the high court if a bail plea was allowed on the ground. The matter was brought to the court’s notice after Gurjant Singh filed a petition through counsel Saurav Bhatia, who referred to sub-Section (2) of Section 309 of the CrPC.The Section on “power to postpone or adjourn proceedings”, among other things, says: “If the court, after taking cognizance of an offence, or commencement of trial, finds it necessary or advisable to postpone the commencement of, or adjourn, any inquiry or trial, it may, from time to time, for reasons to be recorded, postpone or adjourn the same on such terms as it thinks fit, for such time as it considers reasonable, and may by a warrant remand the accused if in custody”.Bhatia submitted that in none of the trial court’s interim orders, adjourning the hearing in the trial to a future date, was the petitioner actually remanded to the police custody. Consequently, he was on that ground alone entitled to be admitted to bail.“It needs to be observed that if this petition were to be allowed on that ground, almost every single undertrial would have to be admitted to bail by this court because in most cases, if not in all, at the time that hearing in a trial is adjourned/postponed on grounds of prosecution witness not being present etc., no formal order extending the remand (judicial or police) is passed by the trial court…,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed the trial court to send its report positively as to whether formal orders extending the petitioner’s judicial remand were passed on a regular basis on each date when the trial had to be adjourned.‘Diktat for trial court’If not, obviously without prejudice to the petitioners’ right to be admitted to bail on the touchstone of the provision, and the judgment of the Supreme Court, the trial court would ensure that orders to that effect are passed in future in the case of all undertrials. — Justice Amol Rattan Singh, Punjab & Haryana High Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-ensure-passing-of-formal-orders-extending-remand-of-all-undertrials-341606
23-11-2021||---||Bona fide affidavit must for MBBS in Punjab||Faridkot, November 22In the wake of controversies and protracted litigations over the issue of bona fide residents of Punjab, who aspire to take admission to MBBS and BDS courses, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has mandated that all aspirants and their parents need to submit affidavits stating that they were not claiming the benefit of residence in any other state or UT for admission to MBBS/BDS course, except under central counselling.In case this information turns out to be false/wrong at any stage, student’s admission would be cancelled as per the undertaking in the affidavit. The online registration for admission to MBBS/BDS courses from eligible candidates on the basis of their NEET UG-2021 score has already commenced.The university has made it compulsory for every candidate and his/her parents to submit the affidavit about their bona fide residence.There have been allegations related to the students taking benefits of bona fide domicile in multiple states. Bona fide domicile certificate proves that a person is a resident of a particular place since he transferred or occupied a house with a specific address.All the states/UTs have eligibility criteria for state quota seats, which protect the rights of actual residents of that state/UT with a mandatory period of schooling along with a fixed period of residence to make the candidate eligibile for state quota.However, multiple litigations have been filed related to the admission of many students from other states after they got admission to the medical and dental colleges of Punjab claiming them as a bona fide resident.In a pre-empt move to obstruct such admissions, which later on entail litigation, BFUHS, which conducts the central counselling for admission to medical and dental colleges in the state has mandated all candidates and their parents to submit the affidavit to confirm they were not claiming the benefit of residence in any other state or UT, said an official of BFUHS. Earlier, it was found that many candidates were appearing in the counselling for admission to MBBS course in the same year in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, thus availing the benefit of bona fide residents in more than one state.Counselling starts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bona-fide-affidavit-must-for-mbbs-in-punjab-341605
23-11-2021||Sangrur||Mobilisation drive on  for farmers' agitation anniversary||Various farm organisations have started holding meetings at village level here to mobilise residents to march to Delhi for the agitation anniversary on November 26.BKU Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said they had started preparations at the Pakora Chowk of Tikri border to organise an event. “We are expecting a gathering of 1 lakh farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states. It will be a historic day,” he said.Announcements are being made at gurdwaras. Besides, farm unions have launched campaigns on the social media. Unlike before, many farmers are planning to go to Delhi with their family members, including kids. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mobilisation-drive-on-for-farmers-agitation-anniversary-341598
23-11-2021||Vijay C Roy||Services stalled, Rlys suffered Rs 2,400-cr loss||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22As the train services were disrupted many a time due to the farmers’ protests against the farm laws across Punjab, the Northern Railways suffered losses of over Rs 2,400 crore in both passenger and goods revenue.The disruptions affected both outward and inward loading in Punjab and also passenger traffic. As trains were cancelled, the customers switched to other modes of transportation. “Every disruption causes revenue loss to the Railways. We are assessing the loss as so many things are taken into consideration,” said Northern Railway General Manager Ashutosh Gangal.On December 25 last year, the Railways said it had suffered a loss of Rs 2,400 crore, including in passenger revenue. But the services continued to be disrupted even after that. Initially, train services in Punjab were suspended from September 24 last year when farmers started their “rail rook” agitation. Though goods trains resumed briefly after farmer unions on October 21 announced exempting those from the stir, the Railways suspended them again, saying farmers were still blocking the tracks. The train services were resumed nearly after two months in November.During the period, goods trains had not entered Punjab, leading to shortage of essential goods, including fertilisers needed for wheat sowing and coal supplies for thermal plants. Due to rail obstructions in October last year, the industry in Chandigarh and Punjab grappled with raw material shortage, especially primary steel. Such was the scenario that steel companies decided to dispatch rake load of steel materials to the Ballabgarh (BVH) railway station of Faridabad in Haryana instead of Punjab.Even recently, the Railways incurred heavy losses due to cancelled or delayed trains in the last four protests on August 20, September 27, October 4 and October 18. In normal situations, full refund is issued if train is cancelled or delayed for over three hours.Steel firms paid extra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/services-stalled-rlys-suffered-rs-2-400-cr-loss-341597
23-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Big weddings see hoteliers back in biz in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 22Since Covid outbreak, the hospitality sector had taken a hit but with the return of wedding season this winter, the sector is back on the recovery path in the state.Hotels, banquet halls and resorts across the state are witnessing hectic activities as people have started holding grand-scale weddings. Mostly, all venues are booked till December 14 in Punjab.Punjab Hotels, Resorts and Restaurant Association president Satish Arora said: “Weddings are one of the biggest revenue generators for us and we had suffered a lot during the pandemic. The business is reviving as there are around 40,000 weddings in Punjab from November till mid-December this season, due to which almost all hotels, resorts are getting heavy bookings this season.”Arora also said: “Industry is likely to recover 85 per cent of the losses suffered in the Covid period in this season.”A hotelier, Arish Katia of Sepal Hotel, said: “Weddings have come as a great saviour to us post-Covid season,” he said. Purva, a wedding planner company owner, said: “The prices of hotels and catering has shot up by 20 per cent post the second wave. It's a steep spike due to multiple bookings on the same dates. Overall, weddings are at least 25 per cent more expensive than pre-Covid period,” she said.Hope to make up for 85% lossesThe hospitality sector is likely to recover 85 per cent of the losses suffered during the Covid pandemic this season. Satish Arora, Punjab Hotels assn chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/big-weddings-see-hoteliers-back-in-biz-in-punjab-341589
23-11-2021||Aman Sood||Farm fires: Punjab fares a tad better than last year||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 22Finally the farm fire season is almost over with less than 100 cases reported on Monday, taking the total figure to 71,225 and ensuring that Punjab did better than last year. From an average of over 2,500 cases last week, farm fires are less than 100 now.Last week, the Supreme Court had again asked the states to persuade farmers not to burn the stubble to curb pollution. In Punjab, total 30.66 lakh hectare is under rice cultivation this year — 26.05 lakh hectare under paddy (non-basmati) and 4.61 lakh hectare under basmati.Karunesh Garg, Member Secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board, said farm fire season was almost over now and they expected that the final figure would remain below 72,000 with around 71,225 cases already reported.So far, the government has imposed an environmental compensation of Rs 2.50 crore on the erring farmers, but nothing concrete had been done to check the menace. Though the number of farm fires this year so far is less than last year, it has crossed the 2019 figure. As per the data, Punjab had seen 76,590 farm fires in 2020 and 52,991 in 2019.Senior officials said it was high time that the state officials put an end to farm fires, given that political will was missing. “Every season, the government spends crores. Despite wasting over Rs 200 crore on machinery and awareness drives, farm fires continue to bother residents and also add to pollution. The government and officers need to work closely to curb pollution every season,” they added. “Our data shows that till November 15, stubble was burnt in 12.9 lakh hectare of agricultural area. Last year, the same area was 16.5 lakh hectares, which means 22 per cent less than last year. Our efforts to create awareness and ample subsidised machinery provided to farmers in over past three years have shown some results,” Garg said. Against Rs 6.20 crore penalties imposed in the past three years, merely a few lakh had been collected to date. The whole exercise of levying penalties and registering FIRs had turned out to be mere eyewash with no farmer being asked to deposit fines.Following the SC order in 2020, thousands of FIRs were registered against erring farmers and due to the knee-jerk reaction, the authorities even made red entries into the land records of the farmers. “However, as no fines were collected from a majority of the defaulters, most of the farmers again resorted to stubble burning this season. The government needs to be serious and not bow to pressure tactics by farm unions. Either compensate the farmers or ensure that they don’t create pollution,” said a senior police official.Despite grant, govt fails to curb menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-fires-punjab-fares-a-tad-better-than-last-year-341585
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cancellation of route permits: Raja Warring  gets HC notice||The Punjab and Haryana HC today issued notice, among others, to Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on a petition claiming he was acting in furtherance of political vendetta. The petition has been filed by New Deep Bus Service through partner Hardeep Singh Dhillon against the cancellation of route permits.Taking up the petition, the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain also put the state of Punjab and the Transport Department on notice. In its petition filed through counsel Rohit Sud and Amandeep Singh Talwar, the petitioner company was seeking the quashing of November 12 orders, whereby the permits granted to the petitioners were cancelled, “illegally, arbitrarily and with mala fide intent”.The petitioner also sought stay on the operation, implementation and execution of the impugned orders and any other coercive measures for recovery of “tax” during the pendency of the present writ petition. Directions were also sought for unconditional release of impounded buses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cancellation-of-route-permits-raja-warring-gets-hc-notice-341581
23-11-2021||Gurdaspur||Will raise education, health budget in Punjab: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia today said AAP would increase the budgetary allocations on education and health in Punjab if voted to power. Sisodia, who was here on an invitation of AAP leader Raman Bahl, presided over a meeting with traders and industrialists of Batala and Gurdaspur. Party leader Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, too, was present.“At present, Punjab sets aside just 3 per cent of its total budget on education. This will be increased to 8-10 per cent. The quality of education will automatically improve. In Delhi, before we came to power, I as the Education Minister had faced a similar situation. After deliberations with stakeholders, this was increased to 9 per cent. Now, I have sought yet another increase. Likewise, Punjab does not have a decent budget for health. This, too, will be given a substantial increase. Do not worry about the revenue. We are making arrangements to increase that,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-raise-education-health-budget-in-punjab-manish-sisodia-341580
23-11-2021||Patiala||Capt Amarinder Singh will lose poll deposit, says Punjab Transport Minister||Hours after Capt Amarinder Singh announced his decision to contest from Patiala, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today said the ex-CM would lose his security deposit this time.Warring, who was at the PRTC Headquarters here to attend the swearing-in of new Chairman Satvinder Singh, said Capt Amarinder should give up the idea of contesting elections now. “Capt Amarinder has already enjoyed as the CM. He will meet the same fate as before, when he had formed another party. He will lose his security deposit,” he said.Warring blamed Capt for not giving him the opportunity to work. Comparing him with Channi, Warring said: “Channi doesn’t sleep and Captain never wakes up.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-will-lose-poll-deposit-says-punjab-transport-minister-341579
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh to run from Patiala||Close on the heels of PCC chief Navjot Sidhu announcing his decision to contest from Amritsar, ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh has said he will carry forward his four centuries of family legacy by contesting from the Patiala (Urban) segment.A post on his ‘Punjab Da Captain’ Facebook page states Capt Amarinder will contest from Patiala and “will not leave the 400-year-old family legacy of the former princely state” for Sidhu’s sake. The statement comes after the ex-CM had dared Sidhu to contest from Patiala. The ex-CM is said to be waiting for a meeting with the BJP leadership, ahead of the elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-to-run-from-patiala-341578
23-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||AAP's attempt to win over 49% voters in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22The AAP is trying to get its act together by changing the “political” track and targeting one of the largest vote banks in Punjab’s electoral arena — 93.75 lakh women.Having faced a near rout in its rank and file during the recent Assembly session, when two of its MLAs joined the Congress, the party has been forced to pull itself out of a possible electoral doom.Not only did AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal reach out to the 49 per cent voters (women), but he also mocked the Congress CM, referring to him as “nakli Kejriwal”. By dining at an autorickshaw driver’s house in Ludhiana, he sent out a message that he was the “real aam aadmi”.However, the larger issue is that he has still shied away from declaring the “Captain” of his team. Though the way he has given importance to Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann today, speculation is rife that Mann will be the party’s chief ministerial face. Also, with most other contenders being considered by the party — an eminent NRI businessman, an eminent environmentalist and an actor-philanthropist — reportedly not keen on taking the lead, the only choice left with the party is Mann, as he, too, has a mass appeal among voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-attempt-to-win-over-49-voters-in-punjab-341577
23-11-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu, CM Channi fly to Delhi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22Hours after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu were finally seen together on stage at a workers’ meet in Ludhiana, the two leaders along with Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary flew to Delhi to hold meetings with the party’s top leadership. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal also accompanied them.With Chaudhary’s efforts, the party’s state leadership is finally being seen together to begin campaigning as a cohesive unit ahead of the Assembly elections. While Congress leaders said the meeting was part of its organisational interaction with leaders from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Delhi and Haryana, sources said the party was re-strategising its poll campaign in the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing withdrawal of the central farm laws and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal trying to make inroads by announcing populist measures. The Punjab leaders have scheduled meetings with Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal. The sources said to counter the “aam aadmi” narrative of Keriwal-led AAP, the party was working on branding Channi as the “real aam aadmi”.Focus on Hindu, SC vote bank nowThe party plans to utilise Channi, Sidhu and a Hindu face during campaigning. Consolidating the Hindu and Dalit vote bank is the focus area. — A party leaderCM, FM at wedding||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-cm-channi-fly-to-delhi-341576
23-11-2021||---||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi caps monthly cable rate at Rs 100||Ludhiana, November 22Putting up a united face, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu shared stage at a party workers’ meeting here today. This was Sidhu’s first official visit to Ludhiana after assuming charge.Regular jobs in 10 days for safai sewaksTo eliminate the cartelisation of cable network from across the state, Channi announced fixing of the monthly rate of cable TV connection at Rs 100. Addressing the workers in the Atam Nagar constituency, the CM said people were being unnecessarily harassed by the “cable mafia” by levying hefty charges.Targeting the Akalis, he said transport and cable businesses were owned by the Badal family and that people needn’t pay more than Rs 100 per month now. Strict action would be taken against those not adhering to the new rates, said Channi. He also announced that all illegal bus permits would be revoked and allotted to the unemployed youth.Channi further said in the next 10 days, the services of all “safai sewaks” working in the municipal councils and corporations would be regularised and there would be no condition of 10-year service rule, besides scrapping the contract system for recruitment. Earlier, the two leaders met autorickshaw drivers, where the CM said all pending challans would be waived. He also handed over appointment letters of government jobs to the next of kin of five farmers who died during the farmers’ agitation. On his part, Sidhu lauded the CM for his “pro-poor and landmark decisions” within a short span. He said the Congress-led Punjab Government would soon evolve a mechanism to make Punjab debt-free by launching effective policies, adding debt-free Punjab would be a better place for the future generations.He said the party workers would be given better representation in all boards, corporations and other bodies in recognition of their hard work and commitment.“For the development of Punjab, we will have to end the mafia raj,” said Sidhu. Addressing the CM as “Channi Bai”, Sidhu said they would form policies together as Punjab was on the verge of a civil revolution with mass unemployment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-caps-monthly-cable-rate-at-rs-100-341543
23-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Grenade lobbed at Pathankot  Army camp||Tribune News ServicePathankot, November 22The twin border districts of Pathankot and Gurdaspur were put on high alert after two motorcycle-borne persons lobbed a Pakistan-made hand grenade at an Army camp leading to a low-intensity blast around midnight in Pathankot.Past terror attacksSenior officers, after completing preliminary probe, termed it a “terror attack”.IG (Border range) Mohinish Chawla, who rushed in from Amritsar early in the morning, was supervising the investigations. Although no casualties were reported, the police took no chances and sounded the alert.The police have recovered a car from the city outskirts. “The car was stolen from Harchowal falling in Sri Hargobindpur on October 28. Apparently, the accused used the car in the crime. It was bearing a fake registration plate. Investigations are on,” said a senior officer.The city was turned into a fortress with police teams being deputed at strategic locations. The ammunition dump in Mamun Cantonment too was secured.SSP Surendra Lamba and his team of officers reached the site within 30 minutes and ordered the setting up of a dozen check posts throughout Pathankot district.The attack occurred 500 yards from the outer wall of the high-security Air Force Station. On January 2, 2016, four Jaish-e-Mohammed militants had laid siege to the air base. A 48-hour gun battle followed in which all terrorists were killed. Before making their way into the base, the terrorists had kidnapped SP Salwinder Singh.Six months earlier, three Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorists had walked into the Dinanagar police station, 20 km from the air base, from Bamiyal village near the International Border. An eight-hour gun battle followed in which seven persons, including the three infiltrators, were killed.SSP Lamba said CCTV footage of Triveni Dwar, the site of the attack, was being examined. Located on the periphery of the camp, it serves as the gateway. Minutes after the explosion, checking on the busy Jammu-Pathankot national highway was intensified, as also on the highway leading to Gurdaspur and Amritsar.In neighbouring Gurdaspur district, too, the police stepped up vigil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/grenade-lobbed-at-pathankot-army-camp-341544
23-11-2021||Moga/ludhiana||Kejriwal woos women with Rs 1,000 per month grant||Stressing the need for social security, education and better healthcare for women, AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal congratulated them for helping farmers win the battle against the farm laws.SidelightsAddressing women in Moga today, he announced to give Rs 1,000 monthly allowance to all women above 18 years, irrespective of their other financial benefits, including pension and salary. “This is the first-of-its-kind monetary help to be given to women by any government,” he claimed. He said money was not an issue for any government. “If elected, the AAP will snub all types of mafias patronised by the incumbent and ex-CMs and generate revenue sources to fill the state coffers. The money raised by streamlining the system of taxes will be spent on people’s welfare,” he said.Targeting CM Charanjit Channi, he said Channi was trying to replicate the policies of the Delhi Government. “Channi is a fake Kejriwal. Beware of him. I fulfil whatever promises I make,” he said. In Ludhiana, he announced to set up a corporation and introduce an online system for redressal of auto and taxi drivers’ issues. At “Auto Samwad Program”, he said: “Every auto driver in Delhi calls me his brother. Now, I want to solve all your problems.” Later, he dined at driver Dilip Tewari’s house. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-woos-women-with-rs-1-000-per-month-grant-341545
23-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Cancellation of route permits: HC notice to Punjab transport minister Raja Warring, others||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday issued notice, among others, to Punjab Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on a petition claiming that he was acting in furtherance of political vendetta.The petition has been filed by New Deep Bus Service through partner Hardeep Singh Dhillon against the cancellation of route permits.Taking up the petition, the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain also put the State of Punjab and the transport department on notice.In its petition filed through counsel Rohit Sud and Amandeep Singh Talwar, the petitioner company was seeking the quashing of orders dated November 12, whereby the permits granted to the petitioners were cancelled, “illegally, arbitrarily and with mala fide intent”.The petitioner was also seeking stay on the operation, implementation and execution of the impugned orders and any other coercive measures for recovery of alleged tax during the pendency of the present writ petition.Directions were also sought for unconditional release of impounded buses during the pendency of the petition. The petitioner claimed one of the partner of the petitioner’s firms, Hardeep Singh Dhillon, was a member of the Shiromani Akali Dal and was the contesting candidate for the party against Congress party candidate, who was now the transport minister.“In furtherance of his political vendetta, the respondent has utilised the State machinery to scuttle the business of the petitioners by getting the impugned orders passed. The impugned orders have purportedly been passed under Section 103 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, which provides no power or jurisdiction to take action for violation of condition of a permit issued under Chapter V of the MV Act,” it was added.The petition added the petitioners were not only penalised, action was not taken against similarly placed persons associated with the Indian National Congress. Besides this, notice or opportunity of hearing was not granted before passing the impugned orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cancellation-of-route-permits-hc-notice-to-punjab-transport-minister-raja-warring-others-341534
23-11-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab CM Channi interacts with auto-rickshaw drivers, says challans to be waived||Auto-rickshaw drivers in Punjab's industrial town Ludhiana on Monday received an unusual guest in the form of Chief Minister Charanjit Channi, who halted unscheduled on his way to the grain market to listen to their problems.Taken by surprise, the drivers were elated as for the first time in the recent past any Chief Minister had came to them that too for listening their grievances in a 'chaupal' (meeting).The Chief Minister, accompanying President of Punjab Congress, Navjot Sidhu, sat on a wooden bench amongst the auto rickshaw owners and interacted with them.In his impeccable style, Chief Minister Channi relished the tea offered by them by dipping a 'mathi' in glass of tea.During the interaction, the Chief Minister assured them to consider their genuine demands sympathetically. Due to huge rush of the auto rickshaw drivers, the Chief Minister then stood on the stool and addressed the gathering.Striking an emotional chord, Channi said, during his initial days, he himself had driven an auto-rickshaw. Winning the hearts of the auto-rickshaw drivers, he announced that new registration certificates will be issued soon to them for preventing their harassment.Channi also announced that all challans which are pending will be waived off. He asked the auto-rickshaw drivers to follow traffic rules and work honestly.He also acceded to the demand of auto-rickshaw owners to draw a yellow line exclusively for plying of the auto-rickshaws. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-interacts-with-auto-rickshaw-drivers-says-challans-to-be-waived-341502
23-11-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Channi is a ‘fake Kejriwal’, says Delhi CM; announces Rs 1,000 per month for all women above 18 in case AAP forms govt in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceMoga, November 22Stressing upon the need for social security, education and health care for the women of Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Monday congratulated the women of Punjab who helped the farmers win the battle against the Centre on farm laws.He announced a grant of Rs 1,000 per month for all women above 18, irrespective of the financial benefits being taken by them, that is, pension or salary. "This is the first-of-its-kind monetary help to be given to women by any government in the world,” he said.He said all women above 18 would get this benefit, which would go a long way in economic uplift of women in society.Kejriwal said money is not an issue for any government. The AAP government, if elected to power in Punjab, would manage funds by snubbing all mafias and generating revenue sources, he said.He said Punjab has a bright future, provided the state government has good intentions and the right approach to development. "This time, the women of Punjab will decide the course of the 2022 Assembly election in Punjab,” he said.He appealed to the women of Punjab to give a chance to AAP to form the next government.He said Chief Minister Charanjit Channi is trying to replicate the policies and programmes of AAP, adding, “Channi is a ‘nakli’ Kejriwal. Beware of him. Don't go by his words. I keep all my promises made to the people.”Kejriwal alleged that the power bills in Punjab had not reduced; people were still getting huge bills. AAP is the only party which could bring down the power bills to zero, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-is-a-fake-kejriwal-says-delhi-cm-announces-rs-1-000-per-month-for-all-women-above-18-in-case-aap-forms-govt-in-punjab-341492
23-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pakistan-made grenade lobbed at army camp in Pathankot; police call it terror attack||Tribune News ServicePathankot, November 22The twin border districts of Pathankot and Gurdaspur were put on a high alert after two motorcycle borne persons lobbed a Pakistan-made low-intensity hand grenade towards an army camp at midnight in Pathankot.Senior officers, after completing preliminary investigations, termed the incident as a “terror attack”.IG (Border range) Mohinish Chawla, who rushed in from Amritsar early in the morning, was supervising the investigations.Although no casualties were reported, the police took no chances and sounded an alert.The police have recovered an i-20 car from the outskirts of the city. “The car was stolen from Harchowal falling in Sri-Hargobindpur on October 28. Apparently, the accused have used this car in the crime at some point in time or the other. It was bearing a fake registration number plate. Investigations are still in progress,” said a senior officer involved in the investigation. By early morning the city had been converted into a fortress with teams of cops positioning themselves at strategic locations. The ammunition dump in Mamun cantonment, said to be the country’s biggest arms stockyard, was immediately secured.  SSP Surendra Lamba and his team of officers reached the site within 30 minutes after which orders were given to set up a dozen check posts throughout Pathankot district.The SSP said footage from CCTVs located near Triveni Dwar, the exact site of the attack, was being checked. The gate, located on the periphery of the camp, also serves as its gateway.  Minutes after the explosion, checking on the busy Jammu-Pathankot national highway was intensified, besides on the National Highway leading to Gurdaspur and Amritsar. In the neighbouring police district of Gurdaspur the cops upped the ante. “All vehicles on the Pathankot-Gurdaspur and Gurdaspur-Amritsar via Batala national highway are being subjected to checking. Security has been tightened at some other vital installations too,” said SSP Nanak Singh.The attack occurred barely 500 yards from the outer wall of the high security Air Force station. On January 2, 2016, four Jaish-e-Mohammad militants had laid siege to the air base. A 48-hour fierce gun battle followed in which all the terrorists were killed. Before making their way into the base, the terrorists had kidnapped SP Salwinder Singh.   Six months earlier, three Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorists had walked into the Dinanagar police station, 20 km from the Air base, from Bamiyal village near the international border. An 8-hour gun battle followed in which 7 persons, including the three infiltrators and SP Baljeet Singh, were killed.   Terror attacks in Pathankot, GurdaspurOn July 27, 2015, three Lashkar-e-Toiba militants entered the Dinanagar police station.On January 2, 2016, four Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists laid siege to the high security Air Force station in Pathankot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-made-grenade-lobbed-at-army-camp-in-pathankot-police-call-it-terror-attack-341444
