25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab sees 41 new cases, 2 deaths||Two more Covid-related deaths were reported in Punjab on Thursday while 41 new cases of coronavirus took the infection tally to 6,03,132, according to a medical bulletin.The death toll in the state rose to 16,591, officials said, adding that the two fatalities were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala.Among the fresh cases, Pathankot reported 11, followed by five each in Jalandhar, Patiala and Mohali.The number of active cases increased to 314 from 300 on Wednesday.Twenty more people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,86,227, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, the Union Territory of Chandigarh reported nine new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 65,430.No death was reported in the city in the last 24 hours while the toll stood at 820, officials said.The number of active cases in the city was 41 while the number of cured people was 64,569, they said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-41-new-cases-2-deaths-342709
25-11-2021||---||135 senior police officers deputed across Punjab for ‘night domination’ operations||Chandigarh, November 25A total of 135 gazetted Punjab Police officers of different ranks have been deputed across the state as part of a “night domination” exercise to prevent any terrorist or criminal act, state police chief Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said on Thursday.Director-General of Police Singh said the officers have been deputed in compliance with Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s order and “we have intensified the night patrolling across the state”.While chairing a crime review meeting in Amritsar, Randhawa had on Tuesday directed the police force to increase night patrolling across the state to maintain law and order.On the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, the deputy chief minister had also made surprise calls to police officers deputed for night patrolling to check if they were on their job.“The development came at a moment when Punjab has been witnessing a huge inflow of hand grenades and tiffin bombs along with other weapons,” DGP Singh said in a statement.“Recently, the state has also seen a couple of grenade blasts, including at CIA Nawanshahr and Cantonment area in Pathankot besides the recovery of an unexploded hand grenade from the Zira area,” he pointed out.The DGP said every police district has been divided into sectors and one gazetted officer of DSP or SP rank has been deputed for each sector to ensure night patrolling in their jurisdiction.He said apart from the routine ‘naka’ (observation posts) and vehicle checking, the deputed officers have also been directed to keep vigil at vulnerable spots like railway stations, bus stands, religious places, RSS ‘shakhas’ and other vital spots.District police chiefs, especially those in border areas, have also been asked to give special attention to drones and suspicious persons moving in the vulnerable areas. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/135-senior-police-officers-deputed-across-punjab-for-night-domination-operations-342686
25-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Navjot Sidhu alleges Capt stalled his proposed law which would have ended Fastway monopoly||Chandigarh, November 25Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s tirade against Fastway, the company that allegedly came to enjoy monopoly over the cable TV business in the state during the Badal government, and former chief minister Capt Amrinder Singh continued on Thursday.In a series of tweets, he wrote: “5 yrs ago, I put forward policy to get rid of Multi Systems Operator- Fastway's monopoly, to recover 1000s of crores taxes, empower local operators & give cheap cable to people… without necessary action against fastway, it is erroneous to suggest solution of Punjab’s cable woes.”5 yrs ago, I put forward policy to get rid of Multi Systems Operator- Fastway's monopoly, to recover 1000s of crores taxes, empower local operators & give cheap cable to people… without necessary action against fastway, it is erroneous to suggest solution of Punjab’s cable woesIn another tweet, he said: “Take away the cause & effect will seize! In 2017 I proposed a new law to recover stolen state taxes from fastway by taking control over computers & data hidden by fastway monopoly. It would have freed the cable operators from clutches of this monopoly and filled state coffers!!”, adding that: “Fastway has 3-4 times TV connections than data it is sharing with govt. Badals made laws to protect its monopoly... @capt_amarinder stalled my proposed law which would have ended fastway monopoly, got revenue for state per connection & reduced TV cable prices for people to half.”Take away the cause & effect will seize! In 2017 I proposed a new law to recover stolen state taxes from fastway by taking control over computers & data hidden by fastway monopoly. It would have freed the cable operators from clutches of this monopoly and filled state coffers!!Fastway has 3-4 times TV connections than data it is sharing with govt. Badals made laws to protect its monopoly... @capt_amarinder stalled my proposed law which would have ended fastway monopoly, got revenue for state per connection & reduced TV cable prices for people to halfSidhu has time and again been raising the issue of tax evasion by Fastway.He had earlier also showed an order of the Competition Commission of India dated July 2012, which said the conduct of the Fastway group “has not only resulted in harm to the consumers but also to the TV industry as a whole by depriving them access to the relevant market”.Showing the Fastway dominance, Sidhu had showed a TRAI letter, which pointed out that at one point of time out of the total 24.4 lakh set top boxes in the state, 21.5 lakh belonged to Fastway Transmissions, 1.75 lakh to Hathway and 32,000 to others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-alleges-capt-stalled-his-proposed-law-which-would-have-ended-fastway-monopoly-342628
25-11-2021||GNDU’s exhibition on its 52nd Foundation Day reminds us of an era gone by as heritage items put on display are slowly vanishing from Punjabi lifestyle and culturescape. Tribune correspondent Neha Saini and photojournalist Sunil Kumar take us down the memory lane…||A peek into Punjabi virsa at Guru Nanak Dev University exhibition||IT was like a walk through an era gone by as eight colleges from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Pathankot set up stalls of heritage items that included vintage kitchens, living rooms and glorious hand weaves that Punjab is famous for.The Lok Virsa exhibition at GNDU marked the university’s 52nd Foundation Day. The exhibition has several items on display that are now vanishing from Punjabi lifestyle and culturescape. Items such as chakki that used to grind grains or the gramophone, or handmade thathera utensils (made of brass and bronze) that also found mention in the UNESCO’s intangible heritage list have been displayed.Colleges participating are Apeejay College of Arts, Jalandhar; Hans Raj Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Jalandhar; BBKDAV College for Women; Khalsa College of Education, Amritsar; Sidana Institute of Education, Amritsar; Baba Budda College, village Thatha, Tarn Taran; Anand College of Education, Amritsar; Shanti Devi Arya Mahila College, Dinanagar; and Shri Guru Angad Dev College, Khadoor Sahib.Students also performed folk dances and songs such as jaago, boliyan and sammi for visitors.The most popular attraction was the 200-year-old hand-woven phulkari chaddar. A lot of stalls had a lot of traditional, old-world household items, including gramophone, radio and tools used in looms set up at home by women, who used to make phulkaris and durries at home. Live traditional, vintage kitchen were also set up at several stalls. Earthen pots and commonly found kitchen items such as chaati, chakki, masaledaanis, degh and others that have now vanished from modern lifestyle were also put on display for visitors, especially the younger generation to familiarise them about Punjabi culture and lifestyle.Phulkaris, splendid baghs, hand-weaved pakkhis (fans) and durries, too, were an education about the rich textile and crafts of Punjab. Rare and old coins, some dating back to the 14th and 15th century, were also put on display.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-peek-into-punjabi-virsa-at-guru-nanak-dev-university-exhibition-342526
25-11-2021||Ropar/Chandigarh||Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh bereaved||Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh’s mother Raj Rani (84) breathed her last after brief illness at her home in nearby Khatana village here today. She was sarpanch of her village. She is survived by four children, including Rana. A large number of people attended her cremation.CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday mourned the demise of Raj Rani. In his condolence message, the Chief Minister said, “I am deeply saddened to learn about the passing away of Raj Rani who was a pillar of great strength and inspiration for her family.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-vidhan-sabha-speaker-rana-kp-singh-bereaved-342476
25-11-2021||Moga||Two smugglers held with 1,700 intoxicating pills||The police have arrested two drug smugglers and recovered 1,700 intoxicating pills from them, SSP Satinderjit Singh Mand said here today.He said a drug smuggler, identified as Simranjit Singh, alias Goldi, a resident of Marhi Mustafa village, was arrested from Channuwala village when he had gone there on a scooter to sell the intoxicating pills to his customers. As many as 1,480 intoxicating pills were recovered from him.The SSP said another drug smuggler, Gobind Singh, alias Gora, a resident of Gholia Kalan village, was arrested from Sandhuana Road, Moga, and 220 intoxicating pills were recovered from him. A sum of Rs 40,000 drug money was also recovered from him, the SSP added. Mand said two criminal cases under the NDPS Act had been registered against them. Further, probe is in progress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-smugglers-held-with-1-700-intoxicating-pills-342475
25-11-2021||Bathinda||No ward attendant at Bathinda Civil Hospital, critical patients suffer||In the absence of ward attendants at the emergency unit of the Bathinda Civil Hospital, family members/relatives are forced to lift and carry critical patients themselves inside the premises.Even when the critical patients are inside the emergency unit, there is no one to move them around. The patients are seen moving inside the unit on their own while others are assisted by relatives accompanying them.Family members or relatives of these critical patients can be seen taking them out from ambulances and then carry them to the emergency unit.Even critically injured patients, are lifted by family members and taken to the unit. Dr Maninder Pal Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, said: “There is a ward attendant at the emergency unit but he often remains busy in the work. Also, there is staff crunch. If the ward attendant will stand at the entrance then the work inside the unit will get hampered.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-ward-attendant-at-bathinda-civil-hospital-critical-patients-suffer-342474
25-11-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur fights odds to achieve 100% inoculation target by Nov 30||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, November 24Health officials are fighting a rigid mindset, an abysmally low literacy rate and staff shortage to beat the deadline of vaccinating 100 per cent of the district’s population over the age of 18.DC Mohammad Ishfaq is holding regular meetings to ensure the November 30 cut-off date is met with. It has been put in place by the central government under its ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ scheme.Dr Vijay Kumar, officiating civil surgeon, said more than the staff shortage problem, it was the low literacy rate and an obstinate approach which were acting as an impediment. “We have already covered about 55 per cent of the population. The next week is crucial for us. We have formed several teams which have fanned out in the rural areas. It is a race against time but nevertheless we are on the job,” he said. An official admitted that villagers, particularly those living near the International Border, are being adamant in their refusal to get the jab. Trusted individuals have now been asked to educate villagers on the efficacy of jabs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-fights-odds-to-achieve-100-inoculation-target-by-nov-30-342472
25-11-2021||Bathinda||PRTC workers’ protest leads to traffic snarls in Bathinda||Members of the PRTC/Punbus Contract Workers’ Union today staged a protest and blocked the entrance of the city bus stand here on Wednesday. The protesting workers raised slogans against private bus operators and demanded action against them.Union president Sandeep Grewal said: “Though new timetable is in place for many routes now, some private bus operators were still running their buses as per old timings. When PRTC workers raised question over this, the bus operators engaged into a verbal spat with them following which we blocked the main entrance to the city bus stand and started a dharna. We will not tolerate the private players’ high-handedness and if it continues, we will stop work at all state depots and start a state-wide agitation.”Meanwhile, owing to the blockade, a huge traffic jam was witnessed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prtc-workers-protest-leads-to-traffic-snarls-in-bathinda-342471
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rural medical officers declared ‘dying cadre’||When the state is witnessing the worst-ever breakouts of epedemics, the rural medical officers (RMOs) have been officially declared a ‘dying cadre’.The situation is such that the state government is continuously withdrawing from the rural healthcare services for the past several years. To provide good healthcare facilities to people living in rural areas, the government had handed over 1,186 dispensaries to the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats. But the department failed to frame promotion rules for these employees and also could not fill posts which fell vacant due to resignation of doctors. The outcome is that now, just 560 doctors are left in the department as recently, the government declared RMOs as a ‘dying cadre’.Sanjeev Garg, Deputy Director, Rural Development, said after the decision, whichever post falls vacant would be shifted to the Health Department. Dr Deepinder Bhasin, president, Rural Medical Officers’ Association, said during Covid, the mortality rate in the rural areas was high. “Instead of killing rural healthcare, the government should depute more doctors and fill vacant posts,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rural-medical-officers-declared-dying-cadre-342470
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tribunal upholds order on permit cancellation||Terming it a vindication of the state government stand against “illegal” extensions of route permits, Punjab Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Wednesday said the State Transport Appellate Tribunal (STAT) order passed today had exposed those who had plundered Punjab for their personal gains.The minister said the STAT had put its stamp on the Transport Department action against as many as 806 permits which were cancelled for running illegally, including those of Jujhar Transport.In a significant decision, the STAT on Wednesday upheld the Transport Department order cancelling the extension of the original permits beyond 24 km to a large number of transporters in the state in line with the Justice Surya Kant judgment. No one would be allowed to play with the state revenue at any cost, Warring said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tribunal-upholds-order-on-permit-cancellation-342469
25-11-2021||Muktsar||Panic buying of urea in Muktsar||After facing hardship in buying DAP fertiliser, farmers have resorted to panic buying of urea fertiliser in Muktsar district. Urea is required after almost a month of sowing wheat crop. However, they don’t want to take any risk with the fertiliser now.“The urea is now available in the market and we are buying it in advance. Some dealers have also advised us to buy the stock early,” said farmers.On this, Gurpreet Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Muktsar, said, “The first dose of urea is required after the first irrigation of fields. The second dose is needed in January. However, farmers are panic buying it. As of now, there is plenty of stock available. Further, senior officers in the department have assured us that there will be no shortage of urea in the coming days. However, if farmers stock up the fertiliser in advance and much beyond their requirement, some shortage may occur.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panic-buying-of-urea-in-muktsar-342468
25-11-2021||Patiala||Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa launches drive to return case properties||Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today launched a state-level campaign to hand over belongings of people lying in police stations in Patiala. Launching the drive, starting from Patiala, Randhawa handed over case properties worth Rs 32.5 crore, including 184 vehicles, related to 248 cases in Patiala district.Randhawa, accompanied by Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, was here at the Police Lines to launch the state-level campaign to hand over the belongings of the people lying in the state police stations. MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, senior Congress leaders Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann and Gursharan Kaur Randhawa were also present. On the occasion, Randhawa handed over 184 vehicles to the owners. He said arrangements had now been made in every district to immediately hand over the goods in dowry cases to the people and Malkhanas should be vacated so that the goods of the people were not damaged.Appreciating the efforts of Patiala SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar, the Home Minister announced Rs 2 crore for Patiala Police Lines Stadium and Rs 20 lakh for Police Welfare Fund besides new vehicles for PCR. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dy-cm-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-launches-drive-to-return-case-properties-342467
25-11-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||SIT probing sacrilege cases misses deadline||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The SIT probing the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents has missed its six-month deadline by two weeks even as CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu have been pressing for justice in sacrilege and related cases.The government under then CM Capt Amarinder Singh had set the May 7 deadline while constituting the new SIT after the Punjab and Haryana High Court dissolved the earlier SIT led by DGP Prabodh Kumar.Congress leaders led by Sidhu had then criticised Capt Amarinder for giving a “long time” to the new SIT to finish the probe. However, despite change in leadership and slugfest between Congress leaders over the appointment of APS Deol, who represented former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in sacrilege cases, as Advocate General, the SIT is yet to finish the probe.Two Sikh activists protesting sacrilege were killed in police firing in Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. In a related incident the same day, several protesters were injured in police firing in Kotkapura.The SIT is probing if the decision to open fire was due to circumstances on the ground or was deliberately given by senior police officers or a political authority.Sources said the probe conducted so far by the SIT, led by ADGP LK Yadav with IG Rakesh Aggarwal and DIG Surjit Singh as its members, was scheduled to be discussed next week with legal experts.When approached, Advocate General Deepender Singh Patwalia refused to comment on the delay. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sidhu could not be contacted.Top dera officials summoned by SITThe SIT probing sacrilege cases on Wednesday summoned Vipassana Insan, chairperson, Dera Sacha Sauda, and Dr PR Nain, senior vice-chairperson, for questioning in Ludhiana on November 26. It is alleged that sacrilege incidents were planned at the dera headquarters in Sirsa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-probing-sacrilege-cases-misses-deadline-342442
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress appeasing disruptive forces, alleges Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh today accused the Congress government in the state of “appeasing anti-national and disruptive forces”.Reacting strongly to the appointment of Balwinder Singh Kotlabama as chairman of Punjab Genco Ltd, Chugh said it was reprehensible the way the Charanjit Singh Channi government had been buckling under the pressure of anti-national forces. Chugh claimed that Kotlabama was the brother of US-based Avtar Singh Pannu, a key office-bearer of banned pro-Khalistan organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ). He said it looked in tune with PCC chief Navjot Sidhu heaping praise on Pakistan PM Imran Khan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-appeasing-disruptive-forces-alleges-tarun-chugh-342466
25-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Now, Punjab Vigilance Bureau can carry out post-registry probe||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24In an out-of-the-ordinary move to arrest corruption in different tehsils at the time of registering sale deeds, Punjab Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) Justice Mehtab Singh Gill has permitted the Vigilance Bureau (VB) to carry out post-registry probe by interacting with buyers and sellers for obtaining tangible information.The bureau had sought Justice Gill’s permission to record the statements of vendors and vendees after procuring the copies of sale deeds following their reluctance or inability to come out with concrete evidence against the revenue officials and registration authorities.The permission comes days after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had expressed desire to see an end to corruption at the time of getting sale deeds registered. The matter was brought to Justice Gill’s notice after Assistant Inspector General, Vigilance Bureau, Flying Squad, Punjab, wrote a letter seeking permission to take appropriate action against the revenue officials/registration authorities after referring to previous communications in this regard by Additional Director General of Police, Vigilance Bureau.It was stated, among other things, that strong steps were required to be initiated by the bureau following large-scale complaints regarding corruption in tehsils. The bureau said the complainants were unable to present concrete evidence of corruption or come out with pre-trap recordings to enable it to proceed against the erring and corrupt functionaries.It was suggested the copies of all the registries in the tehsils could be obtained in the evenings before interacting with buyers and sellers and recording their statements on how much was paid to whom before proceeding further. As such, Justice Gill’s permission was sought to act against them in accordance with law. Taking up the matter, Justice Gill asserted: “Requisite permission is granted to take action and do the needful as it deems fit for the inquiry officer to do so.”Justice Gill has already placed the Deputy Commissioners across the state in the dock for apparently going soft on revenue officials by delaying the decision on prosecution sanction. Justice Gill also made it clear that mutations pleas were being decided beyond the prescribed period, leaving room for corruption.In a scathing communiqué to all deputy commissioners, Justice Gill had earlier asserted it had come to his notice that extraordinary delay was being caused for whatsoever reason regarding the grant of prosecution sanction. “This delay in prosecution sanction is specially where revenue officials are involved,” Justice Gill asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-punjab-vigilance-bureau-can-carry-out-post-registry-probe-342465
25-11-2021||---||Kejriwal lying on education model: Pargat Singh||Chandigarh, November 24Education Minister Pargat Singh today asked Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to explain which education revolution he intended to bring in Punjab which had been the ‘cradle of civilisation’ since ages and had taught the masses how to read and write.The minister said it was another cheap gimmick by the ‘rumour monger’ Kejriwal, who was not even aware of basic topography of Punjab. He said Kejriwal probably forgot about the fact that he was trying to mislead people on the same land where Vedas, Upanishads and other texts were written long before people knew how to read and write.He said currently, Punjab ranked first in the National Performance Grading Index released earlier this year while Delhi was a distant sixth. On all parameters of education, learning outcomes, access, infrastructure and facilities, Punjab was above Delhi. Likewise, he said Punjabis had expressed faith in the government school system through increased enrollment in primary classes from 1.93 lakh to 3.3 lakh in the past four years. He advised Kejriwal to first ensure enough teachers for Delhi before worrying about Punjab.Punjab ahead of DelhiPunjab ranks first in the National Performance Grading Index, while Delhi is a distant sixth. On all parameters of education, Punjab is above Delhi. Pargat Singh, Education Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-lying-on-education-model-pargat-singh-342464
25-11-2021||Jalandhar||Will focus on industrial development: Manish Sisodia||AAP leader and Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia today said if voted to power in 2022, his party would bring industrial revolution in Punjab.Sisodia was in the city to interact with traders, businessmen, industrialists and shopkeepers. Industrialists from tourism, hospitality, leather, sports, transport sectors shared their problems and challenges with Sisodia. He said the story of a new Punjab could be written and industry could be recognised at the global level. — TNSBSP leader joins AAP AAP got a shot in the arm in Ropar when senior BSP leader and international player Sodhi Vikram Singh joined the party in the presence of AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-focus-on-industrial-development-manish-sisodia-342463
25-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Banga Congress ticket aspirants upset||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 24CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s announcement yesterday projecting his Principal Secretary Hussan Lal as the likely candidate from the Banga Assembly (Reserved) seat seems to be causing consternation among various contenders from the seat.Among the contenders are two ex-MLAs from the seat — Tarlochan Soondh, who had contested from the seat independently last time after being denied the ticket, and Mohan Lal Banga. While Soondh today went to meet the CM at his residence this evening to take up the matter, Banga said he had plans to approach PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu and Punjab party incharge Harish Chaudhary as he was unhappy with the CM “promoting his officers and relatives”.Banga alleged, “We have already seen how the CM is promoting his relatives and officials from various seats. If the party is to promote officials, where will the politicians go? I have been sarpanch, Zila Parishad chairman before twice becoming an MLA, but today I find myself being totally ignored. No protocol was followed at yesterday’s rally with the officer made to sit just next to the CM and the MLAs and ex-MLAs seated far behind. Hussan Lal has already left behind his frontman in the constituency for his work till the time he takes his retirement. So, the party has clearly made up its mind. They should better give us an alternative constituencies to work from.”Soondh, who had thrown a shoe at an SAD leader in the Assembly in 2016, said, “I will surely not contest independently this time. I have some other plan. I will reveal it when the right time comes.”The Congress had fielded former MP Satnam Kainth in 2017 but he lost his security deposit. After his demise, his son Harpreet Kainth has been politically active.When asked whether he planned to contest from the Banga seat, Principal Secretary Hussan Lal, who hails from Balachaur, said, “There is nothing like that. It is just that I have worked in CM Channi’s departments earlier too and he trusts me. We have a very cordial understanding.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/banga-congress-ticket-aspirants-upset-342462
25-11-2021||---||Farmers all set for stir anniversary at Delhi border||Sangrur, November 24Farmers across the state are geared up to mark the first anniversary of anti-agricultural laws on November 26 at the Delhi borders. Many have converted their tractor trailers into small rooms with the help of tarpaulins and stocked up woolens and grocery items, and are ready to stay put at the borders if directed by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).“We all are excited to be part of an unprecedented gathering of farmers on November 26. We have been making all arrangements as we did last year before the start of our indefinite agitation against the farm laws,” said Gurbinder Singh, a protesting farmer at Sangrur.Youth are taking care of transportation of protesters in trailers, and many have already reached Delhi, while women are busy collecting ration and other essential items for the mega event.“Even last December, we did not face any problem during our stay at the border. We had every facility in our trailers. This time also, farmers are making the same preparation. We have all arrangements in place to tackle cold conditions,” said Harjinder Singh, press secretary, BKU (Ugrahan), Lehra block.There are many big villages, including Gharachon, Mehla Chownk, Chhajli, Kalajhar, Jhaneri and others, from where organisations are expecting a large movement for Delhi in the next three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-all-set-for-stir-anniversary-at-delhi-border-342460
25-11-2021||Garhshankar||Sukhbir Badal targets Punjab govt over key post for Avtar Singh Pannu’s brother||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal today flayed the government for appointing Balwinder Singh Kotlabama, brother of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) leader Avtar Singh Pannu, as chairman of Punjab Genco.After addressing meetings in favour of party candidate Surinder Singh Bhullewal Rathan, he said, “A relative of the head of a banned organisation that indulges in anti-India activities is being promoted by the Congress government. It is said all appointments are being cleared by the Congress high command. Rahul Gandhi should tell Punjabis why he has rewarded Kotlabama.” He said the CM was trying to befool Punjabis by announcing a reduction in sand prices to Rs 5.50 per cubic feet. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-targets-punjab-govt-over-key-post-for-avtar-singh-pannus-brother-342459
25-11-2021||---||Man ‘linked’ to foreign terror outfits nabbed in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 24The Punjab Police claimed to have foiled a terror attack in the border state by arresting a “highly radicalised” man, identified as Ranjit Singh, a resident of Sohal village in Tarn Taran, who was allegedly linked with foreign-based terror groups.Ranjit was part of a group which had vandalised statues of folk dancers installed at the Heritage Street leading to the Golden Temple on January 15, 2020. Ranjit was arrested by the police in a statue vandalising case and was presently on bail, the police said.Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, in a press release issued today, said the police recovered two Chinese P-86 hand grenades and twopistols along with live cartridges besides a black Royal Enfield motorcycle from his possession.The DGP said acting on intelligence inputs about the presence of Ranjit Singh, special teams from the SSOC, Amritsar, were sent to the specified area to spot the suspect. A case was registered under Section 25 of the Arms Act, Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Amendment Act and Sections 120 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code at the SSOC Police Station yesterday.Sahota said during investigation, Ranjit revealed he had formed a group named ‘Kaum De Rakhe’ to collect funds on the pretext of social work and through this group, he got in touch with various radical elements based in UK and other countries and extended his help to form sleeper cells under the garb of social work. Ranjit further disclosed that he recently received a consignment of arms and explosives, and was planning to carry out a terror strike to create an atmosphere of fear and lawlessness in the border state, the DGP claimed.ADGP (Internal Security) RN Dhoke said efforts were being made to ascertain the identity of the UK operatives, who had arranged the consignment, and his other Indian associates. The development has come at a time when Punjab has been witnessing a huge inflow of hand grenades and tiffin bombs along with other weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-linked-to-foreign-terror-outfits-nabbed-in-amritsar-342458
25-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||In 24 days, Bathinda sees 4 deaths, 49 new Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 24Amid dengue surge, Bathinda district has witnessed a spike in Covid cases with 49 new infections and four deaths reported so far this month. A total of five cases have been reported from a house in Janta Nagar in Rampura Phul. The street has been declared as a micro-containment zone by the authorities.The Deputy Commissioner has directed the Health Department to carry out door-to-door survey in the micro-containment zone on daily basis, clinical management of all confirmed cases and carry out random stratified sampling in such areas.The period for which the area will be tagged micro-containment zone will be at least 10 days. If not more than a single new case is reported from the area in five days then the micro-containment zone shall cease to exist. Otherwise, the period would be extended by one week at a time. As per the Health Department data, out of 5,79,100 samples collected, 43,441 had tested positive for Covid. As many as 1,071 deaths had been reported so far in the district and at present, there are 20 active cases, out of which 14 are in home isolation and six are from Army Cantt.Bathinda Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: “A total of 40 cases were reported in October and this month, four deaths and 49 cases have been reported so far, out of which around 30 per cent of the cases are from military area. People need to be cautious and follow the government-issued guidelines.” He also said the department was closely monitoring the spike. “As many as nine cases were reported on Monday, including five from a single family in Rampura, and on Tuesday, the total new cases reported were only two.”Micro-containment zone declaredA total of five cases have been reported from a house in Janta Nagar in Rampura Phul. The street has been declared as a micro-containment zone by the authorities||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-24-days-bathinda-sees-4-deaths-49-new-covid-cases-342456
25-11-2021||---||Centre flags three-fold fall in Covid testing rate||New Delhi, November 24With many countries seeing multiple Covid surges, the Centre on Wednesday sent out letters to 13 states and UTs, including Punjab, where the number of average weekly tests, that are critical for determining the level of infection in the community, has fallen drastically.The Centre’s letter for need to raise testing has also been sent to Kerala (where average daily tests fell from 2.96 lakh in week ending August 15 to 56,071 in week ending November 22), Maharashtra, Mizoram, Manipur, J&K, Goa, Nagaland, Rajasthan, Ladakh, West Bengal, Sikkim and Meghalaya.In a letter to Punjab Health Principal Secretary Vikas Garg today, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan flagged a nearly three-fold fall in the average daily tests being conducted by the state between May and November.As per the letter, Punjab has reported 24,300 average daily tests as on week ending November 22. This is in stark contrast to a high of 71,257 average daily tests conducted by the state in the week between May 17 and 23.The health ministry told the state that in the absence of sustained levels of sufficient testing, it was difficult to determine the true level of infection spread in a geography.“With the majority of countries seeing multiple surges in Covid cases in recent times and few countries facing even fourth and fifth waves despite high levels of Covid vaccination, there is a need for continued vigil given the unpredictable and contagious nature of the disease. It is therefore important that the state maintains high testing given the recent increase in travelling due to various events such as marriages, festivities and vacations having either recently concluded or underway,” states the letter.The health secretary also said although new cases have declined significantly at a national level, with 10,195 average daily cases in the week ending November 22, it has been observed that there has been a corresponding decline in weekly testing rates also.Health Secy writes to 13 states, UTsThe Centre’s letter for need to raise testing has also been sent to Kerala (where average daily tests fell from 2.96 lakh in week ending August 15 to 56,071 in week ending November 22), Maharashtra, Mizoram, Manipur, J&K, Goa, Nagaland, Rajasthan, Ladakh, West Bengal, Sikkim and Meghalaya||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-flags-three-fold-fall-in-covid-testing-rate-342455
25-11-2021||Karam Prakash||NEET hurdle cleared, but poor students unable to pursue MBBS in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 24A girl from the Meritorious School in Bathinda, who has cleared the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) by securing 582 marks out of 700, is unable to fulfil her dream of becoming a doctor because she can’t afford the fees of an MBBS course. She is a resident of Malout town in Mukstar and had lost her father. The girl’s mother, who is an anganwadi worker, earns only Rs 4,800 per month.Another student, son of a vegetable merchant, scored 542 marks out of 700. He is from the Meritorious School in Amritsar and facing financial problems to get the admission. The mother of the student said, “We don’t have money for the MBBS course. The government should help us.” Notably, around 126 students of government meritorious schools in the state have cleared the NEET. However, many of them are from poor background and wouldn’t be able to pursue MBBS.Japneet Kaur, a teacher at the Meritorious School in Bathinda, in her plea to Chief Minister, said, “The girl has cleared NEET without any coaching. The government should help the girl and other meritorious students who need financial help to pursue MBBS.”Medical education in the state is seemingly out of reach of poor students. The fee in the government medical colleges is the highest in the north region. In Punjab, one has to spend around Rs 7.8 lakh to complete an MBBS course in any government medical college. Moreover, none of the government colleges in the state have featured in the first 50 top medical colleges of the country. In neighbouring Rajasthan, the entire MBBS course fee is around below Rs 3 lakh in government medical colleges while in Himachal Pradesh, it costs around Rs 1 lakh in government-run colleges. The MBBS course fee in Haryana is around Rs 3.71 lakh.Ajoy Sharma, Secretary, School Education, said, “There is no policy for such cases, but students will not lose an MBBS seat due to financial issues at any cost. We will facilitate such cases and required help will be provided to the students.” Education Minister Pargat Singh and Medical Education Minister Raj Kumar Verka could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Govt must helpThe government should come out with some scheme to help poor students financially. educationist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neet-hurdle-cleared-but-poor-students-unable-to-pursue-mbbs-in-punjab-342453
25-11-2021||---||NIA begins probe into dera follower Manohar Lal’s murder||Bathinda, November 24A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has initiated a probe into the murder of a dera follower Manohar Lal (53), who was shot dead by two masked men at his shop in Bhagta Bhaika in Bathinda on November 20 last year.As per information, the team today reached the crime site, Jatindra Telecom shop in Bhagta, to recreate the scene and the entire process was videographed. The team reviewed the spot and talked to the deceased’s family members. However, they did not speak to the media, but sources claimed that the officials were working on the role of foreign elements in the case. Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja confirmed that a team of the NIA had visited Bhagta to probe the murder case of dera follower Manohar Lal. He said the case had been handed over to the NIA and the files had already been transferred to them.Notably, the police had arrested two Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) activists, Lovepreet Singh, alias Ravi, and Ram Singh, alias Sonu, from Moga on May 22.Later, the police had arrested their third accomplice Kamaljit Sharma, alias Kamal, on June 1 with ammunition. According to the police, Kamal is the main sharp shooter involved in the dera follower’s murder, murder of a priest of KTF chief Hardeep’s Nijhar village, Sukha Lamme murder case and Moga supershine murder case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-begins-probe-into-dera-follower-manohar-lals-murder-342449
25-11-2021||---||Sacrilege: SIT summons top Dera Sacha Sauda officials||Faridkot, November 24Two weeks after a four-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police visited Rohtak’s Sunaria jail to question Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in connection with three sacrilege incidents, including theft of a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari, the SIT on Wednesday summoned the chairperson and senior vice-chairperson of the dera for questioning.“The SIT has summoned chairperson Vipassana Insan and senior vice-chairperson Dr PR Nain in Ludhiana on November 26,” said Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, IG and head of the SIT.During questioning on November 9, the dera head had denied any involvement in the sacrilege incidents, claiming that he had no role in the functioning or decision making at the dera. The dera chief claimed that his role was limited to doing “satsang” and preaching dera followers. “For further investigation in the sacrilege incidents, the SIT has summoned the chairperson and senior vice-chairperson,” IG Parmar said.It is alleged that conspiracies about sacrilege incidents were hatched at the dera headquarters in Sirsa and were allegedly executed by dera members. On the basis of this, the dera chief was named a prime accused in the sacrilege incidents in July 2020. The dera chief is undergoing life imprisonment at the Sunaria jail after his conviction in a rape and two murder cases.Vipassana Insan and Dr PR Nain, a pediatrician, are already facing allegations of orchestrating violence in Panchkula in August 2017 after the dera head was convicted by a special CBI court.Accused of orchestrating violenceVipassana Insan and Dr PR Nain, a paediatrician, are facing allegations of orchestrating violence in Panchkula in August 2017 after the dera head was convicted by a special CBI court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-sit-summons-top-dera-sacha-sauda-officials-342447
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capping cable rate not feasible, say Punjab operators||Punjab’s local cable operators have questioned the authority of CM Charanjit Channi in announcing TV cable connection at Rs 100 per month, saying the Telecom Regularity Authority of India (TRAI) regulates the tariff and related services.Also read: Punjab CM Charanjit Channi caps monthly cable rate at Rs 100Sanjeet Gill, president, Punjab Local Cable Operators, said it was not possible to give the connection at Rs 100 per month as the lowest tariff fixed by TRAI was Rs 130, excluding GST. The tariff goes up depending upon the package. “By announcing the unrealistic tariff, the government has compounded our problems. We are already on the verge of shutting our business due to DTH operators. Nearly, 25,000 families are dependent on local cable operators,” he said. — TNSTughlaqi farman: AAP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capping-cable-rate-not-feasible-say-punjab-operators-342445
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Show-cause notice to Capt Amarinder's wife Preneet Kaur for ‘anti-party’ activities||Congress’ Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary on Wednesday issued a show-cause notice to Preneet Kaur, Congress MP from Patiala and wife of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, accusing her of anti-party activities.The notice signals the first faceoff since Capt Amarinder left the party and announced to contest from Patiala. The MP has been asked to explain her stand on the issue within seven days. Chaudhary confirmed that the notice had been issued.Incidentally, the MP has been issued the notice at a time when Capt Amarinder’s aide Mayor Sanjeev Sharma is scheduled to prove his majority in the Patiala MC on Thursday. The party leadership wants to send a clear message to rebel leaders to fall in line or face action. “For the past many days, we have been receiving reports from Congress workers, MLAs, leaders from Patiala about your anti-party activities. This information and news have been coming ever since your husband Capt Amarinder resigned from the party and floated his party: Punjab Lok Congress. We are also aware of your open announcements in the media about siding with your husband’s party,” said the notice.For the last few weeks, the Patiala unit of Congress has been witnessing infighting between one camp led by the former CM and other backed by the government. Last week, ‘rebel’ councillors held a meeting with Chaudhary and minister Brahm Mohindra in Chandigarh. A parallel meeting was held at MP Preneet Kaur’s New Moti Bagh Palace, where over 18 councillors were present. Bittu, who wants to contest from the Patiala (rural) seat, has accepted the challenge to prove majority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/show-cause-notice-to-capt-amarinders-wife-preneet-kaur-for-anti-party-activities-342443
25-11-2021||---||Punjab Government to pay Punjabi University’s Rs 150-crore loan, says Channi||Patiala, November 24High drama prevailed during Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s maiden visit as CM to Punjabi University, Patiala, when Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur allegedly breached protocol and termed the Vice Chancellor a “right-wing agent”, after being stopped from sharing the stage with the CM. The VC later said the MLA came uninvited to the event.Earlier, providing relief to the cash-strapped Punjabi University, Channi announced the state government would bear the university’s Rs 150-crore bank overdraft.He also announced an increase in the university’s monthly grant (from Rs 9 crore to 20 crore) to tackle its financial crisis. He was at the university during the launch of two centres — Centre for restoration of ecosystem in Punjab and the Centre for rural entrepreneurship and skill training.While Ghanaur MLA Jalalpur levelled allegations against the university VC in the presence of the CM, Channi’s visit was marred by protests and slogans by unemployed ETT-TET pass teachers, guest faculty of government colleges and campus students.University VC Prof Arvind said: “The MLA was not even invited to the event. There was a breach of protocol. I am contemplating filing a defamation suit against him.”The CM said, “We discussed the financial crisis of the university and have decided to bear the bank overdraft of Rs 150 crore of the university that it had availed during the previous government. The university will not have to pay it. The government will do that instead.”He said the university’s expenditure was more than its income. “It falls short of over Rs 10 crore after discharge of all expenditure every month. So, we decided to increase its grant from Rs 9 crore to Rs 20 crore every month.”Unemployed teachers and guest faculty reached the campus carrying posters and black flags and held a demonstration. University students raised slogans demanding rollback of the increase in course fee. Earlier in the day, a police party also detained gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana from the university auditorium.Ruckus at event||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-to-pay-punjabi-universitys-rs-150-crore-loan-says-channi-342441
25-11-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu questions economic viability of election sops||Amritsar, November 24A day after the conclusion of a two-day tour of AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal to the poll-bound state, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh questioned the economic viability of freebies being promised by political parties ahead of the Assembly election.He did not even spare his party’s government, as he said the announcement made by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to cap cable TV charges at Rs 100 per month was not practically possible as TRAI had fixed the rate at Rs 130. However, he hastily added that Channi’s performance was better than former CM Capt Amarinder Singh.“In 2017, I introduced in the Cabinet the Punjab Entertainments Taxes Bill to end the monopoly of the cable mafia and to provide cheaper cable connections to people,” he said. The PCC chief said his Punjab model was “policy based” and aimed at providing relief from monopolies. “Sops will empty the state exchequer and kill livelihoods,” he said.Addressing mediapersons after the inauguration of developmental projects in his Assembly constituency here on Wednesday, Sidhu also hit out at AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal over the announcement of providing Rs 1,000 per woman. He said, “A simple calculation will expose whether it is practical or not. For instance, providing 26 lakh jobs will mean an expenditure of Rs 93,000 crore, giving Rs 1,000 per woman will cost Rs 12,000 crore and two-kilowatt free power supply will cost Rs 3,600 crore. When taken together, all these freebies will cost Rs 1.10 lakh crore. The total budget of Punjab stands at Rs 72,000 crore. From where will Kejriwal bring the rest of the money?”He said there was a big difference between Delhi and Punjab. Delhi is a self-sufficient state whereas Punjab is under debt of Rs 7 lakh crore.Freebies will empty coffersMy Punjab model is ‘policy based’ and aims at providing relief from monopolies. Sops will empty the state coffers and kill livelihoods. Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-questions-economic-viability-of-election-sops-342439
25-11-2021||---||‘Anti-party’ activities: Congress issue show cause notice to Patiala MP Preneet Kaur||Chandigarh, November 24Congress party’s Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary on Wednesday issued a show-cause notice to party MP and wife of former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Preneet Kaur.The party has accused the Congress MP from Patiala of anti-party activities.In a communication to Preneet Kaur, Harish Chaudhary said, “From the last many days, we are continuously receiving reports from Congress workers, MLAs, leaders from Patiala and the media about your anti-party activities. This information and news has been coming ever since your husband Captain Amarinder Singh ji resigned from the party and floated his own party Punjab Lok Congress. We are also made aware of your open announcements in the media about siding with your husband's party.“Kindly explain your stand on this issue within a period of seven days, otherwise party will be forced to take necessary disciplinary action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anti-party-activities-congress-issue-show-cause-notice-to-patiala-mp-preneet-kaur-342350
