26-11-2021||New Delhi||Wheelchair-bound man reaches Singhu to celebrate farm law protest anniversary||Ratandeep cannot walk, talk, eat or even defecate without help, but he reached Singhu border on Friday in a wheelchair to participate in the celebrations to mark one year of the farmers protest against the central farm laws.That he is happy could be gauged by his smile and the gestures he made to his mother, Harpreet Kaur, 45.“He was a healthy child till he was four. Meningitis gave him permanent disabilities and changed the course of his life,” she said.“We could have left him with his grandparents, but it would not have been the right thing to do. He cannot convey his feelings in words, but I know he is happy being part of the movement,” Kaur from Ludhiana said.“Are you happy, puttar?” his father, Gurmeet Singh, asked immediately.             Ratandeep (25) looked at his mother, smiled and made a gesture that suggested he was excited. The reason the family brought Ratandeep to the Singhu border was to inspire people to “fight for their collective rights despite all odds”.“His limbs do not work, he cannot talk but he is still here. He has contributed to the cause. This will give him confidence and inspire others,” Kaur said.This was the second time Ratandeep and his family were here after December 26 last year. “We could not come often because of the problem he faces outdoors. It is tough when he has to urinate and defecate. There are no toilet for specially-abled people here,” Kaur said.Punjabi and Haryanvi celebratory music filled in the air at the Singhu border protest site on Friday, as farmers danced atop their tractors bedecked with lights and posters and took out symbolic marches, to mark one year of the movement against the three farm laws the government is set to withdraw formally.Farmers flaunting colourful turbans, sunshades, long beards and twirling moustaches danced on the roofs of tractors, distributed laddoos and hugged each other to mark the occasion that seemed like a festival.Thousands of them flocked to the site over the last few days, buoyed by the government’s announcement to repeal the farms laws, to mark the completion of one year of a dogged protest that saw a long dusty patch of the Delhi-Karnal road between the national capital and Sonepat turning into a makeshift town with bamboo huts and all basic amenities one could think of.Children and elderly, men and women, carried flags of their farmer unions and raised slogans of victory “Inquilab Zindabad” and “Majdoor Kisan Ekta Zindabad” amid passionate non-stop beating of drums.The assembly area near the centre stage saw a large gathering like the early days of the protest.The attendees included businessmen, professionals, lawyers, teachers, among others, belonging to families of farmers. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheelchair-bound-man-reaches-singhu-to-celebrate-farm-law-protest-anniversary-343112
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 deaths, 41 coronavirus cases in Punjab||Two more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Friday as 41 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection count to 6,03,173, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the state has reported 16,593 deaths.Two fatalities were reported from Faridkot and Jalandhar. Mohali reported 10 cases, followed by five in Pathankot and four in Patiala. The number of active cases rose to 335 from 314 on Thursday. Eighteen people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,86,245, as per the bulletin. Union Territory Chandigarh reported eight cases, taking the total count to 65,438.No death was reported in the city in the past 24-four hours. The toll stood at 820. The number of active cases in the city was 48 while the number of cured persons was 64,570. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-deaths-41-coronavirus-cases-in-punjab-343109
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Why plea not filed against blanket bail to ex-DGP Saini: Sidhu’s poser to Punjab govt||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu once again on Friday questioned his party’s government in the state, asking why it has not filed in the apex court a plea against the blanket bail to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.He also took a swipe at his predecessor Sunil Jakhar, saying he also did not raise the issue, prompting the former Punjab Congress chief to reply in a sarcastic tweet.Saini is an accused in a case involving alleged police firing on people protesting the desecration of a religious text in Punjab’s Faridkot in 2015.Speaking to reporters in Amritsar, Sidhu questioned the government over the steps taken for justice in desecration cases and making the STF report on drug issue public.“I keep giving reminders on a regular basis. What is my interest. Yesterday, I said this from stage (in Moga). The earlier president keeps tweeting but did he ever raise these issues,” Sidhu asked taking a swipe at Jakhar.Jakhar responded with a couplet, which means the “idol” is calling him an “infidel”.Sidhu said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed that the probe into the Kotkapura police firing incident should be completed, preferably within six months, which have passed.Why a special leave petition has not been filed against the blanket bail given to Saini, one of the accused in the police firing incidents, he asked.“If that accused has got a blanket bail then how will the investigation complete,” he questioned.“Everyone including me asks what is the government’s intent. If Saini got a blanket bail, did you file a SLP. On September 10, he got a blanket bail, was the SLP filed against it,” he asked questioning his party’s government.On the special task force report on drugs, he asked the state government who stopped it from making it public.He asserted that he appreciated when any good work is done by the state government.Replying to a question, Sidhu said there was good coordination between the party unit and the state government, though he added he will keep raising public issues.Sidhu said he had talked about reduction in power, fuel and sand prices, which have now been lowered.The High Court in April had quashed the probe by a Punjab Police SIT into the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident.The court had quashed the probe by the SIT headed by the then IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. He later took premature retirement.Following the order, a new special investigation team was formed on May 7 this year.The new SIT was led by Additional Director General of Police LK Yadav.                  The state had witnessed incidents related to the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing on people protesting over the issue in Faridkot in 2015.One incident of police firing had taken place at Kotkapura and second one at Behbal Kalan in Faridkot.  —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-plea-not-filed-against-blanket-bail-to-ex-dgp-saini-sidhus-poser-to-punjab-govt-343086
26-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Protest makes medical education minister Verka leave midway as he inaugurates projects at Patiala medical college||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 26Following protests by Covid warriors, Medical Education Minister Raj Kumar Verka on Friday had to leave midway during his scheduled programme here.The minister was here to inaugurate various development projects at Government Medical College and Hospital.After inaugurating the projects at the medical college, when the minister headed to the hospital, protesters came in the way and locked both the gates, where he had to inaugurate the multi-level parking, an oxygen plant and a catheterisation lab.Some of the protesters climbed atop the multi-level parking building.The minister, who was accompanied by Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, said that the government was already in the process of providing jobs to the protesters."The file pertaining to their appointments has already reached the Finance Department. In a day or two, they will get back to work," the minister claimed.Meanwhile, the protesters demanded that they be given jobs immediately. They said they were hired last year after the Covid pandemic broke out and had worked during both the Covid waves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-makes-medical-education-minister-verka-leave-midway-as-he-inaugurates-projects-at-patiala-medical-college-343053
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Non-violent struggle of farmers is unique saga of valour, says Punjab CM Charanjit Channi||As the farmers’ movement completed a year, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said their non-violent struggle is a unique saga of valour, patience and determination not only for repealing the farm laws but also to uphold the ethos of democracy and human rights.Channi said he salutes the indomitable spirit of farmers who have been sitting at Delhi's borders for a year.The farmers have been camping at three border points of Delhi - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - for the last one year. The movement against three new farm laws of the Centre began with a ‘Dilli Chalo’ programme on November 26-27 last year.The Centre recently announced its decision to repeal the three farm laws.In a tweet, Channi hailed the farmers, saying, “Their non-violent struggle is a unique saga of valour, patience and determination not only for repealing the draconian laws but also to uphold the ethos of democracy and human rights.”“I salute the indomitable spirit of our food growers who are sitting in Delhi from this day last year protesting against the black farm laws enacted by the Modi government,” he said.Terming the Union Cabinet's approval of a bill repealing the farm laws on Wednesday as a mere "formality", farmer leaders had earlier said now they wanted the government to resolve their other pending demands, most importantly the legal guarantee for the minimum support price. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-violent-struggle-of-farmers-is-unique-saga-of-valour-says-punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-343041
26-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||When farmers from Punjab, Haryana showed solidarity||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 25Farmers from Haryana, especially Hisar, Jind, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts, have left no stone unturned to make the farmers’ agitation a success during the past year. People from the rural belt in these districts ensured regular and uninterrupted supply of manpower and resources required to get the agitation going at the Delhi borders.As farmers from Sangrur, Moga and Mansa districts of Punjab started marching toward the national capital last year, they had to pass through Haryana via Sirsa and Tohana to reach Rohtak-Delhi on national highway 9 and from Data Singhwala border in Jind district.Though the Haryana Government took Haryana farmer leaders in custody as a precautionary measure and raised roadblocks for them on these three routes, farmers from Punjab received immense support from the farmers and people of the state along these routes.Ramraji Dhull, a BKU leader from Jind who was present at Data Singhwala village on Jind-Sangrur border at that time, recalled that despite the massive deployment of police forces, there was no stopping for the tractor-trolleys of Punjab farmers.“They were filled with enthusiasm and determination. We were taken by surprise by their steely nerves. As the state government blocked the roads, farmers gave way to their tractors from their fields which had their standing crops of mustard and wheat,” he stated. Kapoor Singh, a farmer from Kirtan village in Hisar district, has devoted most of his time at Tikri in the past year.En route to Tikri, one dies in mishapSonepat: A 50-year-old farmer died in an accident while another 75-year-old farmer sustained injuries in a mishap near Mahra village on Gohana-Rohtak road on Wednesday night. A group of farmers in a tractor-trailer was on the way to Tikri border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/when-farmers-from-punjab-haryana-showed-solidarity-342922
26-11-2021||Amritsar||Run Amritsar-Nanded flight thrice a week: MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla||A day after Air India resumed its weekly Amritsar-Nanded flight with a halt at Mumbai, there is a demand for increasing its frequency to thrice a week.The airline had suspended the booking of the direct flight during its winter schedule for 2021-22 at the end of October. Though several flights between Amritsar and Mumbai are being operated, this is the only flight which lands at the Nanded airport.Following this, the SGPC, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and others asked the airline to resume the flight for the convenience of Sikh devotees. Member of Parliament from Amritsar Gurjeet Singh Aujla said there was a need to increase the frequency to thrice a week keeping in view the flow of passengers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-run-asr-nanded-flight-thrice-a-week-342852
26-11-2021||---||170 kg poppy husk seized, 2 held||Kapurthala, November 25The district police seized 170 kg poppy husk from a truck ferrying apple boxes and arrested two drug peddlers on the Phagwara highway here today.The suspects have been identified as Inderjeet Singh, alias Bawa, of New Azad Nagar, Bahadurke, and Rocky of Tibba Road, Ludhiana. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the recovery was made by a team led by Kapurthala DSP (D) Amrit Saroop and Kapurthala CIA Staff incharge Surjeet Singh following a tip-off.He said the team stopped a truck coming from Jammu and Kashmir and seized 170 kg poppy husk concealed in apple boxes. The SSP said it was their second big haul in the past 15 days, after the state Home Minister ordered checking of inter-state vehicles, especially those coming from Jammu and Kashmir. On November 14, the police had seized 250 kg poppy husk and arrested two peddlers.The SSP said the suspects had been booked under Sections 15 (C), 25, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at Phagwara Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/170-kg-poppy-husk-seized-2-held-342853
26-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Girls protest hike in Fazilka school fee||Fazilka, November 25A large number of students of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Fazilka, took out a protest march in the town markets today against the hike in fee by the government.They also staged a protest under the banner of the Punjab Students’ Union outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner here demanding rollback of the fee. The girls raised slogans against the Punjab Government.Student leaders Parveen Kaur and Parmjeet Kaur alleged the government had continuously been increasing the fee which had been causing problems to poor students. They alleged the examination fee had been increased from Rs 1,300 to 1,800. The migration fee had also been increased and a student had to pay Rs 1,300 more to get a DMC from the school.Students Anita and Akashdeep Kaur expressed concern that it was difficult for poor students to continue their studies. Some teachers of the school had also contributed towards the fee of poor students who were unable to pay it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/girls-protest-hike-in-fazilka-school-fee-342855
26-11-2021||---||Contract staff hold stir near Dy CM OP Soni's event||Sangrur, November 25Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni on Thursday faced protests at Sangrur and Dhuri where he had come to preside over a function of the Punjab Pradesh Vyapar Mandal and Sangrur District Industrial Chamber. Contractual employees demanded regularisation of their services while Soni said they were completing the mandatory procedure.“Our protest will continue till the issuance of notification for the regularisation of our services. We have heard assurances repeatedly during the last four and a half years but the government has failed to regularise us,” said employees of the Health Department at the Civil Hospital in Sangrur.Soni conducted inspection of the Sangrur hospital and directed senior officials to improve their working. Later, some employees protested at Dhuri outside the venue of the minister. “I have noted the pending demands of industry and will take up the matter with senior authorities. We are working to regularise the services of eligible employees,” said Soni.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contract-staff-hold-stir-near-dy-cms-event-342856
26-11-2021||Aman Sood & Ravneet Singh||Conflicting claims on Patiala no-trust vote||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 25Suspense prevails over who holds the reins of the Patiala Municipal Corporation with the Punjab Government led by Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra and former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh claiming “they technically are eligible to hold the mayoral post”.While the government claimed incumbent Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma stood suspended, the faction led by Capt Amarinder said they “will move court if removed” as they had defeated the no-confidence motion.Sources said the matter now rested with the Local Bodies Department, headed by Brahm Mohindra, to take a final call on the process.Didn’t get two-thirds voteThe no-trust motion has failed. They needed two-thirds vote, but couldn’t manage it. They got the support of only 36 councillors. —Capt Amarinder Singh, Former CMFailed to prove majorityThe Mayor failed to prove majority as he got 25 votes. Senior Dy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi will be officiating Mayor. —Brahm Mohindra, Cabinet ministerIn a show of supremacy, both factions — one led by Mohindra and the other backed by the ex-CM — claimed victory after the municipal corporation’s general house met over the mayorship. While the minister said Sharma “failed to prove majority and stands suspended” and as such Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi “will function as the officiating Mayor”, Capt Amarinder claimed the “rebellious” councillors’ no-confidence motion had failed as they could not muster the mandated two-thirds members in favour of the move.Over 40 councillors had submitted a no-confidence motion against the Mayor, forcing him to call a general house meeting to prove majority. Of the 62 councillors and MLAs present in the House of 63, 36 voted against the Mayor, while only 25 voted for him. One councillor stayed away and the SAD MLA from Sanaur did not vote. The House strength includes 60 councillors and three MLAs i.e. from Patiala Urban, Patiala Rural and Sanaur Assembly constituencies.Earlier, Capt Amarinder arrived at the venue along with daughter Jai Inder Kaur. She was, however, not allowed inside the House by the police and had to wait outside for the proceedings to end. Member of Parliament from Patiala Preneet Kaur stayed away.The councillors belonging to rival factions arrived in different busses. Mohindra was accompanied by Improvement Trust Chairman Sant Lal Banga. A commotion followed the entry of councillors. Two councillors were allegedly taken away by the police leading to protests by Sharma. They later reached the meeting hall. The uproar continued in the initial minutes of the meeting wherein the Mayor accused the police of high-handedness. An argument broke out between Sharma and Yogi after the latter sat on the chair meant for the Mayor. The meeting lasted over two hours.Corporation Commissioner Vineet Kumar said: “The first agenda to prove majority by the Mayor was taken by the House, but he could not prove majority, following which the House decided that he should be suspended.”Mayor Sharma said they would go to court, if need be.Capt Amarinder later tweeted: “Utterly shameful that the @INCPunjab govt. which is on its last leg, is using the state machinery to intimidate the elected councillors of Patiala.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conflicting-claims-on-patiala-no-trust-vote-342826
26-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala events point towards bitter elections ahead||In the first political battle in the Congress fiefdom of Patiala, the Capt Amarinder Singh faction got a taste of bitter pill just before polls as the government managed to get rid of the incumbent Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu by terming him “suspended”.Though the Amarinder faction claimed that technically it defeated the no-confidence motion, Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, who was once close to Capt Amarinder Singh, led the rebel councilliors backed by the government.Capt Amarinder’s stature ‘demeaned’Chaudhary lashes out at former CMWhile the Amarinder faction might have lost in the numbers game within the corporation, the Mayor managed to get 25 votes despite pressure from the government. This showed that the former CM still wields clout in the district.To avoid any poaching, nearly 20-odd councillors were at the house of Captain’s wife and Patiala Congress MP Preneet Kaur for the past few days. The Amarinder faction alleged that the government used the police and various pressure tactics to remove the Mayor.A political observer claimed the developments in Patiala today show that the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections would see a tough battle not only between the Congress and other political outfits, but also within the divided party. “The power game in Patiala and how the government used all tactics to ensure a win show that the poll battle is all charged up,” he said. The developments came a day after MP Preneet Kaur was issued a show-cause notice by the Punjab Congress for “anti-party activities”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/events-point-towards-bitter-elections-ahead-342828
26-11-2021||Baghapurana (Moga)||Navjot Singh Sidhu threatens fast on drug, sacrilege reports||In yet another embarrassment to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu has said he would go on fast unto death if the state government does not make public the reports on drug menace and sacrilege incidents.Addressing a rally at Baghapurana town in Moga on Thursday, he said this just after Channi left the venue to preside over other events. Though the CM categorically said he was doing all work after consultation with the PCC chief, Sidhu chose his absence on the venue to attack him on the drug and sacrilege issues.‘Badals, Captain aided Fastway’“One government is gone, another is in the saddle; one more CM has assumed the charge. If the new CM does not provide justice on sacrilege, I will sacrifice my body. Our Gurus are supreme and above us, our state and the country,” he said.“My conscience and the conscience of all Punjabis demand justice. What is the use of our government, which cannot provide justice to us,” he said while adding that making the promise of providing justice on the sacrilege issue, the change in guard was brought in the government.“The investigation report on the issue of drugs was deliberately not being made public even as the there were no court restrictions on it. Demanding to make public the reports on drugs and sacrilege, Sidhu said people of Punjab must know why the previous CMs ‘slept’ for years instead of acting against the culprits.“I am the party president. I have no administrative powers. Channi has told you just now that he is working in consultation with me. Then I direct him to act on the issues of drugs and sacrilege incidents”, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-threatens-fast-on-drug-sacrilege-reports-342829
26-11-2021||Vishav Bharti||In five years, vaccination coverage drops 13% in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25The gains made on the vaccination front over the years have been squandered with the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) showing a drop of 13 per cent in the past five years in the state.According to the survey, the number of children (aged 12-23 months), who were vaccinated with BCG, measles, three doses each of polio (excluding polio vaccine given at birth) and DPT or Penta vaccines, witnessed a 13 per cent drop as compared to the last survey. The number, which was 89 per cent in the NFHS-4 (2015-16), has come down to 76 per cent.In the area-wise breakup of vaccination, interestingly the rural areas have fared better than the urban areas. In the rural areas, 77.9 per cent children were vaccinated, but it was 76.2 per cent in the urban areas.As far as the vaccine-wise count is concerned, a decline has been noted in the coverage. The BCG vaccination coverage was down 8 per cent; polio vaccine down 14 per cent; Penta or DPT vaccine down six per cent; Rotavirus down six per cent; Hepatitis-B down five per cent when compared to the NFHS-4.Similarly, the percentage of children (9-35 months old) who received vitamin-A doses in the past six months has also declined by five points.As far as the breakup of vaccination provider is concerned, around 91 per cent children received their vaccinations in public health facilities. However, eight per cent received most of their vaccinations in private health facilities.Dr Balwinder Kaur, State Programme Officer for Immunisation, said the department was getting regular monthly reports on vaccination coverage. “It was not that bad in our regular reports. We are almost meeting the same parameters as in the NFHS-4. We are yet to receive the report officially. We will take appropriate action, once we get the report officially,” she said.The survey was conducted from January 5, 2020, to March 21, 2020, prior to the imposition of the lockdown and from December 6, 2020, to March 31, 2021, post lockdown by the Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses. The information was gathered from 18,824 households.Decline in antenatal checkupsThe state witnessed a decline in antenatal checkups of pregnant women. It is an important indicator of maternal and child health. As per the NFHS-5, the percentage of pregnant women who had such checkups in the first trimester was 68.5. This is around seven per cent down when compared to the NFHS-4. Similarly, the percentage of mothers who had at least four antenatal care visits was 59.3. This is also down by over nine per cent.Institutional deliveries upThe state witnessed an improvement in key maternal and child health indicator — institutional births. The percentage of institutional births has increased to 94.3. It stood at 90.5 per cent in the NFHS-4. Of the total, 53.9 per cent deliveries took place in public healthcare institutions. The number of home births came down from 4.5 per cent to 2.6 per cent. 77.2% Female population above six years attended school  99.7% Population living in households with electricity 98.8% Population living in households with an improved drinking water source 86.6% Population living in households that use improved sanitation facilities 8.7% Women (age 20-24 yrs) married before the age of 18 years 71.1% Children between the age of 6-59 months are anaemic||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-five-years-vaccination-coverage-drops-13-342830
26-11-2021||---||Overall sex ratio in Punjab improves to 938||Chandigarh, November 25Punjab has made a significant improvement in the overall sex ratio, which has remained a major concern for the state for around two decades.According to the the National Family Health Survey-5, the number of women has increased to 938 for every 1,000 men. The ratio is better in rural areas when compared to urban areas. In rural areas, the number of women is 950 for every 1,000 men, but in urban areas, it is 918.In the last NFHS-4 (2015-16), the number of women was 905. Similarly, the female and male sex ratio at birth is 904 now. It was 860 five years back. As far as the registration of death and birth with the civic authorities is concerned, 97.7 births and 91.2 per cent deaths were registered. There is a decline of one per cent in birth registration when compared to the NFHS-4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/overall-sex-ratio-improves-to-938-342831
26-11-2021||Baghapurana (Moga)||Have plan to make Punjab No. 1: Channi||Claiming that he has steered Punjab back on the path of development, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said the money collected from the people in the form of taxes was being spent for their welfare and development of the state. He said the Congress had already prepared a roadmap for development which would steer the border state to the number one position in the country. In the years to come, the Punjab model be followed by other states, stressed Channi.Addressing a rally at Baghapurana town in Moga along with PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, he lashed out at AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal for misleading people of the state.Meets religious leaders of MalwaReiterating he was the real ‘aam aadmi’, Channi said the AAP national convener was trying to fool the people of Punjab in the name of Delhi model. “He is not giving Rs 1,000 per month grant to women in Delhi, but has promised the women here just to get their votes,” he said.He claimed Kejriwal was himself interested in becoming Punjab’s CM, and that was why he was not announcing the CM candidate. Attacking the Badal family, Channi said cable, drug, sand and transport mafias all thrived under their rule. “Today’s raid of the Enforcement Directorate against the cable mafia is a welcome but a delayed decision,” he said, adding that the state government, too, had would make Badals accountable for their acts. Meanwhile, in Ferozepur, Channi said he would not take any decision under pressure being mounted by various unions. He gave this statement after teachers’ unions protested during his visit at Village Mohan Ke in Guruharsahai. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/have-plan-to-make-state-no-1-channi-342833
26-11-2021||Dasuya (Hoshiarpur)||CM Channi controls illegal mining ops: Sukhbir Badal||A day on Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi made a scathing attack on Badals over the alleged patronage to mafias in the state, SAD chief Sukhbhir Singh Badal said: “The truth is that the CM controls the entire illegal sand mining operations in the Kharar-Ropar belt. This is not all. Channi is also the largest illegal coloniser in the state”.“Channi had even approached me during our rule to save his brother Manmohan Singh in the Ludhiana city scam case. Even your ‘me too’ moment is still fresh in the minds of the people. It does not suit you to preach morality or speak on corruption of which you are the fountainhead,” said Sukhbir.Speaking to reporters after addressing public meetings in favour of BSP candidate Sushil Kumar “Pinky” Sharma, he dared Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring to show the receipts of Rs 14 crore extracted in taxes from a transport company owned by the Badals as claimed by him. He said the minister was lying. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-controls-illegal-mining-ops-sukhbir-342834
26-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Farm unions mull climbdown on Delhi stir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25Even as hundreds of farmers from across Punjab continue to gather at the Tikri and Singhu borders to mark the first anniversary of the agitation, there is a growing consensus within the 32 Punjab-based farmer unions that the agitation in its present form — at the Delhi border — should end soon.In all likelihood, even the tractor march scheduled for November 29, will be called off. The farmer unions are actively considering this, and a final call will be taken at the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) meeting slated for Saturday. With resources drying up and Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing the withdrawal of the three farm laws, the farmers’ unions are awaiting Union Cabinet’s nod to repeal the laws and bring these in Parliament, before they officially decide to end the struggle at the Delhi border.Why legal guarantee on MSP important?In Punjab, just four crops — wheat, paddy, sugarcane and cotton — are bought at MSP. Effective public procurement of crops will also help in diversification. —Dr MS Sidhu, Eminent economistFarmers need assured income. If there is a legal framework mandating that crops be bought at MSP, it will ameliorate the sufferings of poor farmers. —BS Sidhu, Member secretary, Punjab state farmers and farm workers commissionWhen there is no legal guarantee, in spite of MSP, crops are bought at much lower price. Maize with Rs1,870 per quintal MSP has never yielded more than Rs1,100. Similar is the case with oilseed and sunflower. —Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, General secretary, BKU (ugrahan)The issue has been discussed at two consecutive meetings of the 32 Punjab-based unions, including the one held today. A senior leader of a Malwa-based union told The Tribune members of the Bhartiya Kisan Sangh, which has links with the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh, were in touch with SKM leaders, and were working to assuage the agony of farmers. It has been conveyed to the SKM “due recognition to the farmers’ struggle will be given in the upcoming session of Parliament”. Sources say following this, many unions are of the view they will continue to fight for getting a legal guarantee for MSP on crops, but the fight will take a different shape now.The leaders of these unions have reportedly suggested the government may be given some time to decide on how to ensure farmers get legal guarantee for MSP, and till that time, the agitation can be brought back to state capitals. “We have decided on a few options for changing the course of the struggle, during the meetings of 32 Punjab unions. But everything will depend on how the BJP government make future moves, a top SKM leader told The Tribune.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-mull-climbdown-on-delhi-stir-342835
26-11-2021||Sangrur/Bathinda||Thousands leave for Delhi to mark farm stir anniversary||Unwilling to accept only repeal of central farm laws, thousands of farmers from various districts of the state left for Delhi borders on Thursday to participate in the event to mark the first anniversary of the protest.Many have made preparations as they had done last year. “We have collected ration and other essential commodities from our village as we had done last year before the start of the agitation. This time, we are relieved that at least the Centre has accepted our demand for repeal of black laws. But our fight will continue for other demands,” said Surjit Kaur, an elderly at the Ladda toll plaza.As per the estimates of the BKU Ugrahan, on Thursday, around 900 buses, 1,055 mini-buses, 290 trucks and hundreds of tractor-trailers of their members left for New Delhi through Khanauri and Dabwali borders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thousands-leave-for-delhi-to-mark-anniversary-342840
26-11-2021||Archit Watts||Prices soften, Punjab cotton growers in wait & watch mode||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 25With the cotton price frequently fluctuating, farmers are waiting for better rates to bring their produce to the state mandis.In September, cotton was sold for Rs 6,200 per quintal, but a month ago its price rose to Rs 10,500. Now, the price is between Rs 8,200 and 8,500 per quintal. The minimum support price of the cotton has been fixed at Rs 5,925 per quintal this season. “The average price of cotton is about Rs 9,000 per quintal this year. However, the current price is below the average, thus we are waiting for the rise in rates. The picking of cotton is mostly done and we have stored the fresh produce in our houses,” said a cotton grower.Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board officials said about 1.67 lakh MT cotton has arrived in the mandis in the district so far. “The total arrival remained above 9 lakh MT last year. The season starts from September and lasts till March-end,” they said.A commission agent from Fazilka district too said the pace of cotton arrival was slow this season.Bhagwan Bansal, former president, Punjab Cotton Factories and Ginners Association, said, “This year pink bollworm has damaged about 40 per cent of the produce in the state. Farmers are expecting that the price may rise due to shortage. Further, there are some reports that the exports, which lead to fall in rates, may be banned. The price may increase in the coming days.”He further said the state government recently enhanced the compensation for the growers for loss due to the pink bollworm attack, but no one bothered to think about industrialists. “The government should allow us to pay electricity bills as per the total consumption of units and not just the fixed charges,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prices-soften-cotton-growers-in-wait-watch-mode-342841
26-11-2021||---||Raja Warring marks probe into bus norm violations in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 25Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring has marked a high-level probe into certain private bus operators allegedly running multiple buses on a single permit in blatant violation of rules, apart from causing revenue loss to the state exchequer.Admitting the involvement of transport officials in the past in allowing multiple buses on a single permit, the minister said all RTAs had been asked to provide details of private operators’ buses registered with them and the number of permits issued.Rs 1,380-crore ‘loss’ to exchequer in nine yearsWarring said he stumbled upon the anomaly today after five buses, including those of New Deep Bus Service, were impounded for plying without permit. These had been impounded under Section 192A of the Motor Vehicle Act.“Against 76 permits, 113 buses were plying. Of the 76 permits, 34 permits had not been renewed but buses were being run against these,” claimed the minister.He further said as per information, the number of buses of private operators running on roads was much higher than the permits issued by the department. “Now, we will ensure all buses running on roads are accounted for,” he said. Yesterday, the State Transport Appellate Tribunal had upheld the Transport Department’s action to cancel illegally operating multiple extensions of route permits. One of the operators, Jujhar Transport, had moved the tribunal after the department had cancelled 806 illegally running multiple extensions, running beyond 24 km, to a large number of transporters in the state in line with the Justice Surya Kant judgment. “The judgment in 2012 was not being implemented in the state which I ensured was not pursued with full force of law,” Warring said here, pointing out close to 1 lakh km of illegally operating multiple extensions of route permits across state had been cancelled since he took over the department on September 29. A total of 682 orders were passed cancelling 806 permits, of which 114 companies had approached the tribunal with lead case being of Jujhar Transport.5 more impoundedBathinda: Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Thursday conducted a surprise check at the local bus stand and impounded five private buses, including four of New Deep Bus Service and one of M/s New Motors (Regd) Bus, for ferrying passengers without a valid permit. “This amounts to cheating. Who will pay the tax?” the minister asked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-marked-into-bus-norm-violations-342843
26-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Trial court's adjournments kept civil suit pending for 11 yrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25A civil suit was pending for more than a decade as a trial court kept granting adjournments to a party quite liberally, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled. The Bench also asserted that a trial court showed “enough indulgence” to the defendants in the civil suit on free use of a passage.The Bench also made it clear that the trial court could not have reviewed and recalled an earlier order on closing the defendants’ evidence and allowing them to lead further evidence. “The remedy open to the defendants was to file a revision petition against that order before High Court but they chose an easy option of moving an application before the trial court and the trial court, for the reasons best known to it, accepted the application.”The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after one of the defendants filed a revision petition against an order dated October 14 passed by a Samrala court, vide which an application for leading additional evidence filed by them was dismissed.Justice HS Madaan asserted the defendants had been shown enough indulgence by the trial court to conclude their evidence by granting adjournments liberally. It was quite surprising that despite availing of 41 effective opportunities for leading evidence, the defendants were unable to conclude the same and the trial court had to close it by an order.The trial court “strangely enough” accepted an application for recalling the order when it was filed. The case continued to be adjourned for the defendants’ evidence and they finally concluded it in August 2019. But they, thereafter, moved an application for additional evidence.Justice Madaan asserted: “The defendants seem to have been taking the things in a very casual manner. The trial court has been granting adjournments to them quite liberally. In the process, the suit which was filed in 2010 is still pending despite passing of 11 years. Such types of litigants deserve to be dealt with firmly and strictly. It is not sweet will of a litigant to seek opportunity for leading further evidence as and when he feels like.” Dismissing the revision petition, the Bench added the trial court was fully justified and its order was quite detailed, well-reasoned and passed keeping in view the legal position on the subject.‘Showed enough indulgence’Justice HS Madaan asserted the defendants had been shown enough indulgence by the trial court to conclude their evidence by granting adjournments liberally. It was quite surprising that despite availing of 41 effective opportunities for leading evidence, the defendants were unable to conclude the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-trial-courts-adjournments-kept-civil-suit-pending-for-11-yrs-342844
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Income Tax case: HC reserves order on Navjot Sidhu's plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today reserved orders on a petition filed by Punjab Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu claiming that his revision petition under the provisions of the I-T Act was dismissed by an Income Tax Joint Commissioner on flimsy and untenable grounds.Sidhu had claimed the order dated March 27 was illegal, arbitrary and passed in complete disregard of the principles of natural justice. The matter was heard at length by the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain.Sidhu submitted he filed I-T return of assessment year 2016-17 on October 19, 2016, declaring a total income of Rs 9,66,28,470. The assessment under Section 143(3) of Income Tax Act was completed by the Assessment Officer on December 21, 2018, at the assessed income of Rs 13,19,66,530 after making addition of Rs 3,53,38,067.Against the erroneous assessment, the petitioner expressly waived his right to file appeal before Commissioner Income Tax (Appeal). He filed a revision petition under Section 264 of the Act after taking various grounds before income tax joint commissioner, Range 1, Amritsar. Instead of going into the merits of the revision, his entire focus was to seek an explanation on the reasons and circumstances behind Sidhu’s preference for revision under Section 264 of the Act instead of appeal before the Commissioner Income Tax (Appeal).The petitioner specifically stated it was an alternative available to him and reliance was laid on pronouncements by the High Court. But the respondent in complete disregard to the statutory provisions and legal pronouncements, and in a complete arbitrary manner, dismissed the revision petition vide order dated March 27. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/i-t-case-hc-reserves-order-on-sidhus-plea-342846
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to visit state tomorrow||AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal will on a daylong visit to Punjab on November 27. The party said Kejriwal was visiting Punjab, especially in support of the protesting jobless teachers in Mohali.In his last visit, he had appealed to CM Charanjit Channi to accede to the demands of unemployed teachers. He had also promised teachers to usher in revolutionary reforms in the education sector. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-to-visit-state-tomorrow-342847
26-11-2021||Abohar||Health workers protest, demand hike in dues at Civil Hospital, Abohar||Health workers, ANMs, technicians and ASHA workers serving under the NRHM at the Civil Hospital on Thursday took out a march here.They pledged to continue their stir till a notification based on the assurances given recently by Health Minister OP Soni was issued.Workers’ representative Tehal Singh said in the past two years, NRHM employees rendered services day and night, but the government did not accept their demands.Anju Bala and Kuljit Kaur said the government had announced dues on Haryana pattern, but no notification in had been issued. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-workers-protest-demand-hike-in-dues-342849
26-11-2021||Manav Mander||Rise in dengue infection among infants this year||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 25After Covid scare, transmission of dengue virus from an infected mother to the baby is a cause for concern. New born babies are testing positive for dengue. A pregnant woman already infected with the disease can pass the virus to the foetus during pregnancy or around the time of birth.Cases of newborns with dengue have come forward at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). Dr Puneet A Pooni, Professor and Head of Department of Paediatrics, DMCH, said cases of newborns infected with dengue have come forward at the hospital. The number of infants and kids testing positive for dengue has also increased manifold this year, said the doctor.Doctors’ adviceParents must not panic if their child develops fever. They are advised to use only paracetamol and avoid Nimesulide & Ibugesic Plus as these can increase the bleeding risk. —DMCH doctors“We have witnessed both the type of cases — in which a mother was infected at the time of the delivery and when a mother was infected during pregnancy but had recovered before the delivery. In addition, there is a spike in number of one-month-old and two-month-old infants testing positive for dengue this year,” added Dr Pooni.“Pregnant women should especially take care of themselves as they can pass the infection to the foetus which can lead to problems such as still birth, premature birth or other health complications. It is important that an expecting mother takes care of her diet and health since their immunity is also low and hence the chances of catching an infection are high,” said the doctor.People of all age groups are equally prone to dengue. As the immune system of kids is usually in the developing stage, their chances of getting severe fever and other symptoms are higher. They are also more prone to the disease as they play outdoors and are likely to get infected, said Dr Deepak Bhat, Professor, Department of Paediatrics at DMCH.Dengue, if not treated on time, can lead to complications but it can be effectively controlled with some preventive measures, said Dr GS Dhooria, Professor, Department of Paediatrics, DMCH.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rise-in-dengue-infection-among-infants-this-year-342850
26-11-2021||---||ED raids 8 premises of Fastway cable owner||Ludhiana/Jalandhar, November 25Probing a money laundering case, the Enforcement Directorate today raided several premises of Gurdeep Singh, owner of Jujhar Group which runs Fastway cable network, bus service and real estate business in the state.In all, eight premises were searched — five in Ludhiana and one each in Chandigarh, Mohali and Banga. Gurdeep Singh is said to be a close associate of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. The raiding ED officials were accompanied by 60-70 security personnel. Gurdeep Singh’s Green City house and offices at Sham Nagar, Mullanpur, and Grand Walk Mall in Ludhiana were searched. Documents pertaining to the group’s bank accounts and assets were reportedly taken into custody. The raids were on till late evening.The sources said the probe was related to Gurdeep Singh’s alleged links with Surinder Pal Pahalwan, former Chief Engineer of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). The ED had lodged a case in the matter in April under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.Pahalwan was arrested in a multi-crore corruption case by the Vigilance Bureau in June 2017. He reportedly owned as many as 92 properties worth over Rs 1,200 crore, some of which have already been attached by the VB.Money laundering||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/ed-raids-8-premises-of-fastway-cable-owner-342851
26-11-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Navjot Sidhu threatens fast-unto-death on issues of drug menace, sacrilege||Tribune News ServiceBaghapurana (Moga), November 26In an embarrassment to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has threatened will go on fast-unto-death if the Congress government does not publish and make public the reports on drug menace and the sacrilege incidents.He was addressing a public rally at Baghapurana town in Moga district on Thursday. He said this just after the CM Charanjit Channi left the venue owing to his busy schedule to preside over few public functions in the Moga city.Though, Channi categorically said that he was doing all works after consultation with the PCC chief as the party was supreme, but Sidhu chose the CM’s absence on the venue to attack him on the drugs and sacrilege issues.“One government has gone, the other one has been formed; the chief minister has gone and another one has taken over the office. If the new CM does not provide justice on the incidents of sacrilege then I will sacrifice my body to seek justice for disrespect of our gurus because our gurus are supreme over and above us, our state and the country,” he said.“My conscience and the conscience of all Punjabis demand justice. What is the use of our government, which cannot provide justice to us,” he said while adding that making the promise of providing justice on the sacrilege issue, the change in guard was brought in by the government.Similarly, the investigation report on the issue of drugs was deliberately not being made public even as there were no court restrictions on it. “Hundreds and thousands of women who lost their husbands and sons to drugs demand justice,” he said.Demanding to make public the reports on drug menace and the sacrilege incidents, Navjot Sidhu said the people of Punjab must know why the previous chief ministers ‘slept’ for years instead of taking stern legal action against the ‘culprits’.“I am the party president. I have no administrative powers. Channi has told you just now that he (Channi) is working in consultation with the party chief then I direct him to act on the issues of drug menace and sacrilege incidents,” he added.Adding that why he was ‘crying’, Sidhu said Punjab was heading towards bankruptcy. He said that the finances of the state need to be restructured and streamlined to steer Punjab to regain its lost glory. He claimed that the Punjab government could earn Rs 2,000 crore from mining and Rs 20,000 crore from excise revenues, but the system needs to be changed to earn good profits and snub the mafia. “Punjab needs to earn at least Rs 35,000 crore to work efficiently,” he said.Talking about the cable mafia, he said that the question was not to give you cable network services for Rs 100 per month but what the state earns from it? He said one cable network owner under the patronage of previous governments had made slaves the small operators who were mere scapegoats. “I promise you that I will recover all the taxes and rents from cable mafia pending towards the government and the local bodies”, he said. “We can earn Rs 5,000 crore from cable systems,” he claimed.Navjot Sidhu further said that the farmers had won the battle on withdrawal of controversial farm laws but this victory was half-done because the union government had not given the guarantee for the purchase of food grains. “The question is they have not given the guarantee of purchase on MSP,” he said. He cautioned the farmers that in the coming years, the government purchase will be stopped by them.Sidhu said he swore at Baghapurana today that he will continue his “war against injustice”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-threatens-fast-unto-death-on-issues-of-drug-menace-sacrilege-342667
26-11-2021||Patiala||Ruckus in Patiala MC during voting for no-confidence motion; Capt Amarinder hits out at Punjab govt||There was ruckus inside the Patiala Municipal Corporation House during the voting on the no-confience motion against the Congress government’s "diktat" of removing incumbent Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, here on Thursday evening.Capt Amarinder Singh targeting the Congress government in the state said it was utterly shameful that it was using the state machinery to intimidate the elected councillors of Patiala.Utterly shameful that the @INCPunjab govt. which is on it's last leg, is using the state machinery to intimidate the elected councillors of Patiala. Despite all the high handedness they couldn't pass the vote of no confidence against the Mayor as they were well short of numbers. pic.twitter.com/KqARP48DBv  “Utterly shameful that the @INCPunjab govt. which is on it's last leg, is using the state machinery to intimidate the elected councillors of Patiala. Despite all the high handedness they couldn't pass the vote of no confidence against the Mayor as they were well short of numbers,” he tweeted.Highlights:* The mobile phone of Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, who was posting videos of the activities inside the meeting hall on his Facebook page, was snatched.* Bittu has reportedly refused to resign as government has failed to gather numbers to remove him from the post. Both factions claim victory.* Brahm Mohindra says that the mayor lost the confidence of the house due to 25 votes while he should have bagged over 30.* “Mayor stands suspended and till then senior deputy mayor will hold the mayor office,” he said.* The police are also said to have taken away two councillors within the MC premises leading to protest by Mayor Sanjeev Sharma.* One of the councillors who allegedly returned from USA last week was in the house instead of self-quarantine.* While initially 23 councillors accompanied Capt Amarinder Singh inside the corporation, the police have not allowed relatives or anyone who is not part of the process today to enter the building.* Sources close to Mayor Sanjeev Bittu said their three councillors were dragged and faced police action to ensure pressure on them so that they do not cast their vote.* While the police have refuted claims of any councillor being rounded up, Mayor Bittu alleged that the police is ensuring that the government takes over the corporation using force.Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will lead his close team of Congress councillors who have sided with him against the Congress government’s diktat of removing incumbent Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu.  A former Congressman, Amarinder, has floated his own party and has announced to fight the polls from his home constituency of Patiala.  Considered his first show of power since he resigned, he will lead his team of Congressmen from Patiala to vote against the Congress government backed no-confidence motion against the mayor. The developments come a day after Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, who is Amarinder’s wife, was issued a showcause notice by the Punjab Congress for “anti-party activities”.   Political observers say this is the first face-off since Amarinder left the party following which the cadre in the royal bastion is divided. With Amarinder announcing to contest from Patiala, these developments hold significance. Meanwhile, the government has assigned two senior ministers to ensure that the process of no-confidence against the Amarinder-backed mayor goes on smoothly. In addition, Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra is also in the city to oppose the Amarinder camp. Sources say senior police officers are camping in the corporation since morning to ensure no untoward incident takes place. Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa is looking into the no-confidence process whereas Amarinder has warned against any possible action against his close team. A few ‘rebel’ councillors of over 40 wards, backed by top Congress leaders, submitted a no-confidence motion against the mayor and demanded that a meeting of the general House be called.Last week, ‘rebel’ councillors held a meeting with Congress general secretary Harish Chaudhary and minister Brahm Mohindra in Chandigarh. A parallel meeting was held at MP Preneet Kaur’s New Moti Bagh Palace residence, where 18 councillors were present. Bittu, who wants to contest from Patiala (rural), a constituency represented by Mohindra, has accepted the challenge to prove his majority.Sources say the councillors supporting Amarinder have been shifted to the Siswan farmhouse in New Chandigarh and will reach Patiala in the evening. “This was done to ensure that none of them is rounded up or picked by police on some pretext,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ruckus-in-patiala-mc-during-voting-for-no-confidence-motion-capt-amarinder-hits-out-at-punjab-govt-342625
