27-11-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu dares Sukhbir to prove he met police officers who gave clean chit to Akalis||Amritsar, November 27PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu has challenged SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to prove that he ever met the IG who gave clean chit to Akalis, while continuing his tirade against his own party.During a visit at the Verka area here on Saturday, Sidhu announced that he will leave politics if his meeting with the IG, who is now DGP, is proved. He called the IG, blue-eyed boy of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.Sidhu stated this while reacting to the statement of Sukhbir Badal in which he claimed that Sidhu had held a meeting with the police officers who had given clean chit to the Akalis.Sidhu said the Akalis, afraid of ED raids, are trying to deviate the attention of people by bringing in his name. “With the Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials raiding the properties of Gurdeep Singh, the owner of Fastway Cable Network and Jujhar Bus Service, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and disclosure of connivance with former Chief Engineer of GMADA Surinder Pal Singh alias Pehalwan, the SAD leadership is scared,” he said, claiming that a politician gave 11 acre of land to Gurdeep and there were 1.5 crore cable connections in the state but their exact numbers were never given out.“Obviously, it was aimed to deny due tax to the government. If the government levies Rs 50 tax per connection it means that it earns Rs 150 crore per month. But due share was always denied,” Sidhu added.The PPCC president questioned the logic of Sukhbir Badal gheraoing the CM office and asked him to, instead, gherao the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the ED falls under purview of the Central government. He accused Congress and Akalis for playing together in the state.On the desecration issue, he said two Sikh youths Rupinder Singh and Jaspinder Singh were held by the police and were later released. He reiterated that the SIT report should be made public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-dares-sukhbir-to-prove-he-met-police-officers-who-gave-clean-chit-to-akalis-343485
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Badal, Akali leaders court arrest in Chandigarh||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday courted arrest along with the party's core committee members to register their protest against the 'conspiracy' of the Congress government in Punjab to implicate party leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a 'false' drugs case.Despite heavy security outside, senior leaders of the party overcame barricading to march to the Chief Minister's residence and courted arrest in front of it.The SAD chief said that state Congress President Navjot Sidhu was resorting to extra constitutional measures by directing the state government to register a false case against Majithia."The Chief Minister and the Home Minister have not only agreed to this demand in order to divert attention from the failures of the Congress government, but have also directed the DGP to register the false case. The SAD is very clear in this matter. All such persons will be prosecuted once the SAD-BSP alliance government is formed in the state next year. We will also set up a commission to probe these false cases, including those registered against Akali workers," Badal said.Badal also made it clear that SAD will not be intimidated by such tactics."We will continue to raise our voice in favour of the people and demand fulfilment of the promises made to them by the Congress," the SAD leader said.He also said that the party would simultaneously continue to fight the repression and acts of vendetta against senior party men and workers alike.Announcing that the senior party leadership had come to court arrest, Badal said, "The Congress government has constantly politicised both the sensitive issues of sacrilege and drugs. It is with this in mind that its top leaders and the DGP met to conspire and frame me in a false case. The conspiracy was, however, exposed by SAD. Now another conspiracy has been hatched to implicate Bikram Majithia in a false drugs case. We will expose this conspiracy also." Meanwhile, before proceeding towards the CM's residence, both Badal and Majithia talked to contractual teacher Sohan Singh who had climbed atop a BSNL tower near the MLA flats.They were apprised that the contractual teacher had climbed the tower in protest against the reduction in the salaries of contractual teachers, and the government's failure to regularise their services.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-akali-leaders-court-arrest-in-chandigarh-343462
27-11-2021||Raj Sadosh||Shree Saini joins Miss World 2021 contestants at Puerto Rico||Abohar, November 27To represent the United States of America at the 70th edition of Miss World pageant, Shree Saini, first Asian to be crowned Miss World America, has reached Puerto Rico, a Caribbean Island and unincorporated US territory with a landscape of mountains, waterfalls and the El Yunque tropical rainforest.The pageant will be held on December 16. Toni-Ann Singh of Jamaica will crown her successor at the end of the event. This year, the swimsuit competition (Miss World Beach Beauty) will return after a five-year hiatus.Take a look at some of her pictures from the Thanksgiving celebration:A post shared by Shree Saini👑Miss World America (@shreesaini)The edition was originally scheduled for the end of 2020 but got postponed due to the global COVID-19 pandemic, 104 entries had been received for the pageant.In her message sent to the well-wishers, from Puerto Rico, Shree Sani said, “God has led me to the Miss World stage and I lovingly seek your prayers over my journey. God’s amazing grace has surpassed all the words I may have to express this blessing. I am humbled to apply for the greatest service job in the whole world. Have completed 10+ years of sincere community service work with over 100+ nonprofits. I'm honored to represent millions of Americans and my Indian heritage. There is a reason why God made me an Indian American. I lovingly represent our multicultural world and our new world. Being multicultural is a blessing. It allows me to connect with both western and eastern cultures, understand, appreciate and connect with them. I have poured my heart and soul into serving our world for more than a decade. When we truly love something, we never want to stop. I want to do endless service work for a lifetime to come. My own struggles gifted me with a deeper empathy so I could help "repair hearts: both physical hearts and emotional hearts".Her mother (Abohar-born) Ekta said Shree’s official video took her months of shooting with more than 30 appointments with doctors, dignitaries, teachers, students, government officials, 50+ hours traveling and 200+ hours of video editing work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/shree-saini-joins-miss-world-2021-contestants-at-puerto-rico-343434
27-11-2021||New Delhi||I-T dept seizes jewellery, cash worth Rs 4 crore after raids on 2 Ludhiana real estate developers||The Income Tax department has seized over Rs 4 crore worth jewellery and cash after it raided two real estate developers of Ludhiana in Punjab about two weeks back, the CBDT said on Saturday.The raids were conducted on November 16 and 40 premises of the unidentified groups were covered.The major finding after the operation against the groups is about the receipt of unaccounted cash on property transactions, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement."Documentary evidences in the nature of 'agreement to sale' (known as 'biyana' in local parlance) for certain properties have been seized."These documents indicate that the 'agreement to sale' for plots has been executed at much higher amount or rate as compared to the consideration disclosed in registered sale deed of the plot," the policy-making body for the tax department said.It claimed "incriminating" documents in the form of loose sheets, excel sheets showing calculation of receipt of funds for certain property transactions, soft data, chats from mobile phones of the persons concerned, etc were recovered.Probe shows, it said, that unaccounted cash expenditure has been incurred on construction of residential house of one of the key persons. "In one of the groups, defaults on compliances for the provisions of tax deduction at source have been detected with regard to payments made to the sellers of the land, etc," it said.The searches have resulted in seizure of unaccounted cash of about Rs 2 crore besides foreign exchange and unexplained jewellery of about Rs 2.30 crore, the statement said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/i-t-dept-seizes-jewellery-cash-worth-rs-4-crore-after-raids-on-2-ludhiana-real-estate-developers-343423
27-11-2021||---||Carrying a petrol bottle, unemployed Punjab teacher climbs atop mobile phone tower in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 27An unemployed elementary teacher climbed atop a mobile phone tower near the MLA hostel in Sector 4 here on Saturday.The Punjab teacher is carrying a bottle of petrol.A heavy police force and fire tenders have reached the spot.Police officials said the protesting teacher climbed atop the tower around 4 am today. Fire officials tried to persuade him to come down but he did not pay heed.Meanwhile, SAD leaders, led by Sukhbir Singh Badal, Bikram Majithia and Jagir Kaur, who were on their way to the Punjab CM's residence during a protest march, appealed to the teacher to come down as they talked with Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh to resolve the matter.Sources said the protesting teacher claimed that his salary, along with that of 180 of his colleagues, was cut down to Rs 25,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carrying-a-petrol-bottle-unemployed%C2%A0punjab-teacher-climbs-atop-a-mobile-phone-tower-in-chandigarhs-sector-4-343422
27-11-2021|| PK Jaiswar||13-year-old's gaming addiction costs his mother Rs 22 lakh in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 26The online gaming addiction of 13-year-old boy costs his mother dear after online fraudsters siphoned off around Rs 22 lakh from her bank account.The child used to play online gaming during online classes during Covid-19 pandemic when the schools were off. This came to light when his mother went to bank for upgrading the passbook. She was shell shocked to learn about the unknown withdrawal from her account which she did not make.Amandeep Kaur immediately asked the bank authorities who advised her to lodge a complaint with the police in this regard. On the basis of the preliminary probe carried out by the cybercrime and forensic unit, the city police booked four West Bengal residents for extortion and fraud. The police said further investigations were under progress and efforts were on to nab the suspects.The complainant stated to police that her husband, who was in the army, died in an accident. Following this, his insurance money and other benefits were transferred to her bank account in SBI branch in Chheharta.She said on September 3, she went to the bank for upgrading her passbook when she found suspicious transactions on different dates. She said around Rs 22 lakhs were transferred from her account to different a bank account and digital payment wallets.During preliminary probe, it was found that her elder son Navpreet Singh (13) used to attend online classes. He was in habit of playing online multiplayer games. He was very much aware of passwords and bank account details as he used to deposit his school’s fee online. Amandeep did not know how to make payments online.Navpreet told her that for upgrading additional features, he searched on YouTube and came in contact with a gaming channel operator identified as Aditya who sought Rs 8,000 payment for generating gaming ID. Though he made the payment, Aditya did not generating gaming ID. When Navpreet demanding his money back, the accused started threatening to reveal all this to his parents. Frightened by the threats by the suspects, Navreet made payments on different dates and transferred Rs 22 lakhs to a private bank account and a digital wallet.The police are investigating the mobiles from where he used to get calls and accounts where money was transferred.The police booked four suspects identified as Santosh Kumar Singh, Putul Das, Tannu Kumari Shaw and Chandra Kala Singh, all residents of West Bangal. An FIR was registered against them under Sections 384, 420 and 120-B of the IPC.Online game scam||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-year-olds-gaming-addiction-costs-his-mother-rs-22-lakh-in-amritsar-343119
27-11-2021||---||HC notice to Sukhpal Singh Khaira on ED's petition||Chandigarh, November 26The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday issued a notice to former MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira on a petition filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The two-time MLA was arrested by the central agency on November 11 after which a Mohali court had sent him to judicial custody even as the ED sought further remand.Available information suggests the ED in its plea has challenged the Mohali court order, which denied it the custody and sent Khaira to judicial custody on November 18. Taking up the matter, Justice Sureshwar Thakur of the High Court also fixed November 30 as the next date of hearing.Additional Solicitor-General of India SV Raju had on ED’s behalf submitted that the period of 15 days of custody with the petitioner-Directorate was expiring on November 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-notice-to-sukhpal-singh-khaira-on-eds-petition-343275
27-11-2021||---||Race on for new SGPC president||Amritsar, November 26The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s (SGPC) command will be handed over to its new president for the next term during the General House meeting scheduled at Teja Singh Samundri Hall on November 29.At present, the Sikh body is headed by Bibi Jagir Kaur, who will be completing her fourth term. It is yet to see if she is asked to continue for the next annual term or a new candidate will take over the coveted charge. Since the SAD enjoys a majority in the House, party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal reserves all rights to take the final call. Nonetheless, speculations are rife over certain names who are supposed to be in the race for the post. In the run-up to the 2022 Assembly poll, the SAD preference will be for the one who can run the SGPC affairs, besides help in garnering political gains for the party, and Bibi Jagir Kaur fits into the bracket well. She can be the party’s choice as a candidate. She had represented the Bholath Assembly constituency thrice in 1997, 2002 and 2012.The probablesBibi Jagir KaurHarjinder Singh DhamiSant Baba Balvir S GhunasBibi Kiranjot Kaur“It will solely be the party’s discretion. Since the SGPC chief is an honorary post with no salary, an MLA can serve on it simultaneously, but no ministerial post can be accepted. I am ready to forego any ministry over serving the SGPC,” Bibi Jagir Kaur said.Nonetheless, if the change of command is on the cards, the name on the top of the list of probables is Harjinder Singh Dhami, who is the honorary chief secretary of the SGPC. Dhami, a law graduate, has been the SGPC member since 1996 and also served as its general secretary during the 2019 tenure.Sant Baba Balvir Singh Ghunas is also in the queue for the past three years. A three-time MLA and SGPC member, he is associated with Mastuana ‘sampraday’ and is the head of Gurdwara Gursagar Sahib in Sangrur district.Another new entrant is Bibi Kiranjot Kaur. Having a legacy of Master Tara Singh, she is well-versed with the Sikh “rehat maryada” and is often vocal on the issue. If chosen for the post, she will be the first woman chief of the SGPC representing the Majha region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/race-on-for-new-sgpc-president-343274
27-11-2021||Ropar||Arrest warrant against Mohali district planning panel chief||In a six-year-old case of abetment of suicide, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Ravi Inder today issued summons through non-bailable arrest warrant for Mohali District Planning Committee chairman Vijay Sharma Tinku.A case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC was registered against Tinku, Vikram Batta, Raj Kumar and Ajay Kumar, alias Rinku, by the Morinda police on July 23, 2015, after alleged suicide by Varun Sharma. A suicide note was produced before the police by complainants Arun Sharma and Anil Kumar Joshi. Tinku, however, claimed he was already granted anticipatory bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case. Arun had alleged his father Rajesh Kumar had got employment at Tinku’s petrol station. Due to some monetary dispute, Tinku got a case registered against Kumar. The complainant told the police Tinku along with Rinku, Raj and Vikram used to pressurise his father to return the money and on July 22, 2015, the accused had a quarrel with Varun Sharma, complainant’s brother.He also claimed he had received a call from his brother that the accused had abused him and due to this, he was going kill himself. Varun later died by suicide by jumping into the canal. On March 2, 2017, the police presented a cancellation report in the court against which a protest petition was filed by the complainant. The court treating it as private complaint fixed the case for preliminary evidence of the complainant. On September 16 this year, the complainant, however, suffered statement in the court withdrawing his protest petition and stated he had no objection if the cancellation report submitted by the police was accepted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrest-warrant-against-mohali-district-planning-panel-chief-343273
27-11-2021||Jalandhar||No comparison, Pargat Singh snubs Arvind Kejriwal||Education Minister Pargat Singh today said Punjab’s 19,377 government schools could not be compared with 2,767 schools in Delhi.He advised Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, who is expected to meet protesting teachers in Chandigarh tomorrow, to not indulge in publicity tactics and, instead, talk about issues based on politics. The minister said challenges of running a full-fledged state such as Punjab, where schools were located in far-flung areas, were different from a compact municipality like Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-comparison-pargat-singh-snubs-arvind-kejriwal-343272
27-11-2021||---||ED freezes bizman's bank lockers, Rs 7 crore FDs||Jalandhar, November 26In the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids conducted at eight locations across Punjab and Chandigarh yesterday, officials today said they had recovered unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs 10 lakh in Indian currency, some foreign currency, documents and mobile phones. Bank lockers and fixed deposits (FDs) worth Rs 7 crore found during the search have been frozen.The officials said the raids were conducted on the residential premises of businessman Gurdeep Singh Jujhar and offices of companies controlled by him in connection with a probe surrounding former Chief Engineer of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority Surinder Pal Singh, alias Pehalwan.The officials said the raids were held on the premises of Gurdeep, running Fastway Cable Network and Jujhar Transport, after it had been found that the proceeds of Pehalwan’s crime were linked to his business accounts.Explaining the modus operandi, an official said: “We have found that the money procured as bribe by Pehalwan by favouring these firms was circulated in his bogus firms in the name of his family members and close associates. It was further found that a certain part of the money from the companies owned and controlled by Pehalwan and/or his family members had also gone to Gurdeep.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-freezes-bizmans-bank-lockers-7-crore-fds-343271
27-11-2021||Ludhiana||Sacrilege: Top dera officials fail to turn up before SIT in Ludhiana||In the ongoing probe into sacrilege incidents, including theft of a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari, the chairperson of Dera Sacha Sauda Vipassana Insan and senior vice-chairperson Dr PR Nain today failed to turn up before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police probing the cases.The duo was summoned by the SIT for questioning after their names cropped up during the questioning of the dera chief. SIT head IG (Ludhiana Range) SPS Parmar and other members wanted to verify the extent of role of these persons in the sacrilege cases. When the duo didn’t turn up, the SIT decided to serve a third summon to the suspects.IG Parmar said during the questioning of Gurmeet Ram Rahim at Rohtak’s Sonaria jail on November 9, the dera head had denied any involvement in the sacrilege incidents, claiming he had no role in the functioning or decision making at the dera.“Nain has sent his medical to seek exemption from his presence before the SIT while Vipassana has not sent any intimation. We will send fresh summons to the duo. If the duo does not appear before the SIT on the next date, the police have to take the legal action accordingly,” added IG Parmar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-top-dera-officials-fail-to-turn-up-before-sit-in-ludhiana-343257
27-11-2021||---||Behbal Kalan: Defer proceedings till Feb, suspects urge court||Faridkot, November 26The accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case of 2015 today moved an application in the Court of Additional District Sessions Judge, Faridkot, seeking to defer the proceedings in the case till February 2022.For the deferment of the proceedings in the case which is pending at the stage of arguments for the framing of charges, the accused relied upon the September 10, 2021 orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court vide which former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, an accused in the case, was exempted from personal appearance before the courts till February 2022.For the framing of joint charges against all accused in person in the case, as the presence of former DGP was necessary but for him being exempted from personal appearance before the court till February 2022, so the proceedings in the case needed to be deferred, said the accused.The court has fixed December 3 as the next date of hearing for the reply of the state on this application of the accused. Saying the application was another tactic to delay proceedings in the case, SS Gill, Public Prosecutor, said the state would oppose the move and ask the court for speedy trial in the case. In furtherance of an application by the former SSP, Charanjit Singh Sharma, an accused in the case, the police today provided the list of all police officials who had suffered injuries during the clash between protesters and police at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. The former SSP had moved an application in the court for issuing directions to the police to conduct further investigation with regard to injuries suffered by police officials as well as damage to public property at Behbal Kalan in the incident in which he and many other police officials were facing criminal charges. The accused in the case alleged while the state government was pursuing the cases against the police officials, accusing them of killing two protesters at Behbal Kalan but there was no mention of the police officials who had suffered injuries during the case.Want speedy trial: public prosecutor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-defer-proceedings-till-feb-suspects-urge-court-343252
27-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Send bride back to father if minor: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25In an out-of-the-ordinary judgment, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed sending a runaway bride back to her father in case of her being a minor. Justice Sureshwar Thakur of the High Court also made it clear the protection order passed by the Bench in their matter would be subject to the condition that the bride’s father had not made any complaint regarding abduction of his daughter by the petitioner-groom.The matter was brought to Justice Thakur’s notice after the couple filed a plea against the state of Punjab and other respondents through counsel Sarvesh Kumar Gupta for protection of life and liberty. Directions were also sought in the petition against interference in their peaceful life by the “bride’s” father and other relatives.As the case came up for preliminary hearing, Punjab Deputy Advocate General Bhavna Gupta told the Bench there was no objection from the state’s side to “an order being made by this court to respondents concerned to look into, and decide through a speaking order, a representation” seeking protection.Taking note of the submissions, Justice Thakur disposed of the matter after directing the respondents concerned to take a decision on the representation and pass a speaking order. For the purpose, Justice Thakur set three-week deadline.Before parting with the order, Justice Thakur made it clear to the authorities concerned that they would, before complying with the order, ensure the runaway marriage solemnised between the co-petitioners was a sequel to both acquiring the relevant age of majority. Age of majority or “full age” is the age at which a person is granted by law the rights of an adult, such as ability to sue, and responsibilities, such as liability under contract.“In case during the spell of the decision being taken upon the afore-representation by the authorities concerned, co-petitioner-bride has not evidently acquired majority, she be returned to the custody of her father, arrayed as a co-respondent. In case she has acquired majority thereupon, subject to her apposite volition being ascertained, she be permitted to stay in the company of co-petitioner-husband,” observed Justice Thakur.Sets three-week deadlineTaking note of the submissions, Justice Sureshwar Thakur disposed of the matter after directing the respondents concerned to take a decision on the representation and pass a speaking order. For the purpose, Justice Thakur set a 3-week deadline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/send-bride-back-to-father-if-minor-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-343242
27-11-2021||Mohan Bhandari writer (1937 to 2021)||Mohan Bhandari writer reached out to all with lucid story-telling||Nonika SinghOf the many interactions one had with distinguished writer of Punjabi literature Mohan Bhandari, one statement of his has stayed permanently etched on one’s mind. “Writing,” he often said, “can’t be a forced exercise. It has to come from within.” And as he professed, he wrote in a natural and organic manner. The ink in his pen began to flow when he was a student of Class IX.Over the years, it was to mature into a significant and resolute voice of Punjab. Few understood the transformation of society as well as this man who lived in Chandigarh but came from a traditional rural set-up. The Banbhaura village in Sangrur district he left behind lived in his mindscape forever. Noted playwright and theatre personality Dr Atamjit remembers his story ‘Ghotna’ in particular. He shares how effortlessly and poignantly Bhandari would paint the alienation of those severed from their roots. Essentially a short story writer, contemporary events figured in his writings. The cataclysmic events set in the background of communal riots pulsated in his much-acclaimed story ‘Moon Di Akh’, also the name of his Sahitya Akademi Award-winning book. 1984 and its aftermath might go down as a dark chapter in history, but Bhandari saw humanism in these tough and turbulent times.Former bureaucrat and writer NS Rattan remembers him as ‘yaaran da yaar’ who was friends with indomitable poet Shiv Kumar Batalvi too. Hailing him as the leading light of Punjabi short story writing, Rattan also recalls his inspirational personality who would encourage budding writers. He wrote simply and lucidly without jugglery of words, reaching out to one and all. If delicacy of thought marked his writing style, he was equally a man of conviction. He had the gumption to return the Sahitya Akademi Award in solidarity with the nationwide protest by writers in 2015.However, he did not suffer from any delusions of grandeur. Nor did he nurse any notions of being a reformer and only considered himself an ever vigilant student of human nature. Whether there is afterlife, whether he will be reborn as a writer as he desired, his words sure have the potency to live forever in more than one story. ‘Til Chauli’, ‘Manukh De Per’, ‘Kath Di Latt’, ‘Pacchan’, ‘Moon Di Akh’, ‘Baraf Latare Rukh’, ‘Tan Pattan’ and ‘Katha Varta’ are some of his memorable stories. While Punjabi literature stands richer with his sterling writing, it will sorely miss his ebullient persona.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reached-out-to-all-with-lucid-story-telling-343234
27-11-2021||---||Principal's transfer revoked after students hit streets||Bathinda, November 26Scores of students of Government Adarsh School, Nandgarh village, along with local residents, staged a protest outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner, Bathinda, on Friday.The protesters alleged the school principal was transferred by the authorities under “political pressure”. BKU Ekta Ugrahan members also extended their support to the protest. Notably, students have been protesting against transfer orders of the school principal for the past one week. Today, accompanied by farm union members and their parents, they had come to submit a memorandum of demands to the DC against the orders.Kulwant Sharma, a farm leader, said, “Under political patronage of a local leader, the principal was transferred. The influential leader tried to capture the post of school chairman. He used his political connections to get her transferred.”“The academic performance of students under the school principal has improved manifold and even student strength reached over 900. Later, we called off the protest when district administration officials told us that the transfer of the principal had been revoked,” added Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/principals-transfer-revoked-after-students-hit-streets-343233
27-11-2021||---||Novel protest by contract staff of Punjab||Chandigarh, November 26Contract employees of Punjab today went in for a unique protest over the delay in their regularisation.The employees took a basket of turnips to the Chief Minister’s residence today to show symbolism with an old Punjabi saying of “gongluan ton mitti chardhaan”, which means a person is just whiling away time and not doing any productive work.The basket of “gonglu” (turnips) was handed over to the OSD to the Chief Minister. The employees alleged though the Channi government brought in a Bill to regularise the services of 36,000 employees, the Act was neither ready nor notified. “We fear the Channi government, like the previous Capt Amarinder regime, is just buying time and is unwilling to do anything on the ground. That is why we are protesting against him,” said Ashish Julaha, leader of the Contractual Employees’ Action Committee, an umbrella body of all unions of contractual workers. Meanwhile, officers in the state Personnel Department told The Tribune the Act was finally ready and had been received today from the state’s Legal Department. “We are trying to expedite the process,” said a senior officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/novel-protest-by-contract-staff-of-punjab-343231
27-11-2021||---||TB staff on strike, seek regular jobs||Ludhiana, November 26National Health Mission (NHM) employees working in the tuberculosis department of the Civil Hospital here have been on strike for 10 days, demanding regular jobs.The strike has put TB patients at the receiving end, as they are facing difficulty in getting medicines. The sampling work has also been hit.The only permanent lab technician in the department is bogged down with work. Though an NGO is helping the department in carrying out the routine work, it is not enough.Urban health centres in Sahnewal, Basti Jodhewal, Salem Tabri, Laddowal, Payal, Manupur and Khanna are closed. Not a single permanent employee is appointed at these centres. A patient had gone to the Manupur centre twice to get his test done. On both occasions, he found the centre closed.District TB Officer Dr Ashish Chawla said, “More than 100 patients visit the Civil Hospital every day. How can we manage the affairs in the absence of the staff?”Govt’s effigy burntBathinda: Members of the NHM Joint Front Punjab on Friday carried out a protest march from the local Civil Hospital to the bus stand and burnt the state government's effigy. They raised slogans against the government and blocked the Bathinda-Mansa highway. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tb-staff-on-strike-seek-regular-jobs-343228
27-11-2021||---||Minister faces protest by Covid warriors||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 26Following protests by outsourced Covid warriors, Medical Education Minister Raj Kumar Verka had to leave in the middle of a scheduled programme here today. The minister was here to inaugurate various development projects at Government Medical College and Rajindra hospitals.After inaugurating the projects at the medical college, when the minister headed to the hospital, protesters locked both gates where he had to inaugurate a multi-level parking, an oxygen plant and a catheterisation lab. Some protesters climbed atop the multi-level parking building.The minister, who was accompanied by Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, said the government was in the process of providing jobs to outsourced Covid warriors. “The file pertaining to their appointment has already reached the Finance Department. In a day or two, they will get back to work,” the minister claimed.Meanwhile, the protesters demanded immediate directions in this regard. They said they were hired last year after the pandemic broke out and had worked during both waves.Before leaving, the minister inaugurated the institute building at Government Medical College. The college authorities had last month taken over its new institute building worth Rs 35 crore.Dr Harjinder Singh, director principal, Government Medical College, said the cath lab, worth Rs 2.5 crores, had already started functioning.Meanwhile, after The Tribune highlighted the difficulty faced by poor students to pursue MBBS courses, the minister said the government would provide free education to poor meritorious students for higher education in government medical colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-faces-protest-by-covid-warriors-343226
27-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||FARM STIR ANNIVERSARY: Movement of women's emancipation, says Bhagat Singh's niece||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 26On January 18, when Mahila Kisan Diwas was being celebrated at the Delhi border, Gurjit Kaur, the 68-year-old niece of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, led a “jatha” of 150 women from her Ambala Jattan village in Hoshiarpur to the Singhu border.On the diwas, she along with women from Ambala Jattan, Mangarh, Garhdiwal villages among others stood holding a poster of her uncle. As the farmers’ protests completed a year today, Gurjit again marked the occasion by participating in a march through the streets of Singhu.Gurjit is the daughter of Bibi Parkash Kaur, sister of Bhagat Singh, who died in Toronto on September 28, 2014. From time to time, she has led “jathas” from her village and its periphery to Singhu.Renting a building opposite a mall near the Singhu stage, Gurjit has been camping intermittently for the past six months. Her accommodation is also open for village women in emergency situations.Terming it a landmark moment for the farmers’ fight for their rights as well as for women emancipation, Gurjit has been among the strongest votaries of the agitation.“The struggle of peasants and labourers is very viable and important. My mamaji (Bhagat Singh) and nanaji fought against a similar set of black laws during the British era. The first anniversary of the movement is a very important occasion. Such a movement hasn’t been seen in the past 100 years. I decided to stay here all through. We first thought of building a bamboo hut but settled for hiring some rooms,” she said.Stressing the movement acted as a booster for women’s confidence, Gurjit said: “Village women who are little read and haven’t stepped out before, gave fiery speeches on stage. Women supported children and the farm protests simultaneously. It is also a movement of their emancipation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-stir-anniversary-movement-of-womens-emancipation-says-bhagat-singhs-niece-343223
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jobs to non-Punjabis in Charanjit Singh Channi's security betrayal with state: AAP||State AAP president Bhagwant Mann today termed the recruitment of non-Punjabis by the Congress and the Akali-BJP government for the Chief Minister’s security as a betrayal with Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat.He said: “The Akali Dal and the Congress had no faith in the people of Punjab, because both Badals and Captain gave jobs to 209 persons from other states in the ‘Special Protection Unit’ set up for their security. Only 19 youth of Punjab got the job.”He claimed the Akali-BJP government recruited 146 persons from other states in 2014 and 2016 at the time of recruitment of security officers and personnel in the ‘Special Protection Unit’. Similarly the former Congress Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, recruited 63 non-Punjabis 2021.Mann asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa what decision the government had taken in providing jobs to non-Punjabis in the ‘Special Protection Unit’. “What action will be taken against former CMs? Will they be booked?” said Mann. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobs-to-non-punjabis-in-charanjit-singh-channis-security-betrayal-with-state-aap-343222
27-11-2021||Muktsar||Demanding regularisation, contract staff confront Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring||Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring faced protests of employees here today. Randhawa accompanied by Warring had come to chair a meeting of the District Grievance Redressal Committee.However, just close to the District Administrative Complex (DAC), contractual employees of various government departments under the banner of Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Committee gheraoed their cavalcade and waved black flags. The ministers alighted from their SUV and met protesters. Both sides exchanged some heated arguments. Randhawa said those remained absent from their duties would be suspended.A few metres ahead, contractual employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) gheraoed them and raised slogans. Further, just outside the entrance of the DAC, the All-Punjab Anganwari Employees’ Union lodged a protest. When the delegation of the NHM employees and anganwari workers were called inside the DAC to hold a meeting with the Deputy CM, they lodged a protest there too.Warring organised their meeting the Deputy CM. After the meeting, protesting employees said though the Deputy CM listened to their demand of regularisation and hike in salary, he did not give any assurance.Lashing out at Capt Amarinder Singh, Randhawa said, “Had the former CM done some work, such a situation wouldn’t have arisen. A group of protesting employees misbehaved today.” Randhawa also lambasted the Akalis, saying that the Badal family did nothing for the state. — TNSTough talk||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/demanding-regularisation-contract-staff-confront-punjab-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-amrinder-singh-raja-warring-343220
27-11-2021||Patiala||Capt Amarinder will face crushing defeat, says Raj Kumar Verka||After Transport Minister Amrinder Raja Warring’s dig at Capt Amarinder Singh that he would lose his security deposit, Medical Education Minister Raj Kumar Verka today said the people of Punjab would give him a crushing defeat in the elections.Verka said: “He should drop the idea of fighting elections. If he chooses to contest, he will face a crushing defeat.”Verka added Capt Amarinder had realised that he would not get votes without the Congress. That is why he had to add “Congress” to his newly formed outfit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-face-crushing-defeat-says-raj-kumar-verka-343217
27-11-2021||Ravneet Singh||Day after suspension, Patiala mayor slams minister||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 26A day after being suspended as Patiala Mayor, Sanjeev Sharma Bittu today trained guns at Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, accusing him of attempting to get two councillors ‘kidnapped’ from the MC premises to prevent them from attending the general house meeting.He said he would ask the Chief Minister to remove the minister from the department. Mohindra rejected the allegations. Sharma was yesterday suspended as Mayor following a no-confidence vote in the general house meeting in the presence of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Mohindra.The house had observed that the Mayor required 31 votes to prove his majority, but failed as he only got 25 votes. As such, it gave the officiating charge to Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi. The government is yet to approve the file.Sharma today said the minister was responsible for the melee at the municipal corporation office. “It was on his directions that there was a bid to ‘kidnap’ two councillors who are representatives of the people from within the corporation premises to prevent them from attending the meeting. I will complain to the CM and seek his removal.” He skirted a question on joining Capt Amarinder’s newly-floated Punjab Lok Congress party. On his future in the Congress, he said: “I am with MP Preneet Kaur.”On his part, Mohindra refuted the allegations and said the meeting took place as per the agenda set by the Mayor. “He (Sharma) needed to prove majority, but failed. The House deemed him suspended.” On allegations of directing officials to “kidnap” councillors, he said: “I am not an unethical person. In fact, they had kept their councillors indoors for days. I did not engineer the ‘rebellion’. The councillors themselves came to me.” Capt Amarinder, who had yesterday said they would move court, could not be reached for comment.Meanwhile, Yogi on Friday reached the MC office along with councillors. He met Corporation Commissioner Vineet Kumar and held a tea party with councillors. The Mayor’s office remained locked the entire day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-mc-day-after-suspension-mayor-slams-minister-343216
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sunil Jakhar in war of words||As Congress leadership tries to mollify former Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar, Navjot Singh Sidhu’s remarks aimed at his predecessor have triggered a war of words between the two. Party leaders said the wrangling would further create divisions within the Punjab Congress.Sidhu during a meeting in Amritsar on Friday questioned his predecessor while listing the issues of sacrilege, faulty power purchase agreements and special task force’s (STF) report on drug trafficking that he had been highlighting time and again. Sidhu, however, did not name Jakhar while hitting out at him.In reply, Jakhar took a jibe at Sidhu, referring to Akbar Allahabadi’s couplets: “Bahut hum ko kahein kaafir Allah ki marzi hai, suraj mein lage dhabba fitrat ke karishme hain…. Barkat jo nahi hoti, niyat ki kharabi hai. (Pagans calling me infidel is what Allah is willing, it’s nature’s miracle that sun has blemish…. Lack of prosperity is because intent in wrong). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-chief-navjot-singh-sidhu-sunil-jakhar-in-war-of-words-343210
27-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Raise procurement target: Punjab to Centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26Amid the one-upmanship to woo farmers ahead of elections, the Punjab Government has asked the Centre to enhance the target of paddy procurement to 187.5 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) even as the state authorities continue to buy whatever paddy is arriving in the mandis.The paddy procurement in the state officially ended on November 12. Till then, a little over 184 LMT of paddy had been purchased against the targeted 169 LMT.As the realpolitik in the state continued to sway in favour of the farmers, the state government asked its officials tocontinue buying whatever paddy was arriving in the mandis. In order to ensure that the government agencies were not sold paddy from outside the state, Punjab even set up committees headed by deputy commissioners to monitor the purchase.“On an average, 10,000-20,000 MT of paddy is still arriving daily in some mandis, and we have been asked to have it procured subject to a verification report by the deputy commissioner concerned,” a senior official in the department of food and supplies said, adding that the government had promised to purchase all paddy arriving in the mandis at a meeting with Kisan unions earlier this month. Till today, 187.23 LMT of paddy has been purchased in the state. The state food supplies department has now shot off a letter to the Centre, urging it to enhance the purchase target to 187.5 LMT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/raise-procurement-target-state-to-centre-343196
27-11-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu again attacks Punjab government over sacrilege, drugs||Amritsar, November 26PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has once again embarrassed his government by exposing its incapability in initiating legal and police action against those involved in the sacrilege and drug mafia cases.On a visit to his constituency here today, Sidhu said the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government did not file even a single special leave petition (SLP) after the prime accused in the desecration case, former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, was given blanket bail on September 10. No action was taken despite the Punjab and Haryana High Court directing the government to dispose of the desecration case within six months, he said.Who’s stalling action?Who is stalling the police and law to take action against the guilty? The issue of drug is ravaging the state. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC presidentHe questioned the government’s failure in curb the drug menace. Citing High Court judgments in different cases, he pointed towards connivance of government officials. “The HC while hearing a smuggling case observed drug suppliers are enjoying political patronage and escape punishment and only small-time couriers are caught,” he said. In the 12 lakh Tramadole seizure case, Sidhu cited the HC order, saying: “Punjab state functionaries, for reasons best known to them, are intentionally protecting drug offenders.” He said the NDPS bureau in its report had stated Punjab topped in drug-related crimes.Similarly, on the directions of the HC, the Enforcement Directorate report was handed over to the STF in February 2018. There were clear instructions of the HC to take action against the accused as per law. “Who is stalling the police and law to take action against the guilty?” said Sidhu.Asked whether there was lack of coordination between the party and government, Sidhu brushed aside the allegation, saying it was the result of coordination that power tariff and rates of sand were reduced. The reason for taking up the issue was that “the government was acting slowly and casually”. The issue of drug was ravaging the state, he added.Showering praise on farmers, he hailed as social revolution their success in getting the three laws withdrawn. He said the agitation had left an indelible mark in the history of independent India. He said successive governments failed to give a roadmap to turn farming profitable. “Farmers are grappling with constant rise in the input cost, low productivity and quoting of insufficient prices”.Zira MLA Kulbir Singh Zira on Friday said though the issues flagged by Sidhu were right, the manner in which he was raising these wasn’t.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sidhu-again-attacks-govt-over-sacrilege-drugs-343197
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Out-of-job Chaudhary enjoying CM's perks: Capt||Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today lashed out at Congress secretary incharge for Punjab Harish Chaudhary over his “baseless” accusations of being hand in glove with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP during his tenure.Amarinder’s party chief facing CBI probeCapt Amarinder in a statement today said although he owed no explanation to “an out-of-job legislator who has been sacked as a minister in Rajasthan for being named as an accused in the murder case of Kamlesh Prajapat in Barmer, and inquiry for which had been handed over to the CBI by Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Ghelot”, he still wanted to set the record straight.Murder accused dictating termsA murder accused in his home state is enjoying chief ministerial power and privileges in Punjab, turning CM Channi into a rubber stamp by dictating terms to him. —Capt Amarinder Singh, Former CM“If I had any understanding with the Prime Minister or the BJP when I was the Chief Minister, I would not have supported the farmers’ agitation and demanded repeal of the agriculture laws and passed the law in the Vidhan Sabha against these,” he clarified.“Even your new CM (Charanjit Singh Channi) has met PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah and from your senseless logic, then he should also be having an understanding with the BJP and waiting to be sacked,” said the former CM.He said Chaudhary had been even attending the Cabinet and other meetings of officers, which was illegal and unconstitutional.The former CM questioned the legality of Chaudhary getting a ministerial bungalow in Chandigarh and the entire Punjab Bhawan at his disposal, where from he commanded and dictated orders to the CM, other ministers and officers. “Who is paying for his expenses?” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/out-of-job-chaudhary-enjoying-cms-perks-capt-343199
27-11-2021||---||Akalis allege plot, to court arrest today||Chandigarh, November 26Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today claimed the Charanjit Singh Channi government was conspiring to implicate senior party leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a false drugs case.“We have definite information about a false case against Majithia,” said the SAD chief.To lodge its protest, the SAD core committee in its meeting today decided that its members would court arrest in front of the residence of the Chief Minister here tomorrow. “This will be followed by a ‘jail bharo’ andolan at the district level,” Sukhbir said.Alleging the CM as well as his Cabinet colleagues and other officials were involved in the conspiracy, he said ‘all of them are liable for prosecution’. He announced the SAD-BSP alliance would establish a commission to probe all false cases once it assumed power in the state. He demanded the drugs case be probed under the direct supervision of a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The SAD chief said it was apparent both Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu were engaged in one-upmanship to commit vendetta against Akali leaders to divert attention from their government’s failure on all fronts.“We see it as a challenge to the SAD and gladly accept it. There is no case by any law enforcing agency in the country against Majithia. Those, like Arvind Kejriwal, who accused him of wrongdoings in the past had to tender written apologies,” Sukbhir said.Senior core committee members present on the occasion included Balwinder Singh Bhundar, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, Professor Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Grewal, Dr Daljit Singh Cheema, Gulzar Singh Ranike,Jagmeet Singh Brar, Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Hira Singh Gabria, Sikander Singh Maluka, Surjit Singh Rakhra ,Baldev Mann, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Harmeet Singh Kalka.Let HC judge probeAn HC judge should probe the drug case. We will set up a panel to probe all false cases if we come to power. Sukhbir Badal, SAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-allege-plot-to-court-arrest-today-343209
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder targets AICC general secretary Harish Choudhary, calls Punjab CM Charanjit Channi ?rubber stamp?||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday targeted Congress leader Harish Choudhary, accusing him of turning the current chief minister into a “rubber stamp” while junking accusations that he was in cahoots with the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Prime Minister when he occupied the post.The former Chief Minister also said he does not owe any explanation to a legislator “sacked” as a minister in Rajasthan.Choudhary was recently appointed as the incharge of Punjab affairs at the All-India Congress Committee (AICC) and had resigned as a minister in Rajasthan.Amarinder Singh had quit the Congress after he put in his papers as the state chief minister following a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.The former chief minister floated his own political party and hoping for a seat arrangement with the BJP for the upcoming Assembly elections.Amarinder Singh said although he owed no explanation to “an out of job legislator who has been sacked as a minister in Rajasthan”, he still wanted to set the record straight.“Had I had any understanding with the prime minister or the BJP when I was the chief minister, I would not have supported the farmers’ agitation and demanded repealing of the agriculture laws and passed a law in the Vidhan Sabha against these,” he said in a statement.Amarinder Singh said as the chief minister and home minister of Punjab, he was supposed to meet the PM and Union home minister and so were his ministers who would meet their central counterparts.“Even your new CM (Charanjit Singh Channi) has met the PM and the HM (Home Minister Amit Shah) and from your senseless logic then he should also be having an understanding with the BJP and waiting to be sacked,” he taunted Chaudhary.Amarinder said, it was for the first time that a party in-charge had made the state as his permanent abode.“I have worked with 14 party in-charges like Pranab Mukherjee, Mohsina Kidwai, Janaradhan Dwivedi to name a few, and they would rarely interfere, leave aside visiting or settling down in Punjab,” he recalled. “A party in-charge is not supposed to settle down in the state he is assigned but to facilitate interaction and feedback to the high command,” the former CM said.He alleged that Harish Choudhary is “enjoying” chief ministerial power and privileges in Punjab, turning Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi into a “rubber stamp by dictating terms to him”.“Choudhary has been even attending the cabinet and other meetings of officers, which is illegal and unconstitutional,” he alleged.The former Chief Minister questioned the legality of Choudhary getting a ministerial bungalow in Chandigarh and the entire Punjab Bhawan at his disposal, from where he “commands and dictates orders” to the CM, other ministers and officers”.“Who is paying for his expenses,” he asked. The remarks by the former CM have come two days after Harish Choudhary issued a show-cause notice to Patiala Congress MP Preneet Kaur, wife of Amarinder Singh, seeking an explanation for her “anti-party activities”.Amarinder Singh had also announced that he will fight from the Patiala seat, his family bastion, in the 2022 Assembly elections. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-targets-aicc-general-secretary-harish-choudhary-calls-punjab-cm-charanjot-channi-rubber-stamp-343070
27-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Braving the elements for a year, farmers stay put at Tikri and Singhu borders||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 26They braved the elements but did not lose heart and stayed put at the Tikri and Singhu borders with the intention of bending the Centre before their demand of repealing the three farm laws.  Punjab farmers have been protesting at these places for the past one year. They occupied a stretch of 10 km on National Highway-9 from Bahadurgarh bypass to Tikri and a similar area on National Highway-44 at Singhu when Delhi Police did not let them enter the capital on November 27 last year. They have since been camping there to carry forward their agitation.“It was not easy for us to adjust to these conditions but then we had come with the resolve that we would not return without getting our demands met. Winter was approaching when we camped at Tikri and Singhu a year ago. We had no option but to turn trolleys into make-shift rooms to protect us from cold,” says Pargat Singh, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal).   He says they braved severe cold conditions but these snatched many fellow protesters from them. Yet, the agitation continued with the same enthusiasm. Summer brought new problems like scarcity of water, long power cuts, breeding of mosquitoes, he adds.“We had to dig borewells and install RO systems to address the drinking water issue. Solar plates were used to get electricity while a lot of money was spent to erect huts to save ourselves from the scorching heat. Many of our huts both in Singhu and Tikri caught fire at night forcing us to keep vigil to ward off anti-social elements,” says Singh.Purshotam Singh Gill, another farmer leader, says they also developed parks by lifting garbage, levelling the surface, planting saplings and putting benches. Air-conditioners, coolers, fans and deep freezers were arranged. “We had to be vigilant round-the-clock to foil any conspiracy to stop our agitation," he added. Gurchant Singh of Faridkot says monsoon was not short of a disaster. “Rain flooded the protest sites at the Delhi borders. We spent sleepless nights while draining out the water or protecting our belongings, but adversity failed to lower our morale as we were here for a do-or-die battle," he adds. Raising questions over the district administration's intentions, Jaspreet Singh from Sangrur says the administration left no stone unturned to harass them. "Despite repeated requests, it failed to provide potable water, electricity and mobile toilets,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/braving-the-elements-for-a-year-farmers-stay-put-at-tikri-and-singhu-borders-343033
27-11-2021||Ghaziabad||Farmers in hundreds descend on Delhi-UP border on protest anniversary||Hundreds of farmers in tractors started arriving at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border as Friday marked one year of the ongoing farmers' protest against the central laws.Many of them brought along vegetables, sacks of flour and lentils, spices and cooking oil on their tractor-trollies, saying they had come prepared for a long haul.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), an influential farmers' union from western Uttar Pradesh, has been leading the charge at the Ghazipur border since November last year.The BKU is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a farmers' collective, which is spearheading the protest for withdrawal of three contentious farm laws and for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) of crops.“It has been a year of unmatched struggle mixed with happiness and sadness. We are fighting and winning. We will fight and win. MSP law is farmers' right,” BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait tweeted in Hindi.The outfit's office-bearers claimed the police had been strengthening the barricading at Ghazipur border - both on the Delhi-Meerut elevated highway patch and at the UP Gate down below it - since Thursday, even as they said the crowd would swell at the protest site by Friday evening.“We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that.“We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but the SKM will take a call about it on Saturday,” BKU spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay said.He said, “Supporters in large numbers started reaching the border on Friday morning and by evening we are expecting over 50,000 people at Ghazipur alone.”A BKU supporter who reached Ghazipur in the morning from Muzaffarnagar on a tractor in a group said they had come to the protest with arrangements for food and accommodation.“It has been a year, the farmers can continue the protest for their rights for several years,” the villager, draped in a shawl and a muffler, said.Modi had last week announced his government's decision to withdraw the contentious laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/security-beefed-up-at-delhis-borders-as-farmers-protest-completes-one-year-343015
