29-11-2021||Satya Prakash||SC brings down curtain on DIG Joginder Singh Anand death case after 38 years||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 29The Supreme Court on Monday brought down the curtain on the 38-year-old DIG Joginder Singh Anand death case as it dismissed the CBI’s petition challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court verdict acquitting his wife Indu Anand, their son Sumanjit Singh ‘Nikki’ and nephew Sandeep Singh ‘Sandy’.The deceased DIG was a relative of senior BJP leader and former union minister Maneka Gandhi. Sumanjit was just 17 and Sandeep 18 at the time of the incident.“The Special Leave Petition is dismissed. Pending application stands disposed of,” a Bench of Justice Vikram Nath and Justice MM Sundresh said, rejecting the CBI’s petition against the March 23, 2017 verdict of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The order came after senior counsel Kapil Sibal, representing Indu Anand, pointed out that the main witness domestic help Darshan Lal was tutored by the CBI to implicate Indu Anand and other family members.“The family has undergone trauma for such a long time. The lady Indu Anand is now 78-year-old…The High Court’s judgment is very well written…it brings out everything clearly. The CBI clearly overreached,” Sibal told The Tribune.“The CBI manipulated Darshan Lal who changed his statement within days. On July 16 and 17 (1983), he told the Police that the DIG walked alone to the lake. On 23rd July (1983), he recorded a statement implicating the family members. The court didn’t find it trustworthy,” Sibal said.DIG Anand was allegedly found “drowned” in Sukhna Lake in the night intervening July 12 and 13, 1983. Based on the testimony of their domestic help Darshan Lal, the CBI alleged that during a quarrel in the family at their Sector 3 house in Chandigarh the DIG got injured and was presumed to be dead. He was thrown into Sukhna Lake resulting in his death by drowning, the agency alleged.The police initially claimed that the DIG (47) had committed suicide. Later, the probe was transferred to the CBI which registered a case on July 23, 1983.Indu claimed she had left the house immediately after the quarrel and was not present when the CBI claimed she was assaulting Anand physically.A Sessions Court had on March 11, 1996 held Indu Anand and her sons Sumanjit and Sandeep guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 - part II of the IPC and sentenced them to two-year imprisonment. Darshan Lal was granted pardon by a Chief Judicial Magistrate’s Court, Chandigarh.Terming the trial court order as perverse, the high court had allowed the appeals filed by his wife, son and nephew and pulled up the CBI for being “unfair” to them. The CBI had challenged the verdict before the top court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-brings-down-curtain-on-dig-joginder-singh-anand-death-case-after-38-years-344285
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu tears into Kejriwal over poll promises||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday slammed AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal over poll promises, saying “those who live in glass houses should not throw stones at others”.He dubbed as a “lollipop” Kejriwal’s promise of giving Rs 1,000 per month to all women above 18 in Punjab if AAP is voted to power and asked him how many women have been given this amount in Delhi.The Congress leader also questioned the Delhi CM on how many jobs he has created for teachers, days after the opposition party’s national convener promised to regularise services of temporary teachers in the state.Sidhu’s remarks came a day after Kejriwal accused the leaders of the Congress, BJP and the SAD of constantly bashing his party AAP for the announcements.In a series of tweets, Sidhu targeted the Delhi CM for not having one woman in his cabinet.“Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones at others. @ArvindKejriwal Ji you talk of women empowerment, jobs & teachers. However, you don’t have one woman minister in your Cabinet. How many women in Delhi get Rs 1000 despite revenue surplus left by (former Delhi CM) Sheila Dikshit Ji !!,” tweeted Sidhu.He said women empowerment means mandatorily engaging women in every step of electoral process like the Congress is doing in Punjab.“True leadership is not in giving lollipops of Rs 1000 but investing in their future by providing skills for self-employment & woman entrepreneurs-Punjab Model,” he said in another tweet.On the issue of teachers, Sidhu accused the Kejriwal government of filling vacant posts by engaging guest teachers.“On teachers and jobs, in 2015 there were 12,515 job vacancies of teachers in Delhi, & in 2021 there are 19,907 such job vacancies of teachers in Delhi … and you are filling most of the vacant posts by just guest lecturers,” said Sidhu.He further questioned Kejriwal where are eight lakh jobs and 20 new colleges his party had promised in 2015, dubbing them as “failed guarantees”.On the contrary, the unemployment rate of Delhi has increased by almost five times in the last five years,” he alleged in another tweet.Besides promising Rs 1,000 per month for women, Kejriwal during his recent visits to Punjab had also assured temporary teachers to regularise them.This was Sidhu’s second big attack on AAP within a week.Earlier on November 24, targeting the AAP over its sop announcements ahead of the Punjab elections, Sidhu had said people won’t fall prey to populist measures without the backing of a policy framework, defined budget allocations and implementation metrics.He had then said true leaders do not give “lollipops” and instead focus on building the foundations of society and economy.In the run-up to the Punjab polls, Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal has announced a slew of sops for different sections of society.Earlier, he had promised up to 300 units of free electricity for each household, 24-hour power supply and free treatment and medicines at government hospitals. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-tears-into-kejriwal-over-poll-promises-344269
29-11-2021||---||Punjab Assembly polls: SAD names Jagir Kaur from Bholath, Bikram Majithia from Majitha||Chandigarh, November 29Former SGPC president Jagir Kaur and former minister Bikram Majithia, who is also brother-in-law of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, have been nominated as Akali Dal candidates from Bholath and Majitha for the Punjab Assembly elections.The SAD has, so far, named 89 candidates, keeping suspense over five-time chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s candidature from Lambi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-polls-sad-names-jagir-kaur-from-bholath-bikram-majithia-from-majitha-344259
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh meets Haryana CM Khattar||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar at his official residence here.The meeting comes on a day when a Bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws, against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, was passed by the Lok Sabha.“This was a simple courtesy meeting with Khattar sahab,” said Singh while talking to reporters.Singh is hoping for a seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections.Singh had resigned as the Punjab Chief Minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Charanjit Singh Channi had replaced Singh.After his unceremonious exit, Singh named his political party as the Punjab Lok Congress. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-meets-haryana-cm-khattar-344242
29-11-2021||GS Paul||SAD-BSP sounds poll bugle in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 29SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has assured people to bring a change in their lives if the SAD-BSP was voted to power in the coming Assembly polls.The alliance sounded the poll bugle in the presence of their candidates after performing ardas on the Akal Takht premises on Monday.Sukhbir announced that various public welfare schemes would be revived.  “Be it the atta-dal scheme, free tubewell connections, Shagun, pension, blue card to BPL families, they will be revived after the SAD-BSP comes to power. I promise to give a government that would change the quality of life. All pay commissions were put into practice during our tenure. The Congress had a chance to implement the pay commission but in vain,” he said.Sukhbir said the state Congress could not live up to the expectations of people. “What could be expected from a government which backtracked on its responsibilities and promises. Don’t expect anything from the Channi government which is a bundle of lies,” he said.On Arvind Kejriwal’s “guarantees” being announced in Punjab, he said if Kejriwal was so sincere about them, he should first implement them in Delhi.Sukhbir appealed to the Centre to give a guaranteed MSP to farmers and scrap all cases registered during the farm struggle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-sounds-poll-bugle-in-amritsar-344223
29-11-2021||---||To return or not, Punjab unions to decide today||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 28All 32 farm organisations of Punjab have decided to hold a joint meeting at Singhu tomorrow to discuss the prevailing situation and to decide on a “suitable time” to return home after winning the yearlong battle with the Centre.The meeting by Punjab’s outfits is being viewed as important, especially when the Samyukt Kisan Morcha heading the farm stir has announced it would meet on December 4 to decide the next course of action. Sources say some outfits are in favour of going back home after three farm laws’ repeal Bill is passed by Parliament and a joint committee, comprising representatives of farm outfits and government officials, is formed to consider the demand of MSP guarantee.“Punjab outfits want to reach a consensus over future strategy about ‘marching ahead’ or ‘going back home’ before the SKM’s proposed meeting on December 4,” said a farm leader. Buta Singh of the BKU (Dakonda) said, “The Punjab outfits will discuss when they are to return home, if the farm laws are repealed and a joint committee of farmers is formed. If that doesn’t happen, then the SKM will decide further course of action.” Pargat Singh of the BKU (Rajewal) said the meeting would be decisive, but the final call would be taken by the SKM on December 4.SKM leader Inderjit Singh said both Punjab and Haryana outfits used to hold separate meetings before the SKM meet. The final call was, however, taken unanimously by the SKM, he said. “Haryana outfits will also meet on December 4 morning before the SKM meeting,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-return-or-not-punjab-unions-to-decide-today-344194
29-11-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Ahead of Punjab elections, show of strength by Dera Sacha Sauda||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 28Ahead of the Assembly elections, Dera Sacha Sauda followers congregated in thousands in Sangrur, Bathinda and Faridkot districts on Sunday.In Sangrur, the gathering set alarm bells ringing among many area politicians, who were ignoring the dera followers for the past some years. Though the followers gathered to celebrate the birthday of former dera head Shah Mastana ji, the anger among them against politicians of almost all parties was visible. Many followers said under the command of the dera, they had always worked for the welfare of society and organised blood donation camps, cleaned towns and solemnised marriages of poor girls. Punjab Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla also attended the function.Captain’s OSD present at Faridkot congregation“The gathering of thousands from just Sangrur district is a befitting reply to all those who had been spreading rumours of erosion in the base of the dera. All followers have come on their own,” said Harinder Insan Mangwal, member of a committee of the dera.The members avoided discussion about politics openly, but there were murmurs that the dera must have some strong strategy for the forthcoming Assembly elections in Punjab. Many followers reportedly got calls from politicians after the function in the evening. “The elections are approaching fast so I request the dera management to scan the record of all politicians to devise a strong strategy for the poll,” said a postgraduate youth.Interestingly, many politicians sent their staff to check the gathering after getting information about the event at Nam Charcha Ghar on the Sangrur-Patiala road.“I was going to Mangwal village,” said a personal assistant of a local politician. But when asked why he did not go through the main road, he did not give any satisfactory reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-elections-show-of-strength-by-dera-343899
29-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Dera Sacha Sauda non-committal on supporting any party in Punjab elections||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 28Dera followers in the region have started getting active ahead of the Assembly elections. They are keepingm their cards close to the chest as far as support to any party is concerned.Followers of the sect held ‘naam charcha’ at their dera located on the Dabwali road in the city on Sunday. A massive gathering of followers from nine blocks was witnessed. This is the second event of dera followers this month as some days back, the Dera Sacha Sauda had organised a big religious congregation at the Salabatpura dera, which is its headquarters in Punjab. Sunday’s meeting was also important as a political affairs committee member of the dera, Udham Singh, was present there.The speakers at the meeting laid stress on the need to remain united. The dera wings have started mobilising followers to restart social work ahead of the elections. It is learnt the dera followers are gauging the pulse of the political situation at the grass-roots level and this time, they may not announce support for any political party openly but may silently support a party or a candidate on crucial seats. Talking to The Tribune, Dera Sacha Sauda spokesperson Harcharan Singh said, “It was solely a religious event and there was no political meaning to it, but dera followers are angry over involving the dera chief in sacrilege incidents.”The Sirsa-based dera, founded in 1948, stayed apolitical for over half a century. Later, the sect launched a 45-member political affairs wing to “advise” followers on their political and electoral choices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-committal-on-supporting-any-party-343900
29-11-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu, CM Channi at odds over sealed drugs report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28Lack of cohesion between Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led government and Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is apparent over the opening of the special task force (STF) report linked to drug trafficking cases.With the Assembly elections round the corner, party leaders seem to be pulling in opposite directions in a bid to punish the big fish in the drugs cases. As the PCC chief has threatened to sit on fast unto death if his party’s government fails to make public the STF report on drug menace, the CM is yet to react to Sidhu’s ultimatum.Political dramaThe govt is aware of the content. No one is stopping it from taking action. It is all political drama. —Daljit Cheema, SAD leaderDays after targeting CM Channi on the drugs cases, the PCC chief on Sunday hit out at Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa, after the latter stated the state government would request the High Court to open of the sealed reports. “Why plead to the High Court, when the court had directed you to take the lead and open the report... If there is nothing in the report, let Captain (Amarinder Singh) be accountable, if there is something, take immediate action!!” Sidhu tweeted.Interestingly, previous Advocate General APS Deol, in his legal advice to the state government, had stated since the report by the STF chief was submitted on May 23, 2018, in pursuance of the High Court order (in civil writ petition No. 20359 of 2013), it would not be appropriate to proceed in the matter without the permission of the court.Deol had told the High Court the issue of opening of sealed reports on drugs menace could be taken up on a priority basis so that state’s prosecution agencies could proceed as per law.Randhawa’s move to set up a committee under the Chief Secretary to report on the delay in handling of the case related to the CWP No. 20359 and reasons for proceeding with the investigation from 2018 to 2021 despite no ban by the High Court is being seen in the political circles as a move to make former CM Capt Amarinder accountable for the delay.A close aide of the PCC chief said: “When he (Sidhu) has been repeatedly stating there was no was no ban on opening of the report, who is stopping the government from opening of the report?”Party leaders admit it is high time the narrative set by the Congress in the drugs trafficking case should be taken to its logical conclusion. “If there is nothing in the report, it could prove to be counter-productive for the party,” said a Cabinet minister. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has already targeted the Congress government for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to implicate former minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a false drugs case. Rather, the Akalis are taking an aggressive stance against the Congress on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-cm-at-odds-over-sealed-drugs-report-343901
29-11-2021||---||In Phagwara, CM Channi vows research centre on three epics||Jalandhar, November 28A month after declaring GST waiver on langar at Shri Devi Talab Mandir here, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today announced the setting up of an exclusive research centre on the three epics of Ramayan, Mahabharat and Bhagvad Gita at Phagwara. In a move aimed at Hindu vote appeasement, the CM announced plans to develop the site as a major pilgrimage centre.The Chief Minister, while addressing a gathering after the laying foundation stone for the state-of-the-art Bhagwan Parshuram Taposthal here today, said the centre would showcase the message of the three epics.Compares Badal to DhritrashtraThe Chief Minister said the state government would develop the Taposthal of Bhagwan Parshuram as the state-of-the-art architectural marvel. He said a cheque for Rs 10 crore had already been handedover to the district administration and more funds would be sent.Of this, Rs 75 lakh would be spent on the development of place related to Mata Renuka, the mother of Lord Parshuram. The Chief Minister also announced budgetary provision worth Rs 2 crore every year for the Bhagwan Parshuram Chair at Punjabi University, Patiala, besides Rs 21 lakh for panchayat of Khaati village in Phagwara.Evoking his love for Brahmanical ethos, the CM repeatedly said he had been reading Hindu scriptures since childhood. He said the Brahmin samaj vote had a key role to play in his victory thrice as a councillor from Kharar. “I have come here as Sudama,” he quipped.He said he had seen the Mahabharat (TV series) 15 to 20 times to absorb its message and had been deeply impacted by scriptures. He added, “My present PhD will be completed in three months. Then I will start learning Sanskrit and do a PhD on Mahabharat.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-phagwara-cm-channi-vows-research-centre-on-three-epics-343902
29-11-2021||Jalandhar||Will go it alone on all Punjab assembly seats : BJP||State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma today said the party would contest all 117 seats on its own in Punjab.He stated this while talking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a meeting with party workers ahead of the upcoming elections. On forging a possible alliance, he said: “The BJP will contest the elections on all 117 seats on its own.” Questioning Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s promise to disburse Rs 1,000 to all women in the state, Sharma asked for the source of revenue for the same.“The Delhi CM has said he will give Rs 1,000 to every woman. How will he do it? There are 74 lakh women in the state. Even if you give Rs 1,000 to each, the amount comes out to Rs 8,400 crore every year. Have you checked how much the state revenue is? Where will the money come from? If you don’t have the money, how will you fulfil the promises?”Earlier, Sharma met workers from the Jalandhar Central, West and North constituencies. Former minister Manoranjan Kalia and senior leader KD Bhandari were also present. After run-ins with farmers on previous visits to Jalandhar and other cities, the BJP meetings in the city today passed off without opposition from any outfit given PM’s recent decision to withdraw the farm laws. — TNSRana to handle punjab affairsIn a change of guard, Pavan Rana has been given the additional charge of handling BJP affairs in Punjab. Rana, currently BJP’s general secretary (organisation) for HP, replaces Dinesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-go-it-alone-on-all-seats-bjp-343903
29-11-2021||---||Sukhbir promises slew of incentives to industry||Ludhiana, November 28Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal today released the 13-point ‘Develop Punjab, give incentive to Punjabis’ programme of the Akali-BSP alliance by way of a slew of incentives, including a new ministry for small industry and traders; 50 per cent reduction in external development charges (EDC) and registry charges; life, health and fire insurance for small traders; and apension scheme.In addition, he promised Rs 5 lakh interest-free loan for new entrepreneurs, power supply at the rate of Rs 5 per unit and establishment of a ‘skill university’ to train required manpower.Announcing the programme at a meet of the industry and trade here, the SAD president said: “The party is very clear that Punjab can progress to the next level only by giving a fillip to the trade and industry. We must bank on the enterprising spirit of Punjabis by encouraging the home-grown industry and removing any impediment in its growth.”Stating that this would be the first time in the history of the state that the industrial and trade sector would get an opportunity to frame its own policies, Badal said an advisory board would be set up to frame the policies of the new Ministry for Small Traders and MSME Sector.He also announced that trade and industry would not have to maintain any books for a turnover of less than Rs 25 lakh.The SAD president said a ‘Build Punjab’ agency would be set up to regulate the functioning of the real estate sector and issue all clearances within 45 days. The EDC as well as registry charge would be halved to encourage real estate activity. He said the EDC would be charged on a per-square-foot basis upon registry to boost construction activity.Names 3 new candidates, replaces 1Sukhbir Badal on Sunday announced Rohit Vohra as the party candidate from Ferozepur, Gur Iqbal S Mahal from Quadian and Rajanbir Singh from Sri Hargobindpur. He replaced party nominee Yunas Mohammad with former minister Nusrat Ali Khan from Malerkotla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-promises-slew-of-incentives-to-industry-343904
29-11-2021||---||Cong, Akalis rattled by Rs1K for women: Kejriwal||Chandigarh, November 28AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today said his announcement of giving Rs 1,000 every month to empower the women of Punjab was being appreciated all over the country. He said while the women of Punjab were happy with the announcement made for their social security, leaders of the Congress, BJP and SAD were constantly bashing the AAP.In a press statement and video message issued from the party headquarters, Kejriwal said the world’s biggest scheme for women empowerment was giving sleepless nights to the Congress, Akali Dal and BJP.Accusing them of loot, Kejriwal said the leaders of the previous governments filled their coffers by looting public money. “These leaders emptied the treasury of Punjab. We will save this money and give Rs 1,000 every month to our mothers and sisters,” he said.While requesting the people of Punjab, Kejriwal said now whenever they (people) go to a gurdwara or temple, they should pray for him also.Meanwhile, Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann termed another probe panel (committee) set up by Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in the multi-crore drug trafficking case as a complete wrongdoing stating that they were following the footsteps of Capt Amarinder Singh to save the notorious defaulters in drug trafficking so that the matter could be put on hold and the 2022 elections could pass.In a statement issued on Sunday, Bhagwant Mann asked the Channi government how many more investigation teams would have to be formed to nab the drug lords and put them behind bars. “The people of Punjab are watching and understanding such clever manoeuvers and tricks. The Congress, especially Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, should not try to mislead the people by setting up one inquiry panel or team after another,” said Mann.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-akalis-rattled-by-1k-for-women-kejriwal-343905
29-11-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to get new president today||On the eve of electing the new Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president and other office-bearers for a one-year term, members owing allegiance to the SAD today entrusted all rights to party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to decide the new team.Around 100 members attended the meeting convened by SAD secretary general Daljeet Singh Cheema at Teja Singh Samundri Hall. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, and former presidents Gobind Singh Longowal and Kirpal Singh Badungar were among those present.Amid speculation over who would head the Sikh body, Sukhbir’s appreciation of Bibi Jagir Kaur, especially over the Covid-19 crisis, suggests she is the frontrunner for the post. This is her fourth term. Sources said Sukhbir also indicated the importance of her role in the Doaba belt ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections. She had represented the Bholathconstituency thrice in 1997, 2002 and 2012. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-get-new-president-today-343906
29-11-2021||Mohali||CM apprised of minorities' hardships||Punjab State Commission for Minorities chairman Prof Emmanuel Nahar on Sunday called on Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and apprised him about the problems being faced by the community in the state.Prof Nahar said the government should issue orders to the Deputy Commissioners of all districts that the minorities should not face any problems in getting their work done. “Also, the children of the community should be given education facilities up to Class XII just like SCs and STs. Moreover, the people who don’t have their own houses, should be given plots of 5 marla each,” he added.Prof Nahar said the government should make such a law under which the security of the property of all the missions like churches, mosques and schools etc should be ensured. He said arrangements should be made to release the grant for the boundary wall and maintenance of the cemetery of the Christians and Muslims. He further said on the lines of the Centre, in Punjab also, minorities should be given reservation in jobs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-apprised-of-minorities-hardships-343907
29-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Sugarcane crop under pest attack in Punjab, yield down||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28The joy of getting the highest-ever cane price among the sugarcane growers of Punjab has been cut short because of the crop yield being hit by top borer attack in cane.As the cane crushing season has officially begun, and farmers have stated harvesting the crop, growers in Dasuya, Tanda and parts of Gurdaspur are dismayed at the low yield of the crop. Earlier this year, when the cane crop was still in its nascent stages of growth, it had also suffered an attack by red rot on 448 acres. This was witnessed in the districts of Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Pathankot and in some parts of Ludhiana.Growers at the receiving endThe yield has fallen by 50-60 quintals per acre. This is due to the top borer attack, facilitated by conducive weather conditions this year. As a result, whatever gains farmers were to get because of the high cane SAP are being nullified. —Jangveer Chauhan, FarmerJangveer Singh Chauhan, president of the Doaba Kisan Committee and a sugarcane grower, said: “If earlier the cane yield was 300 quintals, it is down to 240 to 250 quintals now. This is because of the top borer attack.”Officials in the Agriculture Department say they are working to ensure that the pest attacks are minimised in the future as they are replacing the seed of sugarcane with pest-resistant varieties.This year, the Punjab Government has hiked the State Advised Price (SAP) of cane to Rs 360 per quintal. This hike was announced by the former Chief Minister. However, the “powerful” owners of seven private sugar mills in the state refused to pay the enhanced SAP (increase was Rs 50 a quintal), asking the state government to pay the enhanced price. It was then decided that the state will bear 70 per cent of the enhanced price (Rs 35 per quintal) and this subsidy will be paid to the mills.The area under sugarcane cultivation is 1.16 lakh hectares. For several years the government has been trying to increase this area, but because of delayed payments by sugar mills (seven private mills and nine cooperative mills), the farmers have not shown much interest in diversifying to cane.This year, however, most of the sugar mills have already cleared the dues of the previous years. Barring two sugar mills at Phagwara and Dhuri, most others have already released the pending payments to farmers. “The Phagwara-based mill owes Rs 49.99 crore to the farmers and the one in Dhuri owes Rs 2 crore. We have initiated proceedings under the Revenue Recovery Act to recover the dues and properties of the Phagwara-based mill have been attached,” Punjab Cane Commissioner Gurvinder Singh told The Tribune.The government, it is learnt, is also considering taking over the operation of the Phagwara mill, or alloying the cane that comes to the mill to another cooperative sugar mill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cane-crop-under-pest-attack-yield-down-343908
29-11-2021||Talwara||Talwara school shuts after 10 more test Covid-19 positive||In all, 10 more persons, including nine children and a staff member, have tested Covid positive at Government Senior Secondary School, Palahad. The schoolhas been closed for 10 days.Earlier 12 children were found positive in the school.SMO Dr Anupinder Mathaun and Nodal Officer Dr Vishal Dharwal said on November 26, as many as 117 samples were taken and 10 of them had tested positive.They said there should be a system in the school to ensure physical distancing among children and thermal scanning must be done. “If a child is found suffering from fever, cold or cough, they should be prohibited from coming to school.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/talwara-school-shuts-after-10-more-test-ve-343909
29-11-2021||Bathinda||Stone for Rs 5-cr smart school laid in Bathinda||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Sunday laid the foundation stone forRs 5.7-crore Government Primary Smart School to be constructed on over two acres in Parasram Nagar here.The FM said he was committed to providing quality educational institutes for the students. He said: “Around Rs 30 crore had been spent on the renovation of all government schools here to ensure basic amenities for students.”Manpreet further said the new buildings of Shaheed Sandeep Singh Government School at Parasram Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, Dhobiana Nagar and Lal Singh Nagar had been constructed.He said the newly built smart school would have a two-storey building, with six classrooms on the ground floor, a principal’s room, seating arrangement for the staff, a store room and separate toilets for boys and girls. On the first floor, there will be six classrooms, a staff room and toilet, while on the second floor, there will be nine classrooms, a staff room and toilet.He said the aim was to make Punjab a leading state in the education sector for which all efforts were on. The FM also opened a park at the Industrial Growth Centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stone-for-rs-5-cr-smart-school-laid-in-bathinda-343910
29-11-2021||Gurdaspur||Quiet visitor||Taking on adversaryMuktsar: With the schedule for the Assembly elections yet to be announced, posters have already come up in the Lambi segment, the home turf of former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal. PCC general secretary Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana, who is seeking a Congress ticket from Lambi, has put up posters on wall paintings done by the Akalis. Ranjodh Singh, circle president of the Youth Akali Dal, is particularly peeved at Abulkhurana’s posters dotting his house walls. At least they could have spared his house walls, he says.Testing poll watersFatehgarh Sahib: Speculation is rife about SSP Sandeep Goel taking the poll plunge as a Congress nominee from Barnala. Goel served as the Barnala SSP during the peak of Covid-19 and his services were well appreciated, especially for helping out the needy and members of the farming community. He is also closely related to a powerful industrial group in the area. While he has maintained he is content with the job, party sources suggest he has been in touch with a top party functionary in Delhi and is among the front-runners for the ticket. In fact, his transfer from Barnala was linked to his popularity and political interests, they said.Wooing rival camp MLAFerozepur: Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who was on his maiden visit to this border district after assuming charge, went all out to woo MLA Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, a close aide of ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Besides lauding the efforts being made by Sodhi for the area development, Channi said he could even sign on a piece of blank paper for him. “I can’t forget that Sodhi took me to Capt Amarinder when I was requesting the Congress high command for the ticket in 2007,” said Channi, in an apparent attempt to iron out differences. Channi also approved the construction of an ITI in his village and the upgrade of Panje ke Uthar village as sub-tehsil, besides sanctioning Rs 10 crore for other developmental works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quiet-visitor-343911
29-11-2021||Aman Sood||Wild boar threat keeps Punjab farmers awake||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 28Farmers of the state are spending sleepless nights due to the threat to their crops from the increasing population of wild boars and other animals. They are heading towards Patiala to approach the traditional hunters to get rid of the wild animals.The Wildlife Department confirmed that the problems were severe in the Kandi, Malwa and border belts with Anandpur Sahib, Ferozepur, Nawanshahr, Patiala, Ropar, Sangrur, Mansa, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and the stretch adjoining the Shivalik foothills being the worst-hit.Relief process to be made easierThe government will take up the matter of making relief claims easier for the affected farmers. It has already allowed hunting of such wild animals under a set procedure. We will see what more can be done in this regard. —Randeep Singh Nabha, Agri ministerAccording to farmers, the wild boars attack their crops at night. “These animals destroy more than they can consume. They aggressively charge at us, if stopped,” said Rajdeep Singh from Anandpur Sahib. “Getting compensation is a tough procedure and usually, a majority of farmers use electric fencing — an inhumane method to kill the animals,” he added.On the onset of winters every year, a majority of the farmers in the affected villages get in touch with a handful of hunters in Punjab to get rid of wild boars.“This month, 45 villagers from across the state have already approached me. Besides vehicle and fuel, I have to arrange food and weapons too. Further, getting necessary permits from the Wildlife Department makes it tough as land-related documents and panchayat nod is needed to shoot the wild animals. I am able to help only a few of the farmers,” said Balraj Ghumman, a hunter.In areas near “birs” (protected forest land) and foothills, the problem is more serious due to little food and water available.In December 2009, the government had issued a notification allowing the hunting of wild boars and blue bulls for self-consumption. As per a letter issued by the Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, the hunting of wild boars is allowed, where the village panchayat can pass a resolution highlighting the problem.Jaskaran Sandhu, ex-vice-chairman, Punjab Wildlife Advisory Board, said the menace was on the rise due to the decreasing forest area and thus wild animals had to venture out for easy food, attacking crops. “Instead, the wildlife protected areas should be increased and the registration of hunters should be done so that farmers know whom to approach.”Meanwhile, wildlife conservators claim that culling was no solution and the government should compensate the farmers instead. Farm unions, however, demand either they be compensated within a week or killing of wild animals be made easier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wild-boar-threat-keeps-farmers-awake-343912
29-11-2021||Faridkot||Row over development of park on 5 acres in Faridkot||The district Forest Department’s plan to develop a park on five acres of land situated adjacent to the Rajasthan feeder canal here has stirred a controversy. The Rajasthan Government owns this tract of land.On Thursday, politically connected persons demolished concrete pillars constructed along the boundary of the park. A police complaint has been lodged.After getting approval from the Rajasthan Government, the Forest Department in Faridkot had in June started developing a wide strip of land along the canal as a park. The Rajasthan Government is the owner of more than 2 lakh acres of land in south-western Punjab after it was acquired for the construction of a canal in 1958. Traversing through Ferozepur, Faridkot and Muktsar districts, 167 km of the canal is in Punjab. A wide strip of thousands of acres that runs parallel to the canal has been lying unused in Faridkot.“The Forest Department started developing a park on a tract of unused land after getting the nod from the Rajasthan Government. The Punjab Government has allotted about Rs 34 lakh to clear the land, which was turning into a dump,” said Tajinder Singh, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO).However, forest officials were caught by surprise on Thursday morning when all concrete pillars, installed around the proposed park, were demolished. They have lodged a police complaint against two persons in this connection.Faridkot SHO Labh Singh said: “Those accused by the Forest Department claim to be the owners of the land. Action will be taken after having investigated the matter.”The DFO, however, claimed the land was part of the canal for more than six decades and the Rajasthan Government was its owner.A retired IAS officer, who claimed to be the owner of the Rajasthan Government land, had allegedly sold it to property dealers in connivance with revenue officials. The Punjab and Haryana HC had issued directions to the Faridkot police to take action against four persons, including the retired IAS officer, for having sold 3,030 square yards of prime land owned by the neighbouring state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/row-over-development-of-park-on-5-acres-in-faridkot-343913
29-11-2021||---||2 grenades found in Bathinda||Our CorrespondentFazilka, November 28The State Special Operation Cell (SSOC), Fazilka, claimed to have recovered two hand grenades from the Ring Road in Bathinda on Sunday.Sumitpal, incharge of the team involved in the operation, said following a tip-off, they laid a checkpoint on the Ring Road and intercepted two persons coming on a motorcycle.Seeing the police, the suspects fled, leaving behind a bag. On search, the police recovered two hand grenades wrapped in a piece of cloth.Sumitpal said the make of the hand grenade would be ascertained after getting these examined at the forensic science laboratory. Further investigations into the case were on, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-grenades-found-in-bathinda-343914
29-11-2021||---||Two cops booked for taking bribe, letting off smugglers||Bathinda, November 28Former Bathinda CIA-1 Incharge Inspector Rajinder Kumar and ASI Jarnail Singh are on the run for the last one and a half months in a case registered by the Special Task Force (STF) for allegedly releasing two drug smugglers after taking bribe from them. The police have now issued a lookout circular against the cops.The circular will effectively prevent Rajinder Kumar and Jarnail Singh from fleeing the country since both of them are absconding from the probe.Demanded Rs3L for not registering caseThe STF had recently written a letter to the tehsildar of Bathinda, Rampura and Talwandi Sabo to get full details about the property of both accused in the area. STF AIG Harpreet Singh said, “Rajinder Kumar and Jarnail Singh have been absconding from the probe and duty. Our teams are conducting raids and trying to arrest them.”On October 14, 2021, an FIR was registered against Inspector Rajinder Kumar and ASI Jarnail Singh under Sections 29 and 59 of the NDPS Act, Sections 7 and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 213, 214, 382 and 120B of the IPC at the STF police station in Mohali.In the FIR, it was stated the STF got a tip-off that on October 7, a special staff Bathinda police party, headed by ASI Jarnail Singh, raided at a hotel room and arrested Zora Singh and Pardeep Kumar of Bir Talab Basti with 100-gm heroin. Later, they were taken to the special staff office at the Thermal police station and were presented before special staff incharge Inspector Rajinder Kumar, where Rajinder Kumar demanded Rs 3 lakh from them for not registering a case against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-cops-booked-for-taking-bribe-letting-off-smugglers-343915
29-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Despite low cut-off, only 1,956 qualify for 10 meritorious schools in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 28Despite lowering the pass percentage, only 1,956 students — of the 4,787 who appeared — qualified for admission to Class XI in 10 government meritorious schools in the state.The Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab, which runs 10 schools, had lowered the passing percentage from 50 per cent to 40 per cent. However, it failed to bear fruit. Consequently, a large number of seats are likely to remain vacant.NO DIRECT ADMISSIONWe had to cancel the direct admissions to Class XII as the number of students that appeared and qualified was too low. Also, only a few months are left for the pre-boards, so they won’t have enough time for preparation. —Maninder Sarkaria, Project director, Meritorious schoolsThe 10 government meritorious schools in the state — the brainchild of former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal — are seemingly being neglected by the current dispensation of education.Six months have already gone by since the academic session started, but the admission process, ironically, is yet to be completed.When asked about potential vacant seats in the current session, owing to the less number of students qualifying for the exam, Maninder Sarkaria, Project Director, Meritorious Schools, said, “We will take a decision after the counselling gets over. However, it is unlikely that we will hold another exam to fill up the vacant seats as we are short of time.”Meanwhile, the Class XII admission process this year has already been cancelled after only a few students qualified for it. Notably, for the first time, direct admissions to the Class XII were initiated at meritorious schools to cover up the gap caused by the Covid pandemic because the regular process could not take place for 1.5 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-low-cut-off-only-1-956-qualify-for-10-meritorious-schools-in-state-343916
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Applicants allege anomalies in assitant profs' selection||Applicants for the post of assistant professors (college cadre) in the Department of Higher Education and Languages have alleged anomalies in the recruitment process to fill 1,091 posts.The department had invited applications for the posts from eligible candidates on October 19. They alleged that the department completed the recruitment process in violation of the Punjab Civil Services Rules. They also said the posts were supposed to be filled by the Punjab Public Service Commission but the government ordered Vice-Chancellors of two universities to form a committee and do the needful within 45 days.They said no weightage was given to higher education such as PhD and MPhil and despite it being a Class I post, no interview was conducted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/applicants-allege-anomalies-in-asst-profs-selection-343917
29-11-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Probe into childcare staff seeking sexual favour||The Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) has started a probe into allegations of a 15-year-old girl that she was asked for sexual favours in return for money by certain staff members of a childcare centre being run by a private charitable society.The teenager, abandoned by her parents at a religious place here on November 13, is being kept at State Aftercare Home. She was shifted from the religious shrine to the childcare centre located on the Gumtala road. John Mattu, a centre employee, denied the charges claiming it had been operational for a long time and no such charges had been levelled against it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-into-childcare-staff-seeking-sexual-favour-343918
29-11-2021||Bathinda||Anganwadi workers stage protest||Members of the All Punjab Anganwadi Workers’ Union took out a protest march in Bathinda and raised slogans against Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and the state government.They have been demanding complete payment of honorarium, returning of pre-primary classes to the anganwadi centres and nursery teacher’s status for anganwadi workers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anganwadi-workers-stage-protest-343919
29-11-2021||---||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi makes kids fly with him in chopper||Chandigarh, November 28Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday allowed a handful of children in Morinda to take a joyride in the Punjab government chopper.Sharing the pictures on his twitter handle, CM Channi said, “During my visit to Morinda, saw children playing near the helicopter. When I was young, I used to see planes & think that one day I too would get a chance to sit in it. Reminiscing about the same, I made a few village children fly with me in helicopter & fulfilled their dream.”While interacting with them, I felt that there was no dearth of talent in Punjab, but there is a need to give proper guidance to these children. I promise all the children of Punjab that I will do my best to create a bright future for them. pic.twitter.com/gGyN3XRcOL  The CM further said, “While interacting with them, I felt that there was no dearth of talent in Punjab, but there is a need to give proper guidance to these children. I promise all the children of Punjab that I will do my best to create a bright future for them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-makes-kids-fly-with-him-in-chopper-343847
