30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong MLA Jalalpur’s son appointed director of power utility PSPCL||The Punjab government on Tuesday appointed Gagandeep Singh Jalalpur, the son of Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, as the director in the state-owned power utility PSPCL for two years.Jalalpur replaces R P Pandov, who is considered close to former chief minister Amarinder Singh. Madan Lal Jalalpur is a legislator from Ghanaur seat in Patiala.According to a government order, Gagandeep Singh Jalalpur has been appointed as director (administration) of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited for two years with immediate effect. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cong-mla-jalalpurs-son-appointed-director-of-power-utility-pspcl-344748
30-11-2021||---||Kartarpur gurdwara photoshoot: MEA summons Pak envoy||New Delhi, November 30The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) summoned the Pakistani Charge d’Affaires on Tuesday to convey its “deep concern at the incident of desecration of the sanctity of Gurdwara Shri Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur by a Pakistani model and a clothing brand”.“It was conveyed that this reprehensible incident has deeply hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community in India and worldwide. Such continued incidents of desecration and disrespect of places of religious worship of the minority communities in Pakistan highlight the lack of respect for the faith of these communities,” said MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.“It was further conveyed that we expect Pakistani authorities to sincerely investigate this matter and take action against those involved,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/kartarpur-gurdwara-photoshoot-mea-summons-pak-envoy-344731
30-11-2021|| Patiala||Delta still the predominant variant in Punjab, says health department||Punjab’s only genome sequencing lab at Patiala’s Government Medical College has said Punjab hasn’t seen ‘Omicron’ variant in Covid cases reported in the state so far—a development that comes as fears of infection driven by the new mutation of Covid-19 virus plagues Punjab and the rest of the country.The lab said Punjab’s cases still came from the Delta strain and that it had seen no new mutations. The lab, which has been isolating and genome sequencing strains of the Covid-19 virus, says there’s no need to panic just yet.  Dr Rupinder Bakshi, the scientist in charge of the lab, said: “We’ve seen only delta strain so far. A new batch has just been tested, though, and results for these will be out in a day or two.”Genome sequencing is a method used to determine the genetic makeup of an organism.  It’s been used in the case to detect new mutations of viruses.Sources said that a vast majority—93 per cent—of samples that have undergone genome sequencing in the lab so far belonged to the delta strain, the strain that ravaged the country last year and has since become the most dominant Covid-19 strain in the world. The rest were from the alpha strain.Punjab’s health department has issued advisories to civil surgeons across the state to remain alert about omicron—the new variant that has more mutations than the deadly delta variant and is feared to be much more transmissible, sources said.Rajesh Bhasker, Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19, said that health authorities have been randomly testing 150 samples every fortnight but will send their samples to Pune’s National Institute of Virology only if they find a mutation other than the delta variant. “Currently, there is no suspected case for the new variant—omicron,” he said.No one from high risk countries— including South Africa—have tested positive in the state so far. All the protocols issued by the central government are followed by the state health department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delta-still-the-predominant-variant-in-punjab-says-health-department-344728
30-11-2021||New Delhi||Govt seeks names of farmer leaders for panel on MSP, other issues||To constitute a committee for discussion on MSP and other issues, the Centre has sought five names from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and it will be decided by the umbrella body of farmer unions in its December 4 meeting, farmer leader Darshan Pal said on Tuesday.The move comes a day after both Houses of Parliament passed a Bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for a year.“Today, the Centre has asked for five names from SKM for the committee that will deliberate on the issue of minimum support price (MSP) for crops. We have not yet decided on the names. We will decide this in our December 4 meeting,” Pal told PTI.The SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has been spearheading the farmers’ movement against the three farm laws and their other demands, including a legal guarantee for MSP.Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that a committee would be formed to take decisions on the subjects of promoting zero budgeting-based agriculture, changing crop patterns as per the changing needs of the country, and making MSP more effective and transparent.He made the announcement during his address to the nation in which he also stated that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/centre-seeks-5-names-from-farmer-unions-for-panel-on-msp-and-other-issues-darshan-pal-344716
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi writes to PM Modi, demands complete waiver of farmers’ debt||A day after Parliament passed a Bill to repeal the farm laws, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding a complete waiver of the debt of farmers and farm labourers.Channi also said his government is ready to share with the Centre a part of the cost of debt waiver.He said farmer leaders had recently met him in Chandigarh with their demands and only one major issue that remained pending was that of farm debt.“With your announcement of revoking the three farm laws, the farmers and the government have moved a step closer to resolving some major pending issues which have taken centre stage along with the demand to repeal three farm laws. The foremost of these being agricultural debt,” said Channi in his letter to the prime minister.There is a ray of hope after the Government of India’s changed stance, he wrote.“Prime Minister Sir, the farmers of Punjab are the ones who picked up the gauntlet of food security of the nation and became the bulwark of the green revolution. The filled godowns of today testify their relentless toil...“However, while ensuring food security our farmers driven by self-pride got crippled under the weight of a mountain of debt. When they toiled on the soil, their sons defended the sensitive borders with their lives,” Channi wrote in the letter.India is indebted to these sons of the soil, he said.“I am of the firm opinion that this great nation, which they have served for decades, now owes a moral obligation to shake its inertia and completely write off agricultural debt, including that of farm labourers.” The chief minister said no banking or non-banking institution should knock the doors of “our farmers or farm labour for recovery of agricultural loans which forms the root cause of suicides by them and stress in the rural economy.”“I, therefore, extend an invitation to you to accept my proposal of complete waiver of farmers’ and farm labourers’ debt. My government is ready to take over our share of this burden of debt along with the Government of India,” Channi said in the letter.“A Centre-state shared scheme of an appropriate ratio spread over some time with proper modalities needs to be framed to handle this issue and end the debt of our farmers and farm labourers once and for all,” he said.The chief minister stressed that despite the stressed revenues of the state government, “no sacrifice would be big enough than the weight of this moral obligation that we owe to farmer fraternity”.“Let’s make a fresh start and work towards improving the entire ecosystem of agriculture in Punjab in particular and the nation in general. We as stakeholders are ready to commit ourselves to any new arrangement that is decided mutually between all the stakeholders,” Channi urged the prime minister.Pointing out that some people will “question us with economic sheets in their hands”, Channi said, “But sir do remember that tomorrow when neither you nor I would be here then we will be judged. There will be a reckoning.”“Let history judge us by our deeds and that when the moment of reckoning arrived, we did not shudder with fear but boldly turned the tide,” he wrote. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-writes-to-pm-modi-demands-complete-waiver-of-farmers-debt-344705
30-11-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu slams SAD investment summit of 2015; says Congress's Punjab model will lead to ease-of-doing business||Ludhiana, November 30Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday criticised SAD's investment summit of 2015.He also announced to introduce the Congress's Punjab model under which there will be a single window system for doing business in an easy way.He held a meeting with Congress leaders and workers here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-slams-sads-investment-summit-of-2015-says-congresss-punjab-model-will-lead-to-ease-of-doing-business-344674
30-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Pakistani model apologises after her barehead photoshoot at Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara triggers row||Chandigarh, November 30A Pakistani model has sparked controversary with her “barehead” photoshoot at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur that has hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community.The model, Sauleha, later deleted the photos and posted an apology on her Instagram page.On Monday, a clothing brand - Mannat Clothing - posted pictures of Sauleha, shot at Kartarpur Sahib, on their Instagram page. Shiromani Akali Dal spokesperson Manjinder Singh Sirsa and other users shared the photos pointing that the model was bareheaded.Such behaviour & act at pious place of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji is totally unacceptable!Can she dare to do the same at her religious place in Pakistan?@ImranKhanPTI @GovtofPakistan shd tk immed action to stop this trend of treating Sri Kartarpur Sahib as picnic spot by Pak people pic.twitter.com/AwyIkmqgbC  Sirsa demanded strict action against those who misbehaved in religious places of the minorities in Pakistan. He stated that the model posing without covering her head inside the Gurudwara premises is akin to ‘beadbi’ or sacrilege.Modelling bareheaded for ladies' attire, in the premises of Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib at #KartarpurSahib in Pakistan, by a Lahorite woman, has several hurt the religious sentiments of Sikhs. Further the pictures were uploaded on social media.@ImranKhanPTI @MORAisbOfficial pic.twitter.com/i5RX01kWGo  Covering one's head in a gurdwara is mandatory.In her apology, Sauleha said that she did not intend to hurt anyone and the pictures were supposed to be a memory of her visit to Kartarpur Sahib."Recently I posted a picture on Instagram that was not even a part of a shoot or anything. I just went to Kartarpur to learn about the history and know about the Sikh community. It wasnt done to hurt anyone sentiments or anything for that matter. However, if I have hurt anyone or they think that I dont respect there culture. I am Sorry," she wrote in her Instagram post.A post shared by Sauleha صالحہ امتیاز 🇵🇰 (@swalaaa_lala)  Pakistan police have initiated a probe into the incident.Pakistan's Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry also said that the designer and model must apologise to the Sikh community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/pakistani-models-bare-head-pictures-at-kartarpur-sahib-gurudwara-triggers-controversy-sikhs-outraged-344640
30-11-2021||Lahore||Pak police initiate probe against firm for photoshoot at shrine||The Pakistan police on Monday launched an investigation against a Pakistani model and a clothing brand for hurting religious sentiments of Sikhs by conducting a bareheaded photoshoot at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur following an Indian Sikh journalist’s criticism of the pictures.DSGMC asks MEA to take up issueNew Delhi: The DSGMC on Monday wrote to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, asking him to take up with the Pakistan Government the issue of an agency using the premises of Kartarpur Sahib for promotion of women’s apparel.Noting that the pictures have been uploaded on the social media, Ravinder Singh in a tweet highlighted the disrespect shown to the community and also tagged Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan.“Modelling bareheaded for ladies’ attire, in the premises of Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib at #KartarpurSahib in Pakistan, by a Lahorite woman has (severely) hurt the religious sentiments of Sikhs (sic),” he tweeted.Punjab province’s Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf government got into action following the criticism on the social media. Punjab Chief Minister Usman Buzdar issued a statement, saying he had ordered an inquiry and that action would be taken also against officials who had allowed the “modelling” at the gurdwara.Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry said the designer and the model must apologise to the Sikhs, adding that “Kartarpur Sahib is a religious symbol,not a film set.” According to a report in Dawn, the model’s photos were shared on the Instagram page of Mannat Clothing, but were removed after the criticism.However, Mannat Clothing clarified that the pictures posted on its accounts were not part of any photoshoot done by it. “These pictures were provided to us by a third party (blogger) in which they were wearing our dress. However, we accept our mistake that we should not have posted this content and we apologise to every single person who was offended by it,” the brand said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-police-initiate-probe-against-firm-for-photoshoot-at-shrine-344605
30-11-2021||---||Punjab mulls language commission, ropes in writers, literary personalities||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 29Punjab Higher Education and Languages Minister Pargat Singh on Saturday said the government would soon set up Punjab State Language Commission and Library Act.Addressing an event organised by the Punjab Lok Manch and Punjab Jagriti Manch at Lyallpur Khalsa College here for the betterment of Punjabi language, the minister said the discussions had already been going on regarding the Library Act. On receiving draft of the said act from the office bearers of Punjab Lok Manch and Punjab Jagriti Manch, the minister apprised them that the state government was already taking suggestions from all stakeholders including writers, intellectuals, renowned literary personalities so that an effective act could be brought out besides incorporating significant views/suggestions from this draft.Describing ‘education as the real development’, Pargat Singh mentioned that the development of the society, state and country depended upon the level of education being imparted to the youngsters. He said unified efforts were needed to further boost our mother tongue, education system and cultural significance.Referring to the two crucial bills passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, the minister said ‘Punjabi and Other Languages Education (Amendment) Bill, 2021’ and ‘Punjab State Language (Amendment) Bill-2021’ would safeguard the Punjabi language. He said these bills would ensure Punjabi as a compulsory subject for all students from Class I to X in schools across the state besides making it mandatory for officers/employees to conduct all official business in the Punjabi language. In case of any violation of these bills at any stage, a stipulated fine would be imposed, he added.The organisers of the event also honoured the minister with the ‘Punjab Da Maan’ award for his exemplary steps to promote mother tongue. The minister also announced a grant of Rs 2 lakh for the Punjab Lok Manch-Punjab Jagriti Manch to carry forward the endeavours for Punjabi language. He also handed over cheque for Rs 1 lakh given to him by the organisers along with award and asked them to utilise this amount too for their ongoing initiatives.World renowned Punjabi writer Surjit Patar, president, Punjab Jagriti Manch Satnam Manak also spoke on the occasion. Surjit Patar was honoured with ‘Apni Awaz Puraskar-2021’ while poetess Surinder Gill Jaipal was awarded with ‘Kav Lok Puraskar-2020’. District Language Officers of different districts were given away ‘Mat Bhasha Sewa Puraskar’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-mulls-language-commission-ropes-in-writers-literary-personalities-344567
30-11-2021||---||Manish Sisodia vs Pargat SinghTwitter conflict on||Jalandhar, November 29The ongoing Twitter war between the Education Ministers of Punjab and Delhi on Monday escalated with Pargat Singh saying that he won’t let him get away like this.Delhi Deputy CM and Education Minister Manish Sisodia had yesterday released a list of his 250 government schools. This afternoon, he repeated his challenge saying that there is no response from Pargat Singh even after 24 hours and he seems to be quitting the ground.Soon after, Pargat retorted by tweeting, “You have released only list and locations of 250 schools. I think you were in such a hurry to respond that you didn’t even read what I had written. I had said that we would compare on the parameters of the National Performance Grading Index 2021.”In a series of tweets, the Punjab minister sought school-wise enrollment numbers, permanent teachers, vacancies, 10th results and the names of principals from 2013-14 to 2019-20.He said the same information was sought earlier too and added,”I wonder what you are hiding. But I will not let you get away like this.”His fourth tweet read, “When there is decline in number of students, what education reform are you doing? When there are no principals, who are you sending on training? When students are failing in Class 10th, who is going for higher education? Why to talk about infrastructure, when there are no new schools?”Since the Twitter war on the topic actually started between Pargat and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, he tagged him also along and wrote, “Since @msisodya ji might be reluctant to discuss these points, I will request @arvindkejriwal ji to give the complete list. Let us decide once for all who is real and who is fake.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sisodia-vs-pargat-twitter-conflict-on-344560
30-11-2021||---||Omicron: New rules to ward off spread in NRI-rich Doaba||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 29While the Aviation Ministry has released new guidelines in view of the new variant of Covid-19, Omicron, the district authorities have also advised caution to citizens in the region.With the NRI-rich Doaba region susceptible to new variants of Covid due to the heavy traffic of NRIs coming in to the region on a regular basis, the district is relying on strict checking by the central and state governments to keep the new variant at bay in the region. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Sunday appealed that there is no need to panic but all of us should be more vigilant.In instructions released today, from December 1, the Aviation Ministry has required all international travellers to submit 14 days’ travel history, negative RT-PCR report on the Air Suvidha portal as well as authenticity declaration for the Covid-19 test report.Meanwhile, as per state guidelines for international arrivals, if tested positive, the sample of the person tested positive is to be sent for genomic testing and they are to admitted at a separate isolation facility, where treatment will take place as per laid down standard protocol. If the genomic testing is found positive for the B.1.1.529 (Omicron) variant, then strict isolation and treatment protocol is to be followed till tested negative.Queries to the health authorities revealed that there was still basic screening of travellers and NRIs coming from abroad to Jalandhar. Also there were only few patients whose cases had been sent for genome sequencing. The administration at present, has been laying thrust on vaccinating.Notably, there has been a steady rise in Covid cases the month compared to previous months. However, with the mandatory 14-day quarantine norm having been relaxed months ago, all NRIs are free to mingle with populations upon arrival in the country.The DC urged people to complete both their doses of Covid-19 vaccine.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra said, “All the checks and balances as per pre-established Covid protocol are in place. Screening of people coming from abroad is a matter under the district administration. However, RT-PCR and immunisation status of passengers coming from abroad is being checked on arrival as per norms. Genome sequencing of some patients from Jalandhar has also been conducted at Delhi or Patiala. One such case was also genome sequenced a month ago. These were all previous variants. No new variant or case has been genome sequenced so far after the Omicron variant was reported since no one has tested positive since then.”Instructions for international arrivalsMandatory filling up of self-declaration form (SDF) and uploading of negative RT-PCR test report for all international travellers. Airlines to ensure availability of negative RT-PCR report before allowing travellers to board. Travellers coming from countries ‘at risk’ will have to undergo RT-PCR test.Guidelines on testing on arrival||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/omicron-new-rules-to-ward-off-spread-in-nri-rich-doaba-344551
30-11-2021||Aman Sood||In Congress citadel Patiala, Jats 30%, but poorly represented||Tribune news servicePatiala, November 29Tension is brewing within the Congress citadel of Patiala where the 4.7-lakh strong Jat community, which comprises 30 per cent of the total 14.85 lakh population, is feeling sidelined. With Capt Amarinder Singh leaving the Congress, the Jat Sikhs in Patiala are demanding a minimum of two seats — Sanaur and Patiala Urban.Sanaur & Patiala Urban best bet Ignore community at own perilIgnoring the Jat Sikh community can prove detrimental to Congress, as it will surely face candidates backed by Capt Amarinder Singh’s outfit. Political analystsGoing by seniority, political acumen and caste matrix, Patiala district has primarily been a Congress turf, but things can change quickly with Capt Amarinder Singh floating his own party and fielding candidates against the Congress. However, with the Shriomani Akali Dal-BSP announcing five Jat Sikh candidates in Patiala, the Congress now is left with two seats from where they can give representation to this farming community.“Even the Jat Sikhs are poorly represented in the District Congress. We will surely meet PCC president Navjot Sidhu and take up the issue of giving more representation to the community,” said senior leaders within the Congress. “We cannot allow Jats leaders to eye Capt Amarinder’s outfit,” they said.Already three of Congress MLAs in Patiala — Hardyal Singh Kamboj (Rajpura), Madan Lal Jalalpur (Ghanaur), and Rajinder Singh (Samana) — are Kamboj Sikh (OBC category). All three are seeking reelection from their respective constituencies and there is hardly any opposition within the party against their candidature.Political observers believe this gives Congress only Sanaur and Patiala Urban, where they can field Jat Sikhs. Prominent Jat Sikh leader Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann is seeking Congress ticket from Sanaur from where he lost to SAD in 2017. He managed a lead of 42,000 for Preneet Kaur in 2019 MP elections. “Perhaps I am the only Jat Sikh candidate seeking a ticket from Patiala. I have been nurturing the constituency for the past over six years”, he said.Murmurs of Congress stalwart Lal Singh, father of Samana MLA, eyeing a ticket from Sanaur are also doing the rounds, but it is highly unlikely that the Congress high command would ignore Jat Sikhs and give another ticket to Kamboj community. Congress has two reserved seats in Nabha and Shutrana, while Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra is seeking re-election from Patiala rural and is promoting his son to contest from the same seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-congress-citadel-patiala-jats-30-but-poorly-represented-344310
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder: Will form government with BJP, Akali faction||Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said his party will form the next government in the state along with the BJP and a breakaway Akali faction.Preneet’s twitter pic creates buzzCapt Amarinder, who held a meeting with Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar here, said it was a courtesy call.Talking to mediapersons outside the Haryana CM’s residence, the former CM said: “God willing, we and with our seat adjustment with the BJP and with Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s party (SAD Sanyukt), we will form the government.” He said in the coming days, he would meet BJP leaders in Delhi for a seat-sharing arrangement for the Punjab elections. Capt Amarinder’s meeting with Khattar comes on a day when a Bill to repeal the three farm laws was passed by Parliament. He said the three laws had been repealed, adding the Centre had agreed to other seven issues raised by farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-will-form-govt-with-bjp-akali-faction-344311
30-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Leaders in Malwa turn up at Dera Sacha Sauda functions||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 29Ahead of the Assembly polls, leaders of the Malwa region have started reconnecting with Dera Sacha Sauda, which has a great base on some seats here. The leaders who were keeping a distance with the dera after the conviction of its chief have now started attending their events.Followers to decideThe dera supports a party in the polls after consulting its followers. This time too, followers will be taken on board. — Harcharan Singh, Dera SpokerspersonOn Sunday, the Dera Sacha Sauda organised ‘naam charcha’ in 15 districts in the state and now many politicians are eyeing to start talks through backdoor channels with the dera. In Mansa, SAD candidate Prem Arora and Congress ex-MLA Ajit Inder Singh Mofar visited the ‘naam charcha’ event and distributed blankets among the followers.Besides these, Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla in Sangrur, Congress MLA Davinder Ghubaya in Fazilka, MLA Parminder Singh Pinky in Ferozepur and ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s OSD Sunny Brar in Faridkot attended the dera event in the region. Apart from the leaders of all parties, central intelligence agencies and the CID wing of the Punjab Police are also keeping a close tab on the activities of the dera followers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaders-in-malwa-turn-up-at-dera-functions-344312
30-11-2021||---||Punjab government approves filling 10K Education Department posts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday approved the filling of 10,880 vacant posts of various cadres in the Education Department.Key decisionsPresiding over a meeting of various departments, the CM described education as the core sector, which would be streamlined. He also directed the creation of 2,000 physical education teacher’s posts in primary schools.Advocating the formation of a cluster in every village, whereby the village having a primary, middle or high school can avail the services of a single physical education trainer, the CM asked the School Education Department to actively consider the proposal.Besides, Channi discussed issues related to various unions and directed that the department might have discussions and after examining their demand take up the matter with the Finance Department.Accepting the demand of around 1,000 headmaster and teachers recruited under Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Programme, the CM directed the Finance Department to release the state share of salaries, which were cut due to the upper cap set by the Centre in 2016. It will cost the state exchequer around Rs 3.2 crore.He further gave the nod to holding recruitment on 3,400 posts in the Health Department to further strengthen the healthcare system.He ordered the tabling of the proposal pertaining to the inclusion of the anganwadi/ ASHA and other health workers under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in the Cabinet meeting. The CM further said a new college would be set up in Sangrur with 100 per cent state funding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-approves-filling-10k-edu-dept-posts-344313
30-11-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Only 30% of 36K employees may be regularised in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29The Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employees Bill is likely to fall far short of the target of regularising the services of 36,000 employees.Rs872.87 crore burdenThe annual financial implication will be around Rs872.87 cr and total additional liability for first three years is Rs407.80 cr on account of regularising the services of Group C and D staff working on ad hoc, contract, daily wage, temporary and work-charged basisMost don’t fit billThe govt criteria excludes a majority of staff and less than 30% of the 36,000 will benefit, as most were hired under different schemes. — Ashish Julaha, Leader, Contractual Employees Action CommitteeEven as the Bill, after being passed in the Vidhan Sabha earlier this month and being vetted by the Legal Department, is now being sent to the Governor for his assent, the criteria specified in the Bill for regularisation of services will exclude most of these employees.This is creating unease among contract staff, who, for years, have been fighting for regularisation of jobs. Opposition parties in the state, too, have been taking a dig at the government, as billboards announcing the regularisation in services of 36,000 employees have been put up across the state.Outsourced employees are not being considered, nor are the those who are working on a contract basis in various boards and corporations of the state. Even those employees who are employed on a contract basis on posts that are co-terminus with the life of a project or scheme of state or the Centre, won’t be considered for regularisation. Those who will be considered should have been employed on contract basis for at least 10 years, and should be working on Group C or D posts.Ashish Julaha, leader, Contractual Employees Action Committee, said though they had been repeatedly asking the state Personnel Department to share the list of employees whose services were to be regularised, the latter was unwilling to oblige.Officers in department said the issue of enacting the law, after getting the Governor’s nod, was discussed at a meeting last evening. “The Bill has been vetted by the office of Legal Remembrancer, and has been sent to the CMO, for being sent further to the Governor for assent, which is required as it is a Money Bill. The government has sought a list of all employees who fit the criteria, as specified in the Bill, from all departments. Based on this, the services of all employees will be regularised, once the Governor okays it,” said a senior officer in the department, while refusing to share the number of beneficiaries.A senior officer in the Chief Minister’s Office told The Tribune this was not a one-time regularisation. “As and when these employees complete 10 years of service, they will be considered,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-30-of-36k-employees-may-be-regularised-344314
30-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Explain delay in policy on disposal of unclaimed vehicles, HC tells CS||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought an explanation from the Chief Secretary on the delay to come out with a policy on the disposal of unclaimed vehicles lying at police stations, that too, “despite a long lapse of time”.Seeks Reply by 3rd week OF DecJustice Arvind Singh Sangwan made it clear that the HC would initiate contempt proceedings for the violation of the SC directions if the explanation wasn’t submitted by December third week.The direction came a year after Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan took the judicial note of a news report carried in these columns on unclaimed vehicles at the police stations across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Justice Sangwan also issued seven commandments on the issue, including the setting up of committees in each Sessions Division for the disposal of unclaimed vehicles lying for more than a year as on November 1.Justice Sangwan ruled the committees would be headed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate in each district. The illaqa magistrate, having the jurisdiction over the police station concerned, will be one of the members. Another member will be from the Advocates’ Bar Association.He asserted that the Supreme Court had ruled that serious view would be taken if the state governments, Union Territories and the DGPs failed to ensure the implementation of the directions. But it appeared that Punjab had not even framed a policy, despite a lapse of seven years. UT Chandigarh and the state of Haryana had formulated a policy, but it was not being implemented.Laying down the procedure, Justice Sangwan asserted the SHO/Investigating Officer of the police station concerned would file an application and produce a list of case properties before the court concerned within 15 days from receiving the order’s copy. The court will pass appropriate order within a month thereafter.The unclaimed vehicles will then be auctioned in the next three months, following the procedure in the CrPC and giving notice in a local newspaper. The amount received from the auction will be deposited in the government treasury under a head to be nominated by the District and Sessions Judge concerned.Justice Sangwan added the Punjab and Haryana Chief Secretaries and UT Home Secretary would submit a quarterly compliance report before the Registrar General. The quarterly reports, thereafter, will be filed after every three months.Also, the compliance report will contain the list of cases, in which applications could not be filed within the prescribed period along with the explanation thereof. The magistrates will also file a quarterly report through their District and Sessions Judge containing particulars of cases in which appropriate orders were passed within a month of the application. Reasons will be furnished, if any case could not be disposed of within 30 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explain-delay-in-policy-on-disposal-of-unclaimed-vehicles-hc-tells-cs-344315
30-11-2021|| People in the constituency are peeved at the stink emanated by Kasur Nullah in heart of Balmiki Colony here. A group of women comprising Nimmo||EAR TO THE GROUND: Poor civic amenities raise stink||Past trendAfter the lifting of Emergency in 1977, Tarn Taran always voted in favour of Akali candidates till the 1992 election, when Congress candidate Dilbag Singh Daleke registered victory. Again in 2017, Congress’ Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri won, defeating SAD candidate.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,89,659Male: 99,334Female: 90,318Third gender: 7Locals’ key demands"We neither have clean drinking water nor sewerage. Local doctors confirm the stomach ailments among a large number of local residents are due to unclean drinking water. Some residents have installed submersible pumps, but the majority can't afford these," says Daljit Singh, another resident."The government allowed haphazard growth in the town. We don't have adequate parks or playgrounds for our children. Mismanaged traffic especially at Bohriwala chowk is commonplace," says Niranjan Kaur, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ear-to-the-ground-poor-civic-amenities-raise-stink-344324
30-11-2021|| The constituency has received abundant funds and seen development since the formation of the Congress government. However||Sangrur constituency: Funds, growth aplenty, issues too||Past trendResidents have largely sent SAD and Congress candidates to the Assembly. They have also given chance to outsiders such as Congress ex-MLA Arvind Khanna and incumbent Vijay Inder Singla. Farmers’ issues have largely influenced voters in the past.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,77,122Male: 93,788Female: 83,333Third gender: 1Locals’ key demandsSingla has brought about development, including construction of roads, building a multipurpose hall in the stadium, upgrade of schools, renovation of heritage sites and setting up rainwater harvesting projects in villages.“However, poor quality material has been used in a majority of projects,” claims AAP youth leader Narinder Kaur Bharaj. Many city areas turn into pools after a brief spell of rain due to lack of proper drainage. Traffic jams have been frequent ever since the construction of a median on the Gaushala Road.“I have brought about unprecedented development in the area without discrimination. Some residents had levelled allegations of use of poor quality material, but we got it checked by authorities. My political opponents are levelling baseless allegations as they have nothing else to say,” claims the MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/funds-growth-aplenty-issues-too-344326
30-11-2021||---||PCC chief Navjot Sidhu skips Congress meet at CM's residence||Chandigarh, November 29Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu still don’t seem to be on the same page as the PCC chief was conspicuous by his absence at a meeting of party’s block presidents of the Malwa region called at the Chief Minister’s residence here this evening.Apart from CM Channi, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary and Food Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu attended the meeting. Sidhu, who earlier in the day took on AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal through tweets, was said to be in Patiala.The meeting had been called to get feedback ahead of the Assembly elections and propagate pro-people decisions being taken by the Congress government. But neither Sidhu nor his working presidents were present at the meeting. During the discussions, some block presidents expressed concern over purported differences between CM Channi and Sidhu over issues that are set to take the centre stage in the elections. Sources said the PCC chief was yet to regularly attend meetings at the Punjab Congress Bhavan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-chief-skips-congress-meet-at-cms-residence-344327
30-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Poll officer reviews preparedness in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, November 29As the Assembly elections are round the corner, Dr S Karuna Raju, Chief Electoral Officer of Punjab, conducted a surprise checking of the ongoing process of making votes and electoral rolls in the district and after scrutinising the record, he expressed satisfaction over the working of district election officials.Later, he held a meeting with the district election officer, all returning officers and block-level officers. He directed the officials that the vote of all those who attained the age of 18 years on January 1, 2020, must be made. He said they should motivate the voters, particularly the young, to exercise their right.He directed officials to initiate various steps and launch a campaign to create awareness in the public so that the vote percentage could be increased. He also said strict action should be taken against those who try to lure the voters by offering money or with muscle power so that the voting process could take place in a peaceful atmosphere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-officer-reviews-preparedness-in-fatehgarh-sahib-344328
30-11-2021||---||Release list of best schools in state, reiterates Sisodia||Tribune News ServicesChandigarh, November 29A day after releasing the list of 250 best government schools in the national capital, Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia accused his Punjab counterpart Pargat Singh running away from the discussion by not releasing the list of state schools.Reveal work doneCM Channi should release the best schools’ list. People have the right to know the govt’s work in the field of education. — Manish Sisodia, Delhi Deputy CMHe requested Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to release the list of best government schools in Punjab. He said the people of Punjab had the right to know the Congress’ contribution in the field of education in Punjab in the past five years. He said while the Kejriwal government had worked rigorously on public education, the Congress government failed on the front.Sisodia said Pargat Singh had nothing to demonstrate as the Congress in the past over four years of its rule didn’t focus on developing world-class infrastructure, teachers and school heads who’d received training in foreign countries, and improving results and students who get selected for IIT/JEE like the schools of Delhi.“If the Congress government doesn’t release the list of best government schools, it will be a public acceptance of the fact that nothing has been done to fix the education system of Punjab in the last five years,” Sisodia said.Meanwhile, AAP women’s wing carried out ‘Dhanyawad Kejriwal march’ across all districts on Monday to welcome party’s national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s guarantee of giving Rs 1,000 a month to all women above 18 years of age. Senior party leader Sarabjit Kaur Manuke said the announcement was a step towards women empowerment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-list-of-best-schools-in-state-reiterates-sisodia-344329
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||SAD fields Bibi Jagir Kaur from Bholath segment||The Shiromani Akali Dal today named former SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia as party candidates from the Bholath and Majitha constituencies, respectively. Bibi Jagir Kaur’s candidature was announced minutes after she relinquished charge as SGPC president in favour of Harjinder Singh Dhami this afternoon.The SAD has named 89 candidates of the 97 seats in its share of poll-alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party, which will contest 20 seats in the 117-member Punjab Assembly. The party has kept the suspense going over the Lambi constituency. Five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal is likely to contest again, but the party is keeping its cards close to the chest on his candidature. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-fields-bibi-jagir-kaur-from-bholath-segment-344330
30-11-2021||Sangrur||Leaders gatecrashing events, Sangrur traders shift venues||Troubled by gatecrasher politicians, the district industrialists have started organising functions out of Sangrur city. On Saturday night, they hosted Cabinet Minister of Industries and Commerce Gurkirat Singh Kotli at Sunam while three days before this, they had organised a function for Punjab Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni at Dhuri.Talking to The Tribune, some industrialists said the Sangrur District Industrial Chamber was the best location for district industrialists if they wanted to organise any function. In the past, they had organised majority of functions here but since elections were approaching, Sangrur politicians were vying to take credit without any contribution to the chamber. Recently, when some industrialists were not invited to functions, they tried to create problems. They also started approaching the members of the chamber through officials to get an invitation. “Gatecrasher politicians are the reason for our decision to organise functions out of Sangrur city. Apart from it, we want to promote our block-level units also and give them the experience of organising events,” said Ghanshyam Kansal, district president of the chamber.During a function at Sunam, chamber chairman AR Sharma raised various demands, including waiver of penalty over house tax and property tax, withdrawal of change of land use condition for new industry and simplification of procedure for the approval of building plans of the industry.“Since the formation of our government in Punjab, we have been working for the welfare of industry. We have accepted majority of demands while the remaining will be accepted in the coming days,” said Kotli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaders-gatecrashing-events-sangrur-traders-shift-venues-344331
30-11-2021||Faridkot||Junior residents in Faridkot medical college hospital plan OPD boycott over PG admission delay||Voicing their frustration over the increased workload due to the delay in admissions to postgraduate (MD/MS) courses, junior resident doctors of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital on Monday staged a protest and gave a call to boycott OPD services for two hours daily.All MD/MS students have to work as a junior resident doctors in the hospitals attached to their medical colleges during the first, second and third year of their postgraduate courses. While the third-year junior resident doctors passed out about five months ago, freshers haven’t joined due to the delay in admissions this time. So, only two batches of junior resident doctors are working in place of three.Usually, the admissions to MD/MS courses are over by May-end and freshers join their classes as soon as the third-year students leave their colleges. However, due to controversy over the reservation for the OBC and EWS categories and Covid, the admission process for the MD/MS courses is running about nine months behind the schedule this time.The hold-up in the admission is not only causing one-year academic loss to the new MD/MS students but it has also burdened the present junior resident doctors in the medical colleges with 33% extra workload.The protesters alleged that the junior resident doctors working in medical colleges were overburdened with the increased work and patient load, leading to mental, physical fatigue and frustration among them. “To register our protest, we have decided to boycott the OPD services from 10 am to 12 pm daily. However, the emergency services won’t be affected as of now,” they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/junior-residents-plan-opd-boycott-over-pg-admission-delay-344332
30-11-2021||Bathinda||NHM staff seek regularisation||Members of the NHM Joint Front Punjab protested at the Bathinda Civil Hospital on Monday. Doctors, clerks, staff nurses, laboratory technicians and radiographers also extended their support and suspended work for an hour.They have been demanding regularisation. The protesters raised slogans against the state and threatened to continue their indefinite stir till their “long-standing” demands were met. A state-level protest rally will be taken out in Kharar on Tuesday.NHM Joint Front state convener Narendar Kumar said: “In a symbolic protest on Monday, we clang utensils to wake the state up from its deep slumber and accede to our genuine demands... We demand that the government must consider the NHM staff for regularising their services among 36,000 contractual employees it has announced to regularise in the state.”“Since, the state is continuing with its indifferent approach, we have given a call for a state-level protest rally in Kharar on Tuesday,” Kumar added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhm-staff-seek-regularisation-344333
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||State has lowest prevalence of tobacco use, finds survey||The prevalence of tobacco use in Punjab is lowest among all states in the country, as per the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5).Consumption among males downDisclosing this here on Monday, Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni, who also holds the charge of the Health and Family Welfare Department, said the tobacco use was associated with accelerated mortality among adults, especially in countries like India, where the burden of illness and death was heaviest. In India, more than a million adults die each year due to tobacco use, accounting for 9.5% of the overall casualties.Congratulating the State Tobacco Control Cell for this landmark achievement, Soni said a total of 5,541 challans had been issued under the COTPA-2003 in the past 10 months.Tobacco Cessation Centres have been established in all districts. Free tobacco cessation counselling and medicines, nicotine gums and patches were being provided to the patients. Moreover, 7,307 tobacco users have availed services at these centres between April and October 2021. Also, more than 800 state villages have been declared tobacco-free.Underlining the ill-effects of tobacco, Dr Andesh Kang, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said its use was associated with a range of communicable and non-communicable diseases and mental health disorders, resulting in high social cost. “Several studies have showed that the tobacco use can make a person more vulnerable to Covid,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-has-lowest-prevalence-of-tobacco-use-finds-survey-344334
30-11-2021||Mansa||Plots not given, unions to stop trains on Dec12||Members of the Sanjha Mazdoor Morcha consisting seven unions of labourers of the state have started mobilising support in villages for the ‘rail roko’ agitation scheduled to be held on December 12.Leaders of the unions have been conducting meetings and door-to-door activities in villages exhorting people to ensure maximum participation in the agitation. Union leaders said the state government had not issued any official notification to implement the demands which were “agreed upon” during a meeting with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi recently.Bhagwant Samao, senior leader of the Sanjha Mazdoor Morcha, said, “We will block railway tracks across the state for four hours from noon till 4 pm. Farmer unions BKU Ekta Ugrahan, Punjab Kisan Union, BKU Sidhupur, among others, have decided to extend their support to the agitation.”Labourers’ unions have been demanding five-marla plots for landless labourers, loan up to Rs 50,000 on low interest rates, 25 per cent membership in cooperative societies in the state, outstanding electricity bills of financially deprived families be waived, removed electricity meters be restored and all pending cases of atrocities on Dalits be addressed. “Not even a single village panchayat in the state provided plots to landless labourers and disconnected electricity metres were also not restored,” Samao added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plots-not-given-unions-to-stop-trains-on-dec12-344335
30-11-2021||---||Harjinder Singh Dhami elected SGPC chief||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 29Harjinder Singh Dhami, honorary chief secretary of the Shiromani Gurdawara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), was elected its president for the next one year during the General House meeting held at Teja Singh Samundari Hall in the SGPC complex here today.The 11-member executiveThe 11-member executive includes Surjit Singh Kang, Sarwan Singh Klar, Surjit Singh Garhi, Jarnail Singh Dogranwala, Balwinder Singh Weipui, Harjap Singh Sultanwind, Gurdinderpal Singh Gora, Amarjit Singh Bandala, Bibi Gurpreet Kaur, Jodh Singh Samra and Gurpreet Singh.A chaos-like situation disrupted the House proceedings for a while. In the absence of a unanimous consensus over the name of the president, general secretary and ‘adjusting’ two members in the 11-member executive, the voting process was adopted in which 142 members of the House participated. Dhami secured 122 votes against his opponent Mithu Singh Kahneke, a member of the SGPC from Mansa who polled just 19 votes. One vote was declared invalid. A year back, Kahneke had already resigned from the primary membership of the Shiromani Akali Dal due to his differences over Panthic and Punjab-related issues.For the general secretary’s post, Karnail Singh Panjoli was declared elected after he polled 112 votes against his rival Gurpreet Singh, who got just 21 votes. Here also, one vote was cancelled. Meanwhile, several members left in the middle of the House proceedings.Raghuvir Singh Virk and Principal Surinder Singh were elected unanimously as senior vice-president and junior vice-president, respectively. Advocate Dhami, a law graduate, has been an SGPC member from Hoshiarpur since 1996. He is known for his good administrative skills. Born on August 28, 1956, Dhami attained proficiency in religious and legal affairs. He also served as the SGPC general secretary during the 2019 tenure.After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple and Akal Takht, Dhami said strengthening the SGPC’s campaign named as ‘Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal’ to curb conversion of Sikhs would be his main priority, besides revamping the education and health services being provided by the Sikh body.Soon after Dhami replaced Bibi Jagir Kaur, the SAD announced the latter as its candidate from the Bholath Assembly constituency.Meanwhile, the SGPC has asked the Centre to abolish the requirement of passport for pilgrims visiting Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur through the dedicated corridor and simplify the process to gain access.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhami-elected-sgpc-chief-344336
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Goindwal jail to be functional in Dec||The construction work of the Goindwal Sahib Central Jail is almost complete and the jail is expected to be operational in December, said Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, while convening a high-level meeting to review the matters pertaining to the Jails Department.Randhawa, who also holds the charge of the jail ment, said to rationalise the capacity of the state jails, the Rs 185-crore Central Jail, with a capacity of 2,780 inmates, had been constructed in Goindwal Sahib. This will be the 26th jail in Punjab, including the 10 central jails and 15 state jails.The Deputy Chief Minister said at present, the prisoners of Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib districts had to be shifted to Ropar and Patiala jails due to which a new jail was being proposed in Mohali and the Rural and Panchayat Department had been asked to identify the land for the jail. One officer from each of these departments had been deputed for coordination, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/goindwal-jail-to-be-functional-in-dec-344337
30-11-2021||---||Moga sex scam kingpin held with drugs||Tribune News ServiceMoga, November 29The kingpin of the 2007 Moga sex scandal, Simranjit Kaur, alias Indu Bala, was arrested by the police on charges of smuggling drugs, local officials said today.Simranjit, along with Jaspreet Singh, alias Jeetu, of Hariewala village, was arrested while travelling in a car on the city outskirts. Personnel of the CIA-Staff, Mehna, on a tip-off, intercepted the car and during search found 260 gram heroin on them.“We have arrested both and further investigations are on,” said SI Gurtej Singh, adding a case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act had been registered at the Mehna police station.In September 2017, Simranjit, along with Nirmal Singh, alias Nikka, of Singhawala village, was arrested on charges of smuggling drugs on the outskirts of Mehna. During search, 1 kg intoxicating powder, 110 gm gold ornaments and Rs 10,500 were found from their car. In May 2012, she was arrested with 54 gram heroin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-sex-scam-kingpin-held-with-drugs-344338
30-11-2021||Abohar||Gang of bike thieves busted||The police on Monday claimed to have busted a Jalalabad-based gang, members of which have allegedly been stealing motorcycles in Fazilka and Ferozepur districts.The accused used to sell the stolen bikes at a reduced price after affixing fake number plates with fake registration certificates in Rajasthan. A case was registered under Sections 379, 420, 465, 467, 468 and 473 of the IPC. As of now, one stolen motorcycle has been recovered and more recoveries are expected during custodial investigations. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gang-of-bike-thieves-busted-344339
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Why no woman in Delhi Government, Navjot Sidhu takes on Arvind Kejriwal||In an apparent move to dispel the buzz about AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal trying to woo PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the latter on Monday took on the former over his pre-poll promises in Punjab.Incidentally, Sidhu had not reacted when Kejriwal during his recent Punjab visit had praised him for questioning CM Charanjit Singh Channi on sand being sold above the capped rate.In a series of tweets on Monday, Sidhu took on AAP, picking holes in Kejriwal’s claim on women empowerment and his promise of Rs 1,000 per month to women if voted to power in Punjab. Sidhu said: “Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones at others. You talk of women empowerment, jobs and teachers. However, you don’t have one woman minister in your Cabinet. How many women in Delhi get Rs 1,000 despite revenue surplus left by Sheila Dikshit!”The Punjab unit of the Congress was engaging women in every step of the electoral process, Sidhu said, adding that true leadership was not in giving the lollipop of Rs 1,000, but investing in their future by providing skills for self-employment.Citing RTI-based data, Sidhu said: “In 2015 there were 12,515 job vacancies of teachers in Delhi, and in 2021 there are 19,907 such vacancies. But you are filling most posts by just guest lecturers. In your 2015 manifesto, you promised 8 lakh new jobs and 20 new colleges in Delhi, where are the jobs and colleges? On the contrary, unemployment rate of Delhi has increased almost 5 times in the last 5 years.”Sidhu hit out at Kejriwal after Delhi’s Deputy CM Manish Sisodia asked Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh to compare schools of Delhi with those of Punjab.Hitting back, Pargat Singh said the AAP was releasing fake figures to mislead people. He said he had asked his Delhi counterpart to draw a comparison on the parameters of the national performance grading index 2021, not over the list of schools.Pargat said Sisodia’s list should also throw light on school-wise enrolment numbers, permanent teachers and vacancies, 10th results and the names of principals from 2013-14 to 2019-20. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-no-woman-in-delhi-government-sidhu-takes-on-kejri-344304
30-11-2021||New Delhi||Punjab farmer leaders say Centre must reply to demands by Nov 30; SKM meeting on Dec 1||Terming the repeal of the farm laws in Parliament a victory of the protesters, farmer leaders from Punjab urged the Centre to decide on their other demands, including legal guarantee of minimum support price for crops, in the session on Tuesday.Read also:Parliament passes bill to repeal three farm lawsThey also said the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has called an emergency meeting on Wednesday to discuss the future course of action.The SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, rued that there was no discussion on the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 when it was passed in both Houses of Parliament on Monday.“This is a victory for us and a historic day. We want withdrawal of cases against the farmers. We want a committee to be formed on the legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for crops. The Centre has time till tomorrow (Tuesday) to reply to our demands. We have called an emergency meeting of SKM on Wednesday to discuss the future course of action,” the farmer leaders said in a press conference on Monday.Meanwhile, celebrations broke out at protest sites at three borders of Delhi - Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri - as farmers danced to the tunes of Bhangra and Punjabi songs.At Singhu, the protesters showered flower petals at each other to celebrate the “victory of the movement”.The SKM, in a statement, said the repeal of farm laws is the first major victory of the farmers’ movement, but other important demands are still pending.“History has been made today in India when the anti-farmer central farm laws got repealed. However, the development was marred by the fact that there was no debate allowed on the Bill tabled to repeal the three laws,” it said.The farmers’ body said the laws were brought in first as ordinances in June 2020 and later as full-fledged legislations in September 2020, but “ironically, without any debate allowed at that time too”.The Bill to repeal the three contentious agricultural laws, against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, was passed within minutes of its introduction in both the Houses of Parliament on the first day of the winter session on Monday.The SKM also demanded compensation for farmers who died during the movement.“The Centre should reply to our demands in Parliament tomorrow,” the farm leaders said.Sources hinted that if the government expressed its intention or gave guarantee to consider the farmers’ remaining demands, the agitation might be called off.However, they maintained that any final decision in this connection will be taken by the SKM in its emergency meeting.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on November 19 announced that the three farm legislations would be repealed.The three laws are Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.The repeal of the three legislations had been one of the key demands of around 40 farmer unions protesting at various Delhi border points since November 26, 2020.On November 21, the SKM had written to the prime minister to immediately resume talks on the farmers’ six demands, including legal guarantee for procurement of crops at MSP.“Investments for an MSP guarantee law are very much within the practical power of the Union Government, and will come back as revenues as soon as rural economy receives a boost from such a law.“On another demand related to withdrawal of cases filed against protesting farmers, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar indicated that he will do as per the Centre’s instructions. This vindicates what SKM has been saying,” the SKM statement said on Monday.It said with regard to such cases filed in Delhi and Chandigarh, the Centre has a direct say.“While in the BJP-ruled states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh where many cases have been filed, the Union Government’s decision is awaited,” the statement added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmer-leaders-seek-withdrawal-of-cases-against-protesters-want-legal-guarantee-for-msp-344265
30-11-2021||GS Paul||Harjinder Singh Dhami is new SGPC president||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 29Harjinder Singh Dhami, honorary chief secretary of Shiromani Gurdawara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), was on Monday elected as its president for one-year term during a general house meeting held at Teja Singh Samundari Hall in SGPC complex here.Chaos-like situation disrupted the House proceedings for a while by some Opposition members. In the absence of consensus over the name of president, general secretary and ‘adjusting’ two members in the 11-member executive, the voting process was adopted in which 142 members participated.Giving convincing defeat, Dhami secured 122 votes against his opponent Mithu Singh Kahneke, a member of SGPC from Mansa who polled just 19 votes. One vote was declared invalid. A year back, Kahneke had already resigned from primary membership of SAD due to his differences over the panthic and Punjab related issues.For general secretary’s post, Karnail Singh Panjoli was declared elected after he was polled 112 votes against his rival Gurpreet Singh who got just 21 votes. Here also, one vote was cancelled. Several members had left in the middle of the House proceedings, by then.Raghuvir Singh Virk and Principal Surinder Singh were elected unanimously as senior vice president and junior vice president, respectively.Nonetheless, advocate Dhami, a law graduate has been an SGPC member from Hoshiarpur since 1996. He is known for his good administrative skills.Born on August 28, 1956, Dhami has attained proficiency in religious and legal affairs. He also served as SGPC general secretary during the 2019 tenure.After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple and the Akal Takht, Dhami said strengthening the SGPC’s campaign named as “Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal” to curb conversion of Sikhs would be his main priority, besides revamping the education and health services being provided by the Sikh body.Soon after Dhami replaced Bibi Jagir Kaur, the SAD announced the latter as its candidate from Bholath Assembly constituency. She had represented the Bholath constituency thrice from 1997, 2002 and 2012 as an MLA.If the SGPC general elections would be conducted next year, as was being speculated, this was the last presidential poll tenure of the current general house.As per Gurdwara Act 1925, the SGPC body has to be revamped every year by electing its president, senior vice president, junior vice president, general secretary and 11-member executive body, unanimously during the general house or through voting, if necessary.The House comprises a total of 191 members out of which 170 are elected through ballot papers. The 15 co-opted members include five Takht Jathedars and Golden Temple head granthi, have no voting rights.At present, the House consists of 165 members in addition to 15 co-opted members. As many as 23 members have died, while the two -- Sucha Singh Langah and Sharanjit Singh -- had already resigned from the membership.The 11-member executive included Surjit Singh Kang, Sarwan Singh Klar, Surjit Singh Garhi, Jarnail Singh Dogranwala, Balwinder Singh Weipui, Harjap Singh Sultanwind, Gurdinderpal Singh Gora, Amarjit Singh Bandala, Bibi Gurpreet Kaur, Jodh Singh Samra and Gurpreet Singh.Bibi Jagir Kaur conducted the stage proceedings till appointment of Dhami. Prominent among those were present on the occasion included Golden Temple’s head preiest Giani Jagtar Singh, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, Takht Patna Sahib Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh Gohar-e-Maskeen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harjinder-singh-dhami-is-new-sgpc-president-344264
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will form next govt in Punjab with BJP, breakaway Akali faction: Amarinder||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said his party will form the next government in the state along with the BJP and a breakaway Akali faction as he held a surprise meeting with Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar here.Amarinder Singh described his meeting with the Haryana CM a courtesy call.“There was no political development. I had a very nice cup of coffee with the chief minister,” said the former Punjab CM after meeting Khattar, a senior BJP leader.आज चंडीगढ़ स्थित मुख्यमंत्री आवास पर पंजाब के पूर्व मुख्यमंत्री श्री @capt_amarinder जी शिष्टाचार भेंट करने पहुंचे। pic.twitter.com/sRUBqbBNQY  However, when asked whether “big faces” will join his party Punjab Lok Congress ahead of the assembly elections, he said, “Wait for the time. Everything is going fine. People are very upbeat and our membership drive is going good.”                   “God willing, we and with our seat adjustment with the BJP and with Mr (Sukhdev Singh) Dhindsa party (SAD Sanyukt), we will form the government,” he said. Amarinder Singh had quit the Congress following his resignation as the Punjab CM after a bitter power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.His meeting with Khattar came on a day when a Bill to repeal the three contentious laws, against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, was passed by Parliament.“I have met the chief minister does not mean that when you meet someone it is political something. This is just a normal courtesy call,” he told reporters replying to a query on any talk of an alliance with the BJP.In the photographs of their meeting released by the Haryana government, Khattar is seen receiving Amarinder Singh with a warm hug. Asked if he will meet BJP leaders for a seat sharing arrangement for the Punjab elections, the former Punjab CM said he will go to Delhi and certainly call on them. Replying to a question on the farm laws, he said, “Everything is now over. The three Bills (laws) have been repealed by Parliament.”                The former CM said the Centre has agreed to other six to seven issues raised by farmers.             “So, there is no issue left,” said Singh. On the farmers’ demand for the withdrawal of police cases against protesters, he said the Centre will take a look at these cases.Definitely, states of Haryana and Punjab, where cases have been registered, will see and withdraw them, he added.To a question on the registration of his party, Singh said they should get information regarding it any time. The registration of the party was pending approval with the Election Commission of India. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-form-next-govt-in-punjab-with-bjp-breakaway-akali-faction-amarinder-344260
