01-04-2020||Comment||Coronavirus: Test of collaborative federalism||Feeble collaborative effort Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan stated on March 9 that the government is prepared to deal with the coronavirus and that his ministry had been sending directives, including guidelines, to all the states. These directions were issued under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (EDA), and the Disaster Management Act, 2005 (DMA). The government perhaps believed that these two laws vested sufficient powers in it, and that there was no need to fall back on the “emergency provisions” of the Constitution. There is no question on the competence of the Union government as even during normal times the Centre can issue directions to states and, as a result, the executive power of the states shall be exercised in a manner that does not “impede or prejudice” the Union executive directives (Article 256 & 257). Similarly, the state governments, too, started their independent efforts by issuing workplace advisories based on the restraint plan prepared by the health ministry to tackle the pandemic. In this, some states like Odisha were prompt and active but a few others sluggish and passive in their response. Unfortunately, no sincere and strategic coordination between the Union and state governments were made to give full effect to the national lockdown and its possible implications on people’s lives. An inter-state coordination meeting of all chief ministers and chief secretaries should have been called at an initial stage, ideally in the first week of March,  to make a strategic plan on various preventive measures, including the national lockdown and its possible repercussions. In a bid to ensure a smooth national lockdown of three weeks, a joint intensive advisory along with logistic support arrangements could have been issued appealing to the people to avoid leaving their homes except in an emergency. The success of ‘janata curfew’ demonstrated that people are willing to abide by government advisories and especially the appeal made by the Prime Minister. But a 21-day national lockdown on a four hours’ notice suddenly put millions of people at risk, leaving many struggling with basic requirements of food and medicines. They were left with a choice between the coronavirus infection and starvation. Hunger is the more desperate, deadly, and immediate of the two alternatives, and hence it prevailed. The Union and state governments urged employers not to deduct workers’ wages for the period of the lockdown and to provide some other relief measures. But without a guaranteed wage, it was realistically hard to win the confidence of the people that the State would guarantee them their fundamental right to life and livelihood. It is imperative to note that this is not charity but rather a constitutional obligation under Article 39(a) and (e) which mandates the government to take steps to ensure that the citizens have a right to adequate means of livelihood and are not forced by economic necessity to enter avocations unsuitable for them.        Collaborative federalism The constitutional vision ideates that both the central and the state governments must embrace a collaborative federal architecture by displaying harmonious co­existence and interdependence. Acceptance of pragmatic federalism and achieving federal balance is a necessity. It requires disciplined wisdom on the part of the Centre and the states. As opposed to centralism, a balanced federal structure mandates that the Union government will work in coordination with states at all times. This crisis is an extraordinary situation which required extraordinary coordination. Our best chance of curbing the pandemic lies only in joint, synchronised effort, and not in isolated endeavours.  As most coronavirus cases reported so far have been from the cities, this unprecedented mass migration may have adverse repercussions in rural parts, too. Some asymptomatic carriers of the virus might unwittingly infect people in those areas. Consequently, they will be forced to defy the lockdown again and travel to cities to seek medical relief considering India’s grossly underdeveloped medical infrastructure in remote areas. This could create a vicious cycle, thereby defeating the very purpose of the current lockdown.    A similar situation was seen in Italy, where people from the initially affected northern Italy fled to their hometowns, thereby spreading the virus across that nation. The present condition of Italy is a direct result of a faulty lockdown and a spectacle which we must avoid at all costs. To achieve this, we must deal with the issue of migration expeditiously. What is to be done? As tens of thousands of people have already left their accommodations in cities, have travelled long distances, and intermingled with other people, it is not advantageous to direct them back to the cities. Instead, temporary shelters must be created for them in the cities or on their outskirts. Food, basic necessities, and materials for maintaining hygiene must be provided at such locations. Thus, even in the unfortunate event of an outbreak of the virus at such shelters, it will not spread to remote areas and can be nipped in the bud. India has in the past constructed such shelters quickly, a prime example being the Maha Kumbh Mela in 2013 wherein temporary living facilities were created for crores of people in a short span of time. Thus, meticulous tracking, compulsory quarantines and duteous social distancing, all coordinated by a leadership willing to act fast and be transparent, is required at this moment. While herculean efforts may be required on part of the administration at this juncture, it is a drop in the bucket keeping in mind the bigger picture. Unless collaborative federalism is implemented in the true sense by taking all the states along, the lockdown may prove to be an exercise in futility.  The Centre and states must take heed before it is too late.    (Singh is Professor of Law and Nayak is student at the National Law University, Odisha)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/coronavirus-test-of-collaborative-federalism-819841.html
01-04-2020||First Edit||Indignities heaped on the poor unacceptable||Migrants desperate to reach home in the wake of the sudden lockdown imposed nationwide are being subjected to indignities and exposed to new and serious threats to their health. Video clips have emerged of officials hosing down migrant labourers returning to Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh with some ‘disinfectant’, ostensibly to sanitise them so they wouldn’t carry coronavirus infections home. It turns out that they were sprayed not with harmless soap water or even mild disinfectant but with sodium hypochlorite, a highly corrosive chemical. Sodium hypochlorite – bleach -- is used to disinfect water or sanitise surfaces. Spraying it on humans often results in burning of skin, severe itching and tearing of eyes. It’s a disinfectant, but not for use on humans. Those involved in the spraying of the migrant workers initially denied that chemicals were used. When confronted with evidence they admitted to using bleach. Authorities have blamed the “overzealousness” of personnel lower down the hierarchy. They claim that their orders were to spray buses with the disinfectant, not people. But they cannot absolve themselves of responsibility by blaming their subordinates. While tough measures are needed to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, officials need to be humane in their handling of challenging situations. Police and other personnel at the frontlines are undoubtedly under stress. But the manner in which they are misusing their power and deploying their lathis and other tools of coercion on hapless and often frightened people is unacceptable. Police and health authorities across the country must be strictly instructed that such action will not be tolerated. Worrying caste and class undertones are evident in the treatment of migrant workers in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. For millennia, people engaging in ‘unclean professions’ have been seen as ‘untouchables.’ Their bodies and even souls were subjected to humiliating purifying rituals to cleanse them. Images of migrants squatting on the ground while personnel in protective gear hosed them down with chemicals indicate that this practice continues to date. As for class discrimination, the far more privileged Indians returning home from abroad were treated with kid gloves. They were allowed to self-quarantine. Contrast this with the heavy-handed, brutal treatment that the State is meting out to migrant workers trudging hundreds of miles to reach their villages. If people crossing borders should be screened or disinfected, it should be done in a way that is humane and scientific, not determined by our caste, class and religious prejudices. State authorities must keep this in mind as the war on coronavirus is stepped up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/indignities-heaped-on-the-poor-unacceptable-819839.html
01-04-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Convicts released on bail to decongest jails||The jail authorities in some parts of the state have decided to release a few convicts, in order to decongest the prisons, so as to check the spread of COVID-19. A total of 21 convicts were released on bail from the Keremattihalli prison in Haveri taluk. A decision to this effect was taken by a district-level committee headed by principal district and sessions judge. The 21 convicts who were released had been serving sentences for a period of less than seven years. Similarly, in Hubballi,11 convicts were released from the sub-jail in the city.  The release of convicts in the two cities follows instructions to this effect from higher authorities. Ashok Bhajantri, the superintendent of the sub-jail, said that the convicts are being released on interim bail||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/convicts-released-on-bail-to-decongest-jails-820195.html
01-04-2020||In Perspective||Lockdown: 3 big questions unanswered||The first unknown is in establishing reasonable cause behind the announcement of the nationwide lockdown. We still do not have enough public health data available nor justification provided that could have alarmed the Union government to an extent that it took such a drastic, draconian measure, and did so without consulting all state chief ministers or planning for the likely ramifications in advance. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) still denies any evidence of community-level transmission of the virus and rejects the idea of pursuing mass-scale, random testing. If that’s the case, was such a wide-scale and prolonged lockdown even needed? Recent numbers released by the health ministry on COVID-19 cases show how the fatality rate of the virus in the Indian strain remains pretty low at 2.6%, whereas in Italy the virus has a fatality rate of 10%. Johns Hopkins University, whose data on COVID-19 cases around the globe has been widely relied upon due to its frequency and widespread coverage (as against the WHO’s) has now even disassociated itself from any prediction that claimed how much of India’s population is likely to get infected in the weeks to come. In fact, quite like with demonetisation, this centralised government decision was made first and the planning process with executive orders was put in motion much after. States were clueless and were found reacting to the situation after the PM’s announcement. Worse, the Prime Minister’s use of words like ‘curfew’ unleashed brutal police action, restricting the mobility of people to get essential goods and services, and at the same time, made even the lives of many health workers difficult, amidst a health emergency (as seen in areas of Lucknow, Hyderabad, Punjab, Kashmir, Karnataka).   Coercive government measures like these, even during a pandemic, may only allow authoritarian tendencies to more deeply entrench themselves in State-attitude to consolidate its control over society. The second major question: What are the economic reliefs and rehabilitation to be provided for the most vulnerable workers -- including migrant daily-wagers -- who have now been rendered homeless and jobless, thanks to the lockdown? Some of the relief steps announced by the finance minister targeting the poor can be availed by only those who have access (or are eligible) to claim benefits as part of existing central government schemes (Ujjwala Yojana for benefits in kind, PM-Kisan, Jan Dhan accounts for cash payments, BPL card for rations). The Rs 500 monthly transfer to women for three months (beneficiaries under Jan Dhan Yojana) is an embarrassingly small sum. The marginal rise in wage announced for NREGA work remains conditional on actual work taking place, although that is suspended due to the lockdown. Most NREGA work in villages involves at least 15 workers at a worksite, and with Section 144 in place, it cannot happen. It is also critical to realise how important the role of migrant labor is in keeping the production costs of many labor-intensive businesses low across India. India’s domestic comparative advantage has been in ensuring low labor cost because of a flexible migrant labour market. Even farming activity depends extensively on landless migrant workers. A flexible migrant workforce has been the bulk factor requirement for production in agriculture, construction activity, for ensuring PDS transfers from warehouses to villages, in small-scale industries across India, and in organizing informal local business activities across cities, including street-side businesses. With lakhs of workers now reverse-migrating to their villages, even once the lockdown is lifted, most of these activities (and businesses) in cities will operate on extremely high labour costs -- and with low aggregate demand and less cash, most businesses are likely to shut shop; bigger businesses involved with construction work may halt activity for months. And, this takes one to the third big unknown: What is the Government’s action plan for aiding an economic revival in the months ahead? The RBI did announce a set of measures through its monetary policy toolkit, which are targeted at ensuring enough liquidity in the financial market and help banks-borrowers in passing through the next quarter. These are important and necessary. But given how India’s economy was already contracting and suffering from structural concerns of low aggregate demand, low wage growth and high unemployment, monetary policy measures have a limited role in ensuring the progressive revival of all stakeholders in the economy. Lockdowns are akin to a nuclear strike option on a contagious virus. It can at most buy the country time to be able to respond to a pandemic/epidemic outbreak. However, given the socio-economic costs surfacing thus far, the low-testing, tracing and treatment capacity, and with little evidence provided in public domain to justify a blanket lockdown, it is hard to accept that there was no option but to press this nuclear button.   Many other innovative, more contextually relevant (partial) models of lockdown (within targeted geographical regions) could have been considered to make it humane and keep the costs -- and the harm caused to millions of people -- as low as possible. The jury is still out on this, but these questions are likely to get asked louder in the days and weeks to come. (The writer is Director, Centre for New Economics Studies, Jindal School of International Affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/lockdown-3-big-questions-unanswered-819842.html
01-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||ICMR says no for COVID-19 test in KMC, Manipal||Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has withdrawn permission granted to KMC-Manipal to conduct tests on samples of suspected Covid-19. The second list, published on March 24, had names of private laboratories approved for testing the samples of suspected Covid-19 which included KMC-Manipal. However, the name was dropped in the list announced on March 25. Deputy Commissioner G Jagadheesha told DH that the ICMR had approved the lab at KMC in Manipal but within 24 hours, on March 25, the message from the ICMR stated that the permission was cancelled. “No reasons were furnished. I have written to chief minister and chief secretary to mount pressure on the ICMR to approve the lab in Manipal. The laboratory has sufficient infrastructure. If approved, the results of samples will be available within four hours instead of the present 48 hours needed from a lab in Shivamogga”, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/icmr-says-no-for-covid-19-test-in-kmc-manipal-819848.html
01-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Patient forcibly discharged, faints after walking nearly 50 km||A Keralite patient, who was reportedly forcibly discharged from a Mangaluru government hospital, walked over 50 km and fainted as he neared the border here on Wednesday, police said. The patient, Balan, was admitted to the hospital in that town on March 21 after he fell from a coconut tree. He told police that he was forcibly discharged by hospital authorities On getting information, Kerala police arranged a vehicle for the patient and his relative and dropped them home at Kanhangad, Kasaragod Superintendent of Police P S Sabu said. Since neighbouring Karnataka has blocked border roads with Kerala following the COVID-19 outbreak and lockdown, patients depending on Mangaluru for their treatment are finding it extremely difficult to go there. Seven seriously ill patients from Kasaragod have lost their lives since March 27 after the border roads were shut by Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/patient-forcibly-discharged-faints-after-walking-nearly-50-km-819969.html
01-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three more positive coronavirus cases in Mysuru; tally reaches 17||With three more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, the number of cases has increased to 17. Of the cases, 14 are employees of Jubilant Generics, a pharmaceuticals company in Nanjangud, where several cases were reported. A media bulletin, released by the government on Wednesday, states that three cases (P103, P104, P105) were identified on Wednesday. While P103 and P104 are employees of a pharmaceutical company like P52, who tested positive a few days back, P105 is contact of P103. While P103 (37) and P104 (27) are residents of Nanjangud, the third case, P105 (33), is contact of P103 and a resident of Bengaluru. All the three are male patients and are isolated in a hospital in Mysuru. It has to be recalled that the first case here was confirmed on March 21. He is a man in his mid-30s and a resident of the city who had travelled from Dubai to Bengaluru via Goa. He went to KR Hospital and got himself admitted on March 20. The second case was confirmed on March 23. It is a man in his mid-40s from Kerala, who had come from Dubai. He arrived at KIA from Dubai on March 22 and took a taxi to Mysuru. He too admitted himself for treatment at the KR Hospital. The third case was confirmed on March 26, a 35-year-old man, a resident of Mysuru city, who had no travel history. He is an employee of Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences. Five people from the same company were tested positive on March 28. While four of them are residents of Nanjangud town, one is a resident of Mysuru city. On March 30, four more cases were confirmed and they belonged to the same company. While the first three patients are housed at the Isolation Ward of KR Hospital, the remaining are being treated at the designated Covid Hospital, the new District Hospital on KRS Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-more-positive-coronavirus-cases-in-mysuru-tally-reaches-17-819979.html
01-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Lockdown hits dairy sector hard in Belagavi district||Dairy farmers across the district are bearing the brunt of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 as demand for milk and its byproducts has come down considerably. The Belgaum District Co-operative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited (Bemul) has a large network of dairy farmers in the region. Private dairies too have significant hold in the dairy market.  Besides clampdown, several other restrictions have been imposed by the local administration in Maharashtra, the Bemul’s major buyer. Karnataka government has banned the movement of vehicles to Maharashtra. Hostels, residential schools, hotels, dabhas, restaurants, bakeries, and roadside tea stalls have been shut down. Educational institutions and all government and private offices have been closed temporarily. All these closures have resulted in a decrease in demand for milk, curd, butter and buttermilk. The daily milk procurement of Bemul in April last year was about 1.85 lakh litres, which has now gone up to 2 lakh litres. The Bemul sold 30,000 litres daily in Maharashtra and between 45,000 and 60,000 litres in Goa. After the lockdown, the Union is able to sell only around 5,000 litres in Maharashtra and 20,000 litres in Goa. “As against the daily procurement, the Bemul should have ideally sold about 1.30 lakh litres daily. However, only around 60,000 litres are sold daily as the demand has decreased drastically,” Ubedullah Khan, director, Bemul, told DH. Bemul’s staff strength is 200.  Considering social distancing guideline, only about 120 employees are attending duties now. Due to staff shortage, the preparation of pedha has been halted temporarily. Excess milk is now to sent to Dharwad, Dempo Dairy Industries Limited, Jamkhandi, Bagalkot district and Mother Dairy in Yelanaka, Bengaluru, for preparation of milk powder and butter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-hits-dairy-sector-hard-in-belagavi-district-820186.html
01-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||HDMC comes up with portal for info on grocery, veggies||The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal corporation has gone found an online solution to help people purchase essential commodities during lockdown period. The civic body has launched a portal -  http://hublishops.ttssl.com - through which people can get ward-wise information of shops for purchasing groceries and vegetables. The citizens can get the mobile numbers, names and Whatsapp numbers of shop owners if they type their ward number on the website. Later, they can contact the shop owners and get the items of their choice at doorsteps, city corporation commissioner Suresh Itnal said. The app, developed by Trinity Technology company, can be downloaded on mobile phones too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hdmc-comes-up-with-portal-for-info-on-grocery-veggies-820193.html
01-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus: Rumours create panic in K R Pet||Panic gripped Doddaharanahalli in the taluk, when a few television channels reported that more than 50 people of the village are suffering from cold and fever, symptoms of COVID-19. Tahsildar Shivamurthy, district and taluk health officials rushed to the village as soon as the news spread. They screened all 82 houses in the village and found no such health issue among the residents. Shivamurthy clarified that a few miscreants had spread the rumour about a large number of people suffering from the symptoms of COVID-19. It was alleged that the administration failed to take measures when a few persons who returned from Dubai and Mumbai, creating panic among the people. There are no such cases in the village, he clarified. The police would take action as per law, against the miscreants, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-rumours-create-panic-in-k-r-pet-820150.html
01-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah to provide food kits in Badami villages||Opposition Leader and Badami MLA Siddaramaiah has come to the rescue of his poor and labourers in the rural areas, who are affected by the lockdown, in his constituency. Siddaramaiah has decided to make food kits available for poor and migrant labourers who have returned to 114 villages in the constituency. Accordingly, grocery items like rice, edible oil and even vegetables were provided in kits to the villagers falling under Mushtigeri, Neelgund, Jalihal and Nandikeshwar Gram Panchayats on Wednesday. Siddaramaih’s aide Holabasu Shettar told DH that the food kits were distributed depending on the population in the villages. This responsibility has been entrusted to the village leaders, irrespective of their party affiliations. They have been clearly told to maintain social distance at the time of food kit distribution, he added. Shettar said the food kits will be provided to people till the lockdown rules are in force. Also, food will also be served to poor and needy at a designated place at Badami everyday, he said. He said one lakh masks have been made to be distributed among the people. The masks will be delivered at the people’s doorsteps through the PDOs, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-to-provide-food-kits-in-badami-villages-820183.html
01-04-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru district in list of 25 coronavirus hotspots in India||Mysuru district figured in the list of 25 coronavirus hotspots in India, as per the tweet of Health Minister B Sriramulu at 12 noon, on Wednesday. As per the table provided by Sriramulu, Mysuru is among two districts of Karnataka, along with Bengaluru Urban in the seventh place, with 33 Covid positive cases. Mysuru, with 12 cases, up to noon on Wednesday, was ranked 21st in the list. But, by 7 pm on Wednesday, Mysuru district rose to 19 Covid positive cases, including a couple from Mysuru city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-district-in-list-of-25-coronavirus-hotspots-in-india-820155.html
01-04-2020||Mysuru||Religious institutions join fight against COVID-19||JSS Mahavidyapeeta and its employees have donated Rs 50 lakh towards Chief Minister’s Relief fund to fight COVID-19. Suttur Mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami handed over the cheque to District In-charge Minister V Somanna at the Mutt’s branch in Mysuru on Wednesday. In addition to the funds, the Mutt is feeding destitutes and migrant workers in the city for the past few days. The mutt authorities are serving food to 2,000 people on a daily basis. Packed food is being distributed at several government schools across the city. The food is prepared at JSS School in JP Nagar and supplied to various centres for distribution, an officer said. Avadhoota Datta Peetham has also extended support to the State government and district administration to combat COVID-19. District In-charge Minister Somanna had visited seer Ganapathy Sachchidananda Swami on Monday, when the pontiff explained the steps taken by the ashrama to help Mysuru City Corporation and also to feed the people in need. The seer had said that the District administration can provide food as per its guidelines to the needy and claim the expense from the ashrama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/religious-institutions-join-fight-against-covid-19-820200.html
01-04-2020||National||Man posts video announcing reward for killing Bihar CM, gets detained in Punjab||A mentally unstable person, hailing from a village in Rohtas district, has been detained by Punjab police at Ludhiana for posting a video on social media in which he had announced a cash reward for whoever killed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Siyaram Singh, SHO of Dinara police station in Rohtas, who lodged an FIR after the matter was brought to notice earlier in the day, said the accused Dharmendra Kumar Pandey belonged to Toda village under the police station area. "In the video, Pandey could be heard announcing a cash reward of Rs 25 lakh to whoever eliminated the Chief Minister. We verified his mobile number and other details that he had shared in the video and his location was traced to Ludhiana. "Accordingly, an FIR was lodged here under relevant sections of the IPC and the district headquarters informed", the SHO added. According to Rohtas Superintendent of Police Satyaveer Singh the Punjab police has reverted with the message that Pandey has been taken into custody and his mental condition was "not stable". It was not clear what is going to be the further course of action since it would be difficult to bring the accused to Bihar in view of the nationwide lockdown as part of which all rail and air traffic has come to a grinding halt and most states have sealed their borders to prevent an influx of outsiders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-posts-video-announcing-reward-for-killing-bihar-cm-gets-detained-in-punjab-819831.html
01-04-2020||National||Health Ministry recommends anti-malarial drug for COVID-19; removes anti-HIV drugs||The Union Health Ministry has recommended the use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin on those severely suffering from COVID-19 who require ICU management. In its revised guidelines on the 'Clinical Management of COVID-19' issued on Tuesday, the ministry said the drug is presently not recommended for children aged less than 12 and pregnant and lactating women.    "No specific antivirals have been proven to be effective as per currently available data. However, based on the available information (uncontrolled clinical trials), the following drugs may be considered as an off–label indication in patients with severe disease and requiring ICU management," the ministry said while recommending the drug combination. The ministry has removed its earlier recommendation of the use of anti-HIV drug combinations Lopinavir and Ritonavir on a case-to-case basis depending upon the severity of the condition of a patient suffering from coronavirus infection.  "As per latest clinical data available from across the work, Lopinavir and Ritonavir drug combination was not found to have significant benefit for patients of COVID-19 so it has been discontinued," a health ministry official said. This document is intended for clinicians taking care of hospitalised adult and paediatric patients of COVID–19, the guidelines stated. Best practices for COVID-19 including infection prevention and control (IPC) and optimized supportive care for severely ill patients are considered essential, it said, adding that the document aims to provide clinicians with updated interim guidance on timely, effective and safe supportive management of patients with COVID-19, particularly those who have severe acute respiratory illness and are critically ill.  The guidelines issued by the health ministry also state that COVID-19 patients may have mild, moderate, or severe illness -- the latter includes severe pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), sepsis and septic shock.  "Early identification of those with severe manifestations allows for immediate optimised supportive care treatments and safe, rapid admission (or referral) to intensive care unit according to national protocols," the document states. The guidelines advise treating doctors to closely monitor patients with severe acute respiratory infection for signs of clinical deterioration, such as rapidly progressive respiratory failure and sepsis and apply supportive care interventions immediately. "Application of timely, effective, and safe supportive therapies is the cornerstone of therapy for patients who develop severe manifestations of COVID-19," it said. "Understand the patient's co-morbid condition to tailor the management of critical illness and appreciate the prognosis. During intensive care management of severe acute respiratory infection, determine which chronic therapies should be continued and which therapies should be stopped temporarily."  The guidelines also recommend that the patients and their families must be communicated with pro-actively and provided support and prognostic information. They also recommend to medical practitioners to understand the patient's "values and preferences" regarding life-sustaining interventions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-recommends-anti-malarial-drug-for-covid-19-removes-anti-hiv-drugs-819835.html
01-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 1, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-1-2020-edition-819844.html
01-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 1||While the impact of the novel coronavirus has been the most in China and Italy, India also is within its grasp. After making its presence in Kerala first, the novel coronavirus reached other cities/regions including Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Jaipur, Agra, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir among others. We, at Deccan Herald, bring to you the list of total positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the epidemic, according to the Union Ministry of Health and sources (the list will be updated regularly). The total number of positive cases (including deaths) in India: 1,991 as of March 31. Total deaths in India: 62 Uttar Pradesh: 2 Telangana: 9 Madhya Pradesh: 6 Karnataka: 3 Delhi: 2 Maharashtra: 16 Punjab: 4 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 5 West Bengal: 7 Himachal Pradesh: 1 Tamil Nadu: 1 Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Kerala: 3 States/UT with confirmed positive cases: (State-wise details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 265 (including 8 foreigners)Punjab: 44Delhi: 152 (including 1 foreigner)Jammu and Kashmir: 62Ladakh: 13Rajasthan: 106 (including 2 foreigners)Uttar Pradesh: 107 (including 1 foreigner)Maharashtra: 335 (including 3 foreigners)Karnataka: 110Tamil Nadu: 124 (including 6 foreigners)Telangana: 124 (including 11 foreigners)Haryana: 43 (including 14 foreigners)Andhra Pradesh: 111Himachal Pradesh: 4Gujarat: 82 (including 1 foreigner)Uttarakhand: 7 (including 1 foreigner)Odisha: 4West Bengal: 27Chandigarh: 13Chhattisgarh: 18Madhya Pradesh: 86Bihar: 23Puducherry: 3Manipur: 1Mizoram: 1Goa: 6Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 10Jharkhand: 1Assam: 16 No. of people discharged: 133 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the epidemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-1-819847.html
01-04-2020||National||Nizamuddin congregation participants stayed in 16 mosques in Delhi, police writes to city govt||The Delhi Police Special Branch on Tuesday wrote to the city government for taking immediate action with regard to people, including foreign nationals, who stayed in 16 mosques in the national capital after taking part in a religious congregation at Nizamuddin which has turned out to be a COVID-19 hotspot, officials said. The communique said there were 157 such people -- 94 from Indonesia, 13 from Kyrgyzstan, 9 from Bangladesh, 8 from Malaysia, 7 from Algeria and one each from Tunisia, Belgium and Italy. Remaining are Indian nationals.  It said they were staying in mosques in South East, North East and other districts in the city, police said. "A team of district administration, police and health department is visiting mosques and evacuating foreign nationals and shifting them to quarantine. They were part of Markaz and to decongest the building they had been shifted to various mosques in the national capital," said a police officer.  No social distancing would be possible at those places. It may cause grave danger to public health and the objective of containing  COVID-19, the communique said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said 24 people who attended the religious congregation at Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz earlier this month have tested positive for coronavirus, while 1,548 have been evacuated and 441 hospitalised after they showed its symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nizamuddin-congregation-participants-stayed-in-16-mosques-in-delhi-police-writes-to-city-govt-819866.html
01-04-2020||National||Nizamuddin congregation: Manipur traces 14 attendees||The Manipur government on Tuesday said it has found out 14 people who were linked" to the religious congregation held in Delhi's Nizamuddin earlier this month, though 39 others are still outside the state. The Tablighi Jamaat event was attended by around 2,000 people from various parts of the country and abroad. The congregation has become a key source for the spread of coronavirus and six of its attendees from Telangana died of COVID-19. The state government had received a list of names and phone numbers from the Centre and the 14 have been traced in collaboration with administrations of districts, a statement issued by the COVID-19 Central Control Room said. Of them, three have been taken for testing and the remaining 11 will be screened, it said. Earlier in the day, state Director General of Police LM Khaute said anyone from the state who attended the religious congregation, or who stayed in the vicinity of the venue or passed near it should get themselves tested at the nearest government hospital failing which legal actions will be taken up against them. Chief Minister N Biren Singh on Tuesday appealed to the people of the state who had attended the congregation to come forward for a COVID-19 test. The appeal is not aimed at spreading panic but is a call for acting responsibly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nizamuddin-congregation-manipur-traces-14-attendees-819870.html
01-04-2020||National||'This is wonderful': says Ivanka Trump on Prime Minister Modi's video on yoga||Ivanka Trump, who is a senior advisor to her father and US President Donald Trump, described as "wonderful" the video of a yoga asan tweeted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to encourage people to stay fit during the lockdown imposed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Prime Minister Modi on Tuesday shared the video and said the yoga asan helped relieve stress. "Whenever I get time, I practice Yoga Nidra once or twice a week. It furthers overall well-being, relaxes the mind, reduces stress and anxiety. You will find many videos of Yoga Nidra on the net. I’m sharing a video each in English and Hindi," he tweeted. Whenever I get time, I practice Yoga Nidra once or twice a week. "This is wonderful! Thank you @narendramod! #TogetherApart," Ivanka said on Tuesday as she retweeted Modi's post. Ivanka accompanied her father and US President Donald Trump during his maiden visit to India in February. Trump was accompanied by First Lady Melania, daughter Ivanka, son-in-law Jared Kushner and the top brass of his administration. Yoga has been spreading fast in the US for the last several years, but its pace accelerated after the declaration of International Yoga Day by the United Nations in 2015 and Prime Minister Modi taking a proactive step in its awareness. According to some estimate, some 36 million Americans practise yoga. "Yoga helps to harmonise the mind and body. Even in our separateness, PM @narendramodi guides on being together, being aware through yoga. @IvankaTrump #TogetherApart," India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu said in a tweet. In the wake of current coronavirus crisis, wherein more than 250 million Americans are forced to stay home, yoga is increasingly being used by the people. The Indian Embassy in the US, on Monday started a daily online yoga class. The emphasis of these classes are on using the yoga postures and breathing exercises to strengthen immune system, the embassy said in a tweet. The classes are streamed through the embassy's Facebook page. Congressman Tim Ryan on Tuesday said that for a long time, practising yoga and mindfulness have helped him take care of his mental health. "In uncertain times like these, looking after ourselves and our loved ones is especially important," he said. Responding to a question during Mann ki Baat on Sunday on how he is keeping fit during the lockdown, Modi had said he would post the videos. "But do remember, that I am not a fitness expert, I am also not a yoga teacher. I am merely a practitioner... some yoga asanas have greatly benefited me. It's possible that some of these tips might help you too during the lockdown," he said. A nationwide 21-day lockdown was enforced on March 24 to check the spread of coronavirus as social distancing is possibly the only way to prevent people from infecting the deadly virus. The death toll from the rapidly-spreading coronavirus pandemic has risen to 41,654 and over 850,580 people have been infected by the deadly virus, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. In India, the death toll due to COVID-19 went up to 32 and the number of cases rose 1,251 by Monday 9.30 pm, up from 1,024 cases and 27 deaths on Sunday evening, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-is-wonderful-says-ivanka-trump-on-prime-minister-modis-video-on-yoga-819883.html
01-04-2020||National||India's oldest coronavirus survivor a teetotaller and non-smoker who loves his rice gruel||At 93 years of age, Thomas Abraham has simple wants Pazhankanji, Kerala's own super food made of rice gruel, and tapioca or jackfruit snacks. And that's what he insisted on eating while confined in the isolation ward after becoming India's oldest COVID-19 survivor in what is being dubbed by the medical community as a "miracle cure". Thomas and his wife Mariyamma, 88, both have been fully cured after days of life-and-death battle against the deadly virus which they contracted from their son, daughter- in-law and grandson who returned from Italy last month. All three have also recovered fully and are now waiting for the return of the miracle couple home. Doctors say the couple will probably be discharged on Wednesday from the Kottayam Medical College Hospital where they were in critical condition for days. Coronavirus is known to be especially deadly for elderly people. The secret behind their recovery seems to be the healthy lifestyle they have been leading, said Rijo Moncy, their grandson half-jokingly. He said Thomas, a farmer in Ranni sub-division of Pathanamthitta district, is a very healthy person being a teetotaller and non-smoker. Even without going to the gym, he had a six-pack body. "It's a miracle that they survived the pandemic and the doctors and the health officials have put in their all efforts to save them," said Rijo who works in Italy in the radiology field. He and his parents, who also have been living in Italy for many years, praised the state government, which also has the distinction of having cured India's first three coronavirus cases earlier. "We were planning to come to Kerala in August but advanced the journey as my grandfather insisted that we should visit him soon. However, now we feel that it was a blessing or else we would have been in Italy right now," Rijo told 'PTI'. Italy is the hardest hit country in the world with more than 11,500 fatalities and over 1,01,700 infections, as per the latest reports. "I used to live with my grandfather during my higher studies and we are really close. He insisted that we should visit him as soon as possible. He also said that they had a better chance of survival in Kerala rather than in Italy. "The government there passed off the initial signs of coronavirus as seasonal common flu. But later it got out of their hands. The area where we are staying in Italy is not that affected," he added. "We are sure that the good and efficient medical team in Kerala helped us to get cured from the pandemic. If we were in Italy, we might not have survived," he said.  Asked about their favourite food, he said while his grandfather loves "Pazhankanji" made of rice gruel, "Kappa" (tapioca) and "chakka" (jackfruit) snacks, his grandmother loved fish. Even while at the isolation ward, grandpa asked for his "Pazhankanji" and coconut chutney and "kappa" etc and these were provided to him, he said. "They were waiting for us to come (from Italy) and fill the home with fun and laughter. But... Now, we are eagerly waiting for their homecoming. We were told they are likely to be discharged by Wednesday", he said. The family has already prepared fish curry, fish fry and rice and hoping the elderly couple would soon reach home. The couple have three children, seven grandchildren and 14 great grandchildren. Besides his parents and grandparents, Rijo's sister and brother-in-law and his father's elder brother were among those infected by the virus in the family. "Grandparents had age related complications. But the nurses and the doctors of Kottayam Medical College considered them as their own family and took care of them. We are really thankful to the government, health minister and the chief minister for the care we got," Rijo said. Rijo's sister and brother-in-law, both nurses, had arrived from Italy eight months ago. Along with the seven-member team of doctors who led the treatment, 40 medical staff including 25 nurses actively took part in various stages of treatment. The central district of Pathnamthitta has 7,486 people under observation, 19 in isolation wards and five positive cases in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-oldest-coronavirus-survivor-a-teetotaller-and-non-smoker-who-loves-his-rice-gruel-819899.html
01-04-2020||National||Treat migrant workers with respect, dignity: Centre||With 6.66 lakh migrant workers in relief camps, the Centre, on Wednesday, issued an advisory to officers asking them to give a healing touch by treating everyone with dignity, respect, empathy and compassion. The 13-point advisory – ‘Understanding the Issues of Migrant Population – COVID-19’, the Health Ministry point out that migrant workers were full of anxieties and fears stemming out of various concerns about spending time in relief camps or quarantine centres. “Listen to their concerns patiently and understand their problems. Recognise specific and varied needs for each person/family. There is no generalisation,” the advisory said. The advisory came a day after the Centre told the Supreme Court that more than 6.66 lakh migrant workers, who had set off on foot for their native villages from different cities, after the 21-day lock down was announced, have been placed in 21,604 relief camps. The advisory also came a day after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court that the Centre will ensure that within 24 hours trained counsellors and community group leaders of all faiths would visit the relief camps/ shelter homes to deal with any consternation the migrant workers may be going through. “Immediate concerns faced by such migrant workers relate to food, shelter, healthcare, fear of getting infected or spreading the infection, loss of wages, concerns about the family, anxiety and fear,” it said. The advisory noted that the migrant workers may react in a manner that may appear insulting but asked those in charge to understand their issues with patience. “Help them to acknowledge that this is an unusual situation of uncertainty and reassure them that the situation is transient and not going to last long. Normal life is going to resume soon,” the advisory said. It also underscored the need to emphasise the importance of their staying in their present location and how mass movement could greatly and adversely affect all efforts to contain the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treat-migrant-workers-with-respect-dignity-centre-819922.html
01-04-2020||National||First death of coronavirus infected patient in Uttar Pradesh, state tally at 101||Uttar Pradesh reported its first coronavirus-related death on Wednesday after test reports of a 25-year-old man, who died two days ago, came COVID-19 positive. The man was admitted to the BRD Medical College here on Sunday and he was suffering from kidney and liver problems, the institute's principal Ganesh Kumar said. "The sample of the patient was found positive for the coronavirus," an official of the King George's Medical University (KGMU) said in Lucknow. The man hailed from Basti in Uttar Pradesh. "Here, six people, including doctors and paramedical staff, who came in contact with the man have been quarantined. The driver of the ambulance and the deceased's brother-in-law in Gorakhpur are also quarantined," District Magistrate Vijyendra Pandiyan told reporters. The deceased was suffering from liver and kidney ailments for the last three months, college principal Kumar said. "The man was admitted here (BRD Medical College) on Sunday at 3.15 pm and after his death, it was confirmed that he was coronavirus positive," Pandiyan told reporters. "He was being treated at the Basti district hospital and other places for the last three months. He had renal failure and he was immuno-compromised. He was having some breathing problems and as per protocol, his blood sample was taken and sent for test in Gorakhpur and he was found COVID-19 positive," he said. Later, his sample was sent to KGMU Lucknow for a second opinion and there too it was confirmed that he was COVID-19 positive, Pandiyan said. “We have alerted the Basti administration and they are also tracking each person who came in contact or attended the funeral to be send to quarantine. We are trying to establish all links with CCTV camera footage and mobile phone call details to know who came in the contact with the man,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-death-of-coronavirus-infected-patient-in-uttar-pradesh-state-tally-at-101-819926.html
01-04-2020||National||India global laboratory for deployment of digitised programmes: Report||As governments across the world are financially helping their citizens to ward off the economic distress due to the coronavirus pandemic, India is among the countries better placed as it has the building blocks for successful rollout of digital transfer of payments, a report has said. "India has been at the forefront, digitising programmes like pensions and subsidies to buy cooking gas for poor families,” said Anit Mukherjee, a policy fellow at Washington-based Center for Global Development (CGD), which released a report on Tuesday titled 'Citizens and States: How Can Digital ID and Payments Improve State Capacity and Effectiveness?' Co-authored by Alan Gelb, Mukherjee and Kyle Navis, the report found out that as governments across the globe begin to use direct transfers to give money to citizens unable to work, just 56 per cent of citizens across 99 developing countries have access to a phone, a bank account, and an ID. Those three things, the researchers find, are the building blocks for the successful rollout of digital government transfers, from emergency cash transfers in a pandemic to everyday government programmes like pensions and food subsidies, the report said. "What India's experience illustrates is how you need a trio of digital basics to make payments work: a digital ID to prove a person is who they say they are, a financial account for them to receive the money, and a mobile phone that can be both an information hub and a tool to access that money," Mukherjee said. More than 50 countries, including the US, have announced some form of cash transfers or social assistance to help tide over the immediate challenges faced by their citizens. “Governments around the world are moving full-steam ahead to get money in the hands of their citizens who are out of work due to the coronavirus. But we found that for digital payments from governments to work well, countries need to have the digital basics in place: bank accounts, IDs, and phones. And far too many developing countries are running behind on making sure their citizens have access to those basics,” said Alan Gelb, one of the authors of the study and a senior fellow at CGD. Gleb said that there are a lot of advantages to bring government payments online. It can cut out costly middlemen and time-wasting activities like waiting in line to pick up a ration payment, as well as providing a much stronger defence against corruption. “And, in a crisis like this, it means you have the digital infrastructure ready to go for something like emergency cash transfers,” he added. India, the report said, has become a laboratory for digitisation, with reforms to a wide range of services and benefit programmes. “India has emerged as a country of special interest, a global laboratory for the deployment of digitised programmes, often at great scale,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-global-laboratory-for-deployment-of-digitised-programmes-report-819938.html
01-04-2020||National||Lockdown: Only 5% of 90 lakh trucks operating; driver, labour shortage hampering logistics, says AIMTC||Only 5 percent of around 90 lakh trucks across India are plying on the roads at the moment due to shortage of drivers and labourers at loading and unloading points following the nationwide lockdown, thereby severely hampering transportation of goods, according to truckers body AIMTC. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) said even after the notification by Union Home Ministry on Sunday allowing movement of non-essential goods during the lockdown, things have not changed at the ground level as many drivers have either abandoned trucks and went to native places, or have moved to stay put at places where basic amenities like food and shelter are available. "There are around 90 lakh commercial vehicles that we represent all across the country with 3,500 state, district and taluka level bodies affiliated with us... What we feel is that only around 5 percent of them are operating now. These are mainly LPG and other petroleum products carriers and short distance milk tankers," AIMTC Chairman Core Committee and former president Bal Malkit Singh told PTI. He further said vegetable and fruits that are available in the market now transported by farmers through their own means. Singh said before the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, there was already partial lockdown as some states have already sealed borders and lakhs of trucks were stranded. "When lockdown was announced, there was a panic situation among drivers fraternity across the country. As a result many drivers abandoned vehicles and went to their native places. Some headed to safer places where basic amenities like food and shelter are available and they don't want to come on the highways at the moment as there are no 'dhabas' or eateries available now," he said. Apart from driver issues, Singh said labour availability is also a big challenge that is also hampering logistics operations in the country. "Truck owners are at home, offices are closed, staff are at home, garages are closed and labourers are not available at loading and unloading points," he said. Singh further said, "in the logistics supply chain, huge manpower is involved. At loading point, you need a supervisor who would do documentation but with no public transportation available he can't go to loading points at the moment." Besides, he said, "There is also a huge fear factor as staff are unwilling to come out due to coronavirus, and the same is also with drivers." "We have suggested that people who are involved in supply chain must also be given the Rs 50 lakh insurance cover that the government has announced for frontline health workers during these trying circumstances. If that happens it can be an incentive for them to come out," Singh said. Moreover, trucks should also be sanitised at every 200 kilomtres and drivers health checked before entering from one state border to another, he added. When asked if things could improve with government interventions, like the home ministry order allowing movement of non-essential goods, he said, "we will have to wait and watch, but the fact is drivers are also human and they are fearful of coronavirus outbreak." Many FMCG companies like ITC, Dabur India, Parle Products, Godrej Consumer Products and Jyothi Labs had said that due to trucks shortage transportation of their goods have been affected during the lockdown which has been imposed to curb spread of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-only-5-of-90-lakh-trucks-operating-driver-labour-shortage-hampering-logistics-says-aimtc-819939.html
01-04-2020||National||Covid-19: SC asks Centre to consider protective gears for health workers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Centre on a plea by a Nagpur-based doctor, Jerryl Banait for making available WHO approved protection kits for doctors, as they are working under tedious conditions to tackle COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to consider the petition filed by advocate Astha Sharma and argued by advocate Sunil Fernandes. The petitioner contended that in the absence of adequate protective gear, doctors put themselves at the risk of being affected by the virus, warranting availability of graded protective gear to them and other welfare facilities, so as to aid them to combat the virus.  "As there is no specific vaccination to prevent or cure COVID-19, it is imperative for doctors to be in constant contact with patients, so as to monitor them on regular intervals, and observe their symptoms," the plea stated. He sought a direction to the Union government to ensure availability of World Health Organisation- recommended graded protective gear, including Hazmat (Hazardous material) suits, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) sterile medical or nitrile gloves, starch apparels, medical masks, goggles, face shield, respirators (i e, N – 95 Respirator Mask or Triple Layer Medical Mask or equivalent), shoe covers, headcovers and coveralls or gowns to all health workers. He submitted that these materials should be provided to doctors, nurses, ward boys, other medical and para-medical professionals actively attending to, and treating patients suffering from COVID-19 is not just in metro cities, but also in tier – 2 and tier – 3 cities. "In case, where the hospitals and health centres are not provided WHO standardized masks and gowns, medical staff mortality will exponentially increase and the situation will spiral out of control in the absence of sufficient medical assistance," the petition stated. The petitioner also sought directives to the states to set up COVID-19 special screening centres in smaller towns and other cities and to take immediate steps to ensure effective implementation of the 'Guidelines for Infection Prevention and Control in  Healthcare Facilities' issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, through the National Centre for Disease Control, under the Directorate of General Health Services, on March 25. He further contended necessary steps must be taken to ensure adherence to the Guidelines issued by the World Health Organization (WHO) on the 'Rational Use of Personal Protective Equipment for Coronavirus Disease 2019' (COVID-19) on February 27, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-asks-centre-to-consider-protective-gears-for-health-workers-819944.html
01-04-2020||National||India's March electricity use falls 9.2% over COVID-19 lockdown||India's electricity use fell 9.2% in March, provisional government data showed on Wednesday, as consumption fell for the first time in three months due to a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Electricity supply fell to 100.2 billion units in March from 110.33 billion a year earlier, an analysis of load despatch data by state-run POSOCO showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-march-electricity-use-falls-92-over-covid-19-lockdown-819948.html
01-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: All India Football Federation pledges to donate Rs 25 lakh in fight against COVID-19 pandemic||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) on Wednesday pledged to donate Rs 25 lakh to the PM Cares Fund for the country's fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. More than 50 deaths and over 1700 positive cases have so far been reported for the novel coronavirus across the country. "In wake of the crisis caused by Covid 19 pandemic, All India Football Federation has pledged to contribute Rs. 25 lakh to the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's PM CARES Fund," the country's apex body for football said in a media release. The unprecedented global health crisis has led to either cancellation or postponement of top sporting events, including the Tokyo Olympics and European football championship. The outbreak has also affected the Indian football calendar and AIFF president Praful Patel acknowledged the need to fight the pandemic unitedly. "The love, care and support from countrymen has provided us motivation all throughout. Hence, now is the time to pay back our country in whatever manner we can. We need to stand together and help each other hoping to overcome the crisis," Patel said. Last month, the AIFF had directed all its employees to work from home after suspending all footballing activities under its aegis till further notice. Several members of the Indian football team have also been contributing in the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak in their own personal capacities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-all-india-football-federation-pledges-to-donate-rs-25-lakh-in-fight-against-covid-19-pandemic-819951.html
01-04-2020||National||Racing to stop coronavirus, India scours mosques to trace contacts with Delhi gathering||As coronavirus cases rose across densely-populated South Asia, authorities scoured mosques in northern India on Wednesday trying to trace people who attended the gathering of a Muslim group in New Delhi that later emerged as an infection hotspot. Thousands of people from across India and some from countries like Malaysia and Indonesia, had visited the headquarters of the Sunni Muslim missionary movement, Tablighi Jamaat, in a narrow winding Delhi lane last month, participating in prayer sessions and lectures over several days. With no public transportation and all movement stopped due to a nationwide lockdown, thousands of people had been stranded inside the Tablighi centre's dormitories after the meeting ended while others had left the city, the administrators said. Delhi's Health Minister Satyendra Jain said 2,335 people were taken out of the Tablighi centre and its mosque over a 36-hour period that ended on Wednesday. "They have been sent to quarantine centres, others who showed symptoms are in hospitals," he said. Television images on Wednesday showed health officials in protective gear escorting people out of mosques in India northern state of Uttar Pradesh as the search for the people who attended and whoever they came in contact with the progressed. "We are asking all these people who attended the meeting to surrender themselves wherever they are in the country, if they are in mosques they must inform officials so they can be taken and put into quarantine," Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said. India has had 1,397 cases of coronavirus of which 35 have died, according to the latest figures from the health ministry, still a small number compared with the United States, Italy and Spain. At least 128 cases have been tied to the Tablighi centre, and seven of these have died, making it the first big cluster since infections began spreading in the world's second most populous country last month. Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a 21-day lockdown that will end in mid-April in a desperate bid to stave off an epidemic among India's 1.3 billion people. With hundreds of millions living in cramped, unhygienic conditions, there are fears that India's fragile health system could be easily overwhelmed if the coronavirus takes root. But the world's largest shutdown has left millions of economically vulnerable people jobless and led to a mass exodus from the cities to the countryside. SOUTH ASIA SURGE EXPECTED With one-fifth of the world's population, millions of whom live on the edge of poverty, South Asia could see a surge of cases, health experts say. Pakistan had 2,039 people infected with the virus after a jump of 240 cases on Tuesday, the largest single-day rise, government statistic showed. Most of the new cases were related to a Pakistani branch of the Tablighi which put off its meeting in Lahore at the last minute because of fear of the virus, but by then hundreds had already landed up at its centre in the eastern city. “The last 24 hours has seen a substantial increase in suspected patients,” Pakistan’s top health official Zafar Mirza told reporters. Bangladesh said it had lost a sixth person to COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus while the number of confirmed cases stood at 54.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/racing-to-stop-coronavirus-india-scours-mosques-to-trace-contacts-with-delhi-gathering-819953.html
01-04-2020||National||Air India flies foreign nationals to Frankfurt in five flights||Air India on Tuesday operated five chartered flights to Frankfurt carrying foreign nationals, mostly Germans, who were stranded in the country due to the nationwide lockdown, according to an airline spokesperson. The five flights were operated with Mumbai and Delhi as the two hubs. Out of them, four flights took off for Frankfurt from Mumbai and one from New Delhi, the spokesperson said. The four flights operated from Mumbai picked up foreign nationals from Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. People were also ferried from Mumbai. The fifth flight picked up people from the national capital and Kolkata before flying to Frankfurt. All the five services were operated with Air India's 256-seater Boeing 787-800 (Dreamliner) planes, the spokesperson said. "Rescue flight @airindiain 1570 from #Chennai to #Frankfurt operated with 160 stranded passengers on board, today. All precautions taken and facilities provided to ensure smooth travel amid #COVID19 restrictions," Chennai airport said in a tweet. The country is under a 21-day nationwide lockdown to curb spreading of coronavirus infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-flies-foreign-nationals-to-frankfurt-in-five-flights-819963.html
01-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Supreme Court seeks Centre's reply on plea for WHO graded protective gear to medical staff||The Supreme Court Wednesday sought response from the Centre on a plea seeking directions for providing WHO graded protective gear to doctors, nurses and medical staff who are treating coronavirus patients across the country. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, which heard the matter through video-conferencing, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to look into the plea filed by a Nagpur-based doctor and file response on it by next week. The plea has claimed that in the absence of appropriate protective gear, doctors and other medical staff are putting themselves at risk of being affected by the virus, also called COVID-19, and it is the duty of the state to ensure that they get all the required kit while treating patients. It said the Centre should ensure that World Health Organization (WHO) graded protective gear, including hazmat suits, personal protective equipment (PPE), starch apparels, medical masks, goggles, face shield, respirators and head covers, is made available to all health workers like doctors, nurses, ward boys, medical and para-medical professionals who are attending COVID-19 patients. Jerryl Banait, the petitioner who is a doctor, has also sought a direction to the states to set up COVID-19 special screening centres in smaller towns and other cities and to take immediate steps to ensure effective implementation of health ministry's January 25 guidelines which prescribe procedures and practices to be adopted for infection prevention and control. The plea has also sought a direction to the authorities to take necessary steps to ensure adherence to the guidelines issued by the WHO and the health ministry on rational use of PPE for COVID-19. It also said that doctors and other para-medical professionals should be provided facilities including food, separate transportation and accommodation or isolation rooms to protect exposure of their families. The plea has sought a direction to the authorities to undertake immediate measures for wide-scale screening and testing of potential COVID-19 patients and to issue guidelines regarding tests through private agencies or labs, including regulated pricing and manner of testing. "As there is no specific vaccination to prevent or cure COVID-19, it is imperative for doctors to be in constant contact with patients, so as to monitor them on regular intervals, and observe their symptoms. In the absence of appropriate protective gear, doctors put themselves at the risk of being affected by the virus in the discharge of their duties," the plea said. "It is the duty of the states to ensure graded protective gear to doctors and other welfare facilities, so as to aid them to combat the virus," it said, adding, "In the case, where the hospitals and health centres are not provided WHO standardized masks and gowns, medical staff mortality will exponentially increase and the situation will spiral out of control in the absence of sufficient medical assistance." The plea said authorities should provide adequate protective gears to medical professionals to ensure that those who are continuously working towards treating and testing the diagnosed patients and to screen and quarantine the ones suspected, are not susceptible to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-supreme-court-seeks-centres-reply-on-plea-for-who-graded-protective-gear-to-medical-staff-819964.html
01-04-2020||National||250 Indians stranded in Iran tested positive for COVID-19, Centre tells SC||The Centre Wednesday told the Supreme Court that 250 Indian pilgrims stranded in Qom, Iran, have tested positive for coronavirus and have not been evacuated, while over 500 have already been brought back. The top court observed that it is thinking of asking the Indian embassy to constantly monitor the situation and be in touch with the stranded Indians in Iran. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said it will pass the orders in favour of the petitioners and would ask the Indian embassy to take fresh tests and look into the possibility of bringing them back as and when possible. It observed that government is taking the matter seriously. At the outset, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre said that many of the Indians stranded in Iran have been brought back. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for the petitioner, said that not all of those stranded have been brought back and around 250 people, who have tested positive are still there and are at the mercy of Iranian authorities. He said the court ask the Solicitor General to take instruction about bringing back 250 people, who have tested positive, still stranded in Iran. Mehta countered the arguments and said that at present all International flights have been cancelled and authorities are waiting for a decision of Ministry of External Affairs. “Our embassy at Iran is in touch with the 250 people stranded there. They will be brought back, whenever there is possibility,” he said, adding, that the petition has become infructuous. To this, the bench told Hegde that that those people, who are stranded in Iran are being taken care of and the matter should be left on government now. “You (petitioner) can raise this issue again when need arises,” the bench said. Hegde contended that many of Indian citizens who are still in Iran do not have symptoms and if they are asked to stay in hotels, where others with symptoms are being quarantined, they may develop it there. He said that 250 people in Iran don’t have money, medicines and other amenities and why can’t they be brought to a place like Leh? ] Mehta replied that many people who were earlier brought back and sent to Leh and other places have now developed symptoms. The bench said that it will issue an order in favour of their repatriation as and when the health situation of stranded Indians improves. Iran is one of the countries worst affected by the global pandemic, also called Covid-19, and has reported over 2,000 deaths so far due to coronavirus. Petitioner Mustafa MH, a resident of Union Territory of Ladakh, has said in his plea that some of his relatives had travelled to Iran along with a group of about 1,000 pilgrims in December last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/250-indians-stranded-in-iran-tested-positive-for-covid-19-centre-tells-sc-819967.html
01-04-2020||National||82 people from Madhya Pradesh who attended Nizamuddin meet identified||The Madhya Pradesh government has identified 82 of the 107 people from the state who attended a religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, that has become a key source for the COVID-19 spread in the country, and put some of them in quarantine, a top official said on Tuesday. The gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin, the Delhi headquarters of the Tabligh-e-Jamaat, was held earlier this month. We have the addresses of 82 persons out of the 107 (from Madhya Pradesh) who attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz in Delhi. Some of them have been put in quarantine, the official said. Efforts are on to identify the remaining people and they would be traced soon, he said. However, the officer refused to divulge the exact number of people who have been quarantined. Earlier in the day, Chief MinisterShivraj Singh Chouhan had directed officials to quarantine over 100 people from the state who had participated in the congregation. The Delhi government on Tuesday said 24 people, who took part in the congregation, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. According to an official, Chouhan held a high-level meeting where he said that over 100 people from Madhya Pradesh had participated in the meet and arrangements should be made to quarantine them. The Chief Minister has asked district collectors and superintendents of police to track down these people and keep a tab on pilgrims visiting places of worship, he said. People from across the country had taken part in the mega meet. After the matter came to light, the Centre and the Delhi government swung into action to trace people who attended the congregation. Six people from Telangana and one from Jammu and Kashmir, who attended the event, died due to coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/82-people-from-madhya-pradesh-who-attended-nizamuddin-meet-identified-819976.html
01-04-2020||National||Two Indias -- one at home doing yoga, other fighting for survival: Sibal||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday took a dig at the government, saying there were two Indias with one at home doing yoga, watching Ramayan and playing antakshari, and the other trying to reach home and fighting for survival. A large number of migrant labourers have been leaving their work places in parts of the country and walking down to their native places, hundreds of kilometres away, due to the lockdown imposed to curb the COVID-19 outbreak. Two India’s One ( at home ) Doing yogaWatching RamayanaPlaying Antakshari The other ( trying to reach home ) Fighting for survivalWithout foodWithout shelterWithout support "Two Indias. One (at home) doing yoga, watching Ramayana, playing Antakshari. The other (trying to reach home). Fighting for survival without food, without shelter, without support," Sibal said in a tweet. Sibal's attack was in reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi sharing a video of a yoga asan which he practices, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar announcing the rerun of Ramayan and Mahabharat recently and Union minister Smriti Irani playing 'Twitter Antakshari' during the 'Janata Curfew'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-indias-one-at-home-doing-yoga-other-fighting-for-survival-sibal-819977.html
01-04-2020||National||7 from Meghalaya attended religious congregation at Delhi's Nizamuddin||Seven persons from Meghalaya attended the religious congregation at Tablighi Jamaat's Markaz in Delhi's Nizamuddin West, the Shillong Markaz informed the state police on Tuesday. They attended the congregation before the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the Shillong Markaz said. In the wake of the prevailing situation, it is our responsibility to co-operate with the administration, Ali, a member of the Shillong Markaz, said. The persons who attended the religious congregation have not returned to Meghalaya, said G Iangrai, the assistant inspector general of police (A). Five of them are currently in Delhi and two are in Lucknow, he said. The Meghalaya Police are in touch with them, the officer said, adding that their details have also been shared with the police forces of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Meghalaya has, so far, not witnessed any case of COVID-19. Six people from Telangana and one from Jammu and Kashmir, who attended religious congregation, died due to coronavirus. Besides, over twenty people have tested positive. Over 2,000 delegates, including those from several foreign countries, attended the congregation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-from-meghalaya-attended-religious-congregation-at-delhis-nizamuddin-819982.html
01-04-2020||National||Covid-19: Naqvi says criminal act by Tablighi Jamaat, FIR against 7||Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, the head of Tablighi Jamaat that organised a religious gathering now linked to at least 11 COVID-19 deaths and over 150 cases, is "untraceable" since March 28 after Delhi Police served notice even as Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukthar Abbas Naqvi described the Islamic missionary movement's actions a "Talibani crime". Police has already registered an FIR on Tuesday against Maulana Saad and six others on charges of defying government orders on COVID-19 to organise a religious gathering and allow visitors to continue staying in the campus even as Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukthar Abbas Naqvi described the Islamic missionary movement's actions a "Talibani crime". According to the FIR, Maulana Saad and officials Dr. Zeeshan, Mufti Shehzad, M Saifi, Younus, Mohd Salman and Mohd Ashraf were named as accused. Police sources claimed they were yet to locate Maulana Saad, who has gone missing since March 28, the day they served a notice to him. The FIR was registered on Tuesday as authorities continued to evacuate people from the Tablighi Jaamat headquarters in south Delhi's Nizamuddin, which completed on Wednesday morning. Altogether, 2,361 people, including foreigners, were shifted from the campus in a 36-hour operation, out of which 617, who showed symptoms, were taken hospitals while the rest were put in three government quarantine facilities. At least 11 deaths and over 150 COVID-19 cases spread across the country have been linked to the religious gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters between March 13-15, triggering a nationwide search for those who attended the meet and those who came in contact with them. Several people had left in small groups to different states while a large number stayed back in the campus. Responding to the incident, Naqvi said, "it is a Talibani crime committed by Tabhleeghi Jamaat. Such criminal act cannot be forgiven. They have put lives of many people in danger. Strict action should be taken against such people and organisations that defy government directions." The case registered under Epidemic Diseases Act and Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code. They were accused of organising the religious gathering and allowing visitors to continue living in the campus despite instructions from the authorities. Police are also looking into the veracity of an audio clip in which Maulana Saad is purportedly heard saying there was no need to fear COVID-19 and insisting that there was no need to obey the instructions. Police said they had asked the Tablighi Jamaat authorities to ensure social distancing in its campus. On its part, the Tablighi Jamaat said it had no new visitors after the lockdown was imposed in the country and all the inmates were stuck inside the campus due to the restrictions imposed by the government. It had also claimed that it had sought government help to transport these people out of Delhi. Officials, who were part of the team that evacuated Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, also claimed that some of the inmates attempted to hide symptoms of COVID-19. According to the Ministry of Home Affairs, 2,137 people linked to Tablighi Jamaat who are working across the country have been identified in different states and authorities have asked them to put them in quarantine facilities. On March 29, it said the Intelligence Bureau had alerted state police to trace the movement of all such Tablighi Jamaat workers in their areas, ascertain the people coming in their contacts and take steps for their medical screening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-naqvi-says-criminal-act-by-tablighi-jamaat-fir-against-7-819986.html
01-04-2020||National||Chopper scam: SC asks Christian Michel to move Delhi HC for interim bail||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-scam-sc-asks-christian-michel-to-move-delhi-hc-for-interim-bail-819994.html
01-04-2020||National||India switches to world's cleanest petrol, diesel with no increase in prices||India on Wednesday joined a select league of nations having the world's cleanest petrol and diesel as oil companies rolled out Euro-VI emission compliant fuels without either disruption or a price increase. Leapfrogging from BS-IV grade fuel straight to BS-VI grade, equivalent to Euro-VI fuel, petrol and diesel would have resulted in an up to Re 1 per litre increase in cost but oil companies decided against passing this on to consumers and instead adjusted it against the reduction warranted from international oil prices plummeting to a 17-year low. "We are today 100 per cent supplying BS-VI petrol and diesel. All the over 68,700 petrol pumps in the country are selling the cleaner fuel from today," said Sanjiv Singh, Chairman, Indian Oil Corp (IOC) - the firm that controls roughly half of the market. He said there is no change in the retail selling price of the fuels because of the switchover. Oil companies have not changed petrol and diesel price for over a fortnight now as they first adjusted the reduction warranted against the Rs 3 per litre increase in excise duty and now are setting off the increased cost of BS-VI fuel. Petrol and diesel rates were last revised on March 16. A litre of petrol in Delhi comes for Rs 69.59 and diesel is priced at Rs 62.29. Singh said the switch over from BS-IV to BS-VI was achieved in just three years, a feat not seen in any of the large economies around the globe. India will join the select league of nations using petrol and diesel containing just 10 parts per million of sulphur as it looks to cut vehicular emissions that are said to be one of the reasons for the choking pollution in major cities. India adopted Euro-III equivalent (or Bharat Stage-III) fuel with a sulphur content of 350 ppm in 2010 and then took seven years to move to BS-IV that had a sulphur content of 50 ppm. From BS-IV to BS-VI it took just three years. "We have as oil industry stuck to the timelines given by the government for a switchover to BS-VI fuel from April 1," Singh told PTI. "In fact, we had been supplying BS-VI fuel for almost three weeks now." Besides IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL), as well as Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) too, started supplying BS-VI grade fuel much before the April 1 deadline. While a BPCL official said the company started supplying BS-VI grade fuel from all its 16,000 petrol pumps, HPCL Chairman and Managing Director M K Surana said the company's refineries started production of the new grade of fuel in January and progressively all the 16,400 pumps have taken to supplying the new fuel. Singh said it was a conscious decision to leapfrog to BS-VI as first upgrading to BS-V and then shifting to BS-VI would have prolonged the journey to 4 to 6 years. Besides, oil refineries, as well as automobile manufacturers, would have had to make investments twice - first to producing BS-V grade fuel and engines and then BS-VI ones. State-owned oil refineries spent about Rs 35,000 crore to upgrade plants that could produce ultra-low sulphur fuel. This investment is on top of Rs 60,000 crore they spent on refinery upgrades in the previous switchovers. India adopted a fuel up-gradation programme in the early 1990s. Low lead gasoline (petrol) was introduced in 1994 in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, and Chennai. On February 1, 2000, unleaded gasoline was mandated nationwide. Similarly, BS-2000 (Euro-I equivalent, BS-1) vehicle emission norms were introduced for new vehicles from April 2000. BS-II (Euro-II equivalent) emission norms for new cars were introduced in Delhi from 2000 and extended to the other metro cities in 2001. Benzene limits have been reduced progressively from 5 per cent in 2000 to 1 per cent nationwide. Lead content in gasoline was removed in phases and only unleaded gasoline is being produced and sold from February 1, 2000. The octane number of gasoline signifies the improved performance of the engine. Loss in octane number due to phasing out of lead was made up by installing new facilities in the refinery and changes in refinery operation. RON (Research Octane Number) of gasoline for BS-2000 spec was increased to 88. This has over time been increased to 91. Singh said sulphur reduction will reduce Particulate Matter (PM) emissions even in the in-use older generation diesel vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-switches-to-worlds-cleanest-petrol-diesel-with-no-increase-in-prices-820009.html
01-04-2020||National||COVID-19: After pay cut, GoAir tells staff that portion of March salary has been deferred to April||After introducing a pay cut for all employees on March 25 as the coronavirus pandemic drastically impacted the aviation sector, GoAir CEO Vinay Dube told the employees on Wednesday that a portion of their March's salary has been deferred to April. "Yesterday, salaries were posted to each of your bank accounts. All employees in Grade's D and below received salaries in their entirety. "The rest of you will see less than what you are normally used to seeing as a result of the reduction in pay I had announced earlier, but also because we have been forced to defer a portion of your accrued salaries to April," Dube said in an email to employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-after-pay-cut-goair-tells-staff-that-portion-of-march-salary-has-been-deferred-to-april-820011.html
01-04-2020||National||Trace contacts of Tablighi Jamaat members on war footing: Centre to states||As fresh cases of COVID-19 linked to Tablighi Jamaat's Delhi gathering surfaced, the Centre on Wednesday asked the states to complete the tracing of people who attended the mid-March meet and their contacts on a "war footing", as it has "increased the risk" of containment efforts of the pandemic. The direction came during a video conference of Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba with Chief Secretaries and Directors General of Police, as authorities completed the evacuation of 2,361 people who were in Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in south Delhi's Nizamuddin, which is linked to at least 11 COVID-19 deaths and over 150 cases of virus infection across the country. At the meeting, the states were sensitized about the need for "intensive contact tracing" of Tablighi Jamat participants as this has increased the risk of containment efforts of COVID-19. The states were asked to complete the contact tracing process on a war footing, an official statement said. Gauba also asked states to initiate action for violation of visa conditions against the foreigners and the organizers of the event after officials said foreigners who came to Tablighi Jamaat on tourist visas were indulging in preaching and other religious activities, which is not allowed under the travel document issued to them. The Ministry of Home Affairs had on Tuesday said foreign nationals visiting India as a part of Tablighi Jamaat team are usually issued tourist visas on which they are not allowed to indulge in missionary work. It had directed state police to examine categories of visas of all these foreign workers and take further action in case of violation of visa conditions. As on March 21, 824 foreign Tablighi Jamaat workers were in different parts of the country for missionary work. Besides, 216 foreign nationals were staying in the headquarters in Nizamuddin. Various nationals, particularly from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Kyrgyzstan come for Tablighi Jamaat activities and people from at least 16 countries and 19 Indian states had attended the March 13-15 religious gathering here. Since January 1, around 2,100 foreigners had visited India for Tablighi Jamaat activities of which 1,040 are still in India while the rest left the country before the 21-day lockdown started on March 25. The MHA said the Bureau of Immigration has been sharing with state authorities, details of all international arrivals from affected countries based on Self Declaration Form filled-in by them since February 1. In addition, since March 6, Bureau of Immigration had also been sharing details of all the international arrivals (both Indians and foreigners) at all the international airports in the country to the concerned state, based on the permanent address mentioned in their passport, in case of Indians, and hotel address, in case of foreigners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trace-contacts-of-tablighi-jamaat-members-on-war-footing-centre-to-states-820016.html
01-04-2020||National||India well prepared, coronavirus impact will be 'much smaller and manageable': Niti Aayog member||The impact of the coronavirus outbreak in India will be "much smaller and manageable" as the big decision of nationwide lockdown and travel restrictions were put in place much before other countries, a Niti Aayog member said on Wednesday. While asserting that the country is well-prepared, V K Paul, who is also heading a panel to coordinate efforts to tackle the outbreak, noted that it would be difficult to say when the situation would stabilise since that would depend on various factors, including the effectiveness of the overall response. The number of coronavirus positive cases in the country increased to 1,637 on Wednesday and has claimed 38 lives. The count of active COVID-19 cases stands at 1,466 while 132 people have either been cured or discharged and one had migrated to another country, as per the Union Health Ministry. Striking a note of caution, Paul said that in a worst case scenario, the outbreak could be very devastating to population in any part of the country. "India has taken measures (to contain the spread of coronovirus) much before other countries, whether it is travel restriction or the call for social distancing. "And India has taken such a big decision of lockdown which others have not done for a long, and they missed the appropriate time. Therefore, I believe that the size of our outbreak will be much much smaller and manageable," Paul told PTI in an interview. The country is under a 21-day lockdown as part of larger efforts to curb spreading of coronavirus infections. The lockdown has made a very remarkable difference because the virus transmission chain would be nearly broken and the progression of the outbreak would be contained in a very significant way. Thousands of people have died due to coronavirus infection in different parts of the world. Italy, Spain and Iran are among the countries that have recorded high number of deaths so far. On fears that large scale movements of migrant workers from cities to their native places could result in spreading of coronavirus infections, Paul said such movements would not make a difference in terms of the benefits expected from the lockdown. Following the lockdown, which has also impacted their daily incomes, thousands of migrant workers have been trying to go back to their native places. Various state governments have taken steps to stop such movements and ensure that basic needs of such people are fulfilled. "A few lakh migrant workers moving from one place to the other is nothing compare to what was happening on a daily basis where crores of people were going back and forth in the country. "... we have to address the human issue but this degree of population exchange should not make a difference to the benefits we are expecting from the lockdown," he asserted. Citing an example, Paul noted that on a daily basis more than one crore people were travelling in trains and almost 4-5 crore people in buses. ] This was the situation before the lockdown and now, such movements have stopped. "There is a trickle, it is not ideal but very minuscule problem in terms of epidemiological gain. But yes, human issue should be addressed," he emphasised. According to him, the outbreak in a worst scenario could be very devastating to population in any part of the country. "We are well prepared so far and ready for all scenarios... We will ensure that there is minimum possible human cost and minimum cost to our nation's economy," he noted. The response was to a query on whether community transmission of the infection is happening in the country. The group headed by Paul is one of the 11 empowered groups of officers constituted by Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla for planning and ensuring implementation of COVID-19 response activities. On when the situation is likely to stabilise, Paul said it would depend on a lot of factors. "Of all, it depends on how effective our lockdown intiatives are, how effective our social distancing measures are and how effectively we are able to contain our clusters as well as our hotspots. "It depends on how effectively we are responding to this outbreak," the Niti Aayog member said. Paul said the government is working to increase availability of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to doctors. "Very soon, there will be no issue of inadequacy. Even now, compared to what we need, we have more PPE available in our system," he added. Appreciating the efforts of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for COVID-19 testing, he said the institute's guidelines have so far stood the test of time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-well-prepared-coronavirus-impact-will-be-much-smaller-and-manageable-niti-aayog-member-820017.html
01-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Here are India's 10 major COVID-19 hotspots you need to know||There are two hotspots each in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Kerala and Maharashtra and one each in Gujarat and Rajasthan: Delhi Nizamuddin West: Famed for the shrine of the 14h century Sufi mystic Khwaja Nizamuddin Auliya, the south Delhi locality has emerged as an epicentre for spread of the coronavirus in different parts of the country after thousands of people took part in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation from March 1-15. Six people who died in Telangana and one in Jammu and Kashmir attended the congregation in the headquarters of the Tablighi in Nizamuddin West, a colony split between the labyrinthine lanes near the ‘dargah’ and spacious residential homes. In Delhi alone, 24 participants tested positive for the disease. Besides, 441 of the participants were hospitalised after they showed symptoms. The number is likely to swell significantly as more test reports come. Dilshad Garden: The northeast Delhi locality made headlines when a woman with a travel history to Saudi Arabia tested positive for coronavirus and infected her daughter as well as two relatives in Jehangirpuri close by. She also came in contact with a ‘mohalla’ clinic doctor in Maujpur, who was infected with the disease. The doctor, who is believed have come into contract with hundreds of people, later transmitted the infection to his wife. "So far, the number of patients in Shahadra district (Dilshad Garden falls under Shahadra district) is 11," said a health department official. A senior health department official added that they feared the number could have spiked in Dilshad Garden but there has thankfully been no significant rise in the number of patients in the locality. It counts for about 11 per cent of Delhi’s count of more than 100 coronavirus cases. Rajasthan Bhilwara: Of the total 83 coronavirus positive cases detected in Rajasthan, 26 are from the textile town of Bhilwara. Eight patients have tested negative after treatment. Health department teams have taken 1,194 samples from Bhilwara. A massive screening exercise is underway with over 26 lakh people in urban and rural areas being screened. Two coronavirus positive deaths have taken in Bhilwara but officials maintain that they died due to co-morbid conditions. A doctor of a private hospital was the first positive case in Bhilwara. Most of the cases that have come up so far either are of hospital staff or the patient who had gone for treatment at hospitals. Uttar Pradesh Noida: Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded 38 COVID-19 cases, the highest for any district in the country's most populous state. About two dozen of these cases are linked directly or indirectly to a private firm in Noida which has now been booked for endangering people's lives and sealed. An estimated 626 samples have been tested so far and 1,852 people are under surveillance across Noida and Greater Noida, while another 291 have been quarantined at various isolation facilities in the district, local Health Department officials said. On the brighter side, six of the patients have so far recovered in Gautam Buddh Nagar and discharged from hospitals till Tuesday, leaving 32 active cases of coronavirus, they added. Meerut: The western Uttar Pradesh district is the second hotspot in the state, where the number of cases has crossed the 100 mark, with 19 people testing positive for the disease. Of the 17 samples tested on Monday, six were declared positive, officials said. Of the six, four are family members of a man who recently returned from Maharashtra. The first COVID-19 case was reported from here last Friday. Maharashtra Mumbai: After several cases of random people testing positive for COVID-19 emerged on Monday in Mumbai, the state health department declared Koliwada area of Worli and the Goregaon suburb as two hotspots. In Mumbai, the novel coronavirus has claimed eight lives and there are 167 positive cases. As of now, there are 230 COVID-19 positive cases detected in Maharashtra. Of these, 10 lost their lives and 39 people have been discharged after recovery. There are 181 active cases of COVID-19 in the state. Pune: Forty-six cases were reported as on Tuesday. The first two positive cases in Maharashtra were reported from Pune on March 9. Pune Municipal Corporation's chief health officer Dr Ramchandra Hankare said one COVID-19 patient died of multi-organ failure in a private hospital on Monday. Barring two people who are critical, rest of all the patients are stable and recuperating in the hospitals, he said. So far 3,500 people including those who have foreign travel history, their close contacts have been "home quarantined". According to officials, 2,216 passengers are under surveillance. Of these, 1,403 have completed their 14-day incubation period and 813 are still under active surveillance. Gujarat Ahmedabad: Of 73 coronavirus cases registered in Gujarat so far, the highest number of 23 cases has been detected in Ahmedabad district, mostly in Ahmedabad city. Ahmedabad city counts for three of six deaths in Gujarat. Of the five persons who have recovered so far, four are from Ahmedabad city. "Ahmedabad city has been declared as hotspot to prevent spread of the virus in a particular area after a positive case surfaces. Ideally, a three kilometre km area surrounding the residence of that patient is contained for 14 days. It’s like a total lockdown. No one can come inside or go outside except the health staff," said Dr Prakash Vaghela, additional director, Public Health, Gujarat. Kerala Kasaragod: Kasaragod is one of the worst affected districts in the country with the number of positive cases standing at 99, while over 7,725 people are under observation. A total of 163 people are in isolation wards. Contact with already infected persons and possible infection from foreign returnees are seen as the causes of virus spread. Pathanamthitta: Pathanamthitta may have reported lesser number of positive cases at five, but 7,254 people are under observation. Both these districts have not reported any death so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-here-are-indias-10-major-covid-19-hotspots-you-need-to-know-820019.html
01-04-2020||National||J&K politicians dismayed over new domicile law||Hours after the government of India spelled out new domicile laws for Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, politicians in the Valley expressed dismay over the decision and questioned its timing amid prevailing situation owing to COVID-19 outbreak. “Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak, the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on the injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised,” former chief minister and National Conference leader, Omar, wrote on Twitter. Abdullah, who was released from prison last week after nearly eight months, without naming anyone, said the domicile law had forced even new political party “created by Delhi’s blessings” to criticise the law.   “You can imagine how hollow the domicile law is from the fact that even the new party created with Delhi’s blessings, whose leaders were lobbying in Delhi for this law, have been forced to criticise the #JKdomicilelaw,” he wrote in another tweet while referring to Jammu Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) led by Altaf Bukhari. Iltija Mufti, daughter of incarcerated PDP president and former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, tweeted: “J&K’s new domicile law is part of a diabolical demographic project that began on 5th August with Article 370 abrogation. Imposing it in times of a global pandemic reveals a callous & paranoid mindset wilfully violating consent to ensure subjugation (sic).” In another tweet, she said: “They are in a maddening rush to appropriate our land & resources. Wonder why they don’t show the same sense of urgency to save lives of thousands of Kashmiris jailed in & outside J&K?” The JKAP president Bukhari took a strong exception to the domicile order and demanded it is put in abeyance till the COVID-19 pandemic is over “It is most unfortunate that such an important order has been issued at a time when the whole country is battling for its survival and is under strict lockdown to stem the spread of deadly coronavirus disease,” he said in a statement. “While JKAP had been vehemently demanding Domicile Rights on land and jobs for the people of Jammu and Kashmir, the order issued by the union government reflects a casual exercise carried out at the bureaucratic level without taking aspirations and expectations of people into consideration,” Bukhari said. He said that being a government-issued order and not a law made by the Parliament, the new gazette notification regarding domicile rule for J&K is not immune to any judicial review.   The reactions came after the government of India spelled out the domicile laws for Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir which says a person who has resided in the UT for a period of 15 years or has studied for a period of seven years and appeared in Class 10th and 12th examination in a school within the region shall be deemed to be the domiciles of Jammu and Kashmir. It also includes the children of the central government officials, who have served in Jammu and Kashmir for a period of ten years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-politicians-dismayed-over-new-domicile-law-820021.html
01-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Elderly woman donates pension money to Madhya Pradesh govt||In a heartwarming gesture, a senior citizen from Madhya Pradesh's Vidhisha city donated Rs 1 lakh from her pension to fund the state government's efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic. After reading an appeal in a newspaper, Salbha Uskar, a retired employee, donated Rs 1 lakh from her pension to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund, an official said. "After seeing the current situation, I decided to extend my help. I urge people to honour the lockdown and follow the government's orders," the 82-year-old said in a video shared by the public relations department. Sharing her video on Twitter, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, "Maa Tujhe Salam. Salbha Uskar, an 82- year-old woman from Vidisha, donated Rs 1 lakh from her pension to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. This invaluable blessing of a mother has boosted my confidence in the fight against #COVID19." Meanwhile, Chouhan on Tuesday spoke to representatives of social organisations, health and police officials in Indore and thanked them for their efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus, an official from the public relations department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-elderly-woman-donates-pension-money-to-madhya-pradesh-govt-820022.html
01-04-2020||National||Non-adherence of lockdown, request for rescue from foreign countries among grievances on COVID-19||Over 300 public grievances, including those related to non-adherence of the ongoing lockdown and request for rescue from foreign countries, have been received by the central government under a recently-launched mechanism, officials said on Wednesday. Out of the total 336 public grievances, 28 were on "lockdown not adhered to", 25 were "requests for rescue from foreign countries" and 14 were related to "quarantine", they said, citing an official data. A total of nine were related to "inadequate facilities in hospitals", seven were "examination-related", six were "stuck at some place due to lockdown", five "essential supplies not being provided", four were related to "harassment" and one was on "problem in donating to the PM-CARES Fund", the officials said. There were 101 suggestions received by the government and 136 public grievances fell under "others" categories, they said. Giving further details of grievances related to non-compliance of lockdown, an official said, people claimed that "private sector employees (were) still being called at work" and also "postal department (was) calling employees to work". He said grievances on "police harassment" and "people getting evicted from colleges" were under the harassment category. Suggestions like "claiming to have found cure" and "request for financial aid" were received as public grievances, the official said. Grievances like "garbage not being collected" and "supply of basic necessities affected" were also received by the central government, he said. Giving details of the public grievances related to inadequate facilities in hospitals, the officials said people claimed that "isolation wards were overcrowded", "masks and sanitiser not available" and hospitals were "not equipped to test patients".   Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh on Wednesday also launched the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances' (DARPG) national monitoring dashboard on COVID-19 grievances. The national monitoring dashboard was developed and implemented at https://darpg.gov.in where COVID-19 related grievances received in the Central Public Grievances Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) with all ministries/ departments and states/union territories are monitored on a priority basis by a technical team of DARPG. The dashboard was developed by DARPG in pursuance of the recommendations of the empowered group of officers constituted under the Disaster Management Act 2005 on 'public grievances and suggestions' to ensure timely implementation of coronavirus response activities, according to a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. Speaking on the occasion, Singh said that it is the endeavour of the Modi government to ensure timely redressal of COVID-19 grievances and directions have been issued to all ministries/departments to prioritise these grievances and provide redressal in a period of three days. The minister said that he had personally reviewed the status of 262 grievances of the central government and 83 grievances of state governments received on day one, and directed officers in DARPG to pursue with line ministries and state governments. On the first day of the launch, the national monitoring dashboard received 43 grievances of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 31 grievances of the Ministry of External Affairs and 26 grievances of the Ministry of Finance, the statement said. Singh complimented the secretary, DARPG and the team of officials for launching the national COVID-19 monitoring dashboard, saying that it was a feather in the department's cap that within two days the national monitor was operationalised and 62 citizen's grievances were redressed. He reiterated the government's trust in the effectiveness of the 'team DARPG' to handle COVID-19 grievance redressal. Secretary DARPG, Kshtrapati Shivaji, Additional Secretary, DARPG, V Srinivas, Joint Secretaries Jaya Dubey and N B S Rajput along with senior officials of the department participated in the launch through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-adherence-of-lockdown-request-for-rescue-from-foreign-countries-among-grievances-on-covid-19-820024.html
01-04-2020||National||Delhi govt hospital shut after doctor tests positive for COVID-19||Delhi State Cancer Institute has been shut for a day after a doctor tested positive for COVID-19, an official said on Wednesday. According to the official, the Delhi government-run institute is being disinfected and that is why it has been shut for a day. The doctor, who tested positive for coronavirus, worked at the institute. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi climbed to 120 on Tuesday after 23 new cases of the disease were reported. These 120 cases include 24 people who took part in a religious congregation at the Markaz in Nizamuddin West earlier this month.  Till Monday night, the number of cases of the deadly COVID-19 stood at 97, including two deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-hospital-shut-after-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-820027.html
01-04-2020||National||'Some of us will die': India's homeless stranded by coronavirus lockdown||In a densely packed neighbourhood of Delhi, hundreds of homeless people queued up this week as volunteers doled out rice and peas from a vat in the back of a van. Only a handful of the people in the crowd wore masks. There were no hand sanitizers or washbasins in sight and no social distancing. "I need the food," said a man in the queue, Shiv Kumar. "If I stand apart, someone else might come in between." Volunteers say such scenes are playing out daily across India, as labourers and waste pickers - most of them homeless or too poor to afford a meal - are among the hardest hit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's three-week nationwide lockdown to stem the spread of coronavirus. Most of the estimated 4 million plus homeless people in India have had no way of earning a living since the lockdown began on March 25. With streets deserted, even begging is not an option. Many wander aimlessly, some find refuge at homeless shelters where ranks of people sleep beside each other. While the plight of India's migrant workers has garnered headlines, with thousands forced to walk miles to reach home since the lockdown began, many aid workers say the millions of homeless in India face a bigger risk. Officials say the shutdown is necessary to stem the spread of the coronavirus. India has reported more than 1,500 cases and 38 deaths from the outbreak. But rights groups have criticised the government over what they say has been inadequate planning ahead of the lockdown. "You cannot impose such drastic measures on a population the size of India all of a sudden," said Shivani Chaudhry, executive director of Housing and Land Rights Network, a non-profit group that works with the homeless. "In shelters, we face serious challenges such as the lack of adequate space and sanitation," she said. "If one person in a shelter gets infected, it's going to be very hard to control its spread." 'URGENT REQUIREMENT' While some cities like Delhi and Chennai have several homeless shelters, in other parts of the country, like Mumbai, many are stranded on the streets, rights groups say. Some states are now scrambling to put the homeless in tents in parks, or at schools and other vacant spaces. In the eastern city of Kolkata, a municipal councillor said government-run homeless shelters were all packed and there was no way of keeping people apart as a coronavirus precaution. The Delhi government said in an order last week that social distancing must be "strictly followed" at the 200 odd night shelters across the city. But at least four shelters Reuters visited this week said they were struggling to follow the orders given the numbers of people seeking help. "How do we do social distancing? If we separate them we will have to let many of them go," said a manager at one shelter with a capacity of 500 people. The federal Ministry of Urban Affairs only issued an order on March 28 – four days after the lockdown began – telling state governments there was "an urgent requirement" to support the homeless, according to a copy seen by Reuters. While the government has outlined a $22.6 billion stimulus plan that provides for direct cash transfers and food security measures for the poor, many activists say it is unclear how many homeless, many of whom lack documentation, would get any aid. MOST VULNERABLE Doctors and health experts say the homeless are among the most at risk from the virus as many already suffer from illnesses such as tuberculosis, and their morbidity rates are higher than for the general population. "How does one quarantine someone who has no home, or someone who lives cheek to jowl with 10 others in a small room?" said Dr Zarir Udwadia, an infectious diseases specialist in Mumbai, who has been treating coronavirus patients. "Poverty and overcrowding like ours are likely catalysts for the COVID-19 explosion we anticipate with trepidation," he said. The spread of coronavirus among such a population would be terrifying, warned Indu Prakash Singh, a member of the Supreme Court's urban poverty monitoring committee. "In any pandemic these are first people to be hit," he said calling efforts to tackle the issue "slipshod". Many of those on the streets view the coronavirus with a grim fatalism. "Some of us will die, some of us will live to suffer," said Zakir Hussain, a 45-year-old labourer, standing near a homeless shelter in Delhi. "We are poor. We've been left here to die. Our lives are of no value to anyone."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-of-us-will-die-indias-homeless-stranded-by-coronavirus-lockdown-820028.html
01-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: SC to hear plea seeking imposition of financial emergency after 2 weeks||The Supreme Court Wednesday said it would hear after two weeks a petition which has sought imposition of financial emergency in the country on the ground that economic activities have "come to a standstill" due to the lockdown over coronavirus pandemic. The plea filed by Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change (CASC) came up for hearing before a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Abdul Nazeer which observed that the plea could be considered after two weeks. The apex court, which has restricted its functioning to prevent the spread of coronavirus or COVID-19, had last week issued a circular saying that matters which are extremely urgent in nature would be heard through video-conferencing. During the brief proceedings on Wednesday through video-conferencing, advocate Virag Gupta, appearing for CASC, referred to the status report filed in the apex court by the Centre on Tuesday in another matter related to migration of labourers amid 21-day country wide lockdown due to coronavirus. Gupta, referring to the report, said the Centre had sought a direction to all the states and Union Territories to implement the directives and advisories issued by the central government in "letter and spirit" and the CASC has also made a similar prayer in its plea. The CASC plea claimed: "Divergence of steps taken by different authorities are causing confusion and lawlessness (which) in no way can be solution to a problem as grave as COVID-19. Due to the lockdown, the economic activities have come to a standstill. Hence, it is most humbly submitted that financial emergency needs to be imposed in the country under Article 360 of the Constitution of India." It has also sought a direction to the Centre to suspend collection of utility bills like that of electricity, water, gas, telephone, internet and EMI payments during the period of lockdown. State police and authorities concerned should be directed to strictly comply with the directions of the Union home ministry so that essential services are not disrupted, it added. It said that prevailing situation in the country due to COVID-19 might be the "biggest emergency" in independent India and it must be addressed as per constitutional provisions through unified command between the Centre and state governments. "This will be required not only to defeat the war against coronavirus but also in recovery of the Indian economy after lockdown is over. Almost all the fundamental right to freedom of movement, most rights under Article 21 and various other fundamental rights have been practically suspended during this lockdown," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-sc-to-hear-plea-seeking-imposition-of-financial-emergency-after-2-weeks-820030.html
01-04-2020||National||Toxic fumes from burning garbage near ONGC pipeline threaten 3,000 people at Uran||Environmentalists have knocked the Prime Minister Narendra Modi's door complaining against Uran Municipal Council which they said is endangering the lives of at least 3,000 people by continuing to dump garbage on burning heap spewing toxic fumes. Taking advantage of the absence of environmental officers’ surveillance check due to COVID-19, UMC has ignored the city’s burning garbage dump for over 15 days and started spreading it on mangroves and an ONGC pipeline even as the people in the vicinity continued to suffer due to unchecked air pollution. The civic body has already hoodwinked the Prime Minister’s Office and “the spreading of garbage criminal act of the worst order as it violates the Bombay High Court order to protect mangroves and wetlands,” said B N Kumar, director of NGO Natconnect Foundation, bringing it to the notice of the Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee, the State Environment department apart from the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. “We have been in fact posting Daily Fire Bulletins to the PMO, Chief Minister, the Environment Minister, Mangrove Committee Chairman and the Raigad district collector pleading for immediate intervention before the situation gets worse,” Kumar said and expressed his exasperation that there has been no visible action. He sent a fresh SOS to the PM drawing his attention to the fact that the people with breathing problems face corona risk. The Mangrove committee has already directed local planner CIDCO and Raigad Collector over three months ago to clear the garbage dump cleared and find an alternative site, while the revenue officials themselves filed an FIR against the UMC officials under the Environment Protection Act, said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan. The environmentalists and local residents have also tweeted to the PMO, the CMO apart from environment minister Aditya Thackeray on the latest development pleading for immediate intervention before the situation gets worse. The continued destruction of nature, caring two hoots for the Court and the mangrove committee directive, bears stark resemblance of the burial of mangroves and wetlands by NMSEZ during the last Lok Sabha elections when the environment officials were away on poll duty, Kumar said. “We have in fact cautioned the authorities against the possibility of unscrupulous elements taking advantage of the complete lockdown and curfew period,” he said and regretted: “Our premonition, unfortunately, came true.” Local residents, who have been forced to bear the brunt of the garbage dump, were in fact cynical as no positive development has taken place over the years. To  make matters worse, the civic body started spraying pesticides in heavy doses on the garbage being dumped non-stop, said Samir Ashrit, a long time resident of Bori Pakhadi which is in a stone’s throw from the muck. The people at Bori Pakhadi and neighbouring Hanuman Koliwada, in particular, have been facing breathing problems due to the smoke billowing out of the burning plastic, rubber, tyres and other muck, even as the mangroves continue to be choked. The residents had even complained to the Prime Minister but the PMO closed the case on the UMC’s assurance that proper care would be taken while disposing of the garbage, said Ashrit. “This assurance was never meant to be followed and we the residents continued to suffer,” he said. The dump was set afire by some miscreants while disposing of the packets of potato chips with the expired date on the last Wednesday and even since more than ten fire tenders belonging to the ONGC made trips to douse the flames. The police filed an FIR against three people under a relatively mild provision of section 336 of IPC that provides for a three-month jail and/or a fine of Rs 250. “Our protests have been ignored and we do not understand the officials’ mind-set in making us suffer like this,” said another resident Pritam Thakur. “We cannot come out due to the lockdown and the Section 144 in force and are unable to sit at home due to the unbearable stink,” he said and pointed out that several elderly people are silently suffering. Advocate Ratnadeep Patil, spearheading the Uran Yuva forum, said the law-abiding residents agitating peacefully so far and that their patience should not be tested too long. Tukaram Koli of Paaramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruiti Samiti, said today you see about 3,000 people exposed to the toxic fumes. “But we cannot imagine the situation if a major disaster occurs on the fire as the ONGC pipeline is close by,” he said. “We are shocked at the inaction of the authorities – from the Collector to the UMC CEO – as we are forced to breathe pollution,” Koli said. An ONGC official informed NatConnect that the corporation is trying to make a fence to protect the pipeline but for that garbage has to be removed. “The Uran plant head is in constant touch with the authorities and has visited the place with them. Efforts are on to remove the garbage so that fence can be made’,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toxic-fumes-from-burning-garbage-near-ongc-pipeline-threaten-3000-people-at-uran-820037.html
01-04-2020||National||A 7-year-old Mizoram 'hero' breaks open his piggy bank, donates his savings to fight COVID-19||A seven-year-old boy from Mizoram's Kolasib town broke open his piggy bank and donated his entire savings to fight COVID-19 and feed the poor hit by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the disease. Rommel Lalmuansanga, a resident of Venglai area in Kolasib donated an amount of Rs 333 to the village-level task force on COVID-19, local resident Zomuanpuia Tlau said. Lalmuansanga handed over a tiny plastic containing Rs 333 in coins and currency notes to leaders of the task force, he said. His gesture has been appreciated by many including Chief Minister Zoramthanga. "This tiny bundle contains Rs 333 in cash and coins; 7-year-old Rommel Lalmuansanga from Kolasib Venglai donated his entire savings to his village-level task force in this war against the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic," Zoramthanga tweeted. The chief minister lauded Lalmuansanga as a "hero" and wished that he be blessed by God.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-7-year-old-mizoram-hero-breaks-open-his-piggy-bank-donates-his-savings-to-fight-covid-19-820056.html
01-04-2020||National||Security personnel guarding Srinagar mayor put in isolation||Security personnel guarding Srinagar Mayor Junaid Mattu were put in isolation after a family member of an employee in his office tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials said on Wednesday. The employee, whose brother tested COVID-19 positive, works as a generator operator at the Srinagar Municipal Complex. Mattu said the precautionary step was taken because of the security personnel station's proximity to the generator room. In a letter to the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) 10th Battalion's commandant, the senior superintendent of police (SSP) for the Police Control Room in Kashmir on Tuesday asked him to put his men on escort duty with the mayor for the last 10 days in isolation as a precautionary measure. The personnel from the battalion were deployed for escort duties with the mayor and there are chances that they could have come in contact with the generator operator or any other official from security or other departments who may be in contact with the generator operator, according to the letter. "In view of the above facts the nafri (personnel) of SSB 10th battalion who were deployed for escort duty for last 10 days with the mayor may be kept in isolation being probable suspects for COVID-19 as precautionary measure," it stated. Mattu said the order was an exercise in caution and he has had no contact with SMC employees. "I'm perfectly fine and healthy. The order issued by SSP-PCR is an exercise in caution. I haven't come in contact with the said employee (whose brother has tested positive). The employee hasn't tested positive but has submitted himself for screening and testing," the mayor tweeted. Mattu said the security personnel were sent into isolation because of the proximity of their station to the generator room. "Not *my* generator operator. The brother of the generator operator of the entire SMC complex! Have had no contact with him whatsoever. The Escort Personnel and SSB deployment sent into isolation because of the proximity of their station with the generator room. Just precautions,” he said reacting to a barrage of tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-personnel-guarding-srinagar-mayor-put-in-isolation-820065.html
01-04-2020||National||Infosys Foundation partners Narayana Health City to open quarantine facility for COVID-19 patients||Infosys Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Infosys, on Wednesday said it has partnered Narayana Health to open a 100-room quarantine facility for COVID-19 patients in the vicinity of Narayana Health City in Bengaluru. The facility, aimed at serving patients belonging to the economically weaker sections of the society, will accommodate patients, offer regular monitoring by doctors, nurses, and provide essential medication, free of cost, a statement said. The patients in the isolation facility will be treated and monitored by the doctors and nurses of Narayana Health City, it added. Earlier this week, Infosys Foundation had announced its commitment of Rs 100 crore to help the government with COVID-19 relief efforts. "Diseases often hit the underprivileged the hardest, because they cannot afford proper treatment, and at the same time, they lose their livelihood while dealing with the illness. "This is a small effort by the Foundation to ensure that the underserved people of our society get access to clean, hygienic accommodation as well as appropriate medical treatment," Infosys Foundation Chairperson Sudha Murty said. Devi Shetty, chairman and executive director of Narayana Health, said providing safe-spaces, with proper medical care to enable patients to isolate themselves, will play a big role in India's fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infosys-foundation-partners-narayana-health-city-to-open-quarantine-facility-for-covid-19-patients-820068.html
01-04-2020||National||VHP prescribes 'daah sanskar' for coronavirus casualties of all religions||As concerns rose over the massive spread of COVID-19 infection in the gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz and cases being reported from different states, Vishwa Hindu Parishad slammed the institution calling it a ‘Corona factory’ and asked Muslim community to close down all mosques, which are still open. The VHP also prescribed a mandatory “daah sanskar” for those who died due to coronavirus “without taking their religion into consideration”. He also demanded cancellation of the visas of all these foreign “mullahs and maulvis”, who came to India with a tourist visa and indulged in the promotion of their religion, and take strict legal action against them “It should be noted that our fight is not limited to the COVID-19 pandemic. Any element whosoever stands not by the country but by COVID-19, in defiance of government guidelines, strict action should be taken against them,” the VHP said. Flagging that all other religious places have been closed voluntarily, the VHP said, “the Muslim society itself should come forward and close with immediate effect all the mosques in India that are still open.” “Most of the shrines were closed voluntarily to avoid crowds and make social distancing a success. But some people forcibly insisted on offering Namaz in mosques,” the VHP noted. The VHP also said that instead of taking out the elements hiding in Markaz, mosques and madrasas, they should be quarantined in those buildings and treated there so that the pandemic remains confined there. “A corona-infected deceased must be mandatorily cremated (anivarya roop se unka daah samskara kiya jaana chaahiye) irrespective of religious affiliation to stop the spread of coronavirus infection,” said VHP President Justice (Rtd) Vishnu Sadashiv Kokje, Working President Advocate Alok Kumar and its General Secretary Mlind Parande in a statement. “It was obstinately insisted to bury the dead coronavirus victims, while everyone knows that burial causes the corona bacteria to spread rapidly. We appeal to all responsible people of India to motivate their communities to move back from such intransigence and dogmatism. This mindset and mentality will not only hurt the country, they themselves cannot benefit either,” the VHP argued. They said that the incident of Nizamuddin Markaz is very shameful and unfortunate and it seems that this incident may shatter the 18-day struggle against the novel coronavirus and the achievements of the pan-India lockdown. “In the name of Ijtema, the Tablighis in thousands from 25 countries of the world and India had gathered at the Nizamuddin Markaz for many days. Now more than fifteen hundred of them are hiding in mosques in many states of India for the promotion of Islam. “More than 400 of them have been caught. Several maulvis who were caught have been found to be corona positive. There are apprehensions that these clerics may spread COVID-19 infection from Kerala to Kashmir. It seems that now the Nizamuddin Markaz has become the epicentre of COVID-19 quake in India,” the VHP said. It slammed the Markaz officials for blaming the administration and holding the police accountable. “The facts and figures coming out are mounting the seriousness of their transgression and crime. After the announcement of the lockdown on March 23, more than fifteen hundred Jamatis were sent to many states of India without medical check-up. On March 24, the administration had asked for eviction of the Markaz. When they did not agree, a medical team was sent there on March 25 but they were not allowed to enter. Even earlier, the orders to control the number of Jamatis were treated with contempt several times. This when the entire country is taking all pains and making all kinds of sacrifices to break the chain of Corona spread,” the VHP rued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-prescribes-daah-sanskar-for-coronavirus-casualties-of-all-religions-820071.html
01-04-2020||National||386 new COVID-19 positive cases in last 24 hours; spike not national trend: Health Ministry||With as many as 386 new cases of COVID-19 reported in the last 24 hours, the Health Ministry on Wednesday said the spike was "not a national trend" and was primarily due to travel by those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Addressing the daily press briefing, Joint Secretary in Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said till now there are 1,637 COVID-19 cases in the country out of which 386 new positive cases were reported in the last 24 hours. However, the Health Ministry in a statement said 1,637 confirmed cases with 376 new confirmed cases and 38 deaths have been reported in the country as of now. "During the last 24 hours, 376 new confirmed cases and three new deaths have been reported. 132 persons have been cured /discharged from the hospitals after recovery," the statement said. Agarwal , however, stressed that the rise in positive cases "is not a national trend". "I want to highlight that the rise in the number of positive cases does not represent a national trend, but if there will be a failure anywhere, obviously cases will rise," Agarwal said as he urged people to follow the guidelines of social distancing and lockdown and avoid congregations and religious gatherings. "One of the main reasons for the rise in positive cases is the travel by members of Tablighi Jamat," Agarwal said. All states which have reported positive cases of the disease have been notified and asked to carry out intensive drives of rigorous contact tracing and testing and also sending those with symptoms to quarantine facilities or hospitals, he said. He said 154 new positive cases of the disease have been reported due to the transit-related history of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. These include 23 new cases from Jammu and Kashmir, 20 from Telengana, 18 from Delhi, 65 from Tamil Nadu, 17 from Andhra Pradesh, nine from Andaman and Nicobar Islands and two from Puducherry. All the states concerned have been notified and asked to carry out intensive drives of rigorous contact tracing and testing besides sending those with symptoms to quarantine or isolation facilities or hospitals, Agarwal said. He said around 1,800 people in Delhi connected with the Tablighi Jamaat congregation have been shifted to nine quarantine centres and hospitals. Giving details about the necessary arrangements being made by the government to tackle the coronavirus pandemic, Agarwal informed reporters that the Indian railways is preparing to set up 3.2 lakh isolation and quarantine beds by modifying 20,000 train coaches. Modification of 5,000 coaches for the purpose has already begun, he said. 'Lifeline' flights have also been launched by the Civil Aviation ministry to transport testing kits, medicines, masks and other essentials commodities, Agarwal said, adding that 15.4 tonnes of medical supplies have been transported by these flights in the last five days. Speaking at the same press conference, Raman R Gangakhedkar, the Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 47,951 tests for COVID-19 have been conducted in the country till date. There are 126 labs in the ICMR network. "The testing capacity utilisation is about 38 cent as of now," he said. Besides, 51 private labs have been given approval to conduct tests for coronavirus infection and 861 people were tested at these facilities on Monday. Agarwal said that under the orders of the Supreme Court, states have been directed that trained counsellors and/or community group leaders of all religions will visit and provide psychological social support to the migrant workers in relief camps. As directed by the apex court, for technical queries the Ministry of Health has created an email (technicalquery.covid19@gov.in) which will provide authentic technical information to queries from institutions like AIIMS, New Delhi and a joint secretray rank officer from the ministry, he said. In addition, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has notified that all 24 classes of medical devices shall be regulated as drugs for quality control and price monitoring under the provisions of Drug (Price Control) Order, 2013 with effect from April 1 to ensure that no manufacturer shall increase the MRP of these items more than beyond 10 per cent of MRP in the last 12 months, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/386-new-covid-19-positive-cases-in-last-24-hours-spike-not-national-trend-health-ministry-820073.html
01-04-2020||National||HRD ministry directs CBSE to promote all class 1-8 students to next class due to COVID-19 lockdown||The HRD ministry on Wednesday directed the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to promote all students of classes 1 to 8 to the next class in view of the situation due to the coronavirus outbreak in the country. "In view of the current situation due to #COVID19, I have advised @cbseindia29 to promote ALL students studying in classes I-VIII to the next class or grade," Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said in a series of tweets. Students of class 9 and 11 will be promoted on school-based assessments conducted so far, he said, adding those not promoted this time can appear in school based tests online or offline. "Students studying in classes IX & XI will be promoted to next class/grade based on the school-based assessments including projects, periodic tests, term exams, etc. conducted so far. Students not promoted this time can appear in school-based tests, online or offline," Nishank tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hrd-ministry-directs-cbse-to-promote-all-class-1-8-students-to-next-class-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-820078.html
01-04-2020||National||SC asks Centre to consider evacuating 250 Shia pilgrims from Iran||The Centre, on Wednesday, told the Supreme Court that 250 Shia pilgrims, who have been tested positive of COVID-19, were being provided the best of facilities at Qom, the Iranian epicentre of the coronavirus spread. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to constantly monitor the situation, conduct fresh tests and look into when they can be brought back to India. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for petitioner Mustafa MH, a resident of Ladakh, asked the Court to issue orders for bringing those 250 pilgrims back as they were at the mercy of Iranian authorities and were left with no money. Mehta, for his part, said hundreds of pilgrims have already been airlifted from Iran, including three relatives of the petitioner. He said the matter has now become ineffective, requiring no order from the Court. Mehta also pointed out all flights have been cancelled, though embassy officials were in touch with the people over there. The Court had earlier issued a notice to the Centre on the plea for immediate evacuation of around 850 Indian Shia pilgrims from city of Qom. The Court had also ordered providing appropriate health and medical facilities and accommodation to the stranded 850 Indians till such time the Centre was in a position to evacuate them safely back to India. The city of Qom is considered holy by Shia Muslims and is the world’s leading centre of Shia scholarship. Much like Wuhan in China, Qom has become the Iranian epicentre of the viral outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-consider-evacuating-250-shia-pilgrims-from-iran-820081.html
01-04-2020||National||Sino-India ties will emerge stronger, scale new heights after COVID-19 pandemic: China||Some of the events planned by India and China to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties starting from Wednesday will be hit by the virus outbreak but the cooperation between the dragon and the elephant will emerge stronger and their relationship can scale new heights after the pandemic, a senior Chinese official said. On April 1, 1950, India became the first non-Communist country in Asia to establish diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China (PRC). "First of all, Congratulations! Because today marks the 70th anniversary of the bilateral diplomatic ties between China and India," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing here. "The two Heads of State exchanged the congratulatory messages," Hua said while responding to a question. Both the counties have finalised an ambitious 70 celebratory activities, a host of cultural, religious and trade promotion activities round the year besides military exchanges to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the establishment of their diplomatic relations. But all such event may not take place in the near future as both the countries were going through most difficult times dealing with the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 42,000 people worldwide. While China made gradual efforts to open up as the coronavirus cases abated, India is currently under a 21-day nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the virus. The two countries together finalised 70 events to celebrate the event in line with the understanding reached by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during their 2nd Informal Summit at Mamallapuram on October 11-12 last year. "I guess some of them (events) will be affected by the pandemic but I believe, our exchanges and cooperation will only emerge stronger after the pandemic and we also hope we can elevate our relationships and scale new heights," she said. "In Chennai, President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed to take the opportunity of the 70th anniversary of our diplomatic ties to hold 70 separate celebrating activities, which will deepen the bilateral exchange in our legislature, business, academics and so on," Hua said. State-run Xinhua news agency carried a commentary on the 70 years of establishment of Sino-India diplomatic ties, saying "7 decades on, China-India ties face ample chances for new development." "In the hard battle against the ravaging coronavirus epidemic, Beijing and New Delhi have offered each other staunch support and timely help," it said. "This vividly reflects the two countries' growing partnership as they mark on Wednesday the 70th anniversary of their diplomatic relationship”, it said. "Over the past seven decades, the dragon and the elephant have reached a growing consensus, that is, the only right choice for their bilateral ties is to dance together," it said. "Such an expanding consensus is built on the ever-deepening political mutual trust and increasingly frequent high-level exchanges between the two countries," it said. Referring to two informal meetings between Modi-Xi during the last two years and their numerous meetings on the sidelines of BRICS, the SCO and other multilateral platforms, the commentary said, "practical cooperation between the two sides has also been making new strides”. "While promoting their mutually beneficial cooperation, it is also imperative for the two countries to implement the important consensus reached between Xi and Modi at their second informal meeting in the Indian city of Chennai to properly manage their differences on border issues and maintain peace and tranquility in the region," it said. "China and India are key trading partners to each other. In 2019, bilateral trade reached more than USD 90.1 billion up by 1.6 per cent year-on-year, according to China's General Administration of Customs," it said. The two sides have also seen robust exchanges and cooperation in hi-tech and cultural sectors. Chinese tech firm Xiaomi's Redmi smartphone series have topped India's sales ranking. Alibaba, a Chinese e-commerce company, offered technological know-how and financial support for India to develop its largest mobile payment platform Paytm. For their part, Indian films like "3 Idiots" and "Dangal" have made impressive box office takings in China, it said. "As the two economies are highly complementary, China's development means ample growth opportunities for India, and vise-versa. Thus, huge potential is waiting for both sides to tap in various areas such as finance, investment, manufacturing and infrastructure," it said. China is now the world's second largest economy, and India has been one of the fastest growing emerging market economies, it said, adding that their cooperation transcends bilateral dimensions and bears a regional and global significance. "The two countries should also jointly oppose trade protectionism, and advocate multilateralism by bolstering international cooperation via such platforms as the Group of 20, BRICS and the SCO,", it said "China and India are the only two countries in the world with more than 1 billion people each. As long as one third of the global population can join hands, they can yield more benefits for not only themselves but also the wider world. The ongoing (coronavirus) epidemic fight offers a chance to do exactly that," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sino-india-ties-will-emerge-stronger-scale-new-heights-after-covid-19-pandemic-china-820087.html
01-04-2020||National||Hydroxychloroquine for health workers and contacts of COVID-19 cases; not for everyone: ICMR||The drug Hydroxychloroquine is only being given to doctors and contacts of lab confirmed COVID-19 cases, senior scientist at ICMR Raman R Gangakhedkar said on Tuesday stressing that it is not to be taken by everyone. Hydroxychloroquine has been described as an essential drug by Health Ministry to meet the requirements of any emergency arising due to COVID-19 pandemic and its sale and distribution have been restricted. When asked about ICMR’s official position on use of Hydroxychloroquine amid various contradicting reports about it, Gangakhedkar, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable diseases at the medical research body, said the organisation has repeatedly conveyed that it is not recommended to be used by everyone. “We have repeatedly said it is not to be used by everyone. It is being given to doctors and contacts of lab confirmed cases. When their data will be complied only then a call can be taken whether it should be recommended to everyone (who is at risk),” he said. ICMR has already recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine as a preventive medication for healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of COVID-19 and also asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hydroxychloroquine-for-health-workers-and-contacts-of-covid-19-cases-not-for-everyone-icmr-820088.html
01-04-2020||National||COVID-19 reminder of interconnected nature of world, need for global response: PM Modi to Chinese PM||The coronavirus pandemic is a reminder of the interconnected nature of the world and the need for adopting a global response to it, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday in a message to his Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang. Modi, in the message to Li marking 70 years of diplomatic ties between India and China, also said good bilateral relations are conducive not only for the two countries, but also important from the perspective of peace, stability and prosperity of the region and the world. Messages of felicitations have been exchanged between the presidents, prime ministers and external affairs ministers of India and China on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. President Ram Nath Kovind, in a letter to his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping, conveyed warm greetings, felicitations and good wishes to the government and the people of China. He noted that the two sides have made considerable progress, especially in the last few years, in enhancing their bilateral engagement in a number of areas, including political, economic and people-to-people ties, according to the MEA. In his message to Li, Modi stated that India and China are two ancient civilisations, with a long history of mutually beneficial exchanges over centuries.  "Today, we are two large developing countries and emerging economies who are increasingly playing an important role on the global landscape. As such, good relations between India and China are conducive not only for our respective countries, but are also important from the perspective of peace, stability and prosperity of our region and the world," the statement quoted Modi as saying. The prime minister also noted that the COVID-19 pandemic "was a reminder to us of the interconnected nature of our world today and the need therefore to adopt a truly global response to it". Modi said he looked forward to working with the Chinese Premier to further deepen and strengthen the close developmental partnership and take it to even greater heights in the years to come. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, in his letter to Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, said that in the last seven decades, India-China relations have expanded substantially and become increasingly diverse and multifaceted. He said that due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the two sides have been unable to carry out the various activities that had been planned to celebrate this historic anniversary.  "Nonetheless, we should continue to work cooperatively in the coming months and, once we and the world are able to control the COVID-19 outbreak, celebrate this milestone in a manner duly reflective of its significance and the common aspirations of our two peoples," Jaishankar said. The two sides are currently working together to jointly design a logo to mark these celebrations, the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-reminder-of-interconnected-nature-of-world-need-for-global-response-pm-modi-to-chinese-pm-820092.html
01-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Phones of 25k in home quarantine under tech surveillance in Delhi||Amid complaints that those home quarantine roaming around, Delhi Government is putting over 25,000 such people under technical surveillance by sharing their mobile phones. This was announced by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday, a day after a decision was taken at a meeting he had with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. So far, telephones of at least 25,429 persons asked to be home quarantine has been given to the police for ascertaining whether they have left home in the past few days. On Tuesday, the telephone numbers of 11,084 persons were given to police while another 14,345 were provided on Wednesday. Kejriwal said they have seen that in countries like Singapore have used technology to trace the movement of people who are in-home quarantine. "We are tracking the cellphone location of COVID-19 suspects. We have sought the help of police in tracing whether these people who have been instructed to be in homes have moved out of their houses in the past few days. Everyone who has been contacted by suspect is being tracked down and being quarantined immediately. Using the numbers, we will trace whether they have been adhering to the quarantine," he said. Kejriwal warned that strong action will be taken against those violating quarantine norms. With April one being the salary date, he said the salaries of many employees are stuck because of offices being closed. The government has now decided to issue passes for two people from each organisation for two days to go to the office, prepare salary bills and transfer it online, he said. He also said that poor people with no ration cards will be given ration soon if they apply for ration cards to avail of the scheme for food articles during the COVID-19 season. "There are about 10 lakh poor who have no ration cards and those who want to have ration, they should apply. I am not promising them ration cards but food articles during COVID-19," he said. Kejriwal had earlier announced that people without ration cards also will get ration during this period and a scheme will be announced. He said to ensure that this is not misused, the government wants those potential beneficiaries to apply online for the ration card taking the help of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-phones-of-25k-in-home-quarantine-under-tech-surveillance-in-delhi-820093.html
01-04-2020||National||CBSE to conduct class 10, 12 exams for only 29 main subjects: HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will conduct class 10 and 12 examinations for only 29 main subjects which are crucial for promotion and admission to higher educational institutions, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Wednesday.  "Have advised CBSE to conduct board exams only for 29 main subjects that are required for promotion and crucial for university admissions. Whenever CBSE is in a position to hold board exams, it shall conduct for 29 subjects by giving adequate notice. For rest of the subjects, CBSE will not hold board exams and instructions for their marking, assessment will be issued soon," he said. The exams were postponed in view of the coronavirus outbreak in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-conduct-class-10-12-exams-for-only-29-main-subjects-hrd-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-820096.html
01-04-2020||National||PIB highlights SC directive to media against unverified news capable of causing panic amid COVID-19||The government's Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Wednesday highlighted the Supreme Court's directive to the media to maintain a strong sense of responsibility while reporting on issues pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic and ensure that unverified news capable of causing panic is not disseminated. In a statement, the PIB said the Supreme Court has noted that the migration of a large number of labourers working in the cities was triggered by panic created by fake news that the lockdown would continue for more than three months.  The court observed that it was not possible for it to overlook the menace of fake news by electronic, print or social media because the panic-driven migration has caused suffering to those who acted on such news, causing some to lose their lives, said the statement by the PIB which is under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The Supreme Court has directed the media, including print, electronic and social media, to maintain a strong sense of responsibility and ensure that unverified news capable of causing panic is not disseminated, it said. The top court has said in its order that it does not intend to interfere with free discussion about the pandemic, but at the same time has directed that the media refer to and publish the official version of the developments, the PIB statement stressed.  The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed that to check fake news, a daily bulletin system with regard to the COVID-19 pandemic be made active within 24 hours by the government through all media avenues including social media and forums to clear people's doubts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pib-highlights-sc-directive-to-media-against-unverified-news-capable-of-causing-panic-amid-covid-19-820097.html
01-04-2020||National||UP continues to shame lockdown violators, made to ride donkeys||Notwithstanding widespread criticism, Uttar Pradesh police continued to shame the violators in a bid to implement the lockdown in the state. Police allegedly made two youths, who were found roaming in the streets in violation of the lockdown in Meerut town, about 450 kilometres from here, ride a donkey. According to the reports, a sub-inspector of the state police intercepted the two youths near Shahpir Gate in the town and forced them to ride a stray donkey. A video showing the duo riding a donkey went viral on social networking sites. A probe was ordered into the matter, sources here said. Earlier the cops in UP's Bareilly town, about 250 kilometeres from here, forced the violators to wear placards containing slogans that they were 'enemies' of the society. ''Main samaj ka dushman hoon...main ghar par nahin rahoonga...main samaj ka dushman hoon...main apne muh par mask nahin lagaunga'' (I am enemy of the society...I will not stay at home...I will not wear mask), the placards round the necks of the violators said. Barely a couple of days back, the fire brigade personnel had sprayed a group of migrant workers with bleach in Bareilly town triggering sharp criticism from the opposition parties. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directives to the cops to strictly enforce the lockdown. Hundreds of FIRs have been registered against the violators and their vehicles have been seized.  The police warned that the violators would be arrested if they were found to be roaming in the streets without any credible reason.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-continues-to-shame-lockdown-violators-made-to-ride-donkeys-820102.html
01-04-2020||National||No pending board exams to be conducted in foreign countries due to COVID-19 situation: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will not conduct pending class 10 and 12 examinations in foreign countries due to the coronavirus pandemic, according to officials. "There are several CBSE schools located in 25 countries. Each of these countries are also under lockdown or have decided to close down the schools for various and differential lengths of time. Under such circumstances, it is felt that the board will not be in a position to hold differential set of exams for each of these countries," CBSE Secretary Anurag Tripathi said. "Also, in the present situation, it will be difficult to bring the answer books to India for evaluation purposes. Therefore, the Board has decided to not hold any more exams for the students of class 10 and 12 schools located outside India. The system of marking and assessment for the purpose of declaring results will be worked out by the Board shortly and informed to these schools," he added. The exams were postponed on March 18 following the coronavirus outbreak. The worldwide number of officially confirmed fatalities from the novel coronavirus rose to 43,082 on Wednesday. In India, as many over 375 new cases of COVID-19 were since Tuesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-pending-board-exams-to-be-conducted-in-foreign-countries-due-to-covid-19-situation-cbse-820107.html
01-04-2020||National||Over 6.75 lakh migrant workers have received shelter in homes set up by state govts: Home Ministry||Over 6.75 lakh migrant workers have received shelter in 21,486 homes set up by states and union territories to contain their movement during the countrywide lockdown announced to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the Home Ministry said Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said over 25 lakh migrant workers who were rushing home were provided with food at the relief camps.  She said the cabinet secretary on Wednesday told the chief secretaries of states and union territories to ensure "hassle free" transportation of cargo and directed that these instructions should be transmitted to the ground level.  The cabinet secretary also directed the chief secretaries that disbursement of benefits under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna should be quick and effective, the officer said. Since the disbursement of benefits is done through banks, planning should be "meticulous" and social distancing norms should be strictly adhered to, she said. The officer said the supply of essential items during 21-day lockdown announced by the prime minister was satisfactory. On the issue of migrant workers who left cities in droves after announcement of the lockdown, Srivastava said the states and union territories were making arrangements for them with 21,486 shelters set up in which 6.75 lakh workers are living and 25 lakh were provided food. She said that in conformity with the Supreme Court order on migrant workers, states and union territories have been asked to rope in trained counsellors and community group leaders to counsel migrant workers stranded in shelter camps. "We will ensure that the lockdown is successful and essential services are maintained," she said.  A nationwide 21-day lockdown was enforced on March 24 to check the spread of coronavirus as social distancing is possibly the only way to prevent people from infecting the deadly virus. The number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 1,637 in the country on Wednesday while the death toll rose to 38, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-675-lakh-migrant-workers-have-received-shelter-in-homes-set-up-by-state-govts-home-ministry-820111.html
01-04-2020||National||Burial of COVID-19 dead not more hazardous than cremation, WHO busts myth||The burial of the mortal remains of the patients dying of COVID-19 is not more dangerous than cremation; rather both would be equally hazard-free if carried out in accordance with safety procedures, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said.   The now-retracted move by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to ban burial of COVID-19 patients was in fact much ado about nothing, as neither the WHO nor the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) of the Government of India advised against the burial of bodies of COVID-19 positive people. The WHO and the MoHFW rather laid down specific guidelines that should be followed both for cremation as well as for burial of the corpses of the people infected by the virus. “It is a common myth that persons who have died of a communicable disease should be cremated, but this is not true. Cremation is a matter of cultural choice and available resources,” the WHO stated. “To date,” it added, “there is no evidence of persons having become infected from exposure to the bodies of persons who died from COVID-19.” The COVID-19 has infected at least 1636 people across India. While 132 of them have been cured and discharged from hospitals, 38 have died so far. Over 7.50 lakh people around the world have been infected by the virus more than 36500 of them died. The municipal commissioner of Mumbai, Praveen Pardeshi, on Monday, issued a circular stating that the bodies of all the deceased COVID-19 patients should be cremated and not buried, irrespective of the religious community the dead might belong to, in order to avoid chances of transmission of the virus in the community and that the burial would not be allowed. However, the circular was withdrawn later. “The main driver of transmission of COVID-19 is through droplets,” the MoHFW of the Government of India clarified, adding: “There is unlikely to be an increased risk of COVID infection from a dead body to health workers or family members who follow standard precautions while handling bodies.” The WHO and the MoHFW noted that only the lungs of the dead COVID-19 patients if handled during an autopsy, could be infectious. A MoHFW advisory underlined that anyone, who would handle the body of a COVID-19 patient at the hospital, mortuary or at the crematorium or the burial ground must practice hand hygiene and wash hands with soap and water after coming in physical contact with the corpse. The health care professionals at the hospitals should use Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) – water-resistant aprons, masks, gloves, and eyewear – while placing the body in a leak-proof plastic bag after decontaminating with 1% Hypochlorite. The religious rituals such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water, and any other last rites not requiring touching of the body could be allowed at the crematorium and the burial ground. But bathing, kissing, hugging and embalming of the body should not be allowed, the MoHFW stated.   “The dignity of the dead, their cultural and religious traditions, and their families should be respected and protected throughout,” the WHO underlined, advising against hasty disposal of the mortal remains of the victims of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/burial-of-covid-19-dead-not-more-hazardous-than-cremation-who-busts-myth-820112.html
01-04-2020||National||India, China celebrate 70th anniversary of ties amid COVID-19 pandemic||The “Wuhan Spirit” was conspicuous in the absence on Wednesday, when the leaders of India and China exchanged greetings on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two nations. Ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping had an “informal summit” at Wuhan in central China in April 2018 to bring New Delhi’s relations with Beijing back on track after the setback caused by the military stand-off at Doklam in western Bhutan the previous year; the leaders and diplomats of the two nations never failed to invoke “Wuhan Spirit” whenever they had to speak about the bonhomie between the two neighbours. But with Wuhan, the capital city of the Hubei province of China, now more known around the world as the “Ground Zero” of the COVID-19 pandemic, the leaders of the two nations avoided referring to it even as they greeted each other on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. New Delhi and Beijing had planned a series of events to mark the occasion. They, however, had to postpone all such events, with both the nations – along with the rest of the world – grappling with the pandemic. “India and China are two ancient civilizations, with a long history of mutually beneficial exchanges over centuries,” Modi wrote to Chinese Premier Li Keqiang. “Today,” he added, “we are two large developing countries and emerging economies who are increasingly playing an important role in the global landscape. As such, good relations between India and China are conducive not only for our respective countries but are also important from the perspective of peace, stability, and prosperity of our region and the world.” Modi also referred to the COVID-19 outbreak in his message to Li and underlined that the pandemic was “a reminder” of the “interconnected nature” of the world and the need to adopt “truly global response to it”. Li wrote to Modi that China was ready to join hands with India to build on the momentum created by this 70th anniversary (of the establishment of diplomatic relations) to work for new progress in strategic and cooperative partnership between the two nations.  Xi also sent a message to President Ram Nath Kovind, noting that India and China had established a strategic and cooperative partnership for peace and prosperity and were working to build a closer developmental partnership. Kovind wrote to Xi that India and China had made considerable progress especially in the last few years in enhancing bilateral engagement in a number of areas, including political, economic and people-to-people ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-celebrate-70th-anniversary-of-ties-amid-covid-19-pandemic-820115.html
01-04-2020||National||Adani Foundation supports ISKCON with Rs 50 lakh to ensure daily meals for 1 lakh people||Adani Foundation has contributed Rs 50 lakh towards ISKCON, Dwarka, to feed the underprivileged population in the national capital. "As India grapples with a lockdown to arrest the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is the poor and the daily wagers who are the most adversely affected. ISKCON is providing meals to more than 1 lakh people on a daily basis. The foundation's financial aid will boost their efforts as it plans to reach out to more than 4 lakh people daily in the near future," according a statement by the company. Adani Foundation, the philanthropy arm of the infrastructure conglomerate Adani Group, is feeding this section of the society through community kitchens and canteens being run in various sites across the country where it is operational. More than 11,000 packets of food and ration are being distributed each day at Mundra (Gujarat), Godda (Jharkhand), Kawai (Rajasthan), Dhamra (Odisha) and Vizhinjam (Kerala) every day. "A total of 20,883 labourers and people in rural communities are given meals each day. Adani Foundation is also providing ration supplies to community kitchens that are running in full force to feed the communities," it said. Amid all the widespread measures being taken to contain the COVID-19 outbreak in India, Adani Foundation has stepped up to guard the health and well-being of the rural population at various locations. It has provided personal protection kits for the health workers and doctors at the SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad, to ensure the safety of medical professionals who are working tirelessly. More than 1,000 masks were distributed to police personnel and health workers in Ahmedabad city, while more than 400 packets of food, mineral water and sanitary kits are being provided at various locations in the city, it said. Adani Foundation is also sanitising public spaces in villages near Kawai (Rajasthan), Godda (Jharakhand) and Raipur (Chhattisgarh). With support from the district administration of Godda, Jharkhand, 100 women from the foundation's Phoolo Jhano Saksham Ajivika Sakhi Mandal (PJSASM) are engaged in making masks. This self-help group (SHG) of women who were imparted training at Adani Skill Development Centres are now working day and night to ensure the production of 1 lakh masks which are to be handed over to the district administration. Adani Foundation is also helping the district administration to sanitise public places in the district. "Masks are also being produced by the women's co-operative group Mahila Udyami Bahudeshiy Sahakari Samiti, in Surguja, Chhattisgarh. A total of 15,000 such masks are being distributed in 10 villages along with handwashing liquid," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adani-foundation-supports-iskcon-with-rs-50-lakh-to-ensure-daily-meals-for-1-lakh-people-820119.html
01-04-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on distribution of masks, hand sanitiser and soaps||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea for "fair and equitable" distribution of masks, hand sanitiser and liquid soaps, which are being sold at inflated rates, despite the government fixing the prices for the items, necessary to fight COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Abdul Nazeer asked the Union government to respond to the PIL filed jointly by NGO 'Justice for Rights Foundation' and Amit Kumar Sharma and Prateek Sharma. The petitioners contended that the right to life and personal liberty as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution, was "sacrosanct and it should not be made a part of a trade in hands of nefarious few". They pointed out that the Department of Consumer Affairs, had on March 21, 2020, fixed the prices of two-ply masks at Rs 8 and three-ply at Rs 10 and that the sanitiser bottle of 200 ml at Rs 100. However, the petitioners claimed, when they visited some chemists and medical outlets in Delhi, they found, much to their dismay, that they were denied sale of the masks on the ground that prices set by the government were too low.  The petitioners pointed out the Ministry of Chemical and Fertilizers' Department of Pharmaceuticals through National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority passed an order on March 13 directing all the authorities to ensure sufficient availability of surgical masks, hand sanitisers and gloves at the printed MRP. The WHO had on January 30 declared the COVID-19 firstly as “public-health emergency of international concern” and then on March 11 called it pandemic, due to the ever increasing number of cases and the deaths caused by the said infectious disease. With this, the citizens were advised to take two important steps to cover ones’ face and also to wash hands regularly with soaps and use sanitisers.  In such a scenario of widespread infection and the growing number of cases, the petitioners said effective and precautionary steps were required to ensure availability of masks, hand sanitiser and soaps as "the life and the well-being of the citizens cannot be allowed to hang in balance".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-distribution-of-masks-hand-sanitiser-and-soaps-820124.html
01-04-2020||National||COVID-19: IAF transports around 25 tonnes of medical supplies in last 3 days across country||Amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown to combat COVID-19, the Indian Air Force on Wednesday said it has transported around 25 tonnes of essential medical supplies from Delhi, Surat, Chandigarh to Manipur, Nagaland and the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. The medical supplies include personal protective equipment (PPE), hand sanitiser, surgical gloves, thermal scanners, the IAF said in a statement, adding that medical personnel are also being taken from one place to another using their aircraft. "Regular airlifting of COVID-19 test samples from the union territory of Ladakh to Delhi is also being carried. Towards this, C-17, C-130, An-32. AVRO & Dornier aircraft of the IAF are being tasked on as required basis and the IAF is adequately geared up to meet all the emerging demands," the statement noted. In addition, several quarantine facilities created at various IAF bases across the country continue in a state of readiness, it said. "Medical care to Indian citizens evacuated from Iran and Malaysia is being provided at air bases at Hindan and Tambaram, respectively. COVID-19 testing laboratory at the Command Hospital Air Force, Bengaluru is operational for testing," the IAF said.  Till now, around 1,600 people have been infected by novel coronavirus and 38 people have died due to it in India, according to the Union Health Ministry. Comprehensive measures have been taken to control the spread of contagion at all the bases, the IAF stated. "IAF stations are also continuing to provide meals & support to all people from economically weaker section of the society residing in their neighbourhood," the statement said. India has imposed a 21-day lockdown till April 14 to curb the spread of COVID-19, and domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-iaf-transports-around-25-tonnes-of-medical-supplies-in-last-3-days-across-country-820128.html
01-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India's farmers face shortage of harvest labour amid COVID-19 lockdown||A severe shortage of labour, triggered by India's 21-day lockdown to rein in a coronavirus pandemic, will hobble harvesting of winter crops in the world's second largest producer of staple foodgrains such as wheat. The northern breadbasket states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh rely on farm labourers from eastern India, but most of them returned home to their villages after the lockdown began on March 24, fearing the virus and facing wage disruptions. "We've never seen anything like this," said Ramandeep Singh Mann, a farmer from Punjab, whose family grows wheat, rice and cotton on more than 45 acres (18 hectares) and would employ about 10 workers if they used mechanical harvesters. "We've no one at all for harvests." Mann is just one of thousands of farmers worrying that the unprecedented labour shortage will make it tougher to get mechanical harvesters to fields or even pluck by hand crops expected to mature in mid-April. Late harvests mean lower yields, reduced returns, and a smaller window to plant next season's crops, besides leaving crops vulnerable to rain and hailstorms. Even if farmers somehow manage to bring in the harvest, they next face the struggle of taking produce to market, with few trucks available to carry large volumes. Most farmers sell produce only at wholesale markets which, in turn, depend on armies of labourers to unload, weigh and pack vast amounts of grain. The staffing shortage could also delay farmers' payments for produce. "Who is going to put grains in the bag, bring produce to wholesale markets, and then transport it to various storage facilities?" asked Jadish Lal, a merchant at the Khanna grain market in Punjab. The labour shortage would severely cripple wholesale markets and even bring them to a grinding halt, said Sudhir Panwar, chief of farmers' group Kisan Jagriti Manch. Besides farmers of wheat and rapeseed, vegetable and horticulture growers will also struggle to sell their produce, Panwar added. India has forecast wheat output at a record 106.21 million tonnes this year, and farmers are likely to produce 7.8 million tonnes of rapeseed. Some farmers harvested early sown wheat and rapeseed varieties in March, but most growers will collect ripening crops by mid-April. India has 1,251 infections and 32 deaths from the virus, which has caused nearly 800,000 cases worldwide, with more than 38,800 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indias-farmers-face-shortage-of-harvest-labour-amid-covid-19-lockdown-820131.html
01-04-2020||National||Jostling for space on ground; planes find parking on runway||As commercial flight services remain suspended, hundreds of planes across the country seem to be jostling for space at airports with some of them even being parked on runways and bays near them, according to industry officials. With the country under a 21-day lockdown in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak, domestic and international flights have been banned till April 14. Cargo flights and special flights approved by aviation regulator DGCA are operating in the Indian airspace. The country's commercial fleet of aircraft is around 650 in number and most of them have been grounded. A few are being used to ferry cargo to and from different parts of the country, and some to operate special flights. The Indira Gandhi International Airport in the national capital is the country's largest aerodrome and has 194 parking stands for planes. This excludes stands available for "general aviation" purpose. General aviation refers to use of planes for recreation and chartered services, among others. The airport, operated by DIAL, handled 69.8 million passengers and 1.04 million metric tonne of cargo in 2019. It has three passenger terminals and one cargo terminal. State-owned Airports Authority of India (AAI) Chairman Arvind Singh said it has been able to manage parking of planes. AAI manages 137 airports and out of them, 107 are operational. "So far we have been able to manage. In Delhi airport, a runway that is operational in normal times is being used to park aircraft," Singh told PTI. When contacted, a Delhi airport spokesperson said the aerodrome has 194 parking stands, excluding the stands for general aviation aircraft. "As part of normal operations, all parking stands are used on a daily basis including remote stands. While all three runways are operational, at present runway 9/27 is closed due to lack of demand," the spokesperson said. Budget airline AirAsia's COO Ankur Garg said that due to the temporary suspension of commercial air passenger services, airports have allowed airlines to park at the remote bay area near runways due to space constraints. "Many hangars are also being utilised as spaces to park the aircraft and we are not facing any shortage of parking bay at any of the airports. We have worked with the airports and managed to secure parking slots as per our requirements," he said. Low-cost carrier GoAir's spokesperson said all its aircraft are secured and parked at various airports. "We have worked with airports and managed to secure parking slots as per our requirements," a spokesperson for full service carrier Vistara said. Queries sent to the country's largest airline IndiGo, national carrier Air India and budget airline SpiceJet regarding parking of their aircraft remained unanswered. There was no comment from Mumbai airport operator MIAL. In a note on March 23, aviation consultancy CAPA said that suspension of flight services coincides with what can only be described as destruction of demand in the last few days. "The timing of the resumption of services is entirely in the control of the government, but it will most likely be beyond March 31. As a result, the entire Indian commercial fleet of around 650 aircraft lies grounded. In fact, not a single scheduled aircraft movement will take place at Indian airports over the coming days, either by an Indian or a foreign airline," it had said. The note was issued before the 21-day nationwide lockdown that started on March 25 as part of efforts to curb spreading of coronavirus infections. Prior to the lockdown, India had suspended international flights and later domestic services. The ban period has been extended till April 14, when the lockdown is to end. As many airlines worldwide are curtailing their services and grounding planes in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, social media is also abuzz with funny comments. "Confirming our fleet are parked up at least 2 metres apart #PhysicalDistancing," Air New Zealand said in a tweet on Monday along with a picture of parked planes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jostling-for-space-on-ground-planes-find-parking-on-runway-820141.html
01-04-2020||National||All SC judges donate Rs 50,000 each to PM COVID-19 fund||All Supreme Court judges including Chief Justice of India donated Rs 50,000 each to the PM CARES fund to aid the nation’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic. An official of the apex court told PTI that all the 33 judges including the CJI have donated Rs 50,000 each to the fund. He said cheques have already been sent to the fund. Earlier, Justice N V Ramana, senior-most judge after CJI S A Bobde, had donated Rs 1 lakh each to PM’s fund and funds of chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh And Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-sc-judges-donate-rs-50000-each-to-pm-covid-19-fund-820148.html
01-04-2020||National||44 DTC, cluster buses carry migrant workers amid COVID-19 lockdown; FIR registered||A case has been registered in connection with the use of DTC and cluster buses to carry migrant workers leaving the city to Anand Vihar ISBT amid the lockdown due to COVID-19 outbreak, police said on Wednesday. The case was registered at Shakarpur police station in East Delhi based on the complaint of a policeman. "We have registered the case under various sections of IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005," said a senior police officer. "This act on the part of bus drivers/conductors and operations head of DIMTS C K Goyal and other government servants who are responsible for it, had committed an offence under Sections 269, 270, 271 and 188 of IPC and Section 55 of Disaster Management Act,” reads the FIR. No reaction was immediately available from Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot. The complainant was on picket duty at ITO bridge on Sunday when he saw 44 DTC and cluster buses ferrying migrant workers. When enquired, the passengers said they were going to Anand Vihar Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) from where they will board the buses to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, he said. The passengers were briefed about COVID-19 and the lockdown, and the buses were sent back to the places from where they started. According to the police, the buses originated from various parts of the city, including Badarpur, Vasant Vihar, Hari Nagar, Anand Parbat, Uttam Nagar, Manglapuri, Munirka and Punjabi Bagh. "When drivers of these buses were asked why were they carrying passengers that too without issuing them tickets, they replied, 'upar se order hai' (there are orders from senior officers)," the complainant said. The Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal System (DIMTS), which operates cluster buses in the city, refused to comment on the episode. The Centre had on Sunday suspended two senior Delhi government officers and served show-cause notices on two others for "serious lapses" in duty during the ongoing lockdown. Meanwhile, the Delhi Contract Bus Association in a statement claimed that 50 to 60 buses of its members that were deployed to transport migrant workers, on the directions of government, were seized by the police. The association appealed to the prime minister, home minister and Delhi chief minister to help the bus operators and get the buses released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/44-dtc-cluster-buses-carry-migrant-workers-amid-covid-19-lockdown-fir-registered-820153.html
01-04-2020||National||India, Kuwait agree to cooperate during coronavirus crisis||India and Kuwait on Wednesday decided that officials of the two countries would maintain regular contact during the health crisis arising out of coronavirus spread to exchange information and explore avenues of cooperation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Kuwait counterpart Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah held a telephonic conversation where the decision was taken. The Kuwaiti prime minister stressed that the State of Kuwait greatly values the contribution of the large Indian community there and would continue to ensure their safety and welfare in the present situation, a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office said. Modi expressed his thanks and appreciation for the reassurance. Both leaders discussed the domestic and international aspects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the statement said. "They agreed that their officials would maintain regular contact during the health crisis, in order to exchange information and explore avenues of cooperation and mutual support," it said. The prime minister also conveyed his greetings and best wishes for the good health of the Amir of Kuwait, the Royal Family, and the people of Kuwait.   He underlined the importance that India attaches to its relations with Kuwait, a valued member of India's extended neighbourhood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-kuwait-agree-to-cooperate-during-coronavirus-crisis-820154.html
01-04-2020||National||Motive suspect on setting up PM-CARES: CPI(M)||The criticism over PM-CARES to collect funds for COVID-19 is mounting with the CPI(M) on Wednesday questioning the motive behind the move as the country already has a Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF). In a statement, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau said the setting up of the separate fund to meet COVID-19 was "unnecessary" and demanded that the funds collected under PM-CARES, set up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, be immediately transferred to PMNRF. "After Pulwama attack, a similar fund was set up called 'Bharat ke Veer', to provide assistance to victims. However, so far, no transparency or accountability on how this fund was utilized is visible. In this background, the 'PM-CARES' raises many disturbing questions...The motive for setting up this new fund remains suspect. In any case, it should have been named 'India Cares and not PM-CARES," it said. Earlier opposing the PM-CARES, eminent historian Ramachandra Guha had accused Modi of using a tragedy to enhance personality cult while senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said the Prime Minister owed an explanation for the "highly unusual move" to create a separate public charitable trust whose rules and expenditure are "totally opaque". On March 28, Modi announced the setting up of public charitable ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund’ (PM CARES Fund) with the "primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected". Besides the Prime Minister as Chairman of the Trust, it has the Defence Minister, the Home Minister and the Finance Minister as members among others. The CPI(M) said the PMNRF, which has been in existence since 1948, has reportedly an unspent balance of Rs 3,800 crore and the accounts of the fund are transparent, audited by the CAG and auto-generated receipts are given to the donors. "Given this, many questions are being raised on why a new fund has been created. This new fund has trustees, the Prime Minister and three other ministers without any opposition party or civil society leaders as members. The contribution page is hosted on the Prime Minister’s official web page. The Prime Minister has openly appealed through social media for donations," it said. "Substantial donations have poured in from the corporate world, celebrities, public sector undertakings etc. There are reports that a day’s salary is being deducted from government employees and professionals, the armed and para-military forces as contribution towards this fund. Further, corporates will be considered as fulfilling their CSR obligations by merely contributing to this fund. There is no mention of maintenance of accounts, their audit or on the answerability of the decisions taken by these four trustees. In short, there is no transparency and accountability," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/motive-suspect-on-setting-up-pm-cares-cpim-820160.html
01-04-2020||National||Some people not following lockdown guidelines, weakening battle against coronavirus: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Wednesday lamented that "some people" are taking the battle against the coronavirus lightly by not following the lockdown guidelines and thereby weakening the nation's fight against the pandemic. He made these remarks while interacting with senior party leaders from several states through video conference as part of his daily review of the BJP's efforts to help the poor during the 21-day nationwide lockdown. "Entire country is displaying courage, resolve and patience in taking on the challenge of the coronavirus. But some people are taking this battle lightly and not following the lockdown guidelines. This is weakening our fight against the coronavirus," a BJP statement quoted Nadda as saying. Though Nadda did not specify, his remarks appeared to be aimed at the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary body accused by officials of holding its meeting in Delhi defying restrictions. They said it has led to a big spurt in coronavirus cases due to presence of infected people in the gathering. Nadda was speaking to party leaders from Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Chhattisgarh. The BJP is determined to ensure that nobody goes hungry in this crisis and asked party leaders to take every measure to help people, the statement said quoting Nadda. The BJP president asserted that there is no dearth of essential items like food and medicine in any part of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-people-not-following-lockdown-guidelines-weakening-battle-against-coronavirus-nadda-820161.html
01-04-2020||National||Take actions for redressal of migrant labourers' grievances during lockdown: Health Secretary to states||The Union Health Secretary on Wednesday asked states and union territories to take necessary actions for redressal of grievances of migrant labourers amid a nationwide lockdown to combat coronavirus, as directed by the Supreme Court. Secretary Preeti Sudan wrote that migrant workers in relief camps and shelter homes should be provided adequate medical facilities, besides proper arrangements for food, clean drinking water and sanitation. Also, trained counsellors and community group leaders belonging to all faiths will visit the relief camps and shelter homes and deal with any consternation that the migrants might be going through. This shall be done in all the relief camps a nd shelter homes wherever migrants are located in the country, she said. A detailed guidelines to deal with psychological issues among migrants has been placed on the website of the Ministry of Health, she said. "The anxiety and fear of the migrants should be understood by the police and other authorities and they should deal with them in a human manner," she said, citing the order of the apex court. The state governments and union territories should endeavour to engage volunteers along with the police to supervise the welfare activities of the migrants and all concerned to appreciate the trepidation of the poor man, women, and children and treat them with kindness. "All states are accordingly requested to take necessary action and submit a compliance report to the directions of the Supreme court," she said in her letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-actions-for-redressal-of-migrant-labourers-grievances-during-lockdown-health-secretary-to-states-820164.html
01-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Railway racing against time in contact tracing||Indian Railways is racing against the time to dig out the passengers' lists to compare with the list of participants attended  Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the national capital to find out who travelled in trains as part of contact tracing exercise. The railways in association with the state authorities to find out which train the maximum number of participants of the event has travelled. The railways are providing the list of passengers and their contact numbers. The states are sending SMSs to such passengers to come to the hospital for testing. With more than 3 to 4 thousands participants attended the event, the railways suspect many of them have returned to their home through train before train services stopped. The congregation held close to Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station, the states have sought the details trains and passengers list so that it would be easy for them to trace the contacts. Some states also sought trains and passenger details of trains originating from New Delhi Railway Station. In both stations around 130 trains originating daily and another 230 trains originating from different stations halts. The average daily passenger footfall will be around 7 to 9 lakh in these two stations. So far Telangana and Tamil Nadu governments have sought the passenger list of three trains originating such as Grand Trunk Express, Guntur Duronto Express and Tamil Nadu  Express.  With several COVID-19 affected patients have travel history to the event, the state wanted to compare the list of names provided by organisers and name in the railways' passengers list to trace the contact list. In Jharkhand, the Ranchi Deputy Commissioner has requested all the passengers traveled in B1 coach in New Delhi-Ranch Rajdhani Express on March 17 to report to COVID-19 designated hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-railway-racing-against-time-in-contact-tracing-820167.html
01-04-2020||National||COVID-19 cases in India spike by 386, highest in 24 hours||India witnessed the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 patients as 386 new cases were reported on Wednesday, a large number on account of travel of members of Tablighi Jamaat after a congregation here last month. However, the health ministry said the sudden spike in COVID-19 cases did not represent a national trend and was mainly on account of travel by members of the Tablighi Jamaat. With Tablighi Jamaat event sending states scrambling to trace members who attended the congregation in Nizamuddin locality here, the Centre renewed its appeal to avoid public meetings and gatherings to prevent any further spread of the disease. On the brighter side, as many as 132 COVID-19 patients have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospitals. Civil Aviation Ministry, under the Lifeline Udan initiative, operated 74 cargo flights since March 26 to various parts of the country to beef up medical supplies, including that of personal protection equipment, testing kits and masks in remote corners of the nation. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the preparedness of the armed forces in dealing with the situation. He was told that separate hospitals across the defence network had been identified to exclusively deal with COVID-19 and more than 9000 hospital beds have been made available. Chief of Army Staff M M Naravane told Singh that 8,500 army doctors and support staff were on standby to extend necessary assistance to the civilian administration, while Air Force Chief R K S Bhadauria said that IAF had ferried 25 tonnes of medical supplies over the past five days. Briefing reporters here, Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry, said that Railways was preparing to set up 3.2 lakh isolation and quarantine beds by modifying 20,000 coaches.  Modification of 5000 coaches has begun through which 80,000 new isolation beds are expected, he added. He said the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority also notified that prices of 24 classes of medical devices will be regulated under the drug price control order from Wednesday. Accordingly, manufacturers of these devices cannot hike the MRP more than 10 % of the previous year’s rate to ensure stability in prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-india-spike-by-386-highest-in-24-hours-820190.html
01-04-2020||National||Punish members of the Tabligh-e-Jamaat: Goa CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday called for punishment of the members of the Tabligh-e-Jamaat, who are responsible for the spread of COVID-19 in different parts of the country, adding that the organisation has caused damage to the country.  The Chief Minister also said, that the government had no information about any members of the Jamaat returning to Goa, after the congregation which ended on March 15.  "Police say they have come from Gujarat and Kerala. This is dangerous. We have be careful about those from Tabligh. It is important to know which centers they have come from. I will source information now," Sawant told reporters at a press conference on Wednesday. "They (members of the Jamaat) should not have it and yet they have done it. They should be punished according to me," Sawant also told reporters. Dozens of attendees at the Markaz held at Delhi's Nizamuddin area last month have tested COVID-19 positive. When the congregation dispersed, members of the Jamaat left for different parts of the country, like Tamil Nadu, Telangana and even Andaman and Nicobar Islands, where several cases have also been reported subsequently.  Sawant said that the Tabligh-e-Jamaat had done severe damage to the country with their actions.  "The Tabligh-e-Jamaat has damaged the country, according to the media reports which I have seen. They have put the country in trouble by the manner in which they allowed (COVID-19) to spread," Sawant said.  "I have sought information from the police who have said that no persons of the Jamaat had entered Goa after March 15," Sawant also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punish-members-of-the-tabligh-e-jamaat-goa-cm-820194.html
01-04-2020||National||CBSE to offer 'Applied Mathematics' as elective for class 11, 12 students||After introducing two levels of mathematics papers for class 10 students, CBSE will now offer 'Applied Mathematics' as an academic elective at the senior secondary level for those who do not want to take it up for higher studies or won't opt for engineering which require a broader understanding of the subject. The elective subject aimed at developing an understanding of basic mathematical and statistical tools and their applications in the field of commerce and social science, will be offered as elective for class 11 students from 2020 academic session and ultimately for class 12 students from the year after. Students who had taken up 'Basic Mathematics' in class 10 will be allowed to opt for 'Applied Mathematics' at senior secondary level. "Mathematics is widely used in higher studies -- in the field of Economics, Commerce, Social Sciences and many others. It has been observed that the existing syllabus of mathematics aligns well with science subjects, but not so much with commerce or social science-based subjects in university education. "Keeping this in mind, one more elective course in mathematics syllabus will be offered for senior secondary classes with an aim to provide students relevant experience in mathematics which can be used in the fields other than physical sciences," the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said in an official notification. According to CBSE officials, a course by this name was earlier designed as a skill subject. "The academic course that has been designed now by the same name has several value additions to develop substantial mathematical skills and methods needed in other subject areas. Topics covered in two years shall aim to enable students use mathematical knowledge in the field of business, economics and social sciences. It aims to promote appreciation of mathematical power and simplicity for its countless applications in diverse field. "It is expected that the new subject -- applied mathematics -- is taught by connecting concepts to the application in various fields, thereby enabling students to develop 21st century competencies such as critical thinking, problem solving, logical reasoning and mathematical thinking," a senior board official said. However, students who want to opt for mathematics in higher studies as an elective or want to take admission in mathematics (honours) course or engineering course will be required to take the existing subject 'Mathematics'. "Applied Mathematics course is designed to enhance the knowledge and skills of mathematics that are required to be successful in different fields of their career. Therefore this course may be selected by students keeping this aspect in mind. "Students, parents and schools may take a conscious choice in selection of this subject by taking into consideration the scope of this subject in getting admission to different courses at university level," the official said. Board officials explained that the approach of the subject 'applied mathematics' will be practical in nature. Students are expected to learn through practical applications of mathematics in different disciplines, they said. "The students who have passed 'Basic Mathematics' in class 10 will now be allowed to take up the new academic elective 'Applied Mathematics' at senior secondary level. Accordingly, the students who have passed 'Basic Mathematics' as well as 'Standard Mathematics' in Class X of CBSE exam are eligible for this course. "However, students who have passed 'Mathematics-Basic' at secondary level are not eligible to opt for 'Mathematics' at senior secondary level. The affiliated schools who have permission for running 'Mathematics' course in their school at senior secondary level shall be automatically eligible to run this course with the availability of necessary infrastructure and human resources," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-offer-applied-mathematics-as-elective-for-class-11-12-students-820197.html
01-04-2020||National||Bangalore Life Sciences Cluster to start COVID-19 research||The Bangalore Life Sciences Cluster (BLiSC) has announced that it will soon start proposing projects intended to achieve an immediate and medium-term response to the COVID-19 outbreak. In a statement, BLiSC said that it is “actively participating in the national effort to track, study and counter the pandemic.”  It added that this move was prompted by a March 21 meeting by the Empowered Committee for COVID-19 which mandated that all national research laboratories develop “speedy implementation of solutions related to COVID-19.” The BLiSC comprises the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), the Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (InStem) and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-Camp).  Immediate effect proposals Among the immediate-effect proposals that the Cluster is submitting to the Empowered Committee for fast-track approval include solutions for COVID-19-monitoring, based on the campus’ existing capabilities in molecular biology; genetics and molecular epidemiology for mapping disease spread and disease susceptibility and technological solutions for multiple aspects of COVID-19 management, including better diagnostic methods and clinical management. Another immediate-term proposal includes developing techniques for better protection against infection.  Medium-term Response The medium-response proposals comprise a multi-institutional effort to model the spread of the disease and using modern genomics and bioinformatics approaches to understand the evolution of the pathogen, specifically, its ability to cause disease and thereby map the susceptibility of human populations to COVID-19.  “We are proud to have been called upon to contribute to the national response to COVID-19, and will bring all the resources at our disposal to bear on this challenge,” BLiSC said. Research groups at the Cluster have expertise in cell and molecular biology, genetics and genomics, epidemiology, analytic technologies, and computational modelling. The Cluster said it also has a suite of state-of-the-art technologies and facilities (DNA sequencing, microscopy, analytic chemistry). The laboratories are of the BSL-2 and BSL-3 grade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangalore-life-sciences-cluster-to-start-covid-19-research-820204.html
01-04-2020||National||India looks at China, South Korea, Germany for best practices, technology to contain coronavirus||India is looking at South Korea, Germany and China for procurement of cutting-edge technology and adopting best practices being followed by them in successfully containing the spread of coronavirus amid looming risk of the country entering the community infection stage of the pandemic. Indian missions in these three countries have been tasked to immediately identifying possible areas of cooperation and engage with relevant authorities for procurement of medical equipment and technology. The move comes as India saw rapid increase in number of positive coronavirus cases in the last few days. The need for looking at best practices, innovations, scientific breakthroughs and medical equipment to fight the pandemic was highlighted extensively by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference he held with heads of 130 Indian missions on Monday. Government officials said India is specifically looking at South Korea's approach of widespread testing and significant use of digital tracking of suspected cases to contain the pandemic. The South Korean model of 'trace, test and treat strategy' has received global recognition. Unlike majority of the countries dealing with the pandemic, South Korea has not resorted to any lockdown and allowed business and economic activities to go on as usual. As China managed to flatten the curve of new infections after reporting over 80,000 cases and 3,300 deaths, India is also looking at China along with a very few other countries to procure medical equipment and technology to cater to expanding demand of medical infrastructure across the country. "We have to prepare for the future requirement. That is why we are scouting global markets for best available technology and medical equipment," said an official. The Indian embassy in Beijing has been tasked to coordinate with relevant authorities in China for procurement of medical equipment. On multiple occasions, China said that it was ready to extend possible assistance to India in dealing with the pandemic. Officials said India is in touch with a number of suppliers in China for immediate procurement of 10,000 ventilators. India has recorded over 1,600 positive cases of coronavirus and at least 38 deaths so far. Globally, the virus has infected more than 850,000 people and claimed around 42,000 lives. Officials said India is also examining Germany's efforts to check the pandemic. The leading European nation has asked several of its car manufacturers to produce ventilators and other medical equipment to deal with rising cases of the infection. The Indian envoy in Washington is coordinating with the Trump administration for cooperation in laboratory tests for the virus infection, sources said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke over phone to discuss a coordinated effort by India and the US to respond to the pandemic. Earlier on March 14, the two top diplomats discussed ways in which India and the US could cooperate to address this global challenge. The number of those infected by the deadly disease surged to 164,000 and fatalities crossed 3,100 in the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-looks-at-china-south-korea-germany-for-best-practices-technology-to-contain-coronavirus-820205.html
01-04-2020||National||COVID-19 pandemic prompts govt to accept foreign donations||The Central government has decided to accept foreign donations to the PM CARES Fund launched to pool resources to support its effort to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources said that the decision to accept donations from individuals and organizations in India and abroad had been taken in view of the “unprecedented nature” of the crisis that the pandemic had put the country into. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government had in 2018 decided against accepting foreign donations to support relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction work in flood-ravaged Kerala. It had triggered protests from certain sections, particularly in Kerala. The government, however, had stuck to its decision, which was in sync with the policy formulated by erstwhile Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government during the Tsunami in 2004. The PM CARES Fund was set up as a public charitable trust in view of the several requests from India and abroad for making a generous contribution to support the Government in its fight against COVID-19. “In view of the interest expressed to contribute to government's efforts, as well as keeping in mind the unprecedented nature of the pandemic, contributions to the Trust can be done by individuals and organisations, both in India and abroad,” a source said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-prompts-govt-to-accept-foreign-donations-820206.html
01-04-2020||National||India’s grim coronavirus exodus has some ugly echoes||By Nisid Hajari While many nations see echoes of the 1918 influenza epidemic, or even the medieval Black Death, in their battle against the new coronavirus, India is being reminded of a more modern tragedy. Hundreds of thousands of desperately poor workers and their families have taken to the roads in recent days, fleeing cities for their home villages in a mass migration reminiscent of the 1947 Partition that gave birth to modern India and Pakistan. The images that began flooding out of India after Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a three-week “lockdown” of the country starting March 24 have in some ways been as heart-wrenching as newsreel footage from 1947: men and women with feet worn bloody by walking hundreds of miles in brutal heat; children clamoring for food; crowds clinging to the roofs of the few overcrowded buses still running; migrants cowering under the batons of police and, in one appalling case, drenched by  “disinfectant” sprayed on them as if they were livestock. The crisis has drawn the attention of the global media and India’s Supreme Court. The parallels to Partition, in which as many as 14 million people crossed from one side of the new border to the other and perhaps a million more died, are hardly exact. The numbers today appear to be much smaller. These migrants aren’t fleeing violence and aren’t being attacked by marauding gangs, or other refugees, along the way; there’s no sectarian dimension to the exodus. And this great migration is unlikely to result in any permanent demographic shift: Workers will almost certainly return to cities once the economy revives and the jobs that originally drew them begin to reappear. The two crises share one key element, however, which leaders today overlooked as cavalierly as the founders of India and Pakistan did in 1947: fear. Neither Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the father of Pakistan, nor Jawaharlal Nehru, India’s first prime minister, expected a mass uprooting of populations after the subcontinent was carved into two independent nations. Jinnah intended Pakistan, which then included today’s Bangladesh, simply to encompass those parts of the subcontinent where Muslims were already in a majority; he imagined most of the rest of India’s Muslims, other than some elites who moved to work in the new government or to set up business, would remain in India. Nehru, too, figured the Hindus and Sikhs who found themselves on Pakistan’s side of the border would settle there as full citizens; they were numerous enough that it would have been difficult for Jinnah or any subsequent Pakistani leader to strip them of their rights. What both governments underestimated was the visceral power of fear. In the year leading up to Partition, Hindu-Muslim riots around the country killed thousands. The violence reached a feverish intensity in Bengal and the Punjab—the two provinces to be divided by the new border—just before it was unveiled. Those with resources began to move their goods and families even before the British relinquished power. The first attacks after independence were specifically targeted at driving minorities, whether Muslims on the Indian side of the border or Hindus and Sikhs in Pakistan, out of their homes. Their compatriots had every reason to believe that if they stayed, they’d be next. Those Indians embarking on grueling foot journeys today may not be fleeing sectarian violence, but they have equally legitimate fears—not only of the coronavirus, which has spread quickly in densely populated cities from Wuhan to New York, but more fundamentally of hunger and homelessness. India had more than 40 million migrant workers according to the last census; other estimates put the number closer to 120 million. Many of them live hand-to-mouth; they lack the reserves to wait out a three-week lockdown and the confidence that the government will provide a safety net in the interim. This challenge isn’t one that better education or enforcement can resolve. It’s pointless to tell people that they’re exposing themselves to disease by joining thousands on the road or mobbing bus depots if their alternative, now that they’ve lost their precarious jobs, is to starve. Putting up roadblocks and beating stragglers will only encourage them to find new routes, off the main highways. The only way to reverse this exodus is to do what the government should have done from the beginning: Address their vast and entirely predictable insecurity. Only once people are assured of a roof over their heads and food for their children will they heed injunctions to shelter in place. These needs should have been anticipated even before Modi’s lockdown order, with aid directed to the urban poor in particular and a clear system established for assuring shelter and food distribution. Or, as Bangladesh did, the government should have allowed enough time before the lockdown order went into effect to transport those who wanted to go back home. Some have suggested enlisting village governments to test and monitor returnees. The government is belatedly taking some of these steps, telling the Supreme Court on Tuesday that all migrants had supposedly been cleared off the roads and housed in temporary camps. It had better move fast: In 1947, more refugees may well have died on the roads from disease and hunger than from the massacres that were driving them. Even at a smaller scale, that’s a tragedy India cannot afford to repeat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-grim-coronavirus-exodus-has-some-ugly-echoes-820232.html
01-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19: Hold back issues, no time for quibbling, says VP Venkaiah Naidu||Amid criticism of the government on the handling of COVID-19 situation, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has urged "intellectuals and others" to "hold back issues, saying there is "no place for quibbling" till the country overcomes the crisis. Naidu's comments have come at a time when activists and politicians have been criticising the government on a variety of issues, including tackling the migrant workers’ problems, and intellectuals like Ramachandra Guha questioning the setting of PM-CARES when the country already has Prime Minister's Relief Fund. In a statement that came as the country completed the first week of 21-day lockdown to tackle COVID-19, Naidu said the exercise so far has been "very encouraging" while the next two weeks will be "very critical". He said some issues are bound to arise like that of migrant labourers and farmers during the harvest season amidst "such a massive unprecedented social and physical lockdown" across the nation. However, he said, "there is no place for quibbling over some issues amidst such a massive national effort in this hour of crisis. Situation warrants that we present a united front instead of a divided one. I urge the intellectuals and others to hold back issues, if any till we overcome the crisis, while exercising their right to seek answers. I call upon them to come forward with suggestions for effectively tackling the menace." The decision to impose lockdown was "hard but inevitable" given the 130 crore population and the status of health infrastructure. "Extreme situations warrant such extreme options. The first week of the three week lockdown has raised hopes of meeting the challenge even as the duration of the fight remains uncertain at this stage," he said. "The circles, boxes and the lines drawn at the grocery stores and vegetable markets to maintain physical distance, people lining up in queues, conversion of railway wagons into isolation wards, quick designing of testing tool kits and ventilators and enforcement of lockdown by the government machinery are being acknowledged as a mark of our resoluteness to fight the dreaded virus which has already taken a heavy toll of health and wealth across the nations," he said. Naidu also urged people to make proper and effective use of social media and not spread unauthenticated and frivolous information about COVID-19. "People’s cooperation is the key to effective actions of the governments in this hour of challenge. I urge the people to collectively rise to the occasion. Learning from the experiences of the first week of lockdown, let us cooperate over the next two weeks which is a critical period for containing the spread of the virus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-hold-back-issues-no-time-for-quibbling-says-vp-venkaiah-naidu-819935.html
01-04-2020||National Politics||Reduction in interest rates on small savings heartless, must be rolled back: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday termed the cut in interest rates on small savings as a heartless and shameful act, and demanded its immediate rollback. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the reduction in interest rates on small savings is irrational, illogical and ill-timed as it has come at a time when the people are already facing hardship due to the lockdown and the economic recession. The 21-day lockdown was imposed in the country from March 25 to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. He also demanded that the government waive interest on EMIs for the three-month period from March to June, saying the moratorium in EMIs is merely hogwash and a postponing exercise. The Congress leader also demanded that the government comes out with the second tranche of economic relief packages to help small and medium enterprises, and the poor and common people from the economic downturn the country is facing. "The BJP government's decision to cut interest rates on small saving schemes is a heartless and shameful act that will hit the common people, especially the farmers, middle class and the poor who are already suffering due to the downturn in the economy," Shergill told reporters at a press conference held through video conferencing. "The decision to reduce interest rates on small savings is ill-timed, illogical and irrational," he said, adding that it will snatch the incomes of 90 crore people in the country. Shergill said the government will earn an additional 26,000 crore through this reduction in interest rates and said it should not act like "Sherlock to extract a pound of flesh from the people". He said the government should instead work towards raising incomes of people instead of shrinking it, for helping them survive this economic downturn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/reduction-in-interest-rates-on-small-savings-heartless-must-be-rolled-back-congress-819958.html
01-04-2020||National Politics||Ensure needy people get essential items: Rahul Gandhi to Amethi Unit amid COVID-19 lockdown||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have instructed the Amethi Congress unit to ensure all needy people get essentials items during the lockdown, a party office bearer said on Wednesday. The district unit's chief Pradeep Singhal said, "As per instructions of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi, every Congress worker is involved in providing essential items to the needy people." "Party workers are reaching to various parts of the district and helping people," he said. Singhal also said the needy people are being given 10-kg wheat flour, 5-kg rice, 1-kg pulses, salt sugar, mustard oil and spices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ensure-needy-people-get-essential-items-rahul-gandhi-to-amethi-unit-amid-covid-19-lockdown-820145.html
01-04-2020||National Politics||Give 21 days' wages in advance to MGNREGA workers: Sonia Gandhi asks PM Narendra Modi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking advance payment of 21 days' wages to MGNREGA workers across the country to help them tide over the present crisis due to coronavirus lockdown. In her letter to the prime minister, Gandhi said a large number of rural poor are without work and around 8 crore MGNREGA workers are devoid of an alternative source of income due to the countrywide lockdown, thus, they should be paid money in advance to tide over the current crisis. "Given the urgency of providing income support to the rural poor, due to lost wages, the government may consider immediate advance payment of wages for 21 days to registered and active MGNREGA workers," she said. The Congress Parliamentary Party chairperson said the advance wages may be adjusted against the work to be done by the workers, once MGNREGA sites are opened up. "I request you to take immediate action and extend support to nearly eight crore rural workers in the country," she said. Gandhi said since its inception, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has been a critical lifeline for the rural poor, particularly during periods of chronic economic distress. She noted that lakhs of agricultural workers have been left unemployed during the crucial harvesting season. Devoid of an alternative source of income, she said an increasingly large number of the rural poor are expected to demand work under MGNREGA. However, social distancing norms have rendered all works unfeasible during the lockdown, she said, adding that even when the MGNREGA works commence the workers would be paid after a month thereafter to get their wages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/give-21-days-wages-in-advance-to-mgnrega-workers-sonia-gandhi-asks-pm-narendra-modi-820192.html
01-04-2020||National Politics||Politics over coronavirus outbreak starts in West Bengal||Recently, TMC posted an animated sketch on their official twitter handle which depicts the Chief Minister standing atop a high wall that surrounds a city and facing up to an ominous cloud, which is the novel coronavirus. It also shows that as the Chief Minister is standing guard against the coronavirus, and people are peacefully sleeping in their homes. The sketch is accompanied by a caption in Bengal, roughly translated as “People are in peace as Mamata guards Bengal,” TMC sources revealed that the sketch is the brainchild of poll strategist Prashant Kishor. Banerjee has been one of the most proactive political leader and Chief Minister ever since the COVID-19 outbreak made its presence felt in the country. While other political personalities have mostly remained indoors Banerjee is conducting several visits to market places and hospitals. Her actions have largely been praised by the people of the state and are likely to benefit TMC in a significant manner in the now indefinitely deferred municipal elections and the 2021 Assembly elections. Keen on not being left behind state BJP leaders have also started to hit the streets to distribute aid among people. This has sparked off a bitter war of words with the TMC leadership. Police stopped state BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta on Tuesday when tried to distribute relief materials prompting the BJP leadership to allege that the state administration was selectively preventing their leaders from distributing aid but allowing TMC leaders. “What the Chief Minister is doing is politics and not public service. If she can roam around distributing relief material, then why are we being prevented?” said state BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Reacting to Ghosh’s comment senior TMC leader and Minister Sujit Bose dubbed BJP’s action as “nothing but pretension".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politics-over-coronavirus-outbreak-starts-in-west-bengal-820227.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||101 from Chhattisgarh who attended Nizamuddin meet in quarantine||As many as 101 people from Chhattisgarh, who attended a religious congregation in New Delhis Nizamuddin, that has become a key source for the spread of coronavirus in the country, have been identified so far and placed under quarantine, officials said on Tuesday. The gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in the national capital, was held earlier this month and it was attended by delegates from all over the country. The state government has so far identified 101 people who had participated in the gathering, a senior official said here, adding they hail from different districts and some are natives of other states. "Of them, 32 have been placed under quarantine, while 69 are in isolation in different places," the official said, adding their medical screening is underway. Most of them belong to Chhattisgarh, while the others hail from different states and were staying in mosques in cities, he said. Health department secretary Niharika Barik has directed district collectors to identify and trace all those those attended the event and carry out their medical examination. Officials in Delhi had said that about 30 of those who attended the Nizamuddin event tested positive for coronavirus and at least three have succumbed to the infection in the last few days. Till Tuesday, Chhattisgarh reported eight COVID-19 cases. Of these, two were discharged from a Raipur hospital on Tuesday following recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/101-from-chhattisgarh-who-attended-nizamuddin-meet-in-quarantine-819853.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz emerges as coronavirus hotspot, its cleric booked||The Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz in Nizamuddin West has emerged as a hotspot of coronavirus as 24 people tested positive for COVID-19 following which a major area has been sealed and an FIR lodged against its cleric for violating government orders. The police registered an FIR against Maulana Saad of the Nizamuddin centre under sections of Epidemic Disease Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code for violating government orders on the management of the Markaz in relation to a social, political or religious gathering. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said 24 people who attended the religious congregation at Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz earlier this month have tested positive for coronavirus, while 1,548 have been evacuated and 441 hospitalised after they showed its symptoms.   After the matter came to light, the Centre and the Delhi government swung into action to trace people who attended the congregation. Six people from Telangana and one from Jammu and Kashmir, who attended the event, died due to coronavirus. The Centre said 2,100 foreigners visited India for Tablighi activities since January 1 and all of them first reported at Tablighi Jamaat's headquarters in Nizamuddin. The Home Ministry also said a total of 303 Tablighi activists had symptoms of COVID-19 and were referred to different hospitals in Delhi. In a statement, the Home Ministry also said so far 1,339 Tabligh Jamaat workers have been shifted to Narela, Sultanpuri and Bakkarwala quarantine facilities, as well as to LNJP, RGSS, GTB, DDU Hospitals in Delhi and AllMS, Jhajjar (Haryana). The rest of them are being screened for coronavirus. In a digital press conference, Kejriwal said 1,107 people, who attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin West, have been quarantined. The Delhi Police has cordoned off a major area in Nizamuddin West. Tablighi Jamaat workers, both foreigners as well Indians, indulge in preaching tours or 'Chilla' across the country throughout the year. Various nationals, particularly from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Kyrgyzstan come for Tabligh activities. All such foreign nationals report their arrival at Tablighi Markaz at Banglewali Mosque in Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi and then they are detailed for 'Chilla' activities to different parts of the country, the Home Ministry said. While the Health Ministry said it was not the time to find faults and emphasised on implementing containment strategies, the arrangement of the congregation, at a time when strict restrictions were in place in Delhi due to coronavirus, invited criticism. Kejriwal slammed the organisers of the gathering, saying it was "highly irresponsible" on their part to hold such an event at a time when thousands have died in other countries due to the pandemic. He said his government has already written to Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal recommending the registration of an FIR against the organisers and added any lapse in performance of the officers related to the case will not be tolerated and strict action will be initiated. AAP MLA Atishi sought strong action against Markaz authorities "who organised a 3-day religious gathering, with 1000s of people from March 13-15, when Delhi government orders had expressly forbidden gatherings or more than 200 persons on 13th March itself". She was joined by her party colleague and Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan who said on March 23, at midnight, he spoke to DCP (southeast) and ACP Nizamuddin that there were nearly 1,000 people stranded in and around the Markaz, then why did the police not make any arrangement to move them. The Markaz in a statement said it has not violated any provision of law and offered its premises for setting up a quarantine facility.  The statement referred to the directive of the Delhi government to take legal action against the Markaz administration. "During this entire episode, Markaz Nizamuddin never violated any provision of law, and always tried to act with compassion and reason towards the visitors who came to Delhi from different states. It did not let them violate the medical guidelines by thronging ISBTs or roaming on streets," the statement said. It said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 'Janata Curfew' on March 22, the ongoing programme was discontinued immediately, but a large number of people were stuck in the premises due to the closure of railway services on March 21. "Before the Janta Curfew could be lifted at 9 pm, the Delhi chief minister announced lockdown of Delhi beginning at 6 am on March 23 till March 31, thereby further diminishing any chances of these visitors availing road transport for their journey back home," the statement said. The statement said around 1,500 people left the Markaz on March 23 by "availing whatever transport was available". On the evening of March 23, the prime minister announced a nationwide 21-day lockdown, the statement said, adding there was no option for Markaz Nizamuddin but to accommodate the stranded visitors with prescribed medical precautions. Residents of the area accused the administration and police of not heeding their complaints about a large number of people converging at the Markaz amid the coronavirus outbreak. Meanwhile, eight people from Kyrgyzstan, who attended the congregation at Nizamuddin, were found at Delhi's Bharat Nagar on Tuesday and quarantined, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tabligh-e-jamaats-markaz-emerges-as-coronavirus-hotspot-its-cleric-booked-819854.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Increase coronavirus testing, facilitate Rabi crop harvest: Cong to govt||The Congress urged the government on Tuesday to increase coronavirus testing in the country and also ensure adequate arrangement for smooth harvest and procurement of Rabi crop. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari also urged the government to issue a notification on deferment of EMI payment of loans during the lockdown period as well as absorb the interest subvention of interest accrued during the period. Referring to the religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin area which left several people affected by the virus, he said at a press conference addressed through video conferencing that this is not the time for a blame-game. Police and paramilitary personnel cordoned off a major area in Nizamuddin West in south Delhi while over 200 people have been kept in isolation in hospitals after several people who took part in a religious congregation there earlier this month showed COVID-19 symptoms. Referring to lakhs of migrant labourers trying to reach their native places traversing long distances by foot, the Congress leader said, "We request the government to make arrangements and ensure that those on the streets, desperately trying to get home should be helped in getting home safely." He called upon the government to make use of all Jan Dhan accounts, and as a contingency measure transfer Rs 10,000 into the bank account of every family to ensure that at their essentials expenses are taken care of for at least a month.  Tewari also urged the prime minister to talk to states to ensure adequate facilities and arrangements for smooth harvest and storage of the Rabi crop, which will be ready in the next 15 days. "We request the finance minister to ensure that the RBI circular regarding EMIs (being deferred for three months) be issued widely and that interest subvention arrangement be made for the interest on the deferred EMI payments," he said. Calling upon the government to allow more testing to find out coronavirus positive cases, Tewari said something needs to be done to increase testing and ensure that India does not enter the community transmission stage of the disease. India currently is the lowest tested nation in the world. COVID-19 is progressing towards phase three or community transmission and the only way to deal with it in a better manner is to conduct as many tests as possible, he said.  Highlighting the problem of inadequate testing equipment as only four companies are currently manufacturing those in the country, he said the government has given permission to 17 more firms, but they cannot market their products before they get FDA and European Union approval. It is not easy to get FDA or EU approval in the current scenario and hence "we request the government to come up with a plan to get the maximum number of testing kits without compromising with the quality and make the same available across India", the Congress leader said. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has issued an advisory and they are also emphasising on the need for conducting more tests, Tewari noted, adding that the only antidote to spread of COVID-19 is more testing. Tewari said, India's ratio for coronavirus testing is the lowest at 32 for every 10 lakh people while in the UK it is 921 for every 10 lakh people and the USA it is 2,600 for every 10 lakh people. What is extremely important, Tewari said, is to ensure quality of the equipment that is imported.  Highlighting the procurement problem that the Rabi crop producing states might be facing in the next few days, the Congress leader said 152.7 million tonnes of crop is expected to come in the market, which are currently shut due to the lockdown. He feared the country would be faced by a big problem in the next 15 days on harvesting and storage of Rabi crop. "We demand that the prime minister and the food minister talk to the state governments on how to make arrangement of harvesting and storage of Rabi crop," Tewari said. Asked on who is to be blamed for the Nizamuddin incident, he said, "This is not the time for blame game. This is not the time to check the intentions of governments now. People should adopt restraint... A time will come for these questions to be asked. But, this is not the right time." "We need to learn from every error that is being made and we need to make sure that the error is not repeated anywhere else in the country," Tewari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-coronavirus-testing-facilitate-rabi-crop-harvest-cong-to-govt-819855.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||CRI Kasauli approved by ICMR for conducting COVID-19 tests: Himachal CM||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved a fourth laboratory in Himachal Pradesh for conducting tests for COVID-19, Chief Minister Jairam Thakur said on Tuesday. In a statement, Thakur said the ICMR gave its approval to conduct COVID-19 tests at Kasauli's Central Research Institute (CRI) in Solan district. The ICMR's approval for the fourth laboratory will increase state's capacity to conduct the tests, the chief minister added. Earlier, the state had a capacity of testing 80 people daily in three labs at IGMC Shimla, Tanda College in Kangra and Medical College, Ner Chowk in Mandi, Thakur had informed the state Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cri-kasauli-approved-by-icmr-for-conducting-covid-19-tests-himachal-cm-819862.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police start helpline for people in Outer North district distressed by coronavirus||Delhi police have started a helpline number for people of its Outer North district who are under distress due to COVID-19, officials said on Tuesday. People can call at 011-21710115 between 8 am to 10 pm regarding their grievances, they said. The district police also arranged food for thousands of people hit by the lockdown. The Delhi police warned people against spreading rumours on social media on April Fools' Day. "We're vigilant and everywhere! Strict legal action will be taken against any attempt to spread rumours on social media in the guise of #AprilFoolsDay," the police tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-start-helpline-for-people-in-outer-north-district-distressed-by-coronavirus-819874.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||15-yr-old girl raped in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth in a village here, police said on Wednesday. The accused took the girl to his house and raped her on Tuesday, following which her family members lodged a complaint, Station House Officer Yogesh Sharma said. The youth also threatened the girl of dire consequences, if she reported the matter to anyone, he said. Sharma said a case was registered under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act The youth is at large, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-yr-old-girl-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-district-819889.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Restrictions remain in force on movement of people in Kashmir||Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people in Kashmir to contain the spread of coronavirus remained in force on Wednesday as the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the union territory has surged to 55, officials said. They said tight curbs have been put in place across the valley to minimize the movement of the people in order to contain the spread of the infection. Most of the roads in the valley have been sealed off and barriers erected at several places by security forces to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown for containing the spread of the infection, the officials said. The administration has asked the people to cooperate with it and warned of action against those violating prohibitory orders. Several persons have been arrested across the valley in the past few days as police have taken action against those violating prohibitory orders. The markets across the valley have been shut and public transport off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, the officials said. Educational institutions across Kashmir have been closed, while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants have been shut down more than a week before the nationwide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister. While the Prime Minister announced the country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till 31 March as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The administration said essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions. District administrations have put in place a mechanism to ensure uninterrupted supplies and deliveries of essential services to the general public. Essential commodities will be home-delivered to the residents as part of the mechanism.  Restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the virus infection. The measures were taken after a 67-year-old woman from Khanyar area of the city, who had returned on 16 March from Saudi Arabia after performing Umrah, tested positive for COVID-19 infection. The total number of positive cases in the union territory has gone up to 55 as six new cases were detected on Tuesday. Two patients – both from the valley -- have succumbed, while two – one each Kashmir and Jammu -- have recovered. The administration on Tuesday declared 20 areas in Kashmir as red zones following detection of fresh cases of COVID-19 in the valley. The 20 areas are in Bandipora, Pulwama, Ganderbal, Shopian, Srinagar and Budgam districts of Kashmir division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-restrictions-remain-in-force-on-movement-of-people-in-kashmir-819893.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||20 new COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh; tally jumps to 86||Indore has become fourth-worst corona virus-hit city in India as a number of patients rose to 69 with the detection of 20 more positive cases by Tuesday night. In the fresh cases, nine are of an Indore family including children aged 3 to 8 and a 45-year-old man. Total patients in Madhya Pradesh are now 86. The death toll has also gone up to six with an old woman losing battle for life in Indore. Indore commissioner Akash Tripathi said the number of patients is likely to shoot up to 200 because more samples of suspected coronavirus infection are continuing to come for tests. Nearly 625 persons have been quarantined in Indore. In view of the alarming situation, Indore is witnessing the strictest curfew in the state. Even the supply of essential commodities such as medicines, milk and vegetables is suspended and people are being strictly warned against venturing out of their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-new-covid-19-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-tally-jumps-to-86-819904.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Nizamuddin centre cleared, 2361 people evacuated in 36 hours: Manish Sisodia||The Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz in Nizamuddin West, which is among the major COVID-19 hotspots in the country, has been cleared after the evacuation of 2,361 people in the past 36 hours, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. Taking to Twitter, Sisodia said that out of the 2,361 people, 617 have been admitted to hospitals while the rest quarantined. "The medical staff, administration, police and DTC staff worked together in this 36-hour operation, putting their lives at risk. Hats off to all of them," the deputy chief minister said in another tweet. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi climbed to 120 on Tuesday after 23 new cases of the disease were reported on Tuesday. These 120 cases include 24 people who took part in a religious congregation at the Markaz in Nizamuddin West earlier this month. Till Monday night, the number of cases of the deadly COVID-19 (coronavirus disease) stood at 97, including two deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tabligh-e-jamaats-nizamuddin-centre-cleared-2361-people-evacuated-in-36-hours-manish-sisodia-819909.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||100 gather for religious congregation at Rajasthan dargah, police use force||About 100 people gathered for a religious congregation at a dargah in Sarwar town of Rajasthan's Ajmer district on Tuesday following which police used mild force to disperse them, police sources said. Six persons have been arrested by police for violating lockdown restrictions in place to curb the spread of coronavirus. As per tradition, a chadar is offered every year by the khadims of Ajmer dargah of Sufi saint Moinuddin Chisti to the dargah in Sarwar. The religious congregation in Sarwar comes at a time when authorities nationwide are trying to trace people who attended a huge religious gathering in Delhi's Nizamuddin area last month. 24 people who attended the religious congregation at Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz have tested positive for coronavirus, while 1,548 have been evacuated and 441 hospitalised after they showed its symptoms.   SP, Ajmer, Kunwar Rastradeep said that Ajmer police gave permission to five persons for this purpose but later many others joined them in the Sarwar dargah.  According to police sources about 100 people had gathered at the dargah. When the police asked them to vacate the place, several of them objected and confronted the police. Later, police dispersed them using mild force and arrested six persons under 151 (arrest to prevent cognisable offences) of CrPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/100-gather-for-religious-congregation-at-rajasthan-dargah-police-use-force-819910.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Delhi cancer hospital shut down after doctor tests positive||The Delhi State Cancer Institute was shut down on Wednesday after a doctor working there tested positive for COVID-19, days after a doctor couple treating patients in community clinics contracted the virus infection. The doctor at the Delhi government-run cancer institute caught the infection from her brother who returned from the United Kingdom a few days ago. "She visited her brother's house recently. The hospital has been shut for today and being disinfected," Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain said. The Out Patient Department (OPD), offices and laboratories of the hospital have been shut and the area has been sanitised. Contact tracing is also on in full swing and those who came in contact with the doctor are being quarantined. A doctor couple, who were running Delhi government's mohalla clinics, had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this month. The doctor, working in Maujpur clinic, had first contracted the infection from a woman who had returned from Saudi Arabia after she visited the clinic while his wife, who treats patients in Babarpur clinic, caught COVID-19 from her husband. Their teenaged daughter had also tested positive for COVID-19. Till Tuesday evening, Delhi had recorded 120 cases of COVID-19 of which two people had died. Twenty-four cases were from the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, where a religious gathering was held in March. While 112 people are still under treatment, including at least one on ventilator, six people have been discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-cancer-hospital-shut-down-after-doctor-tests-positive-819912.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Amid coronavirus lockdown, Indian Government comes up with domicile law for J&K||Amid the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, the Government of India has redefined domicile for government jobs in the newly created Union Territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir. The domicile rules come after abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, which gave special status to the residents of the erstwhile J&K State. The order - Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (adaptation of state laws) order 2020 - issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs comes into force with immediate effect. As per the order, a person who has resided in Jammu and Kashmir for a period of 15 years or has studied for a period of seven years and appeared in Class 10th and 12th examination in a school within the region shall be deemed to be the domicile of the UT. It also includes the children of the central government officials who have served in Jammu and Kashmir for a period of ten years. The new law has empowered tehsildars within their territorial jurisdiction to issue domicile certificates. The government of J&K UT has also been empowered to notify any other officer to be Competent Authority for issuance of domicile certificate. In the new arrangement, jobs up to lowest level of non-gazetted ranks are reserved for Jammu and Kashmir domiciles. The provision, however, would also be available to children of central government employees serving in Jammu and Kashmir for ten years and all those non-locals residing in Jammu and Kashmir for more than 15 years. “Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall be eligible for appointment to a post carrying a pay scale of not more than Level-4 (25500) unless he is a domicile of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” reads section 5A of The Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act. Until J&K was stripped of its special status granted under Article 370 and bifurcated into two UTs last August, Article 35 A of the Constitution empowered the assembly to define a J&K resident. Only J&K residents were eligible to apply for jobs or own immovable property in the erstwhile state.   Meanwhile, the perks and privileges of former chief ministers of J&K have been withdrawn thereby repealing the long list of privileges enjoyed by them since 1984. According to a late evening notification issued on Tuesday, the central government repealed section 3-C of the State Legislature Members’ Pension Act, 1984 under which former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir were entitled to different privileges and perks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-coronavirus-lockdown-indian-government-comes-up-with-domicile-law-for-jk-819919.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||First coronavirus death in Uttar Pradesh; tally reaches 107||According to the official sources here, a 25-year old youth died at the BRD Medical College hospital in Gorakhpur, about 300 kilometres from here. Though the youth, a resident of Basti district, about 200 kilometres from here, died on Monday, his blood sample, which was sent to KG Medical University here for testing, was found to be positive on Wednesday. Sources said that the youth's family members had not disclosed to the doctors that he had recently returned from Mumbai. As a result, he was admitted to the general ward and was not isolated, triggering fears that he might have infected many others in the hospital. Two other coronavirus positive patients, who were admitted to the hospitals, were stated to be in a ''very critical condition''. Meanwhile, four more persons tested positive for coronavirus in the state taking the total number of cases to 107. Noida continued to be the coronavirus hotspot in the state with 40 cases. Fresh cases were also reported from Bulandshahar and Agra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-coronavirus-death-in-uttar-pradesh-tally-reaches-107-819920.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Video showing sanitation workers being applauded in Punjab goes viral||Amid the lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus, a video showing sanitation workers being applauded, showered with flower petals and being offered garlands made of currency notes in Punjab's Nabha area has gone viral on social media. Taking note of the video, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said "adversity is bringing out intrinsic goodness.” As two sanitation workers along with their cart enter a residential area in Nabha which is in Patiala, residents standing on roof of their houses started showering them with flower petals and also clapped, as per one-minute video. The video also shows three residents coming out of their homes and giving them garlands of currency notes while patting their backs. They also thanked them for their services. While sharing the video clip on his Twitter handle, Chief Minister said, "Pleased to see the applause & affection showered by people of Nabha on the sanitation worker. It's heartening to note how adversity is bringing out the intrinsic goodness in all of us. Let's keep it up & cheer our frontline warriors in this War Against Covid-19." Preneet Kaur, Patiala MP and wife of Chief Minister also shared the video on her twitter handle. "Delighted to share with you such a heartwarming gesture of people of Nabha for sanitation workers in acknowledging their contribution during these crucial times. Their dedication and devotion to duty is commendable. I join whole of Patiala in saluting them,” she tweeted. Punjab has reported 42 coronavirus cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-showing-sanitation-workers-being-applauded-in-punjab-goes-viral-819941.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Over 200 staying in Delhi gurudwara shifted out||Over 200 people staying in a gurudwara in north Delhi were on Wednesday shifted to a school, hours after authorities completed the shifting of over 2,000 inmates of Tablighi Jamaat, which was linked to at least 11 COVID-19 deaths and over 150 cases across the country. Officials said 210 people, who were "stranded" at the Majnu Ka Tila Sahib Gurudwara following the lockdown, were shifted to a school in Nehru Vihar. They were taken to the school in buses arranged by the police. On Tuesday as authorities shifted over 2,000 people from Taglibhi Jamaat headquarters in south Delhi's Nizamuddin, DSGMC President Manjinder Singh Sirsa tweeted an appeal to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh asking them to evacuate those stranded in the gurudwara to a facility. "More than 300 people of Punjab are here at Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tila Sahib. They need help from the Punjab government to reach their homes. It would be a disaster if anyone of them is COVID-19 positive," Sirsa had tweeted on Tuesday evening. In another tweet, he had described the situation as alarming and that these people need to be taken to their respective places in Punjab before it results in disaster. In a video posted on Twitter, he also said these people have reached the gurudwara on foot and have been staying there since March 28. "Some are unwell, some are coughing. What will happen if someone is infected," he said. A woman, who was shown in another video posted by Sirsa, among those stranded in the gurudwara said there are several women and children among this group. The incident has sent alarm bells as it came close on the heels of the Tablighi Jamaat incident, prompting states to initiate a frantic search for people who attended a religious gathering in Delhi on March 13-15 after several cases with links to it surfaced in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir among other places. The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) had on March 23 written to Delhi Chief Minister offering the gurudwara in Majnu Ka Tila for using it as a quarantine centre. It has an "inn" with 20 rooms where quarantine facility could be set up, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-over-200-staying-in-delhi-gurudwara-shifted-out-819945.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir students unable to attend online classes due to slow internet speed||As educational institutions across the country are arranging interactive online classes to help students during the COVID-19 lockdown, students in Jammu and Kashmir are finding it tough to keep pace with their counterparts in other states due to low speed internet in the valley. From Skype to WhatsApp and Zoom app, teachers and students are using all types of digital platforms across the country to save a precious academic year and continue with studies, albeit remotely. These measures are meant to ease the education gap being created due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, Kashmiri students, who in recent past arrived due to the COVID-19 scare, find it tough to take online classes as there is only 2G internet speed available in the Union Territory. “For the past three days, since our college started online classes, we have missed the classes as our internet connection becomes abruptly low speed,” said Furqan, an engineering student, who studies outside Kashmir. He said after getting a video appearance notification from their department he was unable to accept the request. “Even if I accept or join it for some time, it gets disconnected in absence of high-speed internet. I am worried about my career after leaving the college as we were informed to be available on WhatsApp, YouTube and for online classes to be able to sit in examinations supposed to be held on return,” Furqan added. His views were echoed by Farkh Inam, another student who complained about slow internet speed. “I failed to understand the lecture due to abrupt cuts in the video call and even at times the domain holder (one who connects the group call) doesn’t even call us back leaving us midway. This is frustrating,” she said. “College authorities have asked us to visualise the lectures on YouTube but the slow internet blemishes the whole process leaving us in the dark at a time when our counterparts in other states are studying online and availing the lectures without may hesitation,” Inam added. Jammu and Kashmir has been under partial lockdown since August 5, when the Centre revoked the erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370 of the Constitution. There has been a gradual ease of communication restrictions. However, high-speed 3G and 4G continue to be banned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-students-unable-to-attend-online-classes-due-to-slow-internet-speed-819947.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||News Broadcasters Association hails SC directive for fake news crackdown||The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) on Wednesday welcomed the Supreme Court's directive that the media should report responsibly and weed out any "fake news" in social media while telecasting news on the coronavirus crisis. In a statement issued by its president Rajat Sharma, the NBA said it is also pleased to learn that a daily bulletin by the government through all media avenues, including social media and forums, will be made available to clear the doubts of people. "This would help media immensely to clarify the doubts and enable them to do accurate reporting," the statement said. The NBA welcomed the Supreme Court order dated March 31 and agreed that the media should report responsibly and weed out any fake news in social media while telecasting news on the coronavirus crisis. The NBA appreciates that the apex court has acknowledged the freedom of the press and has stated that it does not intend to interfere with the free discussion, debate and coverage about the pandemic, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/news-broadcasters-association-hails-sc-directive-for-fake-news-crackdown-819965.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Number of coronavirus cases goes up to 9 in Chhattisgarh||A woman with foreign travel history tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh's capital Raipur on Tuesday, taking the number of COVID-19 cases in the state to nine, officials said. Earlier, a 22-year-old man from Korba district who had returned from London recently was confirmed to have contracted the infection late Monday night. The number of active cases in the state stood at seven with two COVID-19 patients being discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur, following full recovery on Tuesday afternoon. As to the latest patient, a health official said the 25-year-old woman had returned here from UK recently. She was admitted to isolation ward at the AIIMS here, he said. Five COVID-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the AIIMS now, the official added. One patient is being treated at the Medical College Rajnandgaon and another at Apollo Hospital, Bilaspur. "Of the total 787 samples sent for testing until now, nine tested positive, while 732 came out negative. Reports of 46 are awaited," he said. Health Secretary Niharika Barik has directed health officials to carry out testing of all those who recently returned from the UK, as most of the confirmed patients in the state have been to that country, he said. "As of Tuesday, samples of 95 persons who had travel history to UK were examined; four tested positive and 47 returned negative. Reports of the remaining samples are awaited," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-coronavirus-cases-goes-up-to-9-in-chhattisgarh-819971.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||2 resident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital test positive for COVID-19: Sources||Two resident doctors of the Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi have tested positive for coronavirus infection, official sources said on Wednesday. One of them, who is part of the team treating COVID-19 patients at the hospital, is believed to have contracted the disease during the course of duty, they said. According to sources, the female resident doctor, a third-year post-graduate student of the biochemistry department, who has tested positive for the novel coronavirus had recently travelled abroad. Both of them showed symptoms of COVID-19 and their test results came out positive two days ago. They are now undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of the Safdarjung hospital. "All the doctors and staff who had come in contact with them have been tested. So far, none of the contacts has tested positive for coronavirus infection," they said, adding all of them have been asked to monitor their health. According to the Union health ministry, 1,637 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the country so far, out of which 38 people have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-resident-doctors-of-safdarjung-hospital-test-positive-for-covid-19-sources-819984.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Villager fakes death to circumvent India's coronavirus lockdown||A Kashmiri villager faked his death and travelled more than a hundred miles in an ambulance with four others in a desperate bid to circumvent India's virus lockdown and return home, police said Wednesday. Hakim Din was being treated for a minor head injury at a hospital in Jammu when an ambulance driver suggested the 70-year-old fake his death to get past checkpoints, police said. Din and three other men wanted to return to Poonch, a far-flung region in Indian-administered Kashmir close to the de facto border with Pakistan. The region's Superintendent of Police, Ramesh Angral, said the four men and the driver travelled more than 160 kilometres (100 miles) in the ambulance, passing many checkpoints using a fake death certificate from the hospital. "The ambulance was stopped at the last checkpoint before they could reach home," Angral told AFP. "A policeman there immediately figured out that the man lying covered inside the ambulance could not be dead." The men were arrested and quarantined separately, Angral said, adding that they faced charges of "cheating and defying the government's prohibitory orders". There are no known coronavirus cases in the Poonch region. India imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown from last Wednesday to fight the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. There are more than 1,600 cases, including 38 deaths, in the vast nation of 1.3 billion people, according to the government. The nationwide lockdown comes in the wake of a long-running curfew in Kashmir, imposed as New Delhi scrapped the restive region's semi-autonomous status on August 5. Some aspects of the curfew were gradually eased in the following months, allowing Kashmiris to travel outside their homes and villages. But some Kashmiris have been left stranded in cities and unable to return home to their villages after the sudden nationwide lockdown announcement. Internet access, which was cut in the earlier lockdown, has remained severely restricted with only 2G access. Many mobile phone users have also been unable to access the internet on their devices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/villager-fakes-death-to-circumvent-indias-coronavirus-lockdown-819985.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: Closure of highway creates scarcity of essentials in Kashmir||The 21-day nationwide lockdown coupled with the closure of the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway for the last six days has created scarcity of essential commodities in the Kashmir valley. Due to the closure of the 264-Km highway, the only road link between Kashmir and the rest of the country, more than 1100 trucks carrying essential commodities to the Valley and those returning remained stranded due to multiple landslides. “As a result of multiple landslides and threat of further landslides, the highway remained closed for the sixth day (on Wednesday). Men and machinery are on the job to make the road travel-worthy,” an official said. It may be mentioned that the highway has remained closed for more than 45 days since November 2019 due to inclement weather. Frequent closure of the highway has caused a shortage of supplies in the Valley, which is already reeling under the problems due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation. A pharmacist outside super-specialty SKIMS Hospital in Srinagar said that they were running short of medicines as no new supplies were reaching. “The restrictions after the COVID-19 crisis had already depleted the supplies. Now, the closure of the highway will deal another blow. If the supplies are not restored immediately, we will be short of essential medicines in a few days’ time,” he said. A senior official said that the grave situation arising out of the shortage of essential commodities needs to be tackled. “There is a need to set up a crisis management cell consisting of people-friendly and honest officers to deal with the situation,” he suggested. J&K Financial Commissioner Health and Medical Education Atal Dulloo said he has directed the officials to prepare a combined comprehensive format detailing any issues/ problems to be updated daily. “Coordination teams have been constituted to ensure movement of essential goods and services and to overcome difficulties arising out of restrictive/ prohibitory measure,” he said and added the Centre is sending ventilators and other medical facilities to both Jammu and Srinagar through air cargo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-closure-of-highway-creates-scarcity-of-essentials-in-kashmir-819987.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||13 more test positive for coronavirus in Jaipur; total 106 cases in Rajasthan||Thirteen more people tested for coronavirus in the Ramganj area of Jaipur’s walled city on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in Rajasthan to 106, an official said. Jaipur has now become a major hotspot in the country with 34 cases, 26 of which have been reported from the Ramganj area, a densely populated locality. "Thirteen more positive cases of COVID-19 have come up in the Ramganj area. All are contacts of the first person who had tested positive in the area. All have been kept in isolation," said Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh. A spurt in the number of cases in the Ramganj area was witnessed after a 45-year-old man with a travel history to the Middle East region was tested positive on March 26. He had landed at the Delhi airport on March 12 and took a bus the same day to return home. He met several people till March 26 when he was tested positive, officials said. Ten members of his family and a friend were also tested positive for coronavirus. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22. Prohibitory orders have been imposed in Jaipur district and the curfew in the walled city of Jaipur has been extended indefinitely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-jaipur-total-106-cases-in-rajasthan-819988.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Deploy fire brigade to disinfect COVID-19 hotspots, quarantine centres, Delhi LG tells authorities||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday asked authorities to deploy fire services personnel for disinfecting COVID-19 hotspots, quarantine centres and public places to check the spread of the virus, which has infected at least 120 people and killed two in the national capital. Baijal held a high-level meeting with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev, Police Commissioner S N Srivastava and other senior officers to review containment measures being taken in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. In a series of tweets, the lieutenant governor said district authorities will continue effective measures for enforcing the ongoing lockdown, social distancing and home quarantine. "Also advised to use fire brigade for disinfecting vulnerable neighbourhoods, especially the hotspot areas, quarantine centres, public places, etc. Directed district disaster management authorities to take concerted preventive actions," Baijal tweeted. In another tweet, he said that in the meeting he reviewed medical preparedness, procurement of medical essentials, discharge guidelines, quarantines and measures to enforce lockdown. Meanwhile, Delhi State Cancer Institute, run by the Delhi government, has been shut for a day on Wednesday after a doctor tested positive for COVID-19. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi climbed to 120 on Tuesday after 23 new cases of the disease were reported. These 120 cases include 24 people who took part in a religious gathering in Nizamuddin West earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deploy-fire-brigade-to-disinfect-covid-19-hotspots-quarantine-centres-delhi-lg-tells-authorities-819991.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Second coronavirus death in Uttar Pradesh; Tally reaches 107||Uttar Pradesh reported two deaths from coronavirus on Wednesday as the total number of COVID-19 patients jumped to 107 with four more testing positive for the virus infection. According to the official sources here, a 25-year old youth died at the BRD Medical College hospital in Gorakhpur, about 300 kilometres from here. Though the youth, a resident of Basti district, about 200 kilometres from here, died on Monday, his blood sample, which was sent to KG Medical University for testing, was found to be positive on Wednesday. Sources said that the youth's family members had not disclosed to the doctors that he had recently returned from Mumbai as a result of which he was admitted to the general ward and was not isolated triggering fears that he might have infected many others in the hospital. A 72-year old man died from coronavirus infection in Meerut. The officials said that the old man had some underlying health conditions. Two other coronavirus positive patients, who were admitted to the hospitals, were stated to be in a ''very critical condition''. Meanwhile, four more persons tested positive for coronavirus in the state taking the total number of cases to 107. Noida continued to be the coronavirus hot spot in the state with 40 cases. Fresh cases were also reported from Bulandshahar and Agra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/second-coronavirus-death-in-uttar-pradesh-tally-reaches-107-819996.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||After 'Corona' girl comes 'Lockdown' boy ||Inspired by and hoping that the ongoing lockdown would be able to rid the country of COVID-19, a man in Uttar Pradesh's Deoria District, about 350 kilometres from Lucknow, named his newborn child as 'Lockdown'. The male baby was born at the District Hospital on Tuesday, according to reports. The father of the newborn, Pawan Kumar, a resident of Khukhundu village in the district, said that he had been ''inspired greatly'' by the lockdown. ''The lockdown will be able to prevent the spread of the virus and rid the country of it. I sincerely hope that it will succeed. I named my child Lockdown to send a positive message to society,'' Kumar said. He said that his wife and other members of the family supported him when he told them about his wish to name the newborn after the lockdown. Barely a few days back, a newborn female child had been named 'Corona' by her parents in Gorakhpur town, about 275 kilometres from Lucknow. 'Corona' was born at the Government Women's Hospital in the town barely a few hours before the 'Janta Curfew' came into force on last month. Justifying the name, the uncle of the baby Nitesh Tripathi, a resident of Sohgaura village in Gorakhpur District, had said that the Coronavirus had 'unified' the community and galvanised the people to wage a collective fight against it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-corona-girl-comes-lockdown-boy-820012.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between militants, security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, officials said. A search operation was launched by security forces in Zurhama forest area of Kupwara on information about presence of militants there, following which the encounter broke out, the officials said. There were no casualties reported so far in the operation, they said.  This is the first gun battle between militants and security forces since the nationwide lockdown came in to force on March 25 to control the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-militants-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kupwara-820033.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||26 booked for negligence after fleeing from Uttar Pradesh quarantine facility||Police have booked 26 people for negligence after they fled from a quarantine facility in Uttar Pradesh's Gosaiganj area, an official said on Wednesday. SP Shivhari Meena said in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, 115 people who had returned from other states were kept at Gosaiganj's Kamla Nehru Institute , of which 26 fled on Tuesday night. He said they were caught by police and FIRs were lodged against them under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Legal action will be taken against them after they complete their quarantine duration, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/26-booked-for-negligence-after-fleeing-from-uttar-pradesh-quarantine-facility-820035.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Markaz committee member in UP looking after guests from Nizamuddin booked||The police here have booked a member of Tablighi Jamaat's Markaz Committee a day after 14 people, including 11 Bangladeshi nationals, who had attended a religious congregation in Hazrat Nizamuddin area in Delhi, were admitted to the isolation ward of a hospital in the district. The Markaz Committee member, Kamaluddin Ansari, had not informed the police about the people living in the guest house in Bhadohi. According to District Magistrate Rajendra Prasad three Indians along with 11 Bangladeshi nationals, who were on tourist visa, came to Bhadohi on March 4 after attending the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Delhi. No information was provided by them or by the organisers in this regard. The Bangladeshi nationals were openly flouting visa norms by roaming and propagating religion, he said. "A case has been registered against Kamaluddin Ansari, a member of Markaz Committee of the Tablighi Jamaat under various sections of the IPC, Foreigners Act and the Epidemic Act. The case was registered late on Tuesday night. Ansari did not inform the police about the people living in a guest house," Superintendent of Police Ram Badan Singh on said Wednesday. "Ansari said on the advice of office bearers of Markaz Committee, he was looking after those staying in the guest house," the police officer said, adding that Ansari has also been quarantined. On Tuesday evening, the SP had said that preliminarily no symptom of COVID-19 was found in the 14 persons, but as a precautionary measure they have been kept in isolation ward and their samples have been sent for testing. Over 2,000 delegates, including from Indonesia and Malaysia, attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin West from March 1-15. "The 11 Bangladeshi nationals started from Dhaka on February 27 and reached Delhi's Hazrat Nizammudin Markaj. From there, 14 persons arrived in Bhadohi and were staying at a guest house of markaj since March 4. In past 25 days, these persons met many people," the SP had said. "They also held religious gatherings at a mosque in Kajipur which were attended by hundreds of people," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-markaz-committee-member-in-up-looking-after-guests-from-nizamuddin-booked-820052.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Two die after consuming surgical spirit in Chhattisgarh||Two men died after allegedly consuming surgical spirit as a replacement for alcohol in Chhattisgarh's Raipur city on Wednesday, police said. Liquor shops and bars are shut across the state till April 7, amid the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. Ajay Kunjam (40), Asgar Hussain (42) and Dinesh Samudre (39) allegedly drank surgical spirit on Tuesday night in Golebazar police station area and their condition deteriorated soon after, a senior official said. "While Hussain and Samudre died, Kunjam is in a critical condition," he said. One of them died at his home in the early hours of Wednesday, while another succumbed during treatment at Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital, he said. After being alerted about it, police personnel rushed to the spot and recovered a bottle of spirit from the house of one of the victims, the official said. The bodies of the deceased have been sent for post- mortem, he said. The victims might have bought surgical spirit from a pharmacy to drink it as a substitute for alcohol, which is not available anywhere in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-die-after-consuming-surgical-spirit-in-chhattisgarh-820058.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: NPPA sets up drug price monitoring, resource unit in Jammu and Kashmir||The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has set up price monitoring and resource unit (PMRU) in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, a government statement on Wednesday said. PMRUs have already been set up by the drug price regulator NPPA in 11 states such as Kerala, Odisha, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Nagaland, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Mizoram, it added. "PMRU, a registered society, shall function under the direct control and supervision of State Drug Controller of Jammu & Kashmir," the statement said. The unit shall be funded by the NPPA for its recurring and non-recurring expenses, it added. The unit shall help the NPPA and the State Drug Controller in ensuring availability and accessibility of medicines at affordable prices, the statement said. PMRU will also collect samples of medicines, collect and analyse data and make reports with respect to availability and over-pricing of medicines for taking action under the provisions of Drug Price Control Order (DPCO), it added. This assumes added significance as PMRU, J&K will assist the NPPA and governments in checking overpricing and identifying causes and addressing local issues of shortages/hoarding in the current situation when country is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, it added. The unit is also expected to organise seminars, training programs and other information, education and communication activities in the areas of availability and affordability of medicines for all, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-nppa-sets-up-drug-price-monitoring-resource-unit-in-jammu-and-kashmir-820062.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: Three labourers slip to death in J&K while walking back home||Three labourers slipped to death at Hinjhal Top in the Pir Panchal range of mountains on Wednesday when they were walking back from Kashmir to their homes in Banihal area of Jammu region amid the COVID-19 lockdown. Police said another person was injured when the group of labourers returning back to Banihal through Verinag slipped on a glacier. “All three bodies have been recovered and moved to sub-district hospital Banihal, while the injured is being treated,” Superintendent of Police, Ramban, Haseeb-ur-Rehman told DH. Reports said after another three labourers travelling on the same route had safely reached their homes in Banihal, the family members of the missing labourers became alert and informed the police. Soon, a search operation consisting of the police, volunteers and army was launched and dead bodies were recovered on Wednesday, they said. Officials said hundreds of labourers who have been stranded in various parts of J&K, braving inclement weather, are traveling by foot to reach their destinations. Last Saturday, a group of 25 labourers returned to Poonch area in Jammu by foot from Kashmir, trekking 100-Km over the snow-covered high altitude passes for two days. Hit by a sudden 21-day lockdown and no transport, thousands of migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states are walking for days to reach their homes from the Delhi-NCR region and Gujarat, about 200 to 300 Km away. And some elsewhere are trying to make the desperate journey crammed inside container trucks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-three-labourers-slip-to-death-in-jk-while-walking-back-home-820063.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Over 500 people who attended Jamaat in Delhi visited 13 district of Rajasthan: DGP||About 538 people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, have visited 13 districts of Rajasthan, DGP Bhupendra Singh said on Wednesday. About 350 people from other states, 183 from various districts of Rajasthan and five Nepali citizens visited Jhunjhunu, Bikaner, Dausa, Alwar, Tonk, Sriganganagar, Bharatpur, Karauli, Jodhpur city, Barmer, Hanumangarh, Churu and Jaipur, he said. It is possible that Tableeghi Jamaat members from other states may have come in contact with those who attended the markaz in Delhi's Nizamuddin, Singh said. District collectors and SPs have been directed to screen these people and proceed for isolation and quarantine, he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-500-people-who-attended-jamaat-in-delhi-visited-13-district-of-rajasthan-dgp-820066.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 236 people discharged after quarantine period in Srinagar||A total of 236 people were discharged from various quarantine facilities in the city here on Wednesday after they completed their isolation period, officials said. "Today, 236 more persons were discharged from various facilities after completing the mandatory two-week quarantine period," the officials said. They said the quarantined group is being sent back to their homes. The authorities have so far released 314 people who have completed their quarantine. These include the first batch of 78 quarantined persons who left for their homes on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-236-people-discharged-after-quarantine-period-in-srinagar-820072.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||167 who returned from Delhi's Nizamuddin quarantined: Himachal DGP||A total of 167 people who returned to Himachal Pradesh after attending the congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi's Nizamuddin last month have been quarantined, Director General of Police Sitaram Mardi said here on Wednesday. The DGP said they were identified and quarantined in different districts of the state. The highest 53 people have been quarantined in Baddi, followed by 35 in Una, 32 in Sirmaur, 23 in Shimla, 10 each in Kangra and Chamba and four in Mandi, SP (Law and Order) Khushal Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/167-who-returned-from-delhis-nizamuddin-quarantined-himachal-dgp-820075.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||9 people from Punjab attended Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi, none has returned home: Officials||Nine people from Punjab attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month, but none of them has returned to the state, officials said on Wednesday after many participants of the meet tested positive for COVID-19. Authorities have established contacts with the nine people who are still in Delhi and their families. The nine people hail from Ludhiana, Pathankot, Sangrur and Barnala districts. "Four persons from Ludhiana attended the gathering and they have not returned yet. They have been quarantined by the Delhi government there,” Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal told PTI.  “We are in touch with their families and we are monitoring them,” said Aggarwal. Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said one person from Dhadrian village attended the congregation, but he has not returned yet. "But as a precautionary measure, we have put his family under home quarantine,” he said. In Pathankot, two persons had gone to Delhi to take part in the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat. “They were still in Delhi,” said Pathankot Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. The congregation, which took place in March in Nizamuddin West in Delhi, has emerged as a hotspot of coronavorus as 24 people had tested positive for the deadly infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-people-from-punjab-attended-tablighi-jamaat-meet-in-delhi-none-has-returned-home-officials-820079.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||569 participants of religious discourse in Nizamuddin found in Uttar Pradesh: Official||The Uttar Pradesh government has identified in the state as many as 569 participants to an Islamic religious congregation at Nazamuddin in New Delhi early this month along with several suspected corona-positive foreigners, and has isolated or quarantined them. Additional Chief Secretary Home Awanish Awasthi on Wednesday said besides these 569 people, 218 foreign nationals, who had come to Uttar Pradesh at different stages on tourist visa, too have been identified but they cannot be said to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. Various district magistrates and police chiefs of the districts have been directed to ensure proper quarantine of these persons along with adherence of the proper medical protocol, said Awasthi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/569-participants-of-religious-discourse-in-nizamuddin-found-in-uttar-pradesh-official-820083.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Noida: 7 more test positive for COVID-19 in last 24 hours; active cases 39||Seven new coronavirus patients have been detected in Gautam Buddh Nagar in the last 24 hours, taking the total COVID-19 cases in the district to 45, officials said on Wednesday. Three of these cases were detected on Tuesday night, while the rest four on Wednesday, the officials said, adding that the number of active cases in the district stands at 39 at present. "We have got seven more patients. Four of them are those whom we had already suspected of being infected, the three others are from random sampling. Six of the total 45 patients have already been discharged, so the active cases at present are 39," District Magistrate Suhas L Y told reporters. He said the administration's focus is on contact tracing and additional teams are being formed and provided with technical support. "They are tracing primary and secondary contacts of those infected. These contacts will be sent for isolation or home quarantine, depending on the situation," the DM said. He emphasised the situation is under control and there is no need to panic and appealed to people to follow all precautions and safety measures, like social distancing and staying indoors. "If 99 per cent follow precautions, but 1 per cent do not, then that 1 per cent people are putting the whole society at risk. The government and the administration need your support and we are ensuring minimum difficulties to the citizens," Suhas said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-7-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-last-24-hours-active-cases-39-820084.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: Madhya Pradesh governor dedicates his kitchen to feed poor||Governors usually swing into action during constitutional crisis, but the Raj Bhavan in Madhya Pradesh is feeding the poor who have been affected by the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. The governor's kitchen has been sending out as many as 100 food packets on a daily basis and sometimes even at a short notice, a spokesperson from Raj Bhavan said on Wednesday. "Governor Lalji Tandon has not only directed his staff to supply 100 food packets daily during lockdown period, but also ensured that in case of emergencies, parcels can be delivered at a short notice," the official told PTI. Soon after the lockdown was announced, Tandon dedicated the Raj Bhavan kitchen for community service, by directing the staff to supply 100 food packets daily, which were distributed to needy persons through the Bhopal Municipal Corporation, he said. Apart from this, the governor also directed his staff to supply food packets at a short notice of just two hours during emergencies, he said. "We have stocked enough raw materials for this purpose and are always ready to supply food packets at a short notice, apart from the everyday quota of 100 parcels," the spokesperson said. The Raj Bhavan kitchen has sent out 800-900 food packets to people affected by the lockdown, he said. Tandon personally examined each item packed in the food parcels and also tasted them to ensure quality, he added. "The governor has said that this token measure is being taken to inspire people to serve the needy. It is our duty to see that no one remains hungry during this coronavirus crisis," the official said. The governor also appealed to presidents of mohalla and utsav committees to help the poor in their areas by providing them food and essentials during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-madhya-pradesh-governor-dedicates-his-kitchen-to-feed-poor-820100.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Rs 1 crore compensation if doctors, nurses die while treating COVID-19 patients in Delhi: Kejriwal||Delhi government on Wednesday announced Rs 1 crore compensation to the families of doctors, nurses and others in both public and private sectors who lose their lives while engaged in "serving" COVID-19 people. This was announced by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during his video conference with doctors who were engaged in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. "If anyone loses their life while serving any COVID-19 patient, be it sanitation workers, doctors, nurses or any other staff, temporary or permanent, from private or government sector, their family will be given Rs one crore as our mark of respect for their service," Kejriwal said during a digital press conference later. "Every precaution will be taken to protect our medical staff dealing with COVID-19 patients but despite that, if anything untoward happens to them, we will take care of their families," he said. The scheme will cover the employees of both government and private hospitals. Kejriwal also said doctors shared certain concerns with him about the need for security personnel as some patients are "very aggressive". "Some of the employees are scared of intervening and on Tuesday, a patient in Rajiv Gandhi hospital attempted to commit suicide. Doctors had to intervene and prevent them. They have sought security. We will be talking to Union Home Secretary to ensure that police is deployed," he said. Another concern raised by the doctors was the lack of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) like masks and testing kits, he said. He said the Delhi government will be approaching the Centre once again with the concern. "We have arranged meals for doctors and medical staffs from 5-star hotels on a daily basis. For those who are unable to return home we have arranged rooms for them to stay in five-star hotels," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-1-crore-compensation-if-doctors-nurses-die-while-treating-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-kejriwal-820101.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||With five COVID-19 cases per million, J&K at high risk of outbreak||With seven more positive COVID-19 cases reported in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, the total number of people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the Union territory has risen to 62. J&K government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said that seven more COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Wednesday and the total has risen to 62, out of which 58 are active. He said 17041 people in J&K are under active surveillance. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID 19 case density areas in the country which is around 5 cases per million of the population. The national average per million population so far is one. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. A senior doctor said that the graph for COVID-19 positives is likely to rise steeply if testing is conducted more aggressively across J&K, especially in the valley. As a result of the narrow testing criteria, he said, sick people with potential exposure to the coronavirus are being sent home. “So-far social distancing especially ensuring to stay at home has flattened the curve, but there could be scores of invisible positives around us who are asymptomatic and unaware about it,” he revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-five-covid-19-cases-per-million-jk-at-high-risk-of-outbreak-820103.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Padma Shri awardee Nirmal Singh tests positive for COVID-19||Padma Shri and former 'Hazoori Raagi' at the Golden Temple, Nirmal Singh has tested positive for coronavirus, a health official said on Wednesday. The report of the samples of the 62-year-old 'Gurbani' exponent came positive, Civil Surgeon Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said. Singh, who recently returned from abroad, was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital after he complained of breathlessness and dizziness on March 30, she said. Meanwhile, police have sealed the area around Singh's residence to check the spread of the infection. According to the officials, Singh held a large 'sammelan' (religious gathering) in Delhi and some other places after he returned from abroad. His family members and others who came into his contact would be quarantined, said the health department officials. Singh has the knowledge of all the 31 'Raags' in the Gurbani of the Guru Granth Sahib (Sikh holy book). He was awarded Padma Shri in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-padma-shri-awardee-nirmal-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-820105.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Over 200 cases registered, 4053 people detained in Delhi for violating lockdown orders||Over 200 cases have been registered and 4,053 people detained for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus, police said on Wednesday. According to the data shared by the police, 249 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm on Wednesday. A total of 4,053 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 515 vehicles have been impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they said. A total of 1,022 movement passes have been issued, police said. The move comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a complete lockdown across the country for 21 days, asserting social distancing is the only way out for the country in its decisive battle against the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-over-200-cases-registered-4053-people-detained-in-delhi-for-violating-lockdown-orders-820114.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||At least 220 fresh coronavirus cases related to Tablighi Jamaat: Centre traces people on war footing||Around 1,000 to 1,200 people were traced by states during the day while the task of identifying another 1,000-1,300 people who attended the meet stares at the authorities. The enormity of the situation could be gauged from the fact that a majority of the cases in some states like Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh had links to Delhi meet. Assam joined the list as all the 13 cases, of which 12 were reported on Wednesday, have links to Tablighi Jamaat meet. While Tamil Nadu reported 50 cases on Tuesday, it rose to 110 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of those with Delhi links to 190. On the positive side, around 500 people on their own reported to health authorities, taking the total number of people who went to the national capital to 1,103 while leaving around 400 yet to be traced. In Andhra Pradesh, most of the 67 fresh cases reported since Tuesday 9 pm were linked to Delhi, taking the total to around 85. Altogether, around 300 cases and at least 11 deaths due to Covid-19 across the are linked to this meeting. In the national capital where 32 cases were reported on Wednesday, 29 belonged to Tablighi Jamaat meet, taking the total to 53. As states scrambled to identify people who attended the meet and their possible contacts, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a video conference with Chief Secretaries and Directors General of Police on actions to be taken on the Delhi meet where he directed the states to complete the tracing of people, as it has "increased the risk" of containment efforts of the pandemic. At the meeting, the states were sensitized about the need for "intensive contact tracing" of Tablighi Jamaat participants as this has increased the risk of containment efforts of Covid-19. The states were asked to complete the contact tracing process on a war footing, an official statement said. Gauba also asked states to initiate action for violation of visa condition against the foreigners and the organizers of the event after officials said foreigners who came to Tablighi Jamaat on tourist visas were indulging in preaching and other religious activities, which is not allowed under the travel document issued to them. However, several states are still scrambling to trace them as several people have gone off the radar by switching off phones while family members are also not cooperating by providing information. Assam had not reported a single COVID-19 case till Monday but now has five persons with virus infection with links to the Nizamuddin meeting and is now bracing for more such cases. The state government is on its toes as 117 of the 456 people from the state who attended the meet are not traceable with many of them switching off their mobile phones. Maharashtra has already traced around 200 of the 700 people, who are believed to have attended the event, using a mix of human and technical intelligence to gather the data. Of this, 350-400 of them are from Mumbai and its neighbouring districts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad. In Kerala, at least 60 people are under observation even as police and health officials said around 310 people attended the Delhi function while Gujarat has identified 70 people who have attended the function. Bihar has identified 86 people who have attended the meeting, of which 37 have been traced. Efforts are on to trace the rest 49.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-220-fresh-coronavirus-cases-related-to-tablighi-jamaat-centre-traces-people-on-war-footing-820125.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Maharashtra digs out 180 persons who attended Tablighi Jamaat||Within a span of 24 hours, Maharashtra police and administrative authorities have collected a list of over 180 persons who have attended the Tablighi Jamaat held last month in Delhi's Nizamuddin area.  At least, 200 plus people who have attended the religious congregation have been found COVID-19 positive and 10 have died. The Maharashtra police used a mix of human and technical intelligence to gather the data and have started acting on it. From the Bureau of Immigration,  the police have taken data of foreigners who have arrived at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, mainly from Indonesia,  Malaysia,  Mauritius and Philippines. It needs to be mentioned that a 10-member group from Philippines had arrived in Mumbai, stayed in a mosque in Vashi in Navi Mumbai. A 68-year of Philipino had died. He was a COVID-19 positive patient buy turned negative before he died of renal failure. Two other persons of Philippines,  the mosque's secretary, his son, his grandson and their housemaid have been found positive but they are out of danger. The Special Branch attached to Mumbai police and State Intelligence Department are helping the local authorities. According to the list,  the maximum number of people who had visited the meeting are form Pune,  as much as 60 persons.  From Aurangabad,  there were 21 persons,  Nashik 29, Mumbai-MMR 15, Nagpur 8, Bhandara 5,  Wardha 8,  Yavatmal 10, Akola 8,  Buldhana 1,  Washim 1, Oamanabad 4 and Ahmednagar 10. After the meeting,  some foreigners stayed in an Ahmednagar mosque,  of which two - one form France and another from Ivory Coast turned positive.  Action is being taken against the hosts. Meanwhile,  in a related development, 15 persons including 13 Bangladeshis linked to the global Islamic missionary movement  were traced in a mosque in Kausa on Mumbra near Mumbai. They have been quarantined and samples sent for test. "We have activated out network, we have information from various departments,  we are cross-checking. Besides, human intelligence network has been activated and also technical data," police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-digs-out-180-persons-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-820136.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Police make violators wear coronavirus helmet||Police here found a novel way on Wednesday to “punish” violators of Section 144. As hundreds of people came out on the streets defying the prohibitory orders, police caught those who were on two-wheelers without any valid reasons and made them wear coronavirus masks and hold a placard that read “Don’t come out and go near coronavirus.” Police took the stop after too many vehicles on the Padi flyover here on Wednesday morning resulted in a traffic jam. As things threatened to go out of control, the men in khaki stopped vehicles and asked them the purpose of going out. After finding out that many had just come without any valid reasons, they stopped two-wheelers and asked the rider and pillion to wear coronavirus masks and hold a placard. In some places, the violators were made to squat on the road as well. The action came as Tamil Nadu police booked more than 1 lakh people for violating Sec 144 in the first week of the lockdown due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-make-violators-wear-coronavirus-helmet-820162.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanks Supreme Court judges for contributing to PM-CARES fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday thanked judges of the Supreme Court for contributing to the PM-CARES fund set up to tackle the threat arising out of coronavirus. All the 33 judges of the top court, including the Chief Justice of India, have decided to contribute Rs 50,000 each for the fund. "I thank the Honourable Judges of the Supreme Court for this exemplary and inspiring gesture. Their contribution to PM-CARES will strengthen the efforts to fight COVID-19," the Prime Minister wrote on Twitter. PM Modi had on Saturday announced the creation of the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund where people can contribute and help in the government's fight against coronavirus. "It is my appeal to my fellow Indians, kindly contribute to the PM-CARES Fund. This Fund will also cater to similar distressing situations, if they occur in the times ahead," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prime-minister-narendra-modi-thanks-supreme-court-judges-for-contributing-to-pm-cares-fund-820166.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||India's youngest coronavirus case in Mumbai||In what would be India's youngest COVID-19 positive case so far, a six-day-old infant has been tested positive with the contagious viral infection sweeping the world. The baby boy and her mother, who too is COVID-19 positive, have been admitted to the Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai. The boy's father said that his wife was admitted to a private hospital in Chember for delivery and had taken a private room. The baby was born on March 26 evening. "We were given the room where the previous patient had been tested positive," he told DH on Wednesday night,  adding that it was gross negligence on part of the hospital. "After the previous occupant's result came out as positive, we too were tested...myself,  wife and the baby," he said. Breaking down, he appealed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to save the baby.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-youngest-coronavirus-case-in-mumbai-820169.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: 8 villages in Udhampur declared coronavirus red zones||Eight villages in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur have been declared as red zones after it was found that 10 people from the district had attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin, officials said on Wednesday. They have been traced and sent to quarantine, officials said, adding that two of them have tested positive for COVID-19. "After some people tested positive, Megani area and its surrounding villages have been declared as red zones," District Magistrate of Udhampur, Piyush Singla said. The villages include Kotli Paie, Chopra Shop, Rehambal, Megiyot, Rakh Sansu, More Duggar, Padam and Jib, he said. "The entire area has been sealed and people have been asked not to make any movement," he said. Singla said nearly 100 health professionals have been sent to the area to trace those who may have come in contact with the ten people so that necessary action can be taken. Udhampur district has been completely sealed and all entry and exit points have been blocked as per the directions, he said, adding only vehicles of essential services and some vehicles of SRTC will be allowed on the highway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-8-villages-in-udhampur-declared-coronavirus-red-zones-820208.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Srinagar residents make own masks to battle shortage of protective gear||A PhD student, a fashion designer and a 10-year-old girl have come forward to produce enough masks for the residents of Kashmir Valley after they found that the city lacked adequate quantity of protective gear to tackle the deadly coronavirus. Meet Bilal Ahmad Malla, who was selected for a PhD programme in Physical Education in a university of Madhya Pradesh. The 30-year-old student, a resident of Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, was supposed to join the Rabindranath Tagore University, but had to abort his plans due to the COVID-19 emergency. Instead of concentrating on his studies, Malla has chosen to make around 40-50 masks daily and later distributes these free of cost. “I do not want anything. I am doing my bit for the sake of Allah. Let Allah have mercy on all of us,” he told PTI. “I had a sewing machine at home, so I thought why not utilise the same for something productive. However, for the first couple of days, I could only make about a dozen masks. I faced difficulties as it was something I had not done before,” he said. It was his sister - who works at the machine for some stitching works -- who gave Malla some lessons at the craft. His father, who is into fruit business, also lent his hand. “My sister helped me and at times, my father also pitched in. My father does ironing of the masks. I now make around 40-50 masks a day,” Malla said. He first distributed the masks among his neighbours, and as the word of mouth spread, he started receiving inquiries from the neighbouring villages. “Several trusts and volunteer organisations have approached me and I provide them the masks without charging anything,” he said. However, Malla said procuring raw material was an arduous job in the prevailing circumstances. “I use my savings for buying the raw material and my father also supports me. However, it is very difficult to get the raw material. The other day I had to travel to (neighbouring) Kulgam (district) to get some material,” he said. The PhD student said he would continue to make masks till the situation demanded. “I hope God will have mercy on us and we get rid of this disease very soon. But, till that happens, I will continue doing it,” he said. Aayat Tanweer (10), a resident of Karan Nagar area of the city here, not only turned to mask making, but also made a video tutorial on how to make them. “My target is to make 100 masks a week as there are not enough masks available,” she said in a video which went viral on social media leading to appreciation from the netizens. Sadia Mufti, a popular fashion designer based in Srinagar, is using her resources for making masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) . Mufti, owner of 'Hangers The Closet' - an upscale boutique here - turned to mask making after realising there was acute shortage of the protective gear in the valley. “I went to the market for buying masks for myself, my family and my workers, but I could not get any. There was shortage of masks. The quality was not up to the mark and the masks were costly. That is when I thought I could help by making good quality masks at a very low price,” she told PTI. ] The 28-year-old designer turned a part of her Rawalpora residence into a workshop where a team of eight people work hard each day to help increase the supply and availability of the masks. “I made a few masks and uploaded their pictures on social media. I got a good response and then started making three-layered masks,” she said. Mufti distributed few masks in her neighbourhood and donated some of them among the needy. “I was then approached by private companies who have workers here as well as my regular customers,” she said. The fashion designer now makes protective gear for healthcare workers. “I started making PPEs which have been approved as well. We have already made around 150 of them and distributed some to a nursing home. I am making masks by using cotton fabric as well as non-woven fabric which can be used as surgical mask,” she said. Mufti said she is keeping the price of masks and PPE at the very minimum considering the crisis. “I would like to give them free of cost, but as a young entrepreneur, I have to think about my workers also. They are working under very tough conditions and have even stretched their working hours,” she said. Having delivered over 2,000 masks, Mufti said while they were working hard to keep up with the demand, there was no compromise on safety and quality. “I would credit my workers. We are making a thousand masks every day, but there is no compromise on safety and quality. We are putting in more efforts to increase the output as the response of the people, including doctors, has been very good,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-srinagar-residents-make-own-masks-to-battle-shortage-of-protective-gear-820210.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Tablighi Jamaat attendees misbehave with staffers, spit at doctors at Delhi quarantine units||Some of the participants of Tablighi Jamaat, who have put up in quarantine facility in the national capital, have been misbehaving with health care staff and spat at the doctors and nurses. The  Delhi Government has evacuated 2500 occupants from Nizamuddin Markaz and put them in different quarantine facilities in different parts in the city.  Around 170 people have housed at two quarantine facilities of the Northern Railway in Tughlaqbad on Wednesday.  However, in both places, occupants are misbehaving and pick a quarrel with health care officials. "Occupants were unruly since morning&made unreasonable demand for food items. They misbehaved&abused staff at Quarantine Centre. Also, they started spitting all over&on persons working/attending them incl doctors. They also started roaming around hostel building," said  Deepak Kumar, CPRO, Northern Railway. They also not following the instructions from the health authorities. On the request from the railway authorities, the district magistrate of South Delhi has deployed CPRF force at both the place. No situation came to control and Delhi Government officials are closely monitoring them. Officials claimed that during shifting them from Nizamuddin to their quarantine facilities in a bus, they were spitting on the road. Then, the security officials who were following the buses were instructed them to close all the windows of the buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-misbehave-with-staffers-spit-at-doctors-at-delhi-quarantine-units-820212.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Two UP families name their babies 'Corona' and 'Lockdown'||At a time when the world is virtually waging a war against COVID-19 and the country is under a 21-day lockdown, two families in Uttar Pradesh have named their babies 'Corona' and 'Lockdown' with a hope that they would remind people about taking precautions. A baby girl born in Gorakhpur on the day of Janta Curfew has been named 'Corona', while a boy born a week later in Deoria district of the state has been named 'Lockdown'. Confirming the development, in-charge of Khukhundu Primary Health Centre (in Deoria) R P Tripathi said, "On Sunday evening a baby boy was born and within hours he was named as Lockdown by his family. It is necessary that we should all follow lockdown properly, and also wash hands frequently to be save ourselves from COVID-19." "The mother and the baby have been discharged on Wednesday morning," he said. Khukhundu village residents Neeraja Devi and Pawan Prasad became parents of the baby boy. An elated Pawan said, "On Sunday evening, I rushed my wife to the PHC, where she delivered a handsome baby boy. I named him after Lockdown as we all are reeling under COVID-19 pandemic. In my view, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the right step to impose lockdown in the entire nation to save us from the deadly virus." "My boy will remind everyone to take precautions against COVID-19, to save themselves and the nation," Pawan, who is a farmer, said. On the day of Janta Curfew, Bablu Tripathi and Ragini Tripathi became parents of the baby girl at Sohgoura village of Gorakhpur. She was named 'Corona' by her uncle Nitesh Tripathi. Staff nurse at the district hospital Sangita Kumari told PTI, "The baby girl was born on Janta Curfew day and we were surprised as she was named Corona by her uncle. Her uncle told us that Corona has brought unity in the country and entire country celebrated the unity by beating thaalis, so he named her niece as Corona." "I took permission from my sister-in-law, the mother of the baby, and named her as Corona, as the girl is the symbol of unity in the fight against novel corona virus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-up-families-name-their-babies-corona-and-lockdown-820213.html
01-04-2020||North and Central||Encounter starts along Line of Control in Kashmir||An encounter started between militants and army in forests along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Wednesday. Reports said that the soldiers manning the fence near Teen Behak in the Jumgund area of the LoC at around 1 p.m. intercepted the movement of a group of militants believed to be five to six in number. The militants were challenged by the army, triggering off a brief exchange of gunfire, they said. Additional reinforcement of the forces was rushed to the spot. They said due to inclement weather the operation may get prolonged even as all the exit points have been sealed. When reports last came in, the operation was going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-starts-along-line-of-control-in-kashmir-820220.html
01-04-2020||Oasis||The exam season||It is exam time again and schools are pictures of many students huddled up with enormous books sitting in a corner and revisiting the book for one last time before closing it forever. It is a testing time not only for the students but for the family as well. I am sure many of you have witnessed this experience. In some households, one can see their favourite gods & goddesses being invoked to come and shower their blessings. The exam period is no less than facing a battle for the students. Goals and expectations are set by everyone at home. It is a season that tests some and rewards others. Numerous babas, fakirs and astrologers make hay during this occasion casting away the bad omens or evil eye from their devotee's path.  Tarot card readers and crystal ball gazers are busy as their clients need to steer clear of any obstacles. Superstitions too make a come back during this stage and solutions are available in every nook and corner for a small price. The first round for the student is to face the writing part of the exam while the second round is a tougher battle, which is to answer the events of the exam in detail to the parents. This grilling by some parents leaves many students disillusioned as they start doubting their answers due to fear. Whatever is gone should not be too much rekindled as it may have a snowballing effect on the next exam. The shloka  narrated by Lord Krishna to Arjun in the Bhagavad Gita is of great relevance even today…”Karmanye vadhikaraste ma phaleshu kadachana” stresses the importance of karma or duty which should be done with complete dedication but do not expect the fruits of the karma to be the purpose. The role of the student should be to study hard and learn the portions. On the other hand, if the student studies just to pass the exam, the objective of learning is defeated. If you have done something well, one need not fear the results. Life is a big exam in itself, the challenges everyone faces is different. No two papers here are set alike. As our journey is full of surprises, let us wait for things to reveal themselves at the right time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-exam-season-819837.html
01-04-2020||Opinion||Modi govt should have expected COVID-19 migration||By Mihir Sharma The largest lockdown in history is not, to put it mildly, going as planned. Within a few days of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing on national television that the country was being shut down for three weeks, hundreds of thousands took to the country’s highways, marching long distances back to their home towns and villages. Others thronged bus stations—the trains are not running—hoping for a bus back home. At least 22 people have reportedly died in the mass migration, exhausted and hungry. The point of India’s lockdown, as elsewhere, is to prevent transmission of the novel coronavirus. But, if anything, this vast movement of people likely means the virus will find its way to the poorer rural parts of India where it could do the most damage. There’s certainly little social distancing in evidence in the photos of thousands of people jostling each other waiting for buses. All this could—and should—have been avoided. There was no need for the government in Delhi not to prepare citizens for what a lockdown would entail. Nor was the government itself anywhere near prepared for what the crisis would ask of its own resources. It can make no excuses for this failure. Given how minimal quarantining and testing has been, it’s been obvious for weeks now that some kind of Wuhan-style shutdown was inevitable in the world’s second-biggest country. And yet the government seems to have worked harder on its own public-relations battle than on figuring out how the lockdown would affect India’s poorest people. This reflects something deeply callous about the Indian state. The government should have recognised that those who earn a daily wage, who might not be able to make rent or even eat, would need to leave cities for their homes in the countryside. Part of the reason it didn’t is that these people have always been invisible to the Indian state. Successive governments have sought to set up welfare systems targeting farmers, or workers in the formal factory sector, or rural women. And, when this administration’s relief package was announced, it was precisely those groups who received aid. Yet those who have taken to India’s highways are the urban poor and recent migrants, who receive very little welfare because they made the mistake of moving away from the villages where they vote and receive their food ration. By relying in this crisis on the same welfare system that pretends they don’t exist, the government left them with no other option but to pack up and leave. Officials probably didn’t want to get adventurous about their relief package and push out more money, quickly, through the channels that already exist. But, as I argued last week, any such shutdown requires the government to move beyond its comfort zone and do things it hasn’t before. At the very least, Modi himself should have had words of reassurance for those most at risk when he announced the shutdown. Part of the Modi mystique is that he himself emerged from relative poverty, making his government’s blindness to the poor at this moment that much more depressing. The scenes that played out after the lockdown—policemen beating up grocery shoppers and deliverymen, exhausted 90-year-old ladies walking 400 kilometers, migrants being hosed down by a chlorine solution—have exposed the cruelty that too often infects India’s dysfunctional state machinery. This is awful at any time but it’s particularly dangerous now, when the lockdown’s success as a public health measure depends upon public cooperation and trust in the government. This deafness to the needs of its own citizens is, in fact, part of why the Indian state struggles to respond to emergencies. Yes, India is a democracy and its leaders are accountable to citizens. But the state itself does not always behave like a democracy should. Democracies do well when every level of the state machinery works to anticipate what people need. Here in India we have authoritarian instincts combined with democratic liberties. It makes for an ineffective combination—and one that is particularly ill-suited to fighting a pandemic or minimising human suffering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-govt-should-have-expected-covid-19-migration-819911.html
01-04-2020||Opinion||What the lockdown tells us about failings of Modi & BJP||The disquieting jump in the number of people who tested positive for COVID-19 was partly the result of the decision of Jamaat officials who decided against cancelling the conference despite growing apprehensions over large congregations even before the lockdown was announced. But, the spectacle of hundreds of thousands walking home, is the result of a clueless administration's decision to announce a nationwide lockdown without thinking through the implications of pressing the brakes on a behemoth as diverse and multi-layered as India. Lack of planning Crises always provide opportunities to global leaders to hold up the mirror to themselves to weigh if they actually are what their publicity machinery makes them out to be. The 'walking lakhs' have shown that the perception that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was an ace administrator and an astute planner was more a misconception than reality.  This the second time after demonetisation, announced in November 2016, that it has become evident within days of a dramatic public statement that the prime minister has not thought out his complete roadmap and timeline. The crisis precipitated by migration was certainly unanticipated. The administration has displayed little evidence of a plan and is literally using fire-fighting hoses (to spray bleach and further jeopardise people's health) and strong-arm tactics to deal with the situation.  This writer, living in the National Capital Region outside the city of Delhi had noticed on March 24, hours before Modi's second address to the nation in which he announced the complete lockdown, hundreds of people beginning to walk down the two highways that head out of Delhi in the northeastern direction. These highways pierce through Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, home to a majority of migrants in Delhi. Inability to grasp ground realities On March 29, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe tweeted that he had been speaking with district BJP presidents of Madhya Pradesh. He realised there were "multiple dimensions" for the people to leave the cities where they had been working and living. These ranged from the "yearning for greater emotional security to be with their kith and kin, to seeking less cramped accommodation". He concluded that one explanation was not "fitting all!" But how did the government respond to this? It issued a common order: People who had hit and streets and were walking for hundreds of kilometres to reach their villages had to be stopped and quarantined for 14 days. Inability to comprehend that the announcement of a lockdown, done as dramatically as demonetisation, would trigger such a huge human displacement, stems from little understanding of India's multi-layered reality. Modi’s centralised style of functioning, working with a small cohesive PMO only – for example, managing the present situation with less than a dozen small verticals – indicates corporatisation of government. It also shows the persistence of a wrong idea – in the formulation of a long time watcher in the Sangh Parivar – that 'Gujarat x 29 = Bharat'.  Aping the Congress Part of the reason why the government lost sight of the ground reality was due to the absence of regular interface between the ruling party apparatus and government. The relationship model between the government and the BJP since 2014 has resembled the Indira Gandhi model where the party becomes completely subservient to the government. With grassroot leaders, heads of mandals or blocks, having lost relevance, they play no role in managing the crisis stemming from migrations. The BJP in its pre-2014 avatar termed itself a party with a difference and one with a mission.  Now it has been rendered into an election machine and instead of being wedded to principles (however repugnant critics may find these), the party is now focussed on the interests of candidates and securing their re-election. The inability to either sense a looming problem or managing it once the crisis set in, stems from this disconnect. This despite the fact that the BJP has a long tradition of 'sewa' or service as it is a core vertical of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). It is not without reason that Bhayyaji Joshi, the current general secretary of the RSS, was previously the chief of the sewa activities of the RSS. The government also failed to grasp that when Modi's announcement was made on March 24, the majority of migrants were down to the last bundle of currency notes and they had begun scraping the bottom of their barrel literally and figuratively. For most migrants, delay in wages often means buying essentials on credit. With their units shut, owners stating that wages would be delayed and local traders in no mood to extend credit, the migrants had little option but to return home. They were also driven by the fear of the virus that was whipped up by the first Modi address of March 19. With trains and busses being shut and contributing to the sense of imminent national-level shutdown, people decided that walking was the best option. A CSDS survey reveals that 80 percent of daily wage earners and migrants earn Rs 10,000 or less. Of the entire migrant labour force in India, 50 percent were unable to earn as much as was required to meet their needs and faced constant difficulty in life due to this. Expecting the penniless to stay on along with families to feed, shows acute alienation of the government from people. Reports coming from the rural hinterland of the returnees not being allowed inside villages and being maltreated and forced to stay in inhuman conditions in cramped quarters will create social cleavages in rural areas. Most regulations against the migrants returning home are likely to have been spelt out by the dominant castes and this sows the seeds of social rupture at some time in near future once this present crisis is in the past. Some days ago, US President Donald Trump tweeted: "We cannot let the cure be worse than the problem itself." One does not know if he is following that path or not, it is in any case, his prerogative. But, as far as this government’s ill-prepared lockdown is concerned, the reverse migration of lakhs of workers shows that the cure is indeed turning out to be as worrisome as the problem itself, if not more.  (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013))   The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-the-lockdown-tells-us-about-failings-of-modi-bjp-819943.html
01-04-2020||Panorama||RBI rate cut: A flood of liquidity, but how will it help?||In times like never before, the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has acted like never before. This is seen in two aspects – one the stuff of headlines and another the stuff of fine print that has almost been missed because of the waves created by the headlines. To quote the MPC, which actually met ahead of its schedule for this policy announcement, “The outlook is now heavily contingent upon the intensity, spread and duration of the pandemic. There is a rising probability that large parts of the global economy will slip into recession.”  Which brings us to the other “never before” by the RBI/MPC -- there is no outlook provided either on growth or on inflation in India! The inflation forecast is the intermediate target in any MPC announcement. Any monetary policy decision without a forecast of inflation begs the simple question: on what is the decision based, after all? It will raise doubts on the integrity of the decision. Similarly, there is no outlook on growth for India though there is a global view of a coming recession. This makes the policy announcement and statement highly unusual, to put it mildly. It reflects the uncertainty in the situation, the lack of clear understanding on how the pandemic may possibly play out and also points to what possibly is a very dim view of the economy that is probably best not expressed at this stage. Along with other important measures in the policy, one may say that the RBI is focused on pushing and reviving growth. The RBI has announced a multipronged approach. One leg is targeted (Targeted Long-Term Repo Operations, or TLTRO, of Rs 1 lakh crore), coupled with a system-wide liquidity provision, i.e., reduction of Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) by 1-3%,  which will release primary liquidity amounting to Rs 1.37 lakh crore and to increase the accommodation under the Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) from 2% of the statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) to 3% with immediate effect. This measure will be applicable up to June 30. This measure should provide comfort to the banking system by allowing it to avail of an additional Rs 1.37 lakh crore of liquidity under the LAF window. These three measures, relating to TLTRO, CRR and MSF, will inject a total liquidity of Rs 3.74 lakh crore to the system. The massive injection signals the preparedness of the RBI to address any eventuality in a possible liquidity crisis. Whether they will in any way help the revival of growth and maintaining CPI inflation at 4% average is entirely another matter. Given the magnitude of the crisis, and the unprecedented lockdown it has led to, being armed with liquidity solves one leg of the problem. The other one is, who will be ready to benefit from this liquidity? If the banks are ready to lend, who is there in the market to borrow, after all? This mismatch will continue as long as the situation does not stabilise. The moot question is, will India also slip into recession? It would have been appropriate on the part of the MPC/RBI to make a statement on inflation and growth outlook. Without this, we are left with the vagaries of interpretation by anybody and everybody, leading to speculative attacks on the commodity and financial markets. A rate cut of such unprecedented nature, accompanied by accommodative monetary policy, is intended to revive growth with targeted retail inflation rate of average 4%. The current scenario of rate reduction and its transmission to bank lending rate has to be seen in the context of past rate cuts. Evidence suggests that even past rate cuts and LTRO together have not been effective in rate cut transmission. In a complete lockdown situation, which sector of the economy will be engaged in the production process? On the contrary, there will be no production activity. Interest rate reduction is the least priority now for industry, agriculture and services. Some unsustainable growth revival may take place with the fiscal stimulus announced by the Union government in terms of government consumption expenditure of Rs 1.7 lakh crore. Regarding inflation, there are fears that unscrupulous traders will jack up prices. The trend has already started. There could be some element of cost push inflation that gradually will set in. To control this, monetary policy is helpless. Another important aspect is inflation expectation, given the actual high retail inflation rate in the past three months and the present price spiral due to probable disruption in the supply chain. Food inflation will be a challenge and inflation expectation will be higher in the three months and one-year horizon. The MPC notes that strong fiscal measures are critical to deal with the situation. This is a classic motherhood and apple pie statement. The important questions are: first, what fiscal measures? Second, does the government have fiscal space? Let the government and RBI jointly work out this. Textbook solutions of policy rate reduction to address aggregate demand management have not worked in case of rate reductions in the past and will not work now. In which court does the ball lie currently? It is with the banks and private corporates. Private corporates should not behave like fair-weather friends. They are important stakeholders and should work for development now. So also should the NGOs.  All of us should realise that aggregate demand management through monetary policy interest reduction and fiscal stimulus have limitations to revive growth. A wide range of stakeholders will have to join hands for the nation to claw out of the situation caused by the pandemic. (The writer is a former central banker and a faculty member at SPJIMR. (Through The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/rbi-rate-cut-a-flood-of-liquidity-but-how-will-it-help-819836.html
01-04-2020||Right in the Middle||A boy's heart||As a young boy back in the ’70s & ’80s, I had access to a back yard with a wall, where I played all conceivable games including golf, mostly alone and sometimes with friends. I have won grand slams in tennis tournaments, taken hat-tricks and score hundreds in cricket games and several acrobatic goals playing against myself and the wall! As the quaint old decades made way to the hectic and demanding 90’s and then to the technological Y2K era, open spaces vanished and games and friends became virtual.  I had, therefore, decided a long time ago that if I ever bought an apartment paying through my nose, it would be one with all amenities particularly sporting ones! So, after several years of trying to make ends meet, when suddenly my planetary positions became favorable and chose to make me an owner, I ensured that a swimming pool, gym, tennis courts, badminton courts etc, were part of the deal! And once we moved in, it was like my childhood had returned. I now had access to a larger backyard, real racquets, and real friends. Suddenly, work has become a chore and a big bore! I have started making excuses to return home quickly. Like children waiting for their play period, I can’t wait for the day to turn to evening and for me to return to the tennis courts, my new passion. And when I get on the court, I don’t want to return home till I am exhausted.  I have realized that reaching 50 has not curbed or taken away my enthusiasm for sports. Once a sports buff always a sports buff!  I also find that things haven’t changed much. Back then, it was my mother who kept yelling at me for always playing and being outside, now, it is my wife.  The rekindling spark of sport has made me ignite another passion in penning these thoughts down. I now know why they say, “A man is always a boy at heart”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-boys-heart-819838.html
01-04-2020||Second Edit||Nero fiddled with Central Vista while…||The government’s notification on the controversial Central Vista project in New Delhi, issued a few days ago, was insensitive and badly timed, coming as it did when the entire nation is under lockdown and anxiety over the coronavirus pandemic. The notification sought to amend the land use of some plots in the area near the present parliament house and adjoining areas, and that gives legal clearance for the start of the work. The project aims to redesign and redevelop the area and build a new parliament house and a new Prime Minister’s residence and to change the nature and use of many buildings and premises there. Some others, like the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, will be demolished.  It will create a new visage for the core area in the national capital from where the country is ruled. It is a pet project of the Narendra Modi government, and the Prime Minister has announced that the new parliament house will be ready by 2022.  The project is estimated to cost Rs 20,000 crore, and it is wrong and unethical to spend so much money on a fanciful project of dubious necessity. The country is hard-pressed to find resources to fight the coronavirus and the economic impact of the pandemic will be felt for a long time. The government is unable to find money to give relief to many people at a time of severe distress. It should not be diverting taxpayers’ money for a project like this. The fact that it has launched the project now certainly reflects its warped priorities. Emperors and rulers have built and rebuilt Delhi many times to suit their tastes and imagination and to project their power and glory to the world. But it is an insensitive and uncaring ruler who thinks of rebuilding the capital when pestilence is haunting the country.  Many historians, conservationists, urban planners, architects, and others have opposed the project on many grounds. The government’s plan has been marked by a lack of transparency, and by secrecy and haste. There was no proper public consultation on the plan that will change the face of the capital, and no debate in parliament on the proposal that concerns it. If the plan goes through, the people will be deprived of a lot of public space which is now theirs, and low buildings will be replaced by high-rise structures. No environmental impact report has been prepared. The Prime Minister can propose a plan and a vision for a capital or for any project, but it must have the approval of the country. If the project is to be done, it should be done democratically. But now is not the time to think about it. The government must get its priorities right.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/nero-fiddled-with-central-vista-while-819840.html
01-04-2020||South||Lockdown rules, Section 144 should be strictly observed: Kiran Bedi||Lt Governor Kiran Bedi stressed Tuesday that all without any exception should strictly enforce and adhere to the lockdown rules and Section 144 to prevent spread of COVID-19 and to ensure social distancing. In a whatsapp message, the former IPS officer highlighted the letter senior SP(Law and Order) Rahul Alwal senior police officer had written to the Collector Tuesday drawing the latter's attention to Chief Minister V Narayanasamy distributing essential commodities "as confidence enhancing measures to some houses in the presence of some party cadres in neighbouring Boomianpet area while overseeing arrangements to prevent spread of COVID 19." Bedi said "we should enforce section 144 in letter and spirit. This holds good for all without any exception including the political executive." She said any violation of the lockdown rules on the part of anyone including political functions would have dangerous consequences not only to the person concerned but also for the people in the immediate vicinity and thereby for the community at large. Bedi stated that there should be strict enforcement and "legal action is the only way of breaking the chain of transmission of the deadly novel coronavirus."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-rules-section-144-should-be-strictly-observed-kiran-bedi-819860.html
01-04-2020||South||Two test positive for COVID 19 in Puducherry||Two persons, who had attended a religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin area, tested positive for coronavirus here on Wednesday, a senior official said. Director of Health and Family Welfare Mohan Kumar said the two had returned from Delhi after attending the congregation and were admitted to the State Government hospital here. The test of their samples conducted in the centrally administered JIPMER here found that they were infected with the virus. A source said the two persons belong to Ariyankuppam village near here. The Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz in Delhi's Nizamuddin West has emerged as a hotspot of coronavirus as 24 people have tested positive for COVID-19 following which a major area has been sealed and an FIR lodged against its cleric for violating government orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-puducherry-819908.html
01-04-2020||South||COVID-19 lockdown: Kerala now feeding stray animals and temple monkeys||After delivering essential commodities and cooked food to people at their doorstep, during the lockdown, Kerala is now feeding stray animals and the monkeys at a couple of temples in the state. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself had made a call to ensure that stray birds and animals, including temple monkeys, are also fed. Feeding stray dogs also helps prevent them from targeting people. Many local bodies, animal welfare groups and voluntary organisations have already started feeding stray dogs and temple monkeys. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation is making arrangements to cook food and supply to stray dogs, especially at public places like markets. In Kochi, district collector S Suhas himself was seen providing food to stray dogs. From day one of the lockdown itself, animal welfare activists had started the initiative of supplying food to stray animals. Cooked rice and biscuits are being provided. Now, the Chief Minister himself has made such a call to help and the state animal husbandry department has also published a helpline number for the purpose. Temple monkeys are prevalent mainly at Sasthamkotta Dharma Sastha Temple on the outskirts of Kollam and Vallikattukavu temple in Kannur district. Usually devotees offer food to temple monkeys. The Sasthamakotta Temple is also known for the sumptuous feast it provides to the temple monkeys, which are believed to descendants of the Vanarasena of Ramayana, during festivals. Apart from the temple authorities, local people and voluntary organisations are now offering food to these monkeys.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-kerala-now-feeding-stray-animals-and-temple-monkeys-819921.html
01-04-2020||South||Aster DM Healthcare offers facilities in Ker to treat coronavirus patients||The management of a Dubai-based healthcare provider having a chain of hospitals in Kerala on Wednesday offered 750 beds in its facilities for treating COVID-19 patients in the state. Aster DM Healthcare also announced Rs 2.5 crore to the Kerala Chief Minister's Relief Fund to support the efforts taken by the state government to contain and eradicate COVID- 19. Azad Moopen, Founder Chairman and Managing Director of Aster DM Healthcare, made these announcements following his conversation with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the company said in a release here. Aster has hospitals at Kochi, Kozhikode, Kannur, Kottakal and Wayanad. "Aster shall dedicate 750 beds in these hospitals for accepting patients referred by the Government authorities for expert management. Aster shall explore with the Government to organize cluster of isolation/ observation rooms for suspected and positive COVID cases, around the Aster hospitals in Kochi, Kozhikode and Kannur by seeking the co-operation of hotel and apartment owners," the release said. The doctors and nurses of Aster shall provide medical support in these facilities, it added. "We remain committed to working with the governments and the people in the countries that we operate in to help fight COVID-19," Moopen said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aster-dm-healthcare-offers-facilities-in-ker-to-treat-coronavirus-patients-819983.html
01-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami eats food at 'Amma' Canteen, says ready to serve meal to multitudes more||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday had food at a state-run Amma Canteen here and asserted that directions have been issued to authorities to cook meals for any number of people. Palaniswami inspected Amma Canteens at Foreshore Estate and Kamaraj Salai in the downtown area as part of his checks, had hot 'idlis' and interacted with people who came there to have food. As part of the lockdown measures to tackle coronavirus, restaurants in the state are permitted to offer only takeaways and dine-in amenities are open only at government run Amma Canteens. The Chief Minister, later speaking to reporters said, "We have told authorities to give as much food as needed to the people...the government has given orders to cook food for any number of people." While as many as 4.5 lakh people had food every day at Amma Canteens here, Palaniswami said all steps have been taken to ensure full availability at eateries across the State and serve to the public. Asked about a plea for free food at the state-run canteens, he said the delicacies were already being provided at a very low cost. "Idli is given for just Rs one and across India, it is in Tamil Nadu that we (the government) are providing idli for a rupee. Tamil Nadu (AmmaCanteen) is a model for other states," he said. Launched by late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa years ago to cater to the working classes and needy people, Amma Canteen or 'Amma Unavagam' in Tamil is run by local bodies across Tamil Nadu. Lauding her initiative to help the needy, he said the scheme continues to be run efficiently in the state. "Several states have replicated her model. The chain of Amma Canteens has come in handy for the people." As part of his inspection, Palaniswami, along with Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar and top officials, also checked the availability of stocks. Here, each idli costs Rs 1, two pieces of roti Rs 3, Pongal Rs 5 and rice varities including sambar, lemon and curd Rs 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswami-eats-food-at-amma-canteen-says-ready-to-serve-meal-to-multitudes-more-819992.html
01-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu screens households in vulnerable areas to prevent coronavirus spread||Wearing safety masks and armed with thermal scanners, field workers go to every household in areas where positive cases of COVID-19 have been reported and screen everyone inside the house for fever and check for any symptoms of fever and cold. To be precise, 3,698 field workers have panned out across 16 districts in the state, screening nearly 7 lakh persons for symptoms of COVID-19 in 1.82 lakh households since March 29 as part of its massive containment plan. The Health Department has earmarked a 5-km containment zone and another 3 km as buffer zone based on the density of population for the exercise. The workers not just screen those inside the houses for fever and look for symptoms, but also provide them with masks and explain them the steps to keep themselves safe. More importantly, the field workers tell senior citizens in the homes not to step out and wear masks if they have cold. Tamil Nadu Public Health Director Dr K. Kolandaswamy told DH that containment plan is a world-over accepted model to prevent further outbreak of highly contagious diseases like COVID-19. “The containment zone is the area where patients who tested positive lived. And based on the density of the population, we decide the buffer zone which is 2 km to 3 km. All houses in the containment come into our ambit and our workers go there and screen every person. If any exhibits symptoms we immediately act based on their age and symptoms,” he said. Since it is a highly contagious disease, Kolandaswamy added, screening of the affected area was imperative to help prevent further spread of the disease. The job of screening the people began on Sunday and till Tuesday, workers had visited 1,82,815 households and screened 6,88,743 people in 16 districts. As soon as a patient tests positive, the area where he lived is added into the containment plan, another official said. With the number of cases in Tamil Nadu witnessing massive spike, the government has expanded the ambit of containment plan to include areas where foreigners and those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat Conference in Delhi lived. To be precise, 66 people who attended the religious conference from Tamil Nadu have tested positive for COVID-19 making it the largest cluster to be affected by coronavirus in the state. The spurt in the number of positive cases prompted the Health Department to include the areas visited by foreigners and those who attended the conference also under the plan. “We choose the containment plan based on three criteria – positive patients, foreigners and those who attended the conference irrespective of their COVID-19 status. The measure is being taken since several people who attended the conference across India have tested positive for the virus,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-screens-households-in-vulnerable-areas-to-prevent-coronavirus-spread-819999.html
01-04-2020||South||TN CM Edappadi K Palaniswami says whereabouts of many Tablighi Jamaat meet returnees not known yet||The whereabouts of a section of people from Tamil Nadu who took part in the recent conference held by the Tablighi Jamaat at Delhi is not known yet and in view of several attendees testing positive they should voluntarily get in touch with authorities, Chief Minister K Palaniswami appealed here on Wednesday. Several people who took part in the meet from Tamil Nadu at the national capital recently have tested positive, Palaniswami said adding 1,131 men have returned of the about 1,500 people who went for the event. "About 515 people have been identified...others who took part in the meet should voluntarily get in touch with the authorities... we have not got the addresses of others fully," he said apparently indicating that their whereabouts could not be ascertained so far. Palaniswami told reporters that while a section could not be contacted yet, others have been quarantined in Delhi. Of the attendees from Tamil Nadu, 50 tested positive on Tuesday and totally there are 124 cases in the state. Considering the severity of coronavirus and its potential to adversely impact the larger society, returnees should approach the authorities so that they could be tested and treated if needed, he said. The government has already said that several district administrations could not establish contact with many returnees and senior officials have said that police department was also working to trace them. The National Health Mission Tamil Nadu separately has appealed to 'Tablighi Jamaat brothers,' to contact health authorities immediately at specific phone numbers (7824849263/044 46274411) as participants of the conference might be at risk of contracting coronavirus. Asked if participants at an event held by Isha Yoga last month in Tamil Nadu will be tested, he said it will be done if they had symptoms. The government ordered closure of all places of worship irrespective of religion, he added. On the chances of lockdown getting extended beyond April 14, he said only the Central government will take a decision. To a question of perceived slackness by people in sticking to lockdown, he said "every life is important, everybody should play a role and come together and only then the spread of coronavirus could be stopped." Without understanding the ramifications of the infection some people were going about in public places and this must be avoided, he appealed. In a separate audio, he urged the people to stay back at home and reassured that the government was taking all steps to halt the spread of the contagion. There is no bar either on agricultural activities or in taking the produce to markets, he said. Palaniswami earlier inspected the functioning of Amma Canteens along with Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar and hailed the role of the eateries in providing quality and low cost food to people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami-says-whereabouts-of-many-tablighi-jamaat-meet-returnees-not-known-yet-820048.html
01-04-2020||South||Now, disinfection tunnel in Tiruppur to prevent COVID-19 spread||Visitors to the Thennampalayam vegetable market in Tiruppur, the country’s knitwear hub, were surprised on Wednesday as they were asked to walk through a ‘disinfection tunnel’ before entering the sprawling ground to shop. The ‘disinfection tunnel’ is part of efforts by the Tiruppur District administration to prevent further spread of coronavirus. People who enter the market are asked to wash their hands and walk through the ‘disinfection tunnel’ for three to four seconds during which sprayers overhead sprinkle protective substance on them. Once they come out of the ‘disinfection tunnel’, the visitors are allowed into the market. A video of people walking through the ‘tunnel’ posted by Tiruppur District Collector K Vijayakarthikeyan on Twitter went viral on social media. Officials said visitors to the market are allowed to go through the ‘tunnel’ one by one after ensuring that there is enough physical distancing between them. The ‘tunnel’ was designed with help from Young Indians and CII. Though the ‘disinfection tunnel’ is not a substitute for hand washing and other protective measures, Vijayakarthikeyan said it would certainly supplement the regular disinfection measures over the surface. “The tunnel adds value to our efforts to prevent further outspread of COVID-19. The solution used to spray is 1 per cent of sodium hypochlorite in 1 ppm and it has been tested and reviewed by a team of doctors,” the Collector told DH. Responding to questions about the efficacy of the system and whether chemicals can be sprayed on humans, Vijayakarthikeyan said the unit has been tested and passed by doctors. This is probably the first time such a ‘tunnel’ has been installed in India, while similar methods have been used in Thailand and in Ordu city in Turkey in the past few weeks to contain COVID-19. He said the unit will consume 50 liters of the solution for one hour and can run for 16 hours in one go. Vijayakarthikeyan said the cost of a unit is Rs 90,000 and the district administration has planned to install 10 such units at various places where people come in large numbers. The district collector insisted that the ‘tunnel’ will only supplement existing measures like washing hands, wearing masks and maintaining physical distance in preventing the further spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/now-disinfection-tunnel-in-tiruppur-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-820051.html
01-04-2020||South||Naif link seems to be reason for disproportionate coronavirus cases in Kasargod||Even as the number of emigrants from Kasargod is much less compared to other districts in Kerala, when it comes to COVID-19, Kasargod is much ahead of all the districts. Links with Naif in Dubai seems to be the key reason for this. Out of the 215 COVID-19 positive cases in Kerala now, 108 are Kasargod natives, which is way ahead of any other district. As per a study on emigrants from Kerala in 2018, Kasargod was only in the eleventh position compared to other districts in terms of the number of emigrants. According to sources in Kasargod district administration, among the 108 COVID-19 infected persons hailing from the district, around 75 were having Naif links. Kasargod MLA N A Nellikunnu said that a major chunk of emigrants from the district were traders based at Naif in Dubai, which is one of the hotspots of COVID-19. This seems to be the obvious reason for the disproportionately higher number of COVID-19 infected NRIs in Kasargod compared to other districts. The traders of Kasargod also used to frequently travel between for trading purposes. A representative of an Indian association in Dubai said that traders from many countries like China and Iran used to have links with Naif and Kasargod natives constitute the major chunk of traders in the locality.  Moreover, since most of the Kasargod natives in Naif were running own shops, they could have shut shops immediately when the coronavirus alerts came and returned to Kerala. These could be the reason why Kasargod natives are higher in numbers in terms of COVID-19 infection, said the person who preferred not to be quoted.  Ever since the COVID-19 cases started reporting in Kasargod, the district administration had urged that all persons who recently came down from Naif area should remain on isolation and seek medical aid. A large chunk of NRI's in Kasargod used to travel through Mangaluru airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/naif-link-seems-to-be-reason-for-disproportionate-coronavirus-cases-in-kasargod-820095.html
01-04-2020||South||Telangana health surveyors abused in Markaz returnee localities||Health workers in Telangana surveying the neighborhoods of Nizamuddin Markaz returnees have complained of abuses and information refusal from the locals, in some areas like Nizamabad. Speaking to DH, the district medical and health officer of Nizamabad Dr M Sudharshanam said that some of the minority community members “were repulsive, thinking the survey was part of the NRC.” At least 1030 people from various districts of Telangana have attended the Tabligh Jamaat religious congregation held in New Delhi, in the middle of March. The Chandrasekhar Rao government has on Monday announced COVID-19 deaths of six people who returned from the Markaz. One of them is from Nizamabad. The state machinery then swung into a door to door survey in areas where these returnees live, to trace their contacts for virus symptoms and tests, in order to stop the community transmission. In a video circulating on social media, a group of female health workers is seen protesting about “the unmentionable filthy language” used by some families, when asked about their health condition. “When one of us tried to enquire that someone had returned from Mecca, they said, “chal chal nahi bolte (get lost, would not reveal anything). We were treated like dogs,” said a lady in white clothes with her face covered with a cloth. “We are also humans, with families, kids. When we are doing our duties (in this virus scare) for society’s sake this is how we are being treated,” said another woman beside. The women alleged that the local councilor had refused to give any information about ailments “saying that we are of no use.” “We are sparing you only because you are ladies, they threatened us, after trying to hit our driver,” one of the surveyors said. Dr Sudharshanam said the incident occurred in the Khilla area of Nizamabad town on Tuesday. “We took the incident to the notice of the local minister, collector and the police commissioner. A meeting was convened to explain the survey need to the community,” the DMHO said. However, these health workers are doubting the authenticity of information they receive even if they are accompanied by the police.    According to the DMHO, 53 people from Nizamabad attended the markaz. “One is dead, three positive cases are in Hyderabad hospitals. One is untraceable.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-health-surveyors-abused-in-markaz-returnee-localities-820098.html
01-04-2020||South||110 new COVID-19 patients in TN; Delhi event's attendees report voluntarily||The Tabliqi Jamaat conference in the national capital seemed to have emerged as the hotspot for COVID-19 infections in Tamil Nadu with another 110 attendees of the religious event testing positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. This takes the number of positive patients from Nizamuddin cluster in the state alone to 190 even as the total tally went up to 234, including six recoveries and one death, placing Tamil Nadu at third position after Maharashtra and Kerala. And, more than 500 people who had gone to Delhi to participate in the conference earlier this month voluntarily reported to hospitals across the state on Wednesday, heeding to appeals from the Tamil Nadu government. So far, 1,103 of the 1,500 attendees of the conference from Tamil Nadu have been brought under the ambit of COVID-19 testing following hospital quarantine. With 300 people still believed to be in Delhi, the state government has managed to identify more than 95% of the participants as it focused its entire energy on the Nizamuddin cluster since Sunday. Health department officials said they expect another 80 to 90 people to report to hospital by Thursday. Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said all 658 of the 1,103 people who attended the Delhi conference have been tested till Wednesday and blood samples of remaining 445 people will also be sent to labs for testing. With the fresh numbers, a total of 25 districts in the state have been affected by COVID-19 virus. As the government made an appeal on Tuesday night asking attendees of the meeting to report themselves to authorities after massive efforts to track them by dialling their mobile phones failed, collectors in 19 districts literally burnt the midnight oil as a steady stream of people came to hospitals and opened up about their travel history to Delhi. “1,103 people who took part in the Delhi conference are now in (hospital) isolation and it was a coordinated effort. After our appeal, a lot of them came forward and declared themselves. This is much more than what we were expecting. We are thankful to them,” Dr Beela Rajesh said. Despite the appeal, the lockdown has also helped in ensuring that attendees of the conference are tracked. Since the Nizamuddin cluster has 190 positive patients, the government has decided to expedite its containment plan near the residences of these patients from Thursday. Officials said the containment plan has already been implemented in some of the areas where positive patients from the Nizamuddin cluster have lived. “The containment plan will be expanded now and carried out in all districts where people have tested positive for COVID-19. The plan will be implemented rigorously so as to prevent any further spread of the disease,” a senior official told DH. The state has so far tested 2,726 samples and has placed 995 people in isolation wards in hospitals, a chunk of them are from the Nizamuddin conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/110-new-covid-19-patients-in-tn-delhi-events-attendees-report-voluntarily-820104.html
01-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Telangana’s hope turns into despair in 24 hours||To the delight of about four crore Telangana people, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had on Sunday evening announced that the state could be COVID-19 free by April 7. The end of April first week is when the 14-day quarantine of about 26 thousand foreign returnees ends. “If no new cases are reported from now, there will be no Coronavirus patients in the state by then,” Rao said while cautioning everyone to show restraint and not move outside in the lockdown period.   The live telecast of the CM press conference brought a much-required cheer to most of the people staying put in front of their living room TV sets.   But within 24 hours, Rao’s office sent out a statement saying that six persons who returned from the Delhi Jamaat as dead because of COVID-19 and that officials are tracing thousands who might have attended the same religious meet. The news stunned Telanganites looking for an early break-out from Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown till mid-April. As on Wednesday evening, Telangana has reported a total of 97 cases, including six deaths and 14 discharged from hospitals.   With the mounting cases connected to Nizamuddin Markaz indicating at a protracted war ahead with the virus while suffering a huge revenue loss; Rao’s government even decided to cut government salaries. While the daily wage earners are the worst sufferers, many middle and lower-middle-class employees in the private sector are worried about the impact on their jobs and salaries, a possible extension of public movement restrictions could have. “I am not able to do any business since I cannot move and clients are also unwilling to meet because of the COVID-19 fears,” said Suresh Babu, a marketing executive. “Targets not met would show impact, sooner or later,” he said. Ravi Kumar, a bank employee also expressed similar anxieties. Many of Hyderabad’s IT sector employees are at ease, for now, availing the work from home option given till 14 April. Some homemakers though are griping about the annoyance at home with kids and husbands staying indoors all the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-telangana-s-hope-turns-into-despair-in-24-hours-820108.html
01-04-2020||South||Naif link seems to be reason for disproportionate COVID-19 in Kasargod||Even as the number of emigrants from Kasargod in much less compared to other districts in Kerala, when it comes to COVID-19 Kasargod is much ahead of all the districts. Links with Naif in Dubai seems to be the key reason for this. Out of the 215 COVID-19 positive cases in Kerala now, 108 are Kasargod natives, which is way ahead of any other district. As per a study on emigrants from Kerala in 2018, Kasargod was only in the eleventh position compared to other districts in terms of number of emigrants. According to sources in Kasargod district administration, among the 108 COVID-19 infected persons hailing from the district, around 75 were having Naif links. Kasargod MLA N A Nellikunnu said that a major chunk of emigrants from the district were traders based at Naif in Dubai, which is one of the hotspots of COVID-19. This seems to be the obvious reason for the disproportionately higher number of Covid-19 infected NRIs in Kasargod compared to other districts. The traders of Kasargod also used to frequently travel between for trading purposes. A representative of an Indian association in Dubai said that traders from many countries like China and Iran used to have links with Naif and Kasargod natives constitute the major chunk of traders in the locality.  Moreover, since most of the Kasargod natives in Naif were running own shops, they could have shut shops immediately when the COVID-19 alerts came and returned to Kerala. These could be the reason why Kasargod natives are higher in numbers in terms of COVID-19 infection, said the person who preferred not to be quoted.  Ever since the COVID-19 cases started reporting in Kasargod, the district administration had urged that all persons who recently came down from Naif area should remain on isolation and seek medical aid. A large chunk of NRI's in Kasargod used to travel through Mangaluru airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/naif-link-seems-to-be-reason-for-disproportionate-covid-19-in-kasargod-820143.html
01-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala government to deliver liquor at homes of those with withdrawal syndrome||Kerala government has decided to deliver liquor at homes of those who are prescribed liquor by doctors owing to withdrawal syndrome. However, doctors in the state government service were strongly opposing the decision that doctors may prescribe liquor to those suffering from withdrawal symptoms. Doctors observed a black day on Wednesday by wearing black badges while on duty. Some doctors and prohibition activists also approached the court against the government order allowing doctors to prescribe alcohol to those suffering from withdrawal syndrome. Even as 30-odd people approached the excise authorities with doctors' prescriptions on Tuesday itself, most of the prescriptions were found to have discrepancies. Sources in the Kerala State Beverage Corporation, which is the sole distributor of liquor in Kerala, said that till Wednesday afternoon no request for liquor supply was received. Since those being prescribed liquors would be those with withdrawal syndrome, the corporation would be delivering liquor to their doorsteps. One person can get only a maximum of three litres a week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-government-to-deliver-liquor-at-homes-of-those-with-withdrawal-syndrome-820156.html
01-04-2020||South||COVID-19 patient attacks doctors after his Nizamuddin Markaz returned brother dies of COVID-19||A COVID-19 patient undergoing treatment at the government Gandhi Hospital has attacked the doctors, after learning about his elder brother’s death in the same COVID-19 treatment block on Wednesday. Both the deceased and his brother have returned from the Delhi Markaz, Dr. Shravan Kumar, hospital superintendent told DH.   The heinous attack comes at a time when Telangana’s health machinery especially the doctors and nurses has been overstretched with the piling cases of COVID-19 patients who returned from the Nizamuddin Tablighi Jamaat Markaz event. Explaining that all the hospital’s staff are working in testing conditions, under extreme pressures, Dr. Kumar termed the incident as demoralizing for his community.   “Since the Covid-19 outbreak, we are all working tirelessly and selflessly forgetting about our families. Our moral strength weakening at this point, would weaken our physical capacities too,” Dr Kumar told DH. The assault was condemned by health minister Etela Rajender. DGP Mahender Reddy promised strong action on the offender – “We will beef up security immediately and take all necessary measures to provide protection to all the Doctors and paramedics treating the Covid-19 patients 24x7,” Reddy said.  The state-run Gandhi hospital is the nodal centre for the COVID-19 isolation, testing and treatment in the state. The deceased – a 56-year-old from Hyderabad – was admitted here a few days back in critical condition. The person with comorbid conditions had tested COVID-19 positive and was put on ventilator. Later his brother too was found to be positive and was put in the same ward. On Wednesday evening, following his brother’s death, he attacked the duty doctor and security staff. “We will stand firmly in support of doctors who are striving day and night to save lives,” said health minister Etela. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar visited the hospital to instill confidence among the staff and said that a case has been registered against the culprit patient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-patient-attacks-doctors-after-his-nizamuddin-markaz-returned-brother-dies-of-covid-19-820229.html
01-04-2020||State||COVID-19: Karnataka MLAs ensure social distancing is no gulf between them, voters||Legislators have come up with their own unique ways to be accessible to the public and boost public morale, while at the same time maintaining social distancing during the ongoing COVID-19 crisis.  Take the case of Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge, who has embraced technology to remain accessible in times of social isolation. Kharge has started his own WhatsApp helpline for the benefit of people in his constituency. In just a day, the helpline received about 100 messages, the former Congress minister said. He had donated 11,000 masks to the district administration and 2,500 gloves, apart from phenyl and bleaching powder. To address specific problems raised by people through the helpline, he was contacting the officials concerned over the phone and getting it resolved, he said. Hoskote's independent MLA Sharath Bachegowda has stopped meeting all party workers, for the time being, sensitising them about social distancing. However, in order to ensure that the lockdown was effectively being implemented, he went around his constituency wearing a protective mask, while limiting his contact only to government officials concerned, he explained. Bachegowda has held meetings with the taluk-level officials and traders, to not only ensure that people were following social isolation, but also to make sure that there was no panic buying. Almost all of the 222 legislators (there are no MLAs in two constituencies - Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Maski) were in Bengaluru until late last week for the Assembly session, which was curtailed because of the COVID-19 scare. The session was to end March 31.  Yelburga legislator Achar Halappa Basappa, said in his constituency he was making arrangements for delivery of vegetables, while strictly monitoring the lockdown. “We have made arrangements for vegetables to be distributed at the local level through carts. We have directed the vendors to put the vegetables in the customer’s bag, while asking people to avoid touching vegetables at the time of buying,” he said. For someone like Dattatreya Patil Revoor, who represents Gulbarga Dakshin, one of the most affected regions, social distancing or isolation is quite tricky. “I cannot stay at home completely as this is one of the worst-hit areas,” he said. It was in Kalaburagi that COVID-19 claimed its first victim. “I need to boost people’s confidence by reaching out. While I have quarantined my family completely, I go out wearing a mask. The focus here right now is to ensure adequate ventilators and beds,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-karnataka-mlas-ensure-social-distancing-is-no-gulf-between-them-voters-819849.html
01-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: SWR hospitals to treat all Central government staff||The South Western Railway (SWR) has made arrangements for treatment of coronavirus-infected central government employees at its hospitals in Bengaluru, Hubballi and Mysuru. According to a press release, the SWR has 128 hospitals and 586 clinics and any central government employee infected with coronavirus can seek treatment in these facilities by displaying his or her identity card. The measure is aimed at reducing the congestion in the hospitals run by the state government. The SWR hospitals till now were offering treatment only to railway staff. These hospitals have isolation wards and quarantine facility. The Railway Board has permitted the divisional railway manager and managing director for appointing retired medical staff of the railways at these hospitals. The press release said that the medical and paramedical staff in SWR hospitals had been trained in treating COVID-19 patients and hand gloves, masks and sanitizers were available in sufficient quantities in these health facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-swr-hospitals-to-treat-all-central-government-staff-819850.html
01-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: 13 fever clinics opened in Dakshina Kannada||They are at Taluk hospitals in Bantwal, Belthangady, Puttur and Sullia; District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru and in eight medical colleges - A J College at Kuntikana, Fr Muller Medical College Hospital, KMC-Attavar, Yenepoya Medical College Hospital-Deralakatte, Srinivas Medical College Hospital-Mukka, KS Hegde Charitable Hospital-Deralakatte, KVG Medical College Hospital-Sullia and Kanachur Medical College Hospital at Natekal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-13-fever-clinics-opened-in-dakshina-kannada-819852.html
01-04-2020||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to donate a year's salary to Chief Minister Relief Fund for COVID-19||“I am donating my one year’s salary to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF) for COVID-19,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. “I appeal to ministers, MLAs, MPs and all officers to donate whatever they can.”  All emoluments drawn by a chief minister are the same for Cabinet-rank ministers, according to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).  Besides salary, the CM and Cabinet ministers get a sumptuary allowance of Rs 3 lakh, house rent of Rs 1 lakh, fuel allowance for up to 1,000 litres, conveyance allowance of Rs 30 per km, Rs 10 lakh for purchase of furniture, vehicle facility with a limit of Rs 21 lakh, free telephone connection at home and office, daily tour and dearness allowance of Rs 2,000 within the state and Rs 2,500 for outside among other things.  BJP MPs PC Mohan and Rajeev Chandrasekhar have already committed to donate Rs 2 crore from their MP Local Area Development funds for the purchase of medical equipment and consumables to help fight COVID-19. While MP Tejasvi Surya has launched a Bengaluru South Coronavirus Task Force, Shobha Karandlaje has started a drive to collect ration to be supplied to migrant workers.  Yediyurappa has also appealed with industrialists and corporates to donate to the CMRF. Several firms have come forward to help - Asian Paints (Rs 2 crore), Toyota Industries Engine India (Rs 31 lakh), Xiaomi and JM Financial (Rs 25 lakh each), Toyota Kirloskar (Rs 23 lakh), Kennametal (Rs 15 lakh) and Brigade Enterprises (Rs 10 lakh), according to a statement by the Industries department.  "It is a very difficult time that we are all going through. And it is important that we fight this epidemic together. Personally, I am donating my one year's salary to the #CMRF Covid19. I request you all to contribute, however small, and help #Karnataka fight #Corona. Thank you," Yediyurappa tweeted along with a video message announcing the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-donate-a-years-salary-to-chief-minister-relief-fund-for-covid-19-819879.html
01-04-2020||State||State announces slew of measures for agriculture, horticulture sectors||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced a slew of measures to aid the crisis-hit agriculture and horticulture sectors, here on Wednesday. Allowing the transport of tomato, watermelon, grapes, lemons and other fruits and vegetables from Karnataka to different states of the country, procuring milk from Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) for distribution to poor and slum dwellers, opening 27 sericulture markets, and rice and dal mills were among the initiatives announced for the sector. A meeting was chaired by Yediyurappa with DyCM Govind Karjol, Agriculture Minister BC Patil and others following reports of farmers dumping their harvest and cases of farmer suicides in the state. "Tomato, watermelon, grapes, lemons and other fruits and vegetables are sent to neighbouring states. Though there has been a slight decline in demand, police are instructed to allow the free movement of such essential goods to other states," he said, warning of action against those needlessly hindering the free movement of goods. Arrangements are also being made to transport fruits and vegetables from Karnataka in trains. The state government will also procure milk from KMF and distribute to the poor and slum dwellers with assistance from self-help groups. While KMF was procuring 69 lakh litres of milk per day, it was selling only 42 lakh litres. Portion of the excess milk will be procured by the government for distribution till the end of the 21-day lockdown on April 14. Yediyurappa said that licenses of such vendors who fleece customers by selling grocery and vegetables at a higher price will be cancelled. “Fruit, vegetable and grocery stores will be kept open through the day. Customers should maintain social distancing while purchasing essentials,’’ he said. Steps are also taken to sell eggs at Hopcoms, he said. The government has directed authorities to open rice and dal mills in the state, and also ensure adequate arrangements to harvest the standing crop. To help silk farmers, 27 sericulture markets will be opened, while teams from 14 other markets will be formed to procure cocoons directly from farmers. Yediyurappa reassured that there was no shortage of goods in the market. "People need to buy for only two or three days. There will be no scarcity," he said. Directions have also been issued to builders to provide food and stay facilities to their construction labourers stuck in cities due to the lockdown. The CM also announced Rs five lakh compensation to the farmer who committed suicide in Jewargi taluk in Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-announces-slew-of-measures-for-agriculture-horticulture-sectors-819957.html
01-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: Mysuru startup comes up with cost-effective protective gear||A city-based startup has come up with a cost-effective face shield and other protective gear for coronavirus warriors. At a time when the services of personnel of Health and Police departments and also civic workers are inevitable despite a lockdown, a city-based entrepreneur has come up with novel gears to safeguard the health of COVID-19 warriors. Deshik Labs, a product and process development and research and development (R&D) startup is producing face shields, eye protectors and ventilator splitters to help the people fight the disease in the front line. Risk factor According to Shreesha Ramaswamy, founder of Deshik Labs, the idea behind developing these products is to help those working in medical shops, grocery shops, Police department, Health department, sanitation, petrol bunks, and food delivery people, who are at risk, while others can stay indoors. Shreesha, an alumnus of National Institute of Engineering (2019 batch), founded the company during his third semester of engineering. “The company is ready to produce ventilator splitters and other supportive items for hospitals. A ventilator splitter helps four people to use a single ventilator,” said B N Pramodh, mentor of the startup. Reusable Shreesha said, “This is an open source design, being used in other countries. We use the same file, make slight modifications with inputs from medical professionals, slice it with slicing software and run Gcode on our 3D printer. Once printed, we punch holes and snap fit the transparent sheet to the frame. The frame can be alcohol or ultra-violet sanitised several times and front visor can be replaced at a low cost," he said. Shreesha's team includes his sister Mahima Ramaswamy, who works for a tech giant in Bengaluru, Nikhil Majjagi, a designer, Sandesh Hegde, printer operation, Samyak and B N Pramodh. Towards mass production “As a start-up, we believe it is our responsibility to help the society in times like this. Hence, we dedicated all our 3D printers to make these products. We have our 3D printing partners in Bengaluru, Fracktal, helping the needy. 3 Zero and Dr Tech and Kidvento in Mysuru have been helpful. Hemanth Kumar of RPM Manufacturing Mysore is working with us for mass production,” he said. Pramodh said, if the products are mass produced, the cost would come down by 50% of the 3D printing cost. “The face shield also helps doctors in extended use of the mandated N95 face masks. Even quarantined people can use them,” he said. Guidelines As per the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, on rational use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), face shield and goggles are recommended. “Contamination of mucous membranes of eyes, nose and mouth is likely in a scenario of droplets generated by cough, sneeze of an infected person or during aerosol generating procedures carried out in a clinical setting. Touching of eyes, nose, or mouth with a contaminated hand is another likely scenario. Hence protection of the mucous membranes of eyes, nose, or mouth, by using face shields or goggles is an integral part of standard and contact precautions,” the guidelines read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-mysuru-startup-comes-up-with-cost-effective-protective-gear-820082.html
01-04-2020||State||Patient dies after being allegedly denied treatment in Mangaluru||A 48-year-old man breathed his last in Mangaluru after failing to receive medical attention within the golden hour, his parents charged on Wednesday. Pernu Mugera’s son Kunhi (48) of Pijinadka in Kokkada in Beltangady taluk was taken to Kokkada Primary Health Centre (PHC) and later to Beltangady taluk hospital on Tuesday. However, doctors on duty expressed helplessness and directed the father to take his son suffering from suspected Typhoid to the district Wenlock hospital in Mangaluru. On reaching Mangaluru, doctors at Wenlock hospital, now a COVID-19 hospital, directed the father to admit his son at Fr Muller Medical college. However on reaching the hospital, the staff refused to admit the patient despite submitting BPL card, Mugera alleged. "Unable to pay the advance amount of Rs 15,000, which the staff insisted prior to admission, I returned to Kokkada," he said. Kunhi breathed his last on Wednesday. Fr Muller hospital PRO when contacted informed that he `was on leave'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/patient-dies-after-being-allegedly-denied-treatment-in-mangaluru-820152.html
01-04-2020||State||Don’t stop buying milk, Revanna tells KMF||Stopping milk procurement in the wake of the lockdown will affect dairy farmers, Hassan Milk Union Limited (Hamul) president and MLA H D Revanna has said. The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has issued directions to procure milk from dairy farmers on alternate days as there is a sharp decline in the sales of Nandini milk products, he said. “According to KMF, out of 69 lakh litres of milk produced daily through 13 milk unions in the state, only 40 lakh litres are being sold. Around 22 lakh litres of milk are used for manufacturing byproducts of milk and 7 lakh litres are left unsold. It is not possible to use the excess milk for manufacturing byproducts or for any other purpose,” Revanna said. “Hamul produces 8 lakh litres of milk every day. We will not stop procuring milk as the farmers are in trouble. Hamul’s profit of Rs 45 crore has already been shared with dairy farmers. Similarly, KMF should share its profit of Rs 144 crore with the district milk unions. More than 13 lakh farmers are dependent on dairy farming in the state,” Revanna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/don-t-stop-buying-milk-revanna-tells-kmf-820191.html
01-04-2020||State||Call of duty just a call away for Ballari doctors||Free consultations on the phone by doctors have come as a boon for people in the city. The city’s pediatricians, urologists, obstetricians, gynecologists, and orthopedics – a total of 11 of them – are standing by during designated hours daily to offer medical advice to the callers. In special cases involving children, doctors ask the callers to send pictures related to the health of these children, so that it is possible for them to prescribe medicines. The parents are told to bring the children to the clinic only if needed or are advised to take them to a nearby doctor. The doctors are getting calls from across the district and are advising patients on the steps to be taken for the prevention of COVID-19. The physicians are setting aside hours in between their hospital work, to attend to patients’ calls. Paediatrician Dr B K Srikanth told DH, “Children may face health issues even when they are at home. I have been prescribing medicines for cold, fever, cough . dysentery, toothache, fatigue and other ailments.” “I have been asking for pictures to be sent over the phone on WhatsApp in case of wounds or injuries that children may sustain,” he said. The doctors said it was more prudent for people to stay at home and seek treatment through phone, instead of coming to the clinics and hospitals. Srikanth said that it was a matter of comfort that there has been no case of emergency so far. Other doctors providing such remote care are Arvind Patel, Narayan Rao, L V Ramana, Aruna Rao, pediatricians S K Ajay, physicians Lalitha, Shagufta Shahin, orthopaedic K V P Rao and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/call-of-duty-just-a-call-away-for-ballari-doctors-820203.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown chokes medical oxygen makers||With a majority of oxygen manufacturers and dealers having shut up shop owing to the nationwide lockdown, industry representatives foresee an adverse impact on the supply and price of medical oxygen in the coming weeks. At the outset, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said the government had an adequate supply of oxygen to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. “In all these weeks, only one person tested positive for the disease was put on a ventilator. Compared with other countries that swung into action late, we are in a good position,” he told DH, expressing confidence about the oxygen supply. The government has 740 ventilators and has placed orders for another 500. Industry representatives, however, see a different scenario. At present, only a handful of manufacturers are open and that too, at select hours. They fear an impending crisis — the price per cylinder, which is about Rs 140, could go up to Rs 1,500. Mid-level to small hospitals will feel the impact in the coming weeks. Also, the problem will be more pronounced in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities where dealers are few or no manufacturers are located. In addition, patients who are on ventilators at their homes will also bear the brunt, according to Mandya-based industrial and medical gas dealer Rajendra Prasad. “The government has to act now and give proper instructions to the industry. Otherwise, once the existing stock runs out, hospitals will find it a problem to refill cylinders,” he said.    Arihanth Ranka of Bentley India, a manufacturer in Bidadi, explained thus, “Industrial gas supply takes up 90-95% of the demand and hence the manufacturers are not operating their units at present. Even if they were to operate only to supply medical oxygen, the prices would inevitably go up. Workers are also hesitant to turn up, impacting production. Further, while bigger hospitals have a centralised system for liquid oxygen supply through pipelines, smaller hospitals and the new hospitals being planned by the government will have to depend on cylinders. This is problematic as not only does refill of cylinders require a lot of manpower, there aren’t a sufficient number of cylinders.”    Hospitals are concerned about what is likely to follow. Requesting anonymity, the managing director of a super-specialty hospital in Bengaluru said his hospital had ordered eight cylinders last week. “Of these, we have used about three till now. Once this stock gets over, it will be a problem if the dealers are not willing to supply.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-chokes-medical-oxygen-makers-819824.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka civic workers at risk without safety gear||One mask a week, 5-10 km walk to work every day and no sanitisers — thousands of pourakarmikas in the state enter the road without adequate safety gear to keep cities clean amid the fight against COVID-19. From the non-availability of safety gears to lack of access to food and the absence of identity cards, it’s an everyday struggle for them. Only 20% of the civic workers in the state have been given masks, while sanitisers are distributed to 50% of the workers, said Narayana, president of the State Pourakarmika Association. “I was given a mask last week, I used to wash it after work and reuse it. Two days ago, I bought a new one from a roadside vendor for Rs 30. I can’t compromise on my health this time,” said a civic worker attached with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). He is also concerned about the possibility of handling biomedical waste from a person in-home quarantine. “Waste disposal is still a problem. The quantity of household waste has increased and people don’t segregate properly.” This puts compactor drivers and helpers, who directly deal with waste, at risk, as in some places they are forced to segregate them, said Narayana. “The chances of them getting infected are high,” he said. The BBMP Pourakarmikas Association has given a representation to the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority raising concern over four aspects — inadequate safety equipment (including for compactor and auto drivers and helpers), transportation facility for workers, access to food, drinking water and toilets, and separate disposal of waste generated from households where people under home quarantine live. The high court issued an order on March 30 directing the administration to address these issues at the earliest. While the civic workers appreciate the reduction in work hours by half, they find it difficult to cope — because even drinking water is difficult as they are greeted by shut doors. N P Srinivsalu of the BBMP Pourakarmikas Association, while acknowledging the administration’s measures to give a daily travel allowance of Rs 100 and providing food at Indira Canteens, said that from issuing ID cards to getting safety gear they have to follow it up rigorously with the administration to ensure basic facilities. “In many places, implementation is a problem,” he said. “All the 17,000 BBMP pourakarmikas were given a mask each last week. We have procured the second lot two days ago. We will distribute them in a day or two. Civic workers should be able to manage with a single mask as they now work for only four hours a day,” said D Randeep, Special Commissioner, (SWM), BBMP. They have been given general safety gear and the BBMP will provide them with advanced gear if required. “We will soon come up with a strategy to collect masks separately and process them at incinerators. The other measures that the BBMP intends to take include: Creating awareness among workers to handle waste safely and not to take any risk, giving them a list of people in home quarantine, distributing pamphlets with details about personal hygiene and handwashing techniques,” Randeep said. He also said that the BBMP will soon conduct health camps for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-civic-workers-at-risk-without-safety-gear-819826.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Petrol, diesel prices to go up from today||The price of petrol and diesel will go up by Rs 1.60 and Rs 1.59 per litre, respectively, from Wednesday. This is in line with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s decision to hike the rate of tax on petrol from 32% to 35% and diesel from 21% to 24%. He had announced this in his March 5 Budget for 2020-21 fiscal. At present, a litre of petrol costs Rs 71.97 and diesel Rs 64.41 in Bengaluru. The government decided to roll out the hike from Tuesday midnight going into Wednesday, April 1, after briefly considering a postponement in view of the COVID-19 crisis.  Finance Secretary (Budget & Resources) Ekroop Caur confirmed to DH that the hike will be rolled out.  The 3% hike on fuel tax was a key resource mobilisation measure that Yediyurappa announced in his Budget. The hike is expected to fetch the government Rs 1,500 crore.  Yediyurappa had also announced a 6% additional excise duty on Indian Made Liquor (IML), which could help the government mop up Rs 1,200 crore. However, the sale of liquor has been prohibited during the lockdown period. Plus, hiking fuel prices during the lockdown will not hit citizens very hard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-petrol-diesel-prices-to-go-up-from-today-819828.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: In a first, Karnataka govt allows tele-consultation||In a first, a statewide tele-consultation service will be launched to facilitate the availability of doctors even as the state government is trying to make the most of technology to make life easy during the coronavirus-driven lockdown.  The free tele-consultation facility will start Wednesday and the government has partnered with digital healthcare platform Practo for this.  Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who is anchoring this, said this was tested in Malleswaram, the constituency he represents. “It will be available for the entire state. Just by using the app, citizens can consult with doctors. Totally, some 4,000 doctors will be a part of this,” Narayan told DH. “There was no provision for tele-consultation, but I fought for it and made it happen,” he said. “There was no other way because doctors have shut their clinics and people can’t go out because of the lockdown.”  Not just this, the government aims to train nearly 25,000 doctors and other healthcare professionals on COVID-19 treatment protocol in a week’s time through an online programme that Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar launched earlier this week. This is a collaboration between Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) and Nimhans.  COVID-19 protocol Under this, experts will train doctors on a 20-page treatment protocol that includes guidelines on timely, effective and supportive management of COVID-19 patients, particularly those with severe acute respiratory illness. This is hailed as a one-of-its-kind programme in the country.  As part of its effort to contain the spread of COVID-19, the government has set up a state-level war room under IAS officer Munish Moudgil. A mobile app called Quarantine Watch developed by the tech-savvy officer and his team has gone live. All those under home quarantine are required to send their selfies to the government through the app every one hour (except between 10 pmand 7 am).  Selfie verification “Selfie or photo contains GPS coordinates, so the location of the sender gets known. Every selfie sent is seen by the Government Photo Verification Team. Failure to send selfies, or if wrong photos are sent, then defaulters will be shifted to mass quarantine,”Moudgil said. The government has also designed a dedicated COVID-19 website - covid19.karnataka.gov.in - with a dashboard that provides an analytical view of the pandemic in the state. Plus, the Telegram platform has been started to address queries on COVID-19 and take requests for non-medical, non-emergency assistance during crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-in-a-first-karnataka-govt-allows-tele-consultation-819843.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fuel stations told to reserve petrol, diesel||As officials stepped up efforts to contain Covid-19 by getting more number of peronnel on ground, the government on Tuesday issued an advisory to fuel stations to reserve petrol and diesel for emergency vehicles. The Food and Civil Supplies Department has written to the state-level coordinator for oil retailers to ensure that bunks reserve 2,000 litres of petrol and 4,000 litres of diesel for government essentialservices. A dealer from Yashwantpur said many tanker drivers were not coming to work due to the fear of contracting Covid -19, he added, a few petrol pumps may limit their service to emergency and essential service vehicles in the coming days. However, the association of dealers sought to assure that vehicles of the public will not be affected. Taranath, vice president of Karnataka Petroleum Dealers Federation, said,”Only a few of the tanker drivers have discontinued work due to fear over Covid-19. We have surplus (fuel) anyway. The government has further restricted vehicle movement from yesterday (Monday). We don’t foresee any shortage,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fuel-stations-told-to-reserve-petrol-diesel-819851.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka among top 10 states contributing over 80% of COVID-19 cases in India||Maharashtra, Kerala, UP,  Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana,  Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Punjab are the others. While there are multiple emerging hotspots in Karnataka with a high number of confirmed cases, where immediate containment is needed, Bengaluru is among the top seven cities, where more than 30 cases each have been reported. As on Tuesday night, Bengaluru had 45 confirmed cases, seven had been discharged and the city has witnessed one death so far.  Another cause for worry is that another city in Karnataka, Mysuru, is also among the top 25 hotspots in the country and, Chikkaballapura is among emerging hotspots during the last 14 days. According to Tuesday's daily status report of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in the last 14 days alone, Bengaluru Urban had seen 23 cases.  According to the state's daily bulletin as on Tuesday, Mysuru had 14 cases and Chikkaballapura had nine. It may be recalled that Mysuru-based pharmaceutical company's employees, around 12 of them, have tested positive as on Tuesday, and the source of infection remains a mystery. In Chikkaballapur, a patient who returned from a trip to Mecca, Saudi Arabia, ended up forming the second largest cluster of patients in the state. Among the best practices by states, the union government has recognised that the Karnataka government has asked all those under home quarantine to send 14 selfies to the government per day, one every hour from 7 am to 9 pm, using the Quarantine Watch app. Any defaulters are liable to be shifted to a mass quarantine centre, and this has been lauded as a good practice.   According to the MoHFW's report 1,200 isolation beds, 15 ICU beds and 20 ventilators at Victoria Hospital, selected as the dedicated treatment facility, in Bengaluru Urban is 'being developed'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-among-top-10-states-contributing-over-80-of-covid-19-cases-in-india-819900.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Not April fool prank! Vehicles will be seized if COVID-19 lockdown ignored, says Karnataka Police chief||The Karnataka Police Department has decided to seize all two/four-wheelers if they ignore the lockdown regulation and roam around in the city or any parts of the state. The state police chief Praveen Sood told DH that the Bengaluru city police have already seized nearly 5,000 vehicles as all the two and four-wheelers are banned from use till April 14. "We will seize their vehicle if they cease to ignore this lockdown regulation. People will be booked under the National Disaster Management Act and their vehicles will not be released till the lock-down period," he said. This is not an April Fool's prank. Two/ four wheelers are banned from use till the 14th of April. We will SEIZE your vehicle if you CEASE to ignore this lockdown regulation. "All the groceries and essentials are available in their own area, only entry and exits of layouts have been blocked and if anybody wants to purchase these essentials, they can go by walk and buy them. We will not tolerate people roam around the city unnecessary. What is the job of a person staying in Koramangala and wanting to buy groceries from Yeshwantpur? Police are helping those who want to go to the hospital. Only vehicles and persons who are providing essential services are allowed to travel and others have to stay at home," Sood added.  People have to understand that this is a medical emergency and their lives are at risk, he said. Regarding around 350 people from Tablighi Jamaat who participated in the congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi amidst the lockdown, Sood said till yesterday they traced 50 foreign nationals who participated in the congregation and they are all under quarantine. Efforts are on to trace others and number is changing every hour, he added. On the detention of migrant workers, Sood said, the civic authorities are taking care of the 200 migrant workers from north-Karnataka, who were trying to leave Bengaluru through Tumakuru Road. All of them are accommodated at the State Labour Training Institute near Peenya, Sood said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-april-fool-prank-vehicles-will-be-seized-if-covid-19-lockdown-ignored-says-karnataka-police-chief-819932.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||4 new coronavirus cases in Karnataka, tally up to 105||Four new positive cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of the affected in the state to 105, the Health department said on Wednesday. "Till date 105 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed this includes 3 deaths and 9 discharges," the department in a mid-day situation update said. Four new cases detected since last evening to this morning include 37 and 27 year old men, who are residents of Nanjangud, in Mysuru and according to preliminary investigation were said to be working in the same pharmaceutical company, where the patient who was tested positive last month despite no travel or contact history was working. Also, a 24-year old man, who is a resident of Bengaluru has tested positive, and the detailed investigation is under process on how he got infected. A 33-year old man, who is also resident of Bengaluru, and contact of a patient already tested positive has been confirmed for infection. He is isolated at a designated hospital in Mysuru. Meanwhile, in the light of current pandemic of COVID- 19, the Government of Karnataka has directed all the Medical Colleges in Karnataka (Government, Private & Deemed / Private University Medical College) to work in coordination with respective district authorities. It is further stated to utilise the services of Community Medicine Faculty of all medical colleges for community-based activities and for planning at District and Taluka level. Guidelines were issued for establishment of fever clinics as a part of contingency plan for BBMP (Bengaluru city civic body) area, on March 31, on similar lines, the government of Karnataka has issued a circular for establishment of Fever Clinics and Movement, protocol for suspect cases of COVID-19 at all districts as per local needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4-new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-tally-up-to-105-819972.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa donates annual salary of Rs 24.10 lakh to fight COVID-19||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced he has donated his annual salary of Rs 24.10 lakh to the 'Chief Minister's Relief Fund COVID-19.' He appealed to Ministers, legislators, Members of Parliament, officials and citizens to also do their bit and contribute in whatever capacity possible to help the state in fighting the coronavirus outbreak. "It is a very difficult time that we are all going through. And it is important that we fight this epidemic together. Personally, I am donating my one year's salary to the #CMRF Covid19. I request you all to contribute, however small, and help #Karnataka fight #Corona. Thank you," Yediyurappa tweeted, along with a video message announcing the same. The Chief Minister handed over the cheque of Rs 24. 10 lakh, his one year's salary, to Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar . Yediyurappa also said Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol has given a cheque of Rs five lakh towards the Chief Minister's Relief Fund COVID-19. The Chief Minister had on March 25 appealed to the people to help the state government by donating money for the advanced medical support system to fight the spread of COVID- 19. Those willing to donate can transfer funds online and also send cheques or DDs to Chief Minister Relief Fund COVID- 19, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-donates-annual-salary-of-rs-2410-lakh-to-fight-covid-19-820054.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kochimul continues with milk procurement||Malur MLA and Kolar-Chikkaballapur District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited (Kochimul) president K Y Nanje Gowda on Wednesday said that the Union had taken all safety measures against COVID-19. “The Kochimul has given top priority to maintain hygiene at its premises. Hand sanitiser and masks have been provided to all employees. Every staffer is tested before entry into the premises. The entry of public has been banned,” he said. Gowda said that entire premises had been disinfected. Every vehicle entering inside and going out were being disinfected. Awareness had been created among farmers supplying milk to the Union in rural areas. “Unlike in other states, procurement of milk by farmers hasn’t been halted temporarily in Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts,” Gowda said. He said that Kochimul had requested Karnataka Milk Federation to supply the food for cattle at subsidies rates for another three months, besides distribution of 5 kg wheat flour and one litre edible oil to minor and marginal farmers in the wake of Covid-19 scare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kochimul-continues-with-milk-procurement-820188.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nurse refuses to tend to patient, faces action||At a time when the nation is applauding the relentless efforts by the medical professionals to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, a duty nurse at Kukanur’s Primary Health Centre in Yelburga taluk of the district behaved in an inhuman way by not attending a patient, who was writhing in pain.  A video clip of the nurse repeatedly advising those accompanying the patient to take him to the district hospital in Koppal, has gone viral on social media. The incident is said to have occurred on Monday night. Rudrayya Salimath (22), a resident of Harishankarbandi village in Yelburga taluk, was suffering from stomach ache for the past several days. When his health condition worsened, he was brought to the hospital in a vehicle on Monday night. Deputy Commissioner P Sunil Kumar told DH that when the patient arrived to the hospital, duty doctor was having dinner. Hence, he directed the nurse to attend the patient. The nurse who hesitated to touch and go near him, directed to take him to the district hospital. “The taluk health officer, following a preliminary inquiry, told me that the woman nurse got the incident video-graphed and circulated on social media. We will take action against her,” he clarified. District Health Officer Dr Lingaraju said the patient was suffering from stomach ache. “He has been treated at the district hospital and is doing well now. As for as the incident is concerned, a showcase notice has been issued to those who were on duty on Monday night at Kukanur PHC. We will take stringent action against the guilty,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nurse-refuses-to-tend-to-patient-faces-action-820201.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Unutilised mining fund to be used for tackling coronavirus crisis||The Director of Mines and Geology in Karnataka has said that around Rs 200 crore of the unutilised fund is available with District Mineral Foundation (DMF). According to directions from the Central government, 30% of these funds can be utilised by the respective districts’ deputy commissioners for COVID-19. The funds can be utilised in districts where at least one confirmed case is found for the creation of health infrastructure and the purchase of medical equipment in the district. In the districts, where there are no positive cases, masks, sanitizers and food can be purchased for migrant labourers. The DMF funds are collected from miners as royalty. Dr M Shivashankar, director, Mines and Geology, Karnataka, said, “The funds are already available with the DCs. We don’t have to disburse the funds. More than Rs 200 crore is left unutilised. The total funds were Rs 1,842 crore. But around Rs. 1,600 crore has been earmarked for expenditure already.” About Rs 175 crore is available in 27 districts excluding Ballari, Kalaburagi and Chitradurga. From Ballari, Kalaburagi and Chitradurga we have funds to the tune of about Rs 700 crore” Shivashankar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unutilised-mining-fund-to-be-used-for-tackling-coronavirus-crisis-820215.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Privacy of quarantined protected in selfie app’||The government on Wednesday allayed fears over privacy in its mobile app that requires those under home quarantine to upload their selfies once every hour.  The Quarantine Watch mobile app is required to be installed by all 14,000 people currently under home quarantine in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. They are to upload a selfie every one hour (except between 10 pm and 7 am). Failure to comply or any indication that the quarantined persons are not where they are supposed to be, will lead to them being shifted to a mass quarantine facility.  IAS officer Munish Moudgil, who is in charge of the COVID-19 war room anchoring this, said the selfies will stay with the government and deleted after the 14-day quarantine period. “Privacy is protected and all data stays with the government. The app is to ensure the protection of the health of all citizens,” Moudgil said.  The app is open for use only by those under home quarantine. “General citizens cannot log in because the app isn’t for them,” the officer said. “Mobile numbers of home quarantined persons are whitelisted by the government and only they can log in.” The government will issue letters of appreciation to those who achieve 90% compliance and “super appreciation” to those clocking 100%, Moudgil said.  Explaining the backend process, Moudgil said selfies will go to district photo verification teams. The selfies will be verified visually and also based on the geotag. If it is seen that the selfie was taken at a place away from their home, the system raises a flag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/privacy-of-quarantined-protected-in-selfie-app-820217.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Optional pay cut for govt staff||The state government will deduct one day’s salary from the March salary of all government employees as a contribution to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for combating COVID-19. “The decision was taken based on a request by the Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association, which expressed that several government employees were willing to contribute their salaries to the relief fund,” a Finance department order said on Wednesday. However, this will be voluntary. Those who do not wish to contribute will have to give the same in writing to the officials concerned before April 4. Failing this, it will be assumed that they are okay with contributing. Further, those whose salaries for March have already been credited, a similar sum will be cut from their April salary. Recently, the Telangana government had announced cadre-based pay cuts for all its employees to contribute to the COVID-19 response system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-optional-pay-cut-for-govt-staff-820218.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||1,500 from Karnataka attended Nizamuddin event: Health dept||Amidst concern over the number of people who may have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, the Health and Family Welfare Department on Wednesday said that according to the information provided by the Centre, about 1,500 people from Karnataka attended the event. Giving out details, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, "A total of 1,500 might have attended Tablighi Jamaat event from Karnataka. 800 have been screened, so far. They're being brought to screening centers for the screening process. 143 swab samples have been drawn, so far, because these attendees were symptomatic. Others are asymptomatic."  The state police chief Praveen Sood told DH that till Tuesday they had traced about 50 foreign nationals who had participated in the congregation and they have been put on quarantine, efforts are on to trace others and number is changing every hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1500-from-karnataka-attended-nizamuddin-event-health-dept-820221.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Lockdown affects Rs 400 crore worth of coffee exports||India’s coffee exporters are in deep distress with the state and Central governments announcing a lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 across the country. As a result, around 21,000 metric tonnes of coffee valued at over Rs 400 crore is stuck at coffee curing centres and various ports for non-availability of permissions to export. “The Coffee Board is willing to issue export permits, but there was nobody coming forward to ask for permits due to the lockdown. The curing centres were not allowed by the state government authorities in the district level to move out the commodity,” Ramesh Rajah, President, Coffee Exporters’ Association told DH. Coffee curing centres in Chikkamagaluru, Kushalnagar (Kodagu district), Mangaluru and other places are currently holding an estimated 20,000 metric tonnes of coffee and another close to 1,000 tonnes are lying at Mangaluru and Kochi ports for lack of shipment permits,he said. This resulted in the country’s overall coffee exports coming down by around 3.2% for the financial year ended March 31, 2020. Exports marginally declined to 3,25,396 metric tonnes (till March 18, 2020) compared with 3,36,131 metric tonnes exported in the same period of previous fiscal. Another reason for the decline in exports was due to a short crop harvested during the current coffee year in major growing areas. The crop declined due to bad weather in 2018 and 2019 in the major growing regions of Karnataka and other parts of south India. The situation is likely to continue this year as well, exporters said. During the year 2018-19, the country’s coffee exports stood at 3,53,576 metric tons. In value terms, the exporters have witnessed 7.3% drop at Rs 5,141 crore compared to Rs 5,548 crore in the previous year. In dollar terms, the value has declined by 8.9% at $727 million compared with $798 million earned in FY19, according to data available with the Coffee Board of India. The Board had issued export permits only till March 18 this year. The unit value realisation per tonne stood at Rs 1,57,978, a decline of 4.3% compared with Rs 1,65,041 per tonne earned in 2018-19. “The decline in unit value realisation was largely on account of a sharp drop in international prices as coffee is traded in dollar terms globally. The rupee depreciation against the dollar, however, did not help Indian exporters much due to the falling prices globally,” Rajah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-affects-rs-400-crore-worth-of-coffee-exports-820225.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka launches helpline for distressed farmers||Farmers can now call a helpline in case they have any trouble selling or transporting their produce, Agriculture Minister B C Patil said on Tuesday. The helplines 080-22212818 / 080-22210237 will function from the agriculture directorate for twelve hours between 8 am to 8 pm, he said. In order to ensure free flow of vegetables, Patil held a meeting with Agriculture and Horticulture department officials on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons after the meeting, Patil said the government had relaxed all restrictions to ensure that the supply chain was not affected. “The farmers are anxious that they are unable to sell their produce. I met with both agriculture and horticulture department officials to take stock of the situation. As far as Bengaluru is concerned, there is no problem to sell groceries and vegetables. We will ensure that farmers of Chikkaballapur, Kolar and Tumakuru can get their produce to APMC, from where it can be distributed into the city.” he said. The government was also issuing Green Pass for free movement of agri-allied supplies such as seeds and fertilisers, he added. These passes were being monitored at the district-level, Patil said. Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, who was also present in the meeting urged people not to panic as there were enough supplies of groceries. Another round of meetings involving the agriculture, horticulture, cooperation and food and civil supplies ministers would be held on Wednesday, Somashekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-launches-helpline-for-distressed-farmers-820226.html
01-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: 24-year-old Bengaluru man youngest to be put on ventilator in Karnataka||There are 740 ventilators available for COVID-19 patients in the state. The health department has no information whatsoever on both patients who are on ventilators. This includes their travel history. What's worrying is that patient 102 is a 24-year-old man from Bengaluru. In fact, in BBMP limits, the majority of COVID-19 patients are in the age group of 20 and 29. As many as 13 patients in BBMP limits are between 20 and 29 years of age, out of a total of 43 cases. P101 is a 62-year-old woman who is a resident of Bengaluru. P103, P104, P105, P109, and P110 belong to the pharmaceutical company's cluster of patients in Mysuru's Nanjangud. The wife of the first employee of the company who tested positive (P52) has also tested positive. With this Mysuru's tally is 19, 17 are from the company and those in contact with the company's employees.  Tablighi Jamaat The state police chief Praveen Sood told DH that till yesterday they had traced 50 foreign nationals who participated in the congregation and they have been tracked and traced and all are under quarantine, efforts are on to trace others and number is changing every hour. The Karnataka Government has directed all Medical Colleges -- Government, Private and Deemed/Private University Medical Colleges to work in coordination with respective district authorities. The services of Community Medicine faculty of all medical colleges shall be utilised for community-based activities and for planning at district and taluka level. Among the list of hospitals housing COVID-19 patients within BBMP limits, KC General Hospital in Malleshwaram, houses nine patients, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (7), Jayanagar General Hospital (6), four each in Epidemic Diseases Hospital, Manipal Hospital and Victoria Hospital, two in Mallige Medical Hospital, and one each in BGS Global, Columbia Asia Hospital, Vydehi Hospital, Vikram Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, People Tree Hospital, and Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-24-year-old-bengaluru-man-youngest-to-be-put-on-ventilator-in-karnataka-820235.html
01-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Indonesia nationals in Belagavi attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi's Nizamuddin||Ten Indonesia nationals, who had visited Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi for attending a religious gathering at Tablighi Jamaat headquarters and have been quarantined in a mosque here, have completed 14 days. Their samples have been collected and sent for tests to ascertain their COVID-19 status. District Surveillance Officer Dr B N Tukkar told DH on Wednesday that since their arrival in the city, Indonesia nationals have been quarantined in a mosque here and have completed 14 days and do not have any health-related complaints. As some of them, who attended the religious gathering have tested positive in other parts, their swab samples have been sent for tests and results were awaited. Sources said that the Indonesia nationals had travelled to Bengaluru after the New Delhi gathering and after directions from the religious leaders had arrived in the city, but were housed in one mosque and had not moved outside.  Four people from the city who had been serving them too have been quarantined. The passports of the Indonesia nationals have been confiscated by the District Administration and they have been asked to remain in the place of quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/indonesia-nationals-in-belagavi-attended-tablighi-jamaat-in-delhis-nizamuddin-819952.html
01-04-2020||West||Maharashtra death toll reaches 12 after two more COVID-19 patients die||The COVID-19 casualties in Maharashtra have shot up to 12 even as the total number of positive cases now stand at 320. Overnight, deaths of two patients were confirmed - one in Mumbai and another in the neighbouring Palghar district.  The positive cases on the Mumbai metropolitan region have increased to 180 plus. So far, the progressive discharge has been 39,  across the state.  In India, Maharashtra has the highest number of cases in terms of deaths and infections.  The sudden jump in the figure of positive cases is because of the inclusion of private labs, who have started testing after validation by civic and government health authorities. "The 75-year-old male patient died here on Tuesday. We are finding details of his travel history and also checking if someone close to him had a travel history," an official said. The Palghar man had no travel history, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-death-toll-reaches-12-after-two-more-covid-19-patients-die-819868.html
01-04-2020||West||18 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra; tally jumps to 320  ||Eighteen more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 320, a health official said on Wednesday. "Maharashtra's COVID-19 tally till Tuesday night was 302. Today, we got reports of 18 more people testing positive for the viral infection. This has taken the state tally to 320," the official said. Of the 18 new cases, 16 have been reported from Mumbai and two from Pune, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/18-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-tally-jumps-to-320-819877.html
01-04-2020||West||Maharashtra cop tests COVID-19 positive; kin, 32 policemen quarantined||After a constable posted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus police station here tested positive for coronavirus, his family members and 32 police personnel who came in contact with him have been asked to remain in home quarantine, an official said on Wednesday. This is the first case in Maharashtra of a police personnel contracting the viral infection, he said. The constable is being treated at the Kasturba Hospital, the official said, adding that samples of four police personnel who worked with him have been sent for test. The policeman, a resident of Kalyan township in neighbouring Thane district, complained of uneasiness in breathing following which he was rushed to hospital on Monday. His test later came out positive for coronavirus, the official said. The constable was posted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus railway police station in south Mumbai from March 15 to 22 and from March 24 to 27 along with other personnel, he said. After he tested positive for the coronavirus, a list was prepared of the police personnel who came in contact with him. Those police personnel and the constable's family members have been advised to remain under home quarantine, he said. "As the suburban train services are shut, we are trying to ascertain his travel route and the people with whom he came in close contact," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cop-tests-covid-19-positive-kin-32-policemen-quarantined-819936.html
01-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Six deaths take Maharashtra's toll to 16||In one of the worst days in terms of casualties, six COVID-19 patients died in the Mumbai metropolitan region taking Maharashtra's toll to 16. A total of 335 patients have been tested positive in Maharashtra so far,  while 41 have been discharged, according to the figures released by the  Public Health and Family Welfare department.  The deceased include five from Mumbai and another from neighbouring Palghar district. The new patients include a six-day-old infant from the Chembur eastern suburbs. Besides, a 56-year-old patient,  who is a resident of Dharavi,  the largest slum dwelling of Asia,  has tested positive.A head constable of the Railway police and a nurse of a hospital too has tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-six-deaths-take-maharashtras-toll-to-16-819940.html
01-04-2020||West||Gujarat: 82 COVID-19 cases; search for Nizamuddin returnees||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 82 on Wednesday after eight more people tested positive, officials said, adding that efforts were on to trace nearly 1,500 people from the state who recently visited Delhi's Nizamuddin area. A religious congregation held earlier this month at Nizamuddin West has turned out to be one of the major COVID-19 hotspots in the country. According to the details sent by the Centre to the Gujarat health department, around 1,500 people recently returned to the state after visiting the Nizamuddin area in the national capital. Efforts were underway to trace these people, and information is also being gathered if those who came in contact with these people display any symptoms of the virus, the state health department said in a release. Meanwhile, state Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi told reporters that all the eight new cases have been reported from Ahmedabad. Of these cases, four are of inter-state travel, three of local transmission, and one patient has foreign travel history, she said. The total number of locally transmitted cases in the state has now gone up to 41, while there are 33 cases of patients with foreign travel history. Eight patients have inter-state travel history, she said. Of the 70 active cases, the condition of 67 is stable while three are on ventilator support, the official said. Six COVID-19 patients have died in the state, she said, adding that six have so far been discharged. With locally transmitted cases on the rise, the health department has surveyed 6.3 crore people in the state so far. Of these, 265 people were found with symptoms of coronavirus and shifted to quarantine facilities. Total 19,206 people are quarantined in the state, including 18,487 who are under home quarantine, 743 in government facilities and 23 in private facilities, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-82-covid-19-cases-search-for-nizamuddin-returnees-819961.html
01-04-2020||West||About 1500 from Gujarat present in Nizamuddin last month: Govt||At least 1500 people from Gujarat were present in Nizamuddin area of Delhi, which is now under a strict lockdown in view of coronavirus outbreak, when a religious congregation was being held there last month, officials said on Wednesday. However, the state government is yet to know the exact number of people who had attended the gathering. Joint teams of police and civic authorities in Surat, Bhavnagar and neighbouring Botad city traced 60 such people who were believed to be persent in Nizamuddin area and have put them under home as well as institutional quarantine over Tuesday night, an official release stated. Nizamuddin area has emerged as one of the hotspots for coronavirus outbreak since the 'markaz' or gathering of Tabligh-e-Jamaat was held there, prompting many states to launch a massive search for the attendees amidst fear of transmission of the virus. A Health department release stated that authorities had started tracking these 1,500 people in various cities and districts. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, meanwhile, said that each person from Gujarat who had gone to Delhi earlier this month to attend the markaz will be traced and quarantined. He said the exact number of people who had attended the event will be announced later this evening. The CM also warned of action agaist those who had attended the markaz. "We will get the details of people who had gone there from Gujarat by today evening. The exact nunber will also be announced by evening. We will trace each and every one of them and put them under quarantine. We will also lodge complaints agaist them for breaking lockdown rules," he said. Rupni further said that such "irresponsible act which could harm the entire society can never be tolerated" . Meanwhile, Surat Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said that 43 people were traced overnight and were sent to a central quarantine facility. "A detailed questioning of these 43 persons has revealed that only one out of them had actually attended the event inside the Markaz while others had gone to Nizamuddin area for some other work or they were on a business trip," said Surat Commissioner of Police RB Brahmbhatt. While 13 such persons, who were in Nizamuddin area, were traced and quarantined in Bhavnagar yesterday, four others were quarantined in Botad district, said Inspector General of Police, Ashok Yadav. Ten others were traced and quarantined in Valsad while 15 were quarantined in Navsari so far, said authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/about-1500-from-gujarat-present-in-nizamuddin-last-month-govt-820004.html
01-04-2020||West||Over 250 attendees of Tabligh gathering traced in Maharashtra||As many as 252 persons including at least a dozen Indonesians who had attended a congregation of Tabligh-e-Jamaat in New Delhi have been traced in various cities of Maharashtra including Pune and Mumbai, authorities said on Wednesday. The gathering in Nizamuddin West area of the national capital has emerged as one of the coronavirus hotspots, prompting other states to launch a search for those who attended it and who were possibly exposed to the infection. As many as 106 people have been traced in five districts of western Maharashtra, a senior official said. "We received a list of total of 182 people from Pune, Solapur, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur who had attended the gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin and 106 of them have been traced," said Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner. "Of these 106, 94 people were placed under quarantine and their samples would be tested," he said, adding that the process to track down remaining people was underway. As per the list, 136 of these people are from Pune, five from Satara, three from Sangli and 17 and 21 from Solapur and Kolhapur, respectively. In Pune district, 70 people have been traced, Mhaisekar said. Fifty-four persons who had attended the gathering in Nizamuddin were tracked down in Nagpur and put under quarantine, said Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. "I appeal to others who had attended the Tabligh-e- Jamaat congregation to contact us, so that appropriate treatment could be provided if they have coronavirus symptoms," Mundhe said. Thirty-five persons were identified in Ahmednagar. As many as 29 of them are from Indonesia, Tanzania, South Africa, Ghana and other countries, a local official said. One local person and a foreign national from this group have been found to have contracted the infection. All of them have been placed under quarantine. In Mumbai, 32 persons including 12 Indonesian nationals who had attended the congregation have been put under quarantine. Twenty of them -- all Indian nationals, some of them from Rajasthan and Gujarat -- were traced at a mosque in the western suburbs. They were placed under quarantine on the mosque premises after medical examination, said Deputy Commissioner of Police Manjunath Singhe. The mosque was also sanitized by civic officials. Also, 12 Indonesian nationals -- six men and six women -- who had attended the Nizamuddin event were traced in suburban Bandra, said DCP Paramjeet Singh Dahiya. They were placed under home quarantine at the flat they were staying in after medical check-up, he told PTI. In Mumbra in neighbouring Thane, 25 persons who attended the gathering have been traced, a local official said. None of them were found to have any medical issues, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-250-attendees-of-tabligh-gathering-traced-in-maharashtra-820020.html
01-04-2020||West||Private lab stopped from conducting COVID-19 tests in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said a private lab in the state has been stopped from conducting coronavirus tests for delay in providing results. The private testing laboratories are unable to provide prompt results to state authorities, he said. "Every report provided by them has to be rechecked in the state-run labs again. After the state-run lab confirms prevalence of the infection, the person is declared coronavirus positive," Tope told reporters. Out of the eight private labs conducting COVID-19 tests in the state, one facility failed to provide the data in time, he said. "Thus we had to issue work suspension order for that lab. The remaining seven labs in the state are operational," he said. "We did not get the reports in time. They generally take one or two days more to submit the reports," he said. A couple of more state-run testing laboratories will be operational in the state in the next two days, he said. "We can conduct as many as 5,000 (sample) tests in Maharashtra, out of which the state-run labs have a cumulative capacity of 1,500 tests per day," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/private-lab-stopped-from-conducting-covid-19-tests-in-maharashtra-820023.html
01-04-2020||West||Mercedes-Benz to set up 1,500-bed temporary hospital in Pune for COVID-19 patients||Mercedes-Benz India announced on Wednesday it will set up in association with local authorities a temporary hospital with 1,500-bed isolation wards for coronavirus patients in Chakan in Pune. Besides, its employees will voluntarily contribute one day's salary, the amount of which will be matched by the company towards contribution to the Maharashtra Chief Minister's Relief Fund for COVID-19 pandemic, the company said in a release. Mercedes-Benz India has both its manufacturing facility and corporate office situated in Chakan industrial belt in Pune. "In the wake of the ongoing global health crisis caused by the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, Mercedes-Benz India has decided to set up a temporary hospital with medical facilities and isolation wards for COVID-19 patients. The newly developed medical facility in Mhalunge-Ingale village, Chakan Khed, will have isolation wards with a capacity to take care of 1,500 patients," the company said. The facility is in Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority’s (MHADA) housing area, which is newly built with 374 rooms, it said. The German auto-maker said it will assist the Zila Parishad with all the necessary infrastructure including the medical equipment required to create a temporary OPD, infrastructure for stay, stretchers, wheelchairs, PPE kits, sanitisers, among others. "In these challenging times, we are trying to support the local community and the local authorities. The new medical facility will help support the local authorities and the people of the region with healthcare in the coming times, if the situation worsens. We hope for a steady recovery of the crisis and getting back to normalcy,” said Martin Schwenk, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mercedes-Ben India. According to the company, after easing of the COVID-19 condition, the medical equipment will be donated to the Civil Hospital of Khed, and the assets from isolation wards will be donated to the tribal youth hostels. The company has also directly supported by donating ventilators to a hospital, it said, adding, "Mercedes-Benz India will also support 1,600 families from Khed and Viman Nagar area (a locality in Pune near the airport). The company will provide them dry ration and cleaning kits." This initiative will be executed through Mercedes-Benz India's existing partner NGOs, Shashwat Trust and Ashraya Initiatives for children and will secure the food and hygiene requirement for these families till the May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mercedes-benz-to-set-up-1500-bed-temporary-hospital-in-pune-for-covid-19-patients-820036.html
01-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Nurses of civic-run hospital demand protective gear in Maharashtra||As many as 18 nurses and medical staff from civic-run Balasaheb Thackeray Hospital in Jogeshwari on Wednesday staged a protest demanding protective gear to attend to COVID-19 patients admitted at the facility. The protesting medical staff from Balasaheb Thackeray Hospital signed a letter addressed to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's medical officer. The hospital was converted into a COVID-19 facility, for treating positive patients and suspected cases, the letter stated. "Despite the guidelines, we have not been provided the required kits for our own safety while serving patients. If any one of us suffers from the infection, the BMC would be solely responsible for it," the nurses have stated in the letter. As many as 167 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Mumbai, of which 14 have recovered from the infection||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-nurses-of-civic-run-hospital-demand-protective-gear-in-maharashtra-820085.html
01-04-2020||West||Woman dies of COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Dombivli: Civic authorities||A suspected case of COVID-19 death has come to light in Thane district of Maharashtra. According to a release issued by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Wednesday, a 46-year-old woman with a travel history to Bangkok died in Dombivli township on Tuesday. The deceased was suffering from underlying medical conditions like high blood pressure and diabetes. The woman returned from Bangkok on March 10. She approached a local doctor on March 30 after she complained of fever, vomiting and loose motion, it stated. On March 31, she was referred to a hospital where she was examined for fever and breathlessness accompanied by the symptoms of COVID-19, it said. The release stated that though the doctors advised the woman to visit Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai, which is the nodal facility for coronavirus patients, she went to her home. "Her condition deteriorated gradually and she died on Tuesday," it said. Authorities have referred five members from the family of the deceased to Thane civil hospital. Their reports are awaited, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-maharashtras-dombivli-civic-authorities-820106.html
01-04-2020||West||Give details of Tablighi attendees who entered Gujarat: HC||The Gujarat High Court on Wednesday directed the central government to share information of "all those persons irrespective of their nationality who were part of Tablighi Jamaat and have entered the state of Gujarat" in a sealed covered to the state government as well as the court by April 3. The court's instruction came on a suo motu petition taken up by the high court in wake of coronavirus outbreak last month. The hearing of this PIL was supposed to be held on April 3. But, in the view of news reports suggesting that "at least 200 members of the congregation who have travelled to Gujarat, may be infected with the deadly virus," the court decided to hold an urgent hearing. The hearing is being conducted through video conferencing. During the hearing, Advocate General Kamal Trivedi told the court that the state doesn’t have complete information of all the members who participated in the congregation and have travelled to Gujarat. He also said that “on the basis of the partial information received…the members who have participated in the congregation are being identified and dealt with accordingly by providing necessary care and protection." Following the submissions, the bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice Ashutosh Shastri passed the directions to the state and central government seeking details of "the Nationality, purpose of visit and nature of Visas of those foreign nationals who have attended the said congregation and have now entered the State of Gujarat...How many individuals belonging to the state of Gujarat and steps taken qua them to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in case they have been detained in Delhi." The court directed the state government to submit details with regard to the identification of such persons and who are exposed to the virus, quarantine, testing and other steps taken by the government. Also, the court sought details of the implementation of the restrictions that may have been imposed by the state with respect to gatherings at all worship places such as temples, Churches, Gurudwara and Mosques.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/give-details-of-tablighi-attendees-who-entered-gujarat-hc-820120.html
01-04-2020||West||PM CARES fund Modi's blatant attempt at self promotion: Prithviraj Chavan||Senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Wednesday said that labelling the coronavirus fund as "PM CARES fund" was the "blatant self-promotion attempt" by Prime Minister Narendra Modi which had no parallel in the world. In a tweet, the state Cabinet mnister said, "Only in India our stimulus package has to be called as the PM garib kalyan yojana. Narendra Modi will not leave any opportunity for self promotion (sic)". Chavan further said, "No other global leader while announcing a stimulus package had labelled it as President's package or a PM's package or a Trumpackage". He said the Prime Minister's Relief Fund was started by Jawaharlal Nehru in January 1948 to help refugees from Pakistan. "No other PM felt it necessary to start another national relief fund, except Narendra Modi now. PM CARES fund is a blatant attempt at self promotion," Chavan tweeted. Many business groups and celebrities have announced contributions to the PM CARES fund, which is mainly aimed at combating the coronavirus threat. In its bid to help the poor tide over the crisis, Union Finance Ministry had last week announced a relief package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-cares-fund-modis-blatant-attempt-at-self-promotion-prithviraj-chavan-820127.html
01-04-2020||West||Ration supplies: BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis questions 'contrasting' orders||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday said that two different orders issued by the Maharashtra government over distribution of food grains has caused confusion among owners of PDS shops and people. While Maharashtra Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal had last week said that all ration cardholders will be permitted to withdraw three months advance supplies at one go, the government later decided against it citing logistical constraints. "There is a huge confusion created among the ration shop owners and inconvenience is caused to people due to two different orders issued by the state government," Fadnavis tweeted. "One asks to give ration for 3 months at a time and other says food distribution to be done only on monthly basis," he said. The former chief minister further said that the Centrehad clearly stated that ration be given to people at one go and entirely free for three months. "It is my sincere request to Government of Maharashtra to clear this confusion," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ration-supplies-bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis-questions-contrasting-orders-820146.html
01-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Singapore-based Lark brings digital platform||Singapore-based technology company Lark Technologies Pte. Ltd has made its digital collaboration suite, Lark, available for free in India.  Lark is an all-in-one platform for collaboration that brings together a multitude of essential work tools, including Messenger, Online Docs and Sheets, Cloud Storage, Calendar, and Video Conferencing. As businesses around the world are rapidly responding to the COVID-19 outbreak with initiatives ranging from travel restrictions, mandatory work from home and remote learning policies, Lark bridges the gap as a robust, easy-to-use collaborative tool that helps people stay connected. The service is also extended for free to  Educational Institutes including, Schools, Colleges and Coaching Classes across India,  enabling remote working between teachers and students that will effectively and rapidly manage workflow. Beyond supporting remote work, UNESCO has also recognized Lark as a platform that can help students, parents, and teachers facilitate learning and provide social interactions during periods of school closures. "With remote working in place, we believe there is a need for effective communication and collaboration. Businesses and educational institutes are working hard to ensure continuity in work as well distant learning. We are committed to providing accessibility via digital collaboration tools and have begun offering Lark for free. This will enable organizations regardless of size to  operate effectively with no additional cost.” Said  Vinay Bhartia, Lark Head, India. Lark's free version comes with unlimited video calls (with advanced screen sharing), 200GB of cloud storage, online collaborative docs and sheets, a smart calendar, a powerful messenger, unlimited third-party app integrations, and customizable attendance/approval workflows. These features are all synchronized so there is no longer any need to juggle between applications to get work done — which means Lark is able to offer unique features such as checking team members' schedules within a chat, launching a video call right from a calendar event, and co-editing a document during video calls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-singapore-based-lark-brings-digital-platform-820147.html
01-04-2020||West||Free rice to be given after regular ration: Maharashta govt||The Maharashtra government said on Wednesday that the five kg of free rice promised by the Centre for ration card-holders will be distributed only after they buy their regular quota of grains at Fair Price Shops. This decision was taken as otherwise stocking of food grains and their transportation would pose a problem, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal said in a statement. Free rice -- announced by the Centre last month as part of a relief package during lockdown on account of coronavirus -- would be provided every month from April to June and not in one go, he said. The opposition BJP has been demanding distribution of free rice on priority basis. Bhujbal said the Maharashtra government had already decided to distribute regular quota of food grains at ration shops for April, May and June in advance. Stocking rice for distribution under the Centre's package alongwith three months' worth of foodgrains will be difficult for ration shops, he said. More than two lakh ration card-holders in the state bought regular quota of food grains on Wednesday, Bhujbal further informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/free-rice-to-be-given-after-regular-ration-maharashta-govt-820174.html
01-04-2020||West||In Maha village, donkey parade for those stepping out of homes||In a move aimed at discouraging people from venturing out to curb the spread of coronavirus, a village in Maharashtra has come up with an unsual punishment- a donkey parade for those found repeatedly stepping out of their homes. The grampanchayat of Takali village in Kej tehsil of Beed district announced this decision on Wednesday. "The idea is to discourage people from venturing out on streets, which is against the state advisory. The first time offender will be fined Rs 500, but if the same offence is repeated thrice, that person will be made to sit on a donkey and a procession will be taken out," the official announcement made by the grampanchayat said. "People should stay at home and cooperate," it further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-maha-village-donkey-parade-for-those-stepping-out-of-homes-820177.html
01-04-2020||West||Gujarat: Stray dog takes away new born from govt hospital, kills||Panchmahals district collector Amit Arora confirmed the incident and said that "action is being taken to identify the responsible persons." Officials said that a woman from Sehra taluka had given birth to twins- a girl and a boy. The mother and her newborn babies were in the labour room when the stray dog entered and took one of the babies away.  A CCTV footage showed the dog carrying the baby in its mouth. Sources said that the mother of the baby saw the dog carrying the baby and screamed for help but there were no hospital staffs who came for help. Later, the baby was found dead outside the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-stray-dog-takes-away-new-born-from-govt-hospital-kills-820196.html
01-04-2020||West||Ahmedabad, one of the hotspots of COVID-19, makes its patients' identity public||The announcement to make the names and addresses of the patients public was taken by the AMC commissioner Vijay Nehra. A release quoted him as saying, "The name of the persons already found positive may be declared in the larger public interest so that other people who could have potentially come in contact with them can voluntarily inform the authorities and isolate themselves and thereby avoid becoming unsuspecting carriers of the virus." It also states that "In the larger public interest and with a view to stop the spread of COVID-19 and to strike a balance between the privacy of an individual and the larger public interest of the society", AMC commissioner Vijay Nehra ordered the making the names and addresses of the patients public. A warning has also been issued that any directly or indirectly discriminate against the patients or their family would amount to the registration of punishable offence under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. Till Wednesday evening, a total of 31 cases were detected, out of which three passed away while five have recovered. This is the highest number of cases in Gujarat that has detected a total of 87 cases so far. In the past 24 hours, the state recorded 13 positive cases out of Ahmedabad alone recorded eight cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-one-of-the-hotspots-of-covid-19-makes-its-patients-identity-public-820219.html
01-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 56-year-old man tests COVID-19 positive in Dharavi||The man is a resident of Shahunagar in Dharavi and does not have any travel history. He is undergoing treatment in Sion Hospital. Dharavi is one of the most congested places on Earth, with more than 50,000 to 60,000 families - and an area spread over 200 hectares (around 500 acres). This corresponds to an average population density estimate between 1500 and 5000.  Dharavi is sandwiched between Sion and Matunga stations on the Central Railway and Mahim on the Western Railway. The Mithi river empties into the Arabian Sea through the Mahim creek. It has several business units right from textiles to pottery to fabrication to the leather industry. Plastic recycling and garbage segregation too is done here. It has ab estimated 5000 businesses and 15,000 single-room factories. Goods produced here goes to the Middle East, America and Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-56-year-old-man-tests-covid-19-positive-in-dharavi-820236.html
