02-04-2020||First Edit||Railways’ initiative could be a saviour||Amidst all the dreadful and depressing news about the COVID-19 pandemic coming in from various parts of the country is some heartening news about the Indian Railways and its contribution to India’s efforts to fight the coronavirus. It plans to convert 20,000 railway coaches into isolation wards and quarantine facilities for COVID-19 patients. One coach is likely to accommodate 16 beds for isolation. This means that the 20,000 coaches that the Railways plans to set aside to deal with the pandemic will provide 3.2 lakh beds for isolation. The Railways is in discussions with the Armed Forces Medical Services and medical departments of various zonal railways as well as Ayushman Bharat and will take on board their inputs to implement its plans. It has already begun work on transforming 5,000 coaches into quarantine facilities. The Railways also plans to hire its retired doctors and paramedics to augment manpower on the new facilities. India is facing a severe shortage of hospitals, wards and beds for treatment of potential COVID-19 patients. With the number of those testing positive expected to rise dramatically in the coming weeks as India enters stage 3 of the outbreak, the demand for hospital beds will likely soar. The Railways initiative could well be the saviour. With the nationwide lockdown in place, trains have ground to a halt. But the Indian Railways has stirred itself into action to put to good use its vast network and infrastructure. The Chittaranjan Loco Works, the Integral Coach Factory at Chennai and the Rail Wheel Factory at Yelahanka in Bengaluru are among the facilities that have been roped in to manufacture hospital beds, trolleys, stretchers, washbasins, water tanks and even ventilators. In addition to resuming freight train services for transporting essential commodities to various parts of the country, the Railways have also resumed parcel trains to allow for the movement of small consignments of medicines and equipment. The Indian Railways has for long aroused both admiration and disgust – admiration because a journey on its trains takes people to fascinating places across the country; disgust because its trains are notorious for overcrowding and for running late, for their filthy toilets and cockroach and rat-infested coaches. But the Railways has also earned worldwide fame for its vast network. Its trains run to remote parts of the country. This vast network could help reach COVID-19 treatment facilities to most towns and villages in the country that are otherwise not served by government hospitals. The Railways’ initiative to put this to use at a critical hour for the country is commendable and inspiring.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/railways-initiative-could-be-a-saviour-820258.html
02-04-2020||In Perspective||G20: The leaders who showed they weren’t||After months of complete disarray in the international community, the leaders of the G-20 met last week in a virtual summit, ostensibly to ensure a coordinated response to the global crisis emanating out of the coronavirus pandemic. There have been demands that the G-20 step up their level of support for the world’s poorest nations as they tackle the large-scale disruptions caused by the pandemic, with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund calling for immediate bilateral debt relief for the world’s most impoverished nations upon their request, and the United Nations calling for a humanitarian response fund. But given that the world’s powerful and richest nations have been focused on managing domestic turmoil, little was expected of the emergency video-conference summit of last week. And it lived up to the low expectations. The G-20 member-states decided to inject over $5 trillion into the global economy, “as part of targeted fiscal policy, economic measures, and guarantee schemes to counteract the social, economic and financial impacts of the pandemic.” They also agreed to work with multilateral bodies such as the IMF, the World Health Organisation and regional banks to deploy a “robust” financial package to support developing nations. More specifically pertaining to the present crisis, the leaders agreed to assess gaps in pandemic preparedness and increase funding for research and development in vaccines and medicines.  But these were generalities as the focus of most nations was on their own priorities and little attempt was made to move towards developing a common framework, let alone global coordination. In his remarks, Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed tariff cuts and removal of trade barriers to prevent the global economy slipping into recession. This should not have been surprising as China’s economy, after grinding to a halt in February, is seeking a revival. But for that, it is imperative that the rest of the world, and especially the West, comes back on track. The Sino-US contestation continues unabated, shaping the wider global response or lack thereof. The G-7 foreign ministers meeting, also held last week, was unable to issue a joint communique after the US insisted that COVID-19 be described as the ‘Wuhan virus’, in a reference to the city where it originated. At the meeting, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had insisted on identifying the COVID-19 virus as the “Wuhan virus” even though this was resisted by others. Despite this, Pompeo made it clear that “every one of the nations that was at that meeting this morning was deeply aware of the disinformation campaign that the Chinese Communist Party is engaged in to try and deflect from what has really taken place there. Chinese leadership is trying to shift the blame on the US by blaming the US military for this viral contagion in China. One of the Chinese foreign ministry spokesmen, Zhao Lijian, has alleged that US army might have brought the COVID-19 to Wuhan. Referring to the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Director Robert Redfield’s comments, he tweeted “CDC was caught on the spot. When did patient zero begin in US? How many people are infected? What are the names of the hospitals? It might be US army who brought the epidemic to Wuhan. Be transparent! Make public your data! US owe us an explanation!” The other issue plaguing the G-20 was the crude oil prices, which have been severely impacted by the price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia as well by the pandemic’s impact on global demand. Though Riyadh had publicly underlined its reluctance to yield to any pressure, Washington has been asking its Middle Eastern ally to behave responsibly. Unlike the 2008 financial crisis, when the grouping reacted with alacrity to mobilise assistance for vulnerable countries, it has been found wanting this time round, with hardly any attempt to come up with any meaningful response. Coordination among the G-20 members would have infused a sense of confidence among the wider international community but the lack of global leadership is quite striking. In place of an effective coordinated response by the world’s richest powers, there have been moves toward greater isolation. And there have even been differences with countries like the US and Brazil refusing to take the lockdown approach to control the pandemic like most other major countries. Trump had been keen for American businesses to resume normal operations, arguing that the “cure cannot be worse than the problem itself.” Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro has gone to another extreme by not only denying the severity of the COVID-19 crisis but also clearly prioritising the economy over isolation measures. "People are going to die, I'm sorry,” Bolsonaro has said. “But we can't stop a car factory because there are traffic accidents.” So, even in this time of a pandemic, global coordination remains a commodity in short supply as political considerations continue to shape national responses. It’s futile to blame the G-20. Such is the nature of global politics that national priorities will continue to overwhelm global imperatives. Prime Minister Narendra Modi rightly underscored, in his own intervention at the G-20 summit, that the world needs to “redefine” its conversations on globalisation to include social and humanitarian issues like terrorism, climate change and pandemics along with financial and economic discussions. But the G-20’s response so far tells us that such a “re-definition” is clearly not a priority for the world’s major powers at this juncture. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King’s College, London)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/g20-the-leaders-who-showed-they-weren-t-820260.html
02-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||11 people who attended Nizamuddin congregation from Bidar district test COVID-19 positive||Bidar district has emerged as a new COVID-19 hot spot with 11 people from the district who returned from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz Masjid in New Delhi testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. The number of positive cases reported from a single district at one go is a cause for concern for Kalyana Karnataka, particularly in Bidar and Kalaburagi districts, which have a large presence of Muslims. The administration now has a big challenge of containing community transmission. The district shares the border with neighbouring Telangana and Maharashatra, which have reported the country's highest number of coronoavirus positive cases.  Bidar deputy commissioner Dr H R Mahadev told DH that throat swab samples of 26 people who returned from a religious congregation were sent for tests, of which 11 tested positive. All the 26 have been isolated at the Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences, he explained. Of the 11 positive cases, nine are from Bidar city, while one is from Basavakalyan and the other from Mannaekhelli in Chitaguppa taluk. The reports of 16 people including a person from Kapalapur village in Bidar taluk who returned from abroad and another man who came to Bidar via Hyderabad to go to Kalaburagi, were negative, he told. Information is being gathered on the travel history of the infected. About 33 family members of the infected people have been kept under strict quarantine at the Child and Mother Hospital located in the old city. An area five km radius in the old city has been declared a buffer zone, Mahadev said.  One death A 62-year-old man who returned from the religious congregation at Delhi's Nizamuddin died on Wednesday night at a hospital in Hyderabad. But doctors did not confirm whether he died due to COVID-19. The deceased is a resident of Singarbhad of the city. Two sons of the deceased claimed that their father has died of typhoid. However, violating the COVID-19 protocol norms, the last rites of the deceased were performed at Astur near Bidar taluk in the wee hours of Thursday. Reliable sources said a pit was dug by an earth mover in the presence of the deceased's two sons and the body was buried with the help of a crane. Some senior officials who were present ensured that the last rites were performed in a scientific manner. Deputy commissioner H R Mahadev said the throat swab sample of the deceased tested negative when it was collected in Bidar. "We have no official information on the cause of his death from the doctors of Telangana," he told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-people-who-attended-nizamuddin-congregation-from-bidar-district-test-covid-19-positive-820327.html
02-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Total ban on private vehicle's movement in Mangaluru: Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh||Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that total ban on all movement of private vehicles four-wheeler/two-wheelers has been imposed across the district to check the spread of coronavirus. During the relaxation provided by the district administration from 7 am to 12 noon for the purchase of essential commodities, the density of vehicles was high in the district. Many were roaming freely without caring for lockdown. Hence, the district administration decided to ban the movement of private vehicles.  "People can avail of ambulance services for emergency medical needs. Doctors, nurses, paramedics, hospital administrators will be allowed to go in their private vehicle during their transit from home to place of work. Media fraternity will be allowed if they have a valid pass issued by the Department of Information and Public Relations," she said. The DC has ordered for the shifting of all wholesale vegetable vendors from Central Market in Mangaluru to the APMC yard in Baikampady. The entry of public barring retailers have been prohibited to the APMC yard. The public should purchase vegetables and grocery from the shops near to their houses, she appealed. Further, she said the wholesale supply of grocery in the Bunder area will be continued. However, the wholesalers should stop selling grocery items to the general public at the Bunder area. Grocery items can be unloaded from vehicles in the Bunder area from 7 am to 12 noon. While wholesalers can supply grocery items to retailers from 1 pm to 7 pm, in Bunder. In rural areas,grocery items and food items can be transported in light vehicles. For medical emergency,public can dial 108 and 1077.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/total-ban-on-private-vehicles-movement-in-mangaluru-deputy-commissioner-sindhu-b-rupesh-820474.html
02-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: 81 from Mysuru visited Nizamuddin||Around 81 persons from Mysuru district, including the city, visited Nizamuddin in Delhi. While 47 have been identified, all steps are on to trace the remaining 34. Speaking to reporters here, on Thursday, MP Pratap Simha said, as per the details available, 62 people from Mysuru city had visited Nizamuddin. Of them, 45 have been identified and are under home quarantine. Remaining 17 are yet to be identified, he said. Similarly, 19 people from Mysuru rural had visited Nizamuddin. According to the MP, one each from Periyapatna and Bannur has been identified and quarantined. Six from H D Kote are also said to have visited Nizamuddin. But, the details are yet to be ascertained. Simha requested the people to self declare. The city, as well as the district police, are trying to trace the rest, who visited Nizamuddin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-81-from-mysuru-visited-nizamuddin-820500.html
02-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Only two from Chamarajanagar visited Nizamuddin, not 12, clarifies DC||Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi clarified that only two people from Chamarajanagar visited the religious gathering in Nizamuddin and not 12 people, as informed earlier. District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar had stated that he had information of 12 people from the district who had participated in the religious meeting. The DC explained that they received three lists from Bengaluru, which had different figures. Upon verification, it has been confirmed that only two had gone to Nizamuddin. One among them is in Bengaluru, the other in Chamarajanagar has been quarantined, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/only-two-from-chamarajanagar-visited-nizamuddin-not-12-clarifies-dc-820521.html
02-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: TUMUL to deliver 95K litres of milk to poor||The Tumakuru Milk Union Limited will supply 95,000 litres of milk at the doorsteps of the poor and slum-dwellers, as per the orders of the state government. The delivery will begin on April 3. The Union is making special one-litre packets for this purpose. While 70,000 litres would be delivered to Bengaluru the balance of 25,000 litres would be supplied to the beneficiaries in Tumakuru. The local administration has identified the beneficiaries. Tumul has taken up this initiative with a dual purpose of ensuring that it does not suffer losses during the lockdown and poor people also benefit from it.  The government has decided to buy 7.5 lakh litres through Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) distribute it daily to the needy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-tumul-to-deliver-95k-litres-of-milk-to-poor-820537.html
02-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Social distancing goes for a toss at Ramanagar cocoon market||Social distancing went for a toss at the government cocoon market in Ramanagar which opened after a gap of one week. A large number of sericulture farmers made a beeline for the cocoon market on Thursday, including those from other districts as well as other states. Officials had a tough time controlling them. They were from districts like Mandya, Ramanagar, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga as also from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. As many as 2,729 kg of the cross-breed variety and 9,830 kg of bivoltine silk, locally produced, arrived here. They were sold at Rs 304/kg and Rs 330/kg respectively. Sanitisers were provided to the farmers and the reelers at the entrance of the market and it was announced on the public address system that they must follow social distancing. But they were in no mood to follow the same. The prices had fallen over the last one week following the lockdown. The government had allowed the reelers to pick the cocoons directly from the houses of the farmers. Market deputy director Munibasaiah told reporters that the numbers were less as it was day one. He said it would be more difficult to maintain social distancing in the coming days as the number of people visiting the market would be more. Munibasaiah said they had brought the matter to the notice of the higher-ups. Since the market premises on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway is congested, two more would be started in the city, including one near the DC office. The farmers and reelers who were at the market on Wednesday had a tough time as none of the hotels in the city was open. Some of them had brought food packed from home, but the others had to go hungry. There were no toilet facilities at the market. There are no arrangements for overnight stay either.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-ramanagar-cocoon-market-820567.html
02-04-2020||Mysuru||COVID-19 lockdown: Mysuru man tries to kill self over non-availability of liquor||A 45-year-old man made an attempted to kill self due to non-availability of liquor during the lockdown in Mysuru on Thursday. Anand tried to end his life by silting his throat at his residence in Hoysalanagara in the city. Anand was under depression as he did not get liquor since lockdown to combat COVID-19. However, he is undergoing treatment in a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-19-lockdown-mysuru-man-tries-to-kill-self-over-non-availability-of-liquor-820310.html
02-04-2020||Mysuru||1671 under quarantine; 19 isolated in Mysuru||As many as 1,671 persons are under home quarantine and 19 people are under isolation in the district hospital, as on Thursday. As per the communication released by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, a total of 2,767 persons were observed till the date.  Of them, 1,077 successfully completed 14 days of home quarantine. The authorities have tested a total of 149 samples. While 19 tested positive, one rejected and the remaining 129 tested negative. The DC appealed the people who have returned from Covid-19 affected countries or who has been in personal contact with such a person to remain in home isolation for 14 days. He also urged to maintain personal hygiene, frequent hand wash with soap and water or hand sanitiser and suggested avoiding social gathering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/1671-under-quarantine-19-isolated-in-mysuru-820459.html
02-04-2020||Mysuru||Trace foreign returns, says Hassan DC||Deputy Commissioner R Girish in a video conference with the taluk officials informed that a list of 57 people, who had returned from foreign countries have been sent to the respective taluk centres. They should be traced and quarantined, he said. Those who have completed their quarantine period should be monitored for another 28 days and their health report submitted. As people continue to throng the market in towns, the officials should ensure that the vegetables and essential commodities are supplied to the doorsteps of the people, in goods vehicles. Assistant Commissioner Naveen Bhat said, "There are allegations that the people from other districts and states are not being screened by the Health department officials. The officials should monitor this and ensure the health officials are on duty till 11 pm."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/trace-foreign-returns-says-hassan-dc-820461.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Tablighi Jamaat attendee attempts suicide from 6th floor of Delhi hospital||During an interaction over a video link with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the doctor from Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital said people, who were brought from the Markaz, were "not cooperating" with the medical staff of the hospital. "A person from Markaz tried to commit suicide, but doctors foiled his suicide attempt, putting their lives in danger," the doctor said. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Wednesday climbed to 152, with 32 fresh cases being reported in a day, according to Delhi government authorities. These total cases include 53 people who took part in a religious congregation in the Nizamuddin area last month, the health department said in a statement.  During the interaction, the doctor also said that there is a security issue at the hospital.  Kejriwal in an online briefing said he has spoken to Home Secretary so that security can be stepped up for both patients and doctors. "Some patients are behaving very aggressively and as a result, no one wants to go near them. Yesterday, one patient tried to commit suicide at Rajiv Gandhi hospital, doctors pulled him back and saved him," Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tablighi-jamaat-attendee-attempts-suicide-from-6th-floor-of-delhi-hospital-820254.html
02-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 2, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-2-2020-edition-820263.html
02-04-2020||National||DH Toon: A message from beyond clouds, to stay home||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-a-message-from-beyond-clouds-to-stay-home-820264.html
02-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 2||While the impact of the novel coronavirus has been the most in China and Italy, India also is within its grasp. After making its presence in Kerala first, the novel coronavirus reached other cities/regions including Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Jaipur, Agra, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir among others. We, at Deccan Herald, bring to you the list of total positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the epidemic, according to the Union Ministry of Health and sources (the list will be updated regularly). The total number of positive cases (including deaths) in India: 2,465 as of April 2. Total deaths in India: 79 Haryana: 1 Rajasthan: 3 Uttar Pradesh: 2 Telangana: 9 Madhya Pradesh: 8 Karnataka: 3 Delhi: 6 Maharashtra: 21 Punjab: 4 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 7 West Bengal: 7 Himachal Pradesh: 1 Tamil Nadu: 1 Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Kerala: 3 States/UT with confirmed positive cases: (State-wise details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 286 (including 8 foreigners)Punjab: 46Delhi: 293 (including 1 foreigner)Jammu and Kashmir: 70Ladakh: 13Rajasthan: 154 (including 2 foreigners)Uttar Pradesh: 126 (including 1 foreigner)Maharashtra: 425 (including 3 foreigners)Karnataka: 121Tamil Nadu: 234 (including 6 foreigners)Telangana: 154 (including 11 foreigners)Haryana: 43 (including 14 foreigners)Andhra Pradesh: 152Himachal Pradesh: 4Gujarat: 86 (including 1 foreigner)Uttarakhand: 10 (including 1 foreigner)Odisha: 4West Bengal: 37Chandigarh: 16Chhattisgarh: 18Madhya Pradesh: 121Bihar: 29Puducherry: 6Manipur: 2Mizoram: 1Goa: 6Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 10Jharkhand: 1Assam: 16Arunachal Pradesh: 1 No. of people discharged: 151 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the epidemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-2-820272.html
02-04-2020||National||EMI deferment to put additional interest cost on borrowers, warns SBI||The country's largest lender State Bank of India on Wednesday warned borrowers that deferment of equated monthly instalments (EMIs) offered under the RBI's relief package on account of COVID-19 could put an additional cost on them. The lender also advised borrowers to repay their loans if they are in a position to do the same.           Last week, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) gave a relief package for retail borrowers and businesses, by way of announcing a three-month moratorium on payment of all term loans falling due between March 1, 2020, and May 31, 2020. The dispensation is aimed to mitigate the burden of debt servicing brought about by disruptions on account of COVID 19 pandemic and to ensure the continuity of viable businesses.      “Any deferment of interest over such a long period, if it is there, will entail additional costs because it is not interest waiver, it is interest deferment,” SBI managing director (retail and digital banking) C S Setty told reporters through a video conference. In a frequently asked questions (FAQ) section on Covid 19 relief measures published on its website, the bank said during the moratorium period, interest shall continue to accrue on the outstanding portion of the term loan. Explaining about the impact on home loan, the bank said for a loan of Rs 30 lakh with a remaining maturity of 15 years, the net additional interest would be nearly Rs 2.34 lakh which is equal to eight EMIs. For auto loan of Rs 6 lakh with a remaining maturity of 54 months, the additional interest payable would be around Rs 19,000 equal to additional 1.5 EMIs, the bank said.    To avoid paying this additional cost, Setty said the bank is advising its customers to pay their EMIs, if they have the ability and cash flow to pay.    “But important thing is if you want additional cash flow, you avail this facility, and it costs you,” he said.   Setty explained that the bank will back end all the three monthly instalments or any instalments failing under the moratorium period towards the end of the loan repayment period.   He also said the bank is offering an option to its retail and corporate borrowers to get refunded the already deducted equated monthly instalments for March, if they opt for it.           “So, we have given this provision of claiming back the amount (EMI) which has already been paid for March,” Setty said. He said a customer who has a loan account and a savings account with SBI, and has given a standing instructions for deducting the EMI from his account, can send an email to the bank asking for refund.          “We will ensure that whatever amount which is recovered for March, will be credited to your savings account,” he said.          For a customer who has a loan account with SBI but a savings bank account with another lender, the refund may take some time as the bank will need the details from the customer about the account where he wants the deducted EMIs to be credited, Setty said. He further said the bank has enough liquidity and deferment of EMIs will not create any additional liquidity pressure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emi-deferment-to-put-additional-interest-cost-on-borrowers-warns-sbi-820273.html
02-04-2020||National||37 arrested in Kashmir for violating prohibitory order in place to check COVID-19 spread||While in Awantipora area of South Kashmir's Pulwama district seven people were arrested, 15 were held in Vilgam area of north Kashmir's Kupwara district. Seven people were booked in Handwara, a spokesperson said. In Kralgund area of Kupwara, six shops were sealed and the shopkeepers arrested for violating the prohibitory orders. In Sadder area of Srinagar, two shopkeepers, both residents of Chanpora area of the city, were booked for defying the prohibitory orders, he said. Cases have been registered against all these persons, the spokesperson said and requested people to follow the restrictions imposed by government in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He warned that those violating the restrictions will be dealt with strictly. Most of the roads in the Valley have been sealed off and barriers erected at several places by security forces to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown for containing the spread of the infection. Educational institutions across Kashmir have been closed, while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants have been shut down more than a week before the nationwide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister. While the Prime Minister announced the country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till 31 March as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The total number of positive cases in the union territory has gone up to 55 as six new cases were detected on Tuesday. Two patients both from the Valley -- have succumbed, while two one each Kashmir and Jammu -- have recovered. The administration on Tuesday declared 20 areas in Kashmir as red zones following detection of fresh cases of COVID-19 in the valley. The 20 areas are in Bandipora, Pulwama, Ganderbal, Shopian, Srinagar and Budgam districts of Kashmir division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/37-arrested-in-kashmir-for-violating-prohibitory-order-in-place-to-check-covid-19-spread-820274.html
02-04-2020||National||Over 300 economists, social scientists seek four-fold hike in payout to the vulnerable||Over 300 economists, academics, social scientists and past civil servants have urged the prime minister and chief ministers to take urgent steps to ameliorate the impact on the COVID-19 lockdowns on the vulnerable sections by increasing their monthly sustenance support to at least Rs 6,000 per family. Those who made the collective appeal to the prime minister and the chief ministers under the aegis of the Delhi-based Indian Society of Labour Economics include Abhijit Sen, Jean Dreze, Prabhat Patnaik, Deepak Nayyar, Ajit Ghose, Jayati Ghose, SK Thorat, Rakesh Mohan, Ashok Gulati, Bina Agarwal, NC Saxena, Sujata Rao and Meghnad Desai, among others. These economists, social scientists, leaders of labour organisations and former civil servants have appealed for "increasing the minimum central and state contribution to at least Rs 6,000 per month to each woman member of the family in the next three months and the Centre bearing the major portion". They also said all the states should ensure that at least 10 kg free rations per person per month, along with other necessary items, is available for all eligible households, which means three-four-fold increase of the current short-term relief package for impacted informal workers. Welcoming the Centre's Rs 1.7 trillion package and various measures taken by the states, the signatories to this letter, a copy of the same with the PTI, they have proposed urgent additional measures that are required to address the critical gaps that exist in the short-term relief measures announced so far by increasing the package by three-four times. The letter says "cash transfer of Rs 6,000 per month to each household that doesn't have a person in formal employment or is not a tax-payer. The estimated burden of about Rs 3,60,000 crore for three months to be borne principally by the Centre but shared between the Centre and states". On the food and subsistence requirements, they point out that 10 kg cereals and other essential items per person per month free of cost through the PDS and food for the homeless and most distressed, to meet the basic food requirement of the poor in the informal economy who have lost jobs and incomes. They also called for ensuring the contract employees are retained by public sector units and also pay them full wages. There also has to be a scheme to compensate the unorganised and MSME sector workers by paying them wages during the lockdown. They have called for providing ex-gratia payments and to ensure that no needy person/household remains outside the social protection net being created to cope with the current calamitous conditions. On those fleeing the cities and got stranded midway- there are 40-50 million seasonal/circular migrants in construction, manufacturing, transport/travel industries and are currently without employment and want to head back to their villages, with their accompanying family members and warned that the numbers will increase as the lockdown extends. They also called for measures to ensure safe harvesting and post-harvesting activities in villages by procurement at MSP and enhanced storage by the FCI and state agencies to prevent a famine-like condition from evolving. Finally, they also appealed for ensuring the safety, security and welfare of the front-line workers, including those engaged in essential services on behalf of governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-300-economists-social-scientists-seek-four-fold-hike-in-payout-to-the-vulnerable-820286.html
02-04-2020||National||PIB sets up COVID-19 Fact Check Unit portal||The Press Information Bureau on Wednesday set up a portal for fact-checking issues related with the novel coronavirus pandemic, and it will receive messages by email and send its response in quick time. The PIB will also release a daily bulletin at 8 pm everyday to inform regarding the Centre's decisions and developments and progress on the deadly COVID-19. The first bulletin was released today at 6.30 pm, the PIB said in a statement. The PIB's bulletin is in line with the Supreme Court directive on Tuesday that to check fake news, a daily bulletin system with regard to the COVID-19 pandemic be made active within 24 hours by the government through all media avenues, including social media and forums, to clear people''s doubts. Press Information Bureau has set up a portal - COVID-19 Fact Check Unit -- which will receive messages by email and send its response in quick time, the statement said. "The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has set up a technical group consisting of professionals from AIIMS, et al, to clarify any doubts in the minds of the general public on any technical aspect of COVID-19," it said The ministry has also issued detailed guidelines to deal with psychological issues among migrants, it said. The cabinet secretary on Wednesday wrote to all the state governments, informing them of the constitution of 11 empowered groups under the Disaster Management Act with a clear-cut mandate to decide on various aspects in the management of COVID-19, the statement said. A request has been made for the development of a similar mechanism at the state level too. State governments have also been requested to engage volunteers to supervise the welfare activities of the migrants, the PIB said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pib-sets-up-covid-19-fact-check-unit-portal-820296.html
02-04-2020||National||RINL extends Rs 6.16 cr aid towards PM-CARES fund to fight coronavirus||Out of Rs 6.16 crore, Rs 1.16 crore has already been transferred to the fund, Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL) chairman and managing director P K Rath said. "The country is facing a very tough time. We have joined the battle with the government to deal with this problem. Our contribution is Rs 6.16 crore to PM-CARES fund for fight COVID-19. Rs 1.16 crore has already been transferred," he said. He further said that most of the staff is working from home and only necessary operations at the unit are on. Those on duty have been provided with proper safety equipment and the company's premises are being sanitized on a regular basis. Besides, the company is also distributing food packets, hygienic products such as masks, hand sanitizers and other medical facilities to the communities living near the RINL's facility in Andhra Pradesh, he said. Visakhapatnam-based RINL, under the Ministry of Steel, produces special steel, including wire rod coils, rounds, billets of different grade and dimensions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rinl-extends-rs-616-cr-aid-towards-pm-cares-fund-to-fight-coronavirus-820314.html
02-04-2020||National||3 more test positive for COVID-19 in Assam, total cases rise to 16||The state reported 12 cases on Wednesday and one on Tuesday. While eight patients are getting treated at a hospital in Jorhat, four are undergoing treatment in Guwahati and one in Silchar. The exercise of tracing the contacts of those who tested positive is going on, the minister said. There are 347 people now in Assam who returned from the Tablighi congregation by March 16, and out of them 230 people have been traced and located so far while the rest could not be reached as their mobile phones were switched off and family members were not cooperative, he said. Sarma appealed to all those who attended the congregation and those who came in contact with them to get tested for COVID-19 and quarantine themselves. PTI DG SOM RDM RDM RDM||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-assam-total-cases-rise-to-16-820316.html
02-04-2020||National||Noida: 1 held, dozen booked for group namaaz despite COVID-19 lockdown||The FIR was lodged under provisions including those of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 after a video surfaced on social media on Wednesday evening purportedly showing the gathering on the terrace of a house for the prayer, the police said. The development comes close on the heels of apprehensions of immense spread of the pandemic after a large number of people, including foreigners, attending a religious congregation at Delhi's Nizamuddin area last month and at least 53 of the attendees were tested positive for COVID-19 in the national capital alone. The video showed 10-12 men gathering to offer namaaz on the terrace of a house, according to the police. The matter was immediately probed and it emerged that the prayer had taken place under the leadership of a man identified as Sadiq in the JJ Cluster in Sector 16, under Sector 20 police station here, it said. "One of the accused in whose house the gathering was held has been arrested," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Sankalp Sharma told PTI. Another police official said at present, CrPC Section 144 (which bars assembly of four or more people) is also imposed in Gautam Buddh Nagar in order to check the spread of coronavirus, while the government, the administration and the media have been appealing to the people to not hold gatherings or not come out of their homes unless there is an emergency. "Despite all these measures, these men violated the orders for fulfilling a common objective and illegally held a gathering to offer namaaz. By their defiance and ignorance, their act could lead to the spread of coronavirus," the official said. An FIR has been registered against them under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) at the Sector 20 police station, the police said. Those named in the FIR are Saaliq, Saqib, Guddu, Mohammad Jahangir, Noor Hasan, Shamsher, Afroz, Firoz, Razi Alam, Tabrooq, Chhotu, the police said, adding, efforts were underway to arrest them. So far 48 positive cases of coronavirus have been detected in Gautam Buddh Nagar which is the highest number of COVID-19 patients for any district in Uttar Pradesh, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noida-1-held-dozen-booked-for-group-namaaz-despite-covid-19-lockdown-820324.html
02-04-2020||National||First death due to COVID-19 in Haryana, 67-year old man from Ambala dies||Haryana recorded its first COVID-19 death when a 67-year-old man from Ambala, who as per doctors had multiple underlying health conditions, passed away at the PGIMER here, a senior health department official said on Thursday. "The man had multiple underlying health conditions including diabetes and associated kidney disease and a heart ailment. He had reported to Ambala civil hospital with acute respiratory distress and acute pneumonitis from where he was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh," Chief Medical Officer, Ambala, Dr Kuldeep told PTI on the phone. "He tested COVID-19 positive at PGIMER (Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research) around midnight Thursday and passed away around the same time," he further said. According to the doctor, the patient had no contact history. The total number of positive cases of COVID-19 in Haryana is 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-death-due-to-covid-19-in-haryana-67-year-old-man-from-ambala-dies-820331.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Indore raises fear of community transmission||Two more patients, having no travel history, died in Indore on Thursday while the number of coronavirus patients went up to 75, giving rise to fear that the city may have entered stage-three of community-transmitted infection. In the rest of Madhya Pradesh, the number of corona patients is stable for the last one week but Indore continuing to witness a frightening surge. On Thursday morning MP recorded eighth death from the pandemic as a 54-year-old man succumbed to infection. He was admitted on March 29 in MY hospital and he had no history of travel even outside Indore, forget traveling abroad, according to doctors who attended him. A 65-year-old woman also died in similar circumstances on Wednesday night in another hospital. With reports of 12 more cases testing positive till Wednesday night, Indore has 75 corona patients. Total cases in Madhya Pradesh have gone up to 98 which include eight in Jabalpur, six in Ujjain, and four in Bhopal, two in Gwalior and Shivpuri and one in Khargone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indore-raises-fear-of-community-transmission-820334.html
02-04-2020||National||Ex-servicemen mobilised to combat coronavirus pandemic: Defence Ministry||"Rajya Sainik Boards, Zila Sainik Boards are playing a dynamic role in identifying and mobilising maximum ESM volunteers to assist the state and district administration in performing public outreach activities such as contact tracing, community surveillance, management of quarantine facilities or any such tasks assigned to them," the ministry said in a press release. Till now, 1,965 people have been infected with the novel coronavirus and 50 people have died due to it in India, according to the Union health ministry. In Punjab, an organisation called 'Guardians of Governance' comprising 4,200 ESM is assisting in data collection from all villages, the ministry noted. "The Chhattisgarh government has employed some ESM to assist the police. Similarly, in Andhra Pradesh, all the district Collectors have asked for ESM volunteers," the ministry said. The defence ministry said that in Uttar Pradesh, all 'Zila Sainik Kalyan Adhikaris' are in touch with district control rooms and retired Army Medical Corps personnel have been identified and kept ready. "In addition, Sainik rest houses are being readied in Uttarakhand to act as isolation/quarantine centres if need arises. In Goa, a control room has been established and ESM have been asked to remain on standby for any assistance to the local administration," the ministry noted. India imposed a 21-day lockdown on March 25 to combat the spread of the virus that has killed more than 45,000 people worldwide till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-servicemen-mobilised-to-combat-coronavirus-pandemic-defence-ministry-820339.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Gautam Gambhir vows to contribute 2 years' salary to PM-CARES Fund||Donations continued to pour in from the sporting fraternity with cricketer-turned-politician Gautam Gambhir on Thursday deciding to contribute his two years' salary as an MP to the Prime Minister-CARES fund to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic sweeping through the country. The BJP's Lok Sabha member from East Delhi made the announcement on his Twitter page, urging people to come forward and donate generously. "People ask what can their country do for them. The real question is what can you do for your country? I am donating my 2 year's salary to #PMCaresFund. You should come forward too," Gambhir said. People ask what can their country do for them. The real question is what can you do for your country? Gambhir had earlier pledged a month's salary for the cause and also released Rs 1 crore from his MPLAD fund. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to 50 deaths in the country as per official estimates with close to 2,000 people infected by the deadly virus, which has claimed over 40,000 lives worldwide. The Indian cricket team fielding coach R Sridhar also took to the social networking site to announce a donation of Rs 4,00,000. "As a proud Indian citizen, I'm Duty-bound and honoured to contribute Rs 200,000/- to @PMCares, Rs 150,000/- to @TelanganaCMO & Rs 50,000/- to Sec Cantt Board," Sridhar tweeted. 2014 Commonwealth Games gold medallist and multiple World Cup-winning rifle shooter Apurvi Chandela also contributed Rs 5,00,000 -- Rs 3,00,000 to Prime Minister-CARES fund and Rs 2,00,000 to Rajasthan Chief Minister's relief fund -- to fight the pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-gautam-gambhir-vows-to-contribute-2-years-salary-to-pm-cares-fund-820348.html
02-04-2020||National||India's toaster-sized ventilator helps hospitals in fight against coronavirus||The virus at its most lethal attacks the lungs, making ventilators -- which pump breathable air into a patient -- critical for hospitals around the world as they are swamped with COVID-19 cases. With the toll rising in India, where a nationwide lockdown is in force, production of AgVa's portable ventilator has shot up from 500 a month to 20,000. "There was no way we could have foreseen something as big as this," said neurosurgeon Deepak Agrawal, who co-developed the device with robot scientist Diwakar Vaish. Priced at around $2,000, the AgVa ventilator is a fraction of the price of conventional ventilators, which go for more than $10,000. India, like most countries, has a critical shortage of beds and ventilators for its 1.3 billion people. The South Asian nation has so far reported more than 1,600 cases and 38 deaths from COVID-19. To boost preparedness for a surge in cases, the Indian government has banned the export of coronavirus-linked medical exports, including ventilators. The AgVa plant near the capital New Delhi has been given permission to work flat out to make what could be a key weapon when India has to fully confront the pandemic. The makers say the AgVa -- which weighs just 3.5 kilos (7.7 pounds) -- will help move less critical patients back to their homes as their machine is easy to transport and install, and needs low power. "In case you want to convert a hotel into an ICU, you can simply put this device and start working as it doesn't require other infrastructure," said Vaish. Maruti Suzuki, India's biggest passenger car maker, has pledged to help AgVa ramp up production after the government called on all auto firms to contribute to the anti-coronavirus effort. Seeing people queue for life-support equipment at the All India Institute for Medical Science in Delhi in 2016 convinced Vaish and Agrawal that there was an acute need for a cheap and portable ventilator. "ICU care is very expensive. In the private sector, even the richest of rich can't afford it for a long time," said Vaish. They avoided expensive imported parts to keep the cost low, Agrawal added. With its cash-starved health system, India has only around 40,000 ventilators, and experts who have seen the coronavirus crisis explode in Europe have warned this could become a catastrophic shortage for India. R.V. Asokan, secretary general of the Indian Medical Association, said the AgVa portable ventilator was the kind of innovation needed to fill health gaps. "It is a basic model which will serve in the current scenario as it is a straightforward oxygenation device," said Asokan, who added that it would help COVID-19 patients but not those who have had transplants and other major surgeries. Sunita Sharma, whose son was hospitalised for five years with a crippling nerve condition, was given one of the machines for free. "My husband and I had to take turns to stay with him at the hospital and that affected our lives," Sharma told AFP. "I was devastated when the doctors told me my son would have to spend the rest of his life on a ventilator bed. "At least now I can stay home to take care of him and the rest of the household."   ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-toaster-sized-ventilator-helps-hospitals-in-fight-against-coronavirus-820355.html
02-04-2020||National||Not the time to cause chaos by congregating in religious places: AR Rahman on COVID-19||The Oscar winner's appeal comes after Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz in Delhi's Nizamuddin West emerged as an epicentre for spread of COVID-19 in different parts of the country after thousands of people took part in a congregation from March 1-15. In a lengthy statement on Twitter, Rahman on Wednesday asked people to be "kind and thoughtful". "God is inside your heart (the most sacred shrine), so this is not the time to cause chaos by congregating in religious places. Listen to the government's advice. Self-isolation for a few weeks may give you many more years. "Do not spread the virus and cause harm to fellow humans. This disease does not even warn you that you are a carrier, so don't assume you are not infected. This is not the time to spread false rumours and cause more anxiety and panic," he wrote.     Rahman also thanked the healthcare workers on the frontlines, battling the pandemic in order to save several lives in the country. "This message is to thank the doctors, nurses, and all the staff working, in hospitals and clinics all across India, for their bravery and selflessness. It fills one's heart to see how ready they are to deal with this most dreadful pandemic. They risk their lives to save ours," the 53-year-old composer said. He said one must help their neighbours, senior citzens, the underprivileged and migrant workers during this health crisis. "It's time to forget our differences and unite against this invisible enemy that has turned the world upside down. It's time to bring the beauty of humanity and spirituality into action," he added. Oscar-winning sound engineer Resul Pookutty and Rahman's collaborator on the award-winning film "Slumdog Millionaire" shared the same sentiments. "... God is in your hearts not in shrines, you don’t have to congregate now, follow Govt rules, few days of isolation might give you many years of life!" Pookutty tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-the-time-to-cause-chaos-by-congregating-in-religious-places-ar-rahman-on-covid-19-820358.html
02-04-2020||National||PM Modi holds video conference with Chief Ministers on coronavirus||Contact tracing of those feared to be exposed to the deadly virus and isolation of those who test positive of the virus are likely to be discussed in the meeting, sources said. The meeting is underway. Issues such as spread of coronavirus, movement of migrants, availability of essentials and  contact tracing of Tablighi Jamat participants are also likely to come up for discussion. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and top bureaucrats  were present along with the prime minister. This is for the second time the prime minister is holding a video conference with the chief ministers after the spread of coronavirus, and the first after the 21-day lockdown came into force. On March 20 also he had interacted with the CMs. The lockdown was enforced on March 24. According to the health ministry, death toll due to coronavirus touched 50 on Thursday. Total number of positive cases has risen to 1,965 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-video-conference-with-chief-ministers-on-coronavirus-820363.html
02-04-2020||National||Another man dies due to coronavirus in Rajasthan; Toll in state now at 3||A man from Rajasthan's Alwar district, who had tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to the state-run SMS hospital here, died on Thursday, an official said. "One person, who had tested positive and was from Alwar, has died," Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Rohit Kumar Singh said. He had also suffered a brain stroke in the past, Singh said. Further details are awaited.  This is the third coronavirus death in Rajasthan. Earlier two persons suffering from coronavirus had died in Bhilwara district but officials have maintained that they were suffering from other health issues also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-man-dies-due-to-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-toll-in-state-now-at-3-820375.html
02-04-2020||National||Zoom app vulnerable to cyberattacks, says CERT-India; issues advisory on safety measures||The Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-In), the national agency to combat cyberattacks and guarding the cyberspace, said the unguarded usage of the digital application can be vulnerable to cyberattacks, including leakage of sensitive office information to cyber criminals. "Many organisations have allowed their staff to work from home to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Online communication platforms such as Zoom, Microsoft Teams and Teams for Education, Slack, Cisco WebEx etc are being used for remote meetings and webinars," the advisory said. "Insecure usage of the platform (Zoom) may allow cyber criminals to access sensitive information such as meeting details and conversations," it said. The agency suggested some measures for enhancing the security of Zoom meetings which included: Keeping the Zoom software patched and up-to-date and always set strong, difficult-to-guess and unique passwords for all meetings and webinars. "This is especially recommended for any meetings where sensitive information may be discussed," it said. Enable 'waiting room' feature so that the call manager will have a better control over participants; all participants can join a virtual 'waiting room', but they will be approved by call manager to be part of the actual meeting, the advisory said. It asked the operators of the platform to disable the 'join before host' feature as that lets others to continue with a meeting in the absence of an actual host this option enables the first person who joins the meeting to automatically become the host and will have full control over the meeting. "Alternatively, 'scheduling privilege' may be given to a trusted participant to host the meeting in the absence of an actual host," it said. Some other counter-measures included: If not required, restrict or disable file transfers, ensure removed participants are unable to re-join meetings and if not required, limit screen sharing to the host only. "Lock the meeting session once all your attendees have joined and restrict the call record feature 'allow record' to trusted participants only," it said. Millions of professionals in India are working from home after the imposition of a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zoom-app-vulnerable-to-cyberattacks-says-cert-india-issues-advisory-on-safety-measures-820380.html
02-04-2020||National||NCW says domestic violence cases rising since lockdown, 69 complaints received since March 24||Since the lockdown was imposed, a total of 257 complaints related to various offences against women were received, out of which 69 complaints are related to domestic violence, the data released by the NCW showed. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said the number of cases of domestic violence must be much higher but the women are scared to complain due to constant presence of their abuser at home. She said from March 24 till April 1, the NCW has received 69 domestic violence complaints and it is increasing by the day. "Women are not approaching the police because they think that if they take her husband away, the in-laws would be torturing her. Because of the lockdown, women are not able to reach out to the police. They don't even want to go to the police because they are afraid that once their husband comes out of the police station, he will again torture her and she can't even move out. "Earlier women could go to their parents place but now they are unable to reach. The NCW is in touch with these complainants," she said. Women rights activists said they have also received numerous complaints of domestic violence from women since the enforcement of the lockdown. Rights activist Kavita Krishnan, also the secretary of the All India Progressive Women's Association, said vulnerable women could have moved to safer places if the government had given some warning of the lockdown. "All the women (domestic violence victims) who contacted me said had they known (about the lockdown), they would have tried to get out earlier and be somewhere safer," she said. "The only thing to do is help and rescue domestic violence survivors. Their situation is worse now in the lockdown," Krishnan added. According to Vani Subramanian, a member of the women's group Saheli Trust, "captivity anyway drives people crazy and abusive situations only make it worse". Ranjana Kumari, the director of the Centre for Social Research, said everyone was at home due to the lockdown and women were not getting the courage to contact for help. "It is not a good situation for women," Kumari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-says-domestic-violence-cases-rising-since-lockdown-69-complaints-received-since-march-24-820382.html
02-04-2020||National||Air India plans to conduct special flights to London to fly out stranded foreigners||Air India is planning to conduct multiple special flights to London between April 4 and April 7 to fly out foreigners stranded in the country amid the lockdown to combat the spread of coronavirus, said senior officials on Thursday.  India is under a 21-day lockdown till April 14 and all domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this time period. However, cargo flights and flights specially permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA can operate during this time period.  Senior Air India officials said the national carrier will conduct four flights on Delhi-London route between April 4 and April 7. The officials added that the national career will also be conducting flights on Mumbai-London route on April 5 and April 7. In a letter to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday, one of the airline's pilot unions had alleged that crew members of Air India are being provided with substandard, ill-fitting and flimsy personal protective equipment (PPE) on flights that are being operated amid coronavirus pandemic to either bring Indians from abroad or take foreigners to their countries. The Executive Pilots Association (EPA) stated, "Our pilots and cabin crew are being provided substandard, ill-fitting and flimsy PPE that tear/disintegrate easily on rescue flights. Sanitizers are not provided in sufficient quantities and disinfection processes are short of industry best practices. The EPA also told Puri that their flying allowances, which comprises almost 70 per cent of their total salary, have not been paid since January this year. Air India has already conducted special flights to Israel and Germany to fly out foreigners stranded in India amid the lockdown. Till now, 1,914 people have been infected by the novel coronavirus while 50 people have died due to it in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-plans-to-conduct-special-flights-to-london-to-fly-out-stranded-foreigners-820387.html
02-04-2020||National||Two soldiers injured as Pak violates ceasefire along LoC||Two Indian army soldiers were injured as Pakistan yet again violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Balakote sector in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday. Reports said two soldiers Naib Subedar Satpal and Havaldar Dharmpal of 14 Punjab Regiment suffered splinter injuries after the Pakistani army attacked Indian army posts in the Balakote sector of Mendhar early Thursday morning. The injured soldiers were immediately taken to a military hospital for treatment, where their condition is stated to be stable, they said. An army officer while confirming the injuries said the Indian army manning the LoC retaliated strongly. Since the COVID-19 spread across the world, the LoC was witnessing an uneasy calm and lessen incidents of ceasefire violations. However, in the last five days, the exchange of fire has started again in different areas of Rajouri and Poonch, which include Pukharni Nowshera in Rajouri and Balakote, Krishna Ghati and Poonch sectors of Poonch district. There were a total of 646 incidents of ceasefire violations along the International Border (IB) as well as the LoC between January 1 and February 23 this year, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said last week. Over 3,200 ceasefire violations by Pakistan troops were recorded in 2019. There is 198 km IB and over 510 km of LoC with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-soldiers-injured-as-pak-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-820400.html
02-04-2020||National||Lockdown may help flatten COVID-19 curve in India, says study||The current 21-day lockdown may help reduce the projected number of symptomatic novel coronavirus cases in India by nearly 83 per cent till day 20 from the beginning of the intervention, thereby flattening the COVID-19 curve, scientists say. The modelling study by researchers from Shiv Nadar University in Uttar Pradesh considered the optimistic scenario, where cases are isolated immediately within one or two days since showing symptoms. "We also assumed 80 per cent to 90 per cent of the population resorted to social distancing," Samit Bhattacharya, Associate Professor at Shiv Nadar University told PTI. "In this optimistic scenario, we projected number of symptomatic cases can decline by almost 83 per cent by day 20 from the beginning of the lockdown -- 3,500 against 30,790 -- and deaths -- 105 against 619 -- as well," Bhattacharya said. The number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 1,965 in the country on Thursday while the death toll rose to 50, according to the Union Health Ministry. The researchers believe that under the most optimistic scenario, the 21-day lockdown, announced by the government on March 24 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, may help in slowing transmission and "flattening" the COVID-19 curve. The researchers said the typical goal of flattening the curve is to minimise the number of cases over extended days, to gain more opportunities for interventions to control the spread of the virus meantime, and reduce the burden on the health care system. At the beginning of the lockdown, India was in the second phase of the COVID-19 outbreak, with the disease spreading to close contacts, and there was no evidence for community transmission. However, the scientists said the country appeared to have slid into the third phase of the outbreak.  Some infectious disease carriers can unusually transmit the pathogen onto a dozen-to-few dozen others, called super-spreaders, they said. The researchers estimated the number of symptomatic cases during the 21-day lockdown by considering a scenario where the basic reproduction ratio (R0) is 2.2, with super-spreading events triggered by COVID-19 carriers following the 20/80 rule, and an assumption of 30 per cent symptomatic cases. R0 is an indicator that quantifies the nature of spreading infection -- a number that describes how many people a newly infected person is likely to pass the virus to others, the scientists explained. For example, the R0 of influenza varies between 1.3 to 2, according to earlier studies, meaning that an infected person could potentially spread the flu virus to one to two others in a fully healthy population. They said the super spreading 20/80 rule means out of total infected persons, 20 per cent of them contribute in spreading 80 per cent of infections in healthy population. India, with a population density of 412 people per square kilometer, and an average range of 4.5 to 5 people in each family which typically has one person above 60 years of age is undoubtedly predisposed to the easy spread of highly transmissible COVID-19, the researchers said. They believe the country may also have witnessed a super surge in symptomatic cases. "Our prediction shows that India could have embraced about 5,000 and 30,790 symptomatic cases in the next 10 days and 20 days, respectively," said Naga Suresh Veerapu, Assistant Professor at Shiv Nadar University. "The projected number of cases can reach approximately 2,70,360 and deaths 5,407 by day 40 in the absence of an intervention," Veerapu said. A flattened COVID-19 curve for the next two or three months is difficult to comprehend, the scientists said. All measures that provide few opportunities for the virus to spread must be continued, which not only limit any individual's infection hazard, but also protect the entire community, they added. These measures may include, avoiding large gatherings, 14-day quarantine for suspected cases of infection, systematic surveillance, and expanded testing for the identification of COVID-19 infections, continued work at home for employees, the researchers said. Practices such as respiratory hygiene, hand washing, and other protective activities at an individual level may help maintain a flattened COVID-19 curve, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-may-help-flatten-covid-19-curve-in-india-says-study-820401.html
02-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Health Min identifies 20 existing, 22 potential COVID-19 hotspots in India||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said it has identified 20 existing and 22 potential hotspots of COVID-19 in the country and asserted that although there is no evidence of widespread community transmission, containment measures will require large human resource. The ministry said this in an advisory on human resource management of COVID-19 to provide guidance to the states on manpower that can be mobilized for the management of the disease along with possible role assignments and their training requirements.  "Although there is no evidence to widespread community transmission, 20 existing and 22 potential hotspots have been identified. The containment measures to break the cycle of transmission and clinical management of those affected would require large human resource,"  it said in the document. The advisory stressed on capacity building, saying identified human resource needs to be trained online using online training programs developed by the ministry. The training for different target groups shall cover areas like field surveillance, contact tracing, sampling, packaging and shipment of specimen, hospital infection prevention and control, including use of appropriate PPEs and biomedical waste management, clinical case management including ventilator management, training on managing quarantine and isolation facilities and community based training in pyscho social care, the document said. The ministry advised states to identify and designate a nodal officer for training who will coordinate all these activities. For COVID-19 management, it advised the district administration to pool-in the requisite human resources who would stay in the containment zone till such operations are over. "For isolation areas, in addition to training, all hospital staff, dentists and AYUSH practitioners available should also be trained.  Retired doctors and other healthcare professionals should be identified to work in non-COVID areas in hospitals in case of emergencies," the advisory stated. For surveillance activities, the ministry said COVID Warriors @ 1 per 250 population may be identified and trained.  It stated quarantine facilities are meant to house asymptomatic cases and the number identified and trained manpower should be equal to the number of COVID Warriors.  The advisory highlights major areas where enhanced deployment of human resource is required such as surveillance activities at grass root level, supervisory management of containment operations, laboratory testing and clinical management of suspect/confirmed cases in isolation wards.   It also listed out critical care management of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases in ICUs, patient transportation and referral, cleaning, disinfection and waste management,  management of quarantine, isolation facilities and pyscho-social care as some of the important areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-health-min-identifies-20-existing-22-potential-covid-19-hotspots-in-india-820403.html
02-04-2020||National||Grave shortcomings in Modi's Covid-19 response: Congress||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday backed the Modi government’s decision to announce a 21-day lockdown to arrest the spread of the COVID-19 outbreak but said the move was unplanned and had caused chaos and pain to millions. Chairing the first-ever virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Sonia also asked the Modi government to come out with a common minimum relief programme to alleviate the concerns that afflict all the people. Top Congress leaders including former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, A K Antony, P Chidambaram, Ghulam Nabi Azad, among others attended the CWC from their respective residences through video conferencing. “It is in a spirit of co-operation and constructive criticism that the CWC wishes to point out that the measures are taken by the Modi government so far leave much to be desired and there are several grave shortcomings,” read the Congress Working Committee resolution adopted after a four-hour meeting. It also recommended setting up of an Economic Taskforce comprising world-renowned economists to suggest three plans – an emergency plan, a medium-term plan and a medium to the long term plan to protect and revive the economy. Home Minister Amit Shah criticised the Congress indulging in “petty politics” at a time when the entire nation was united in the fight against COVID-19. “High time they think of national interest and stop misleading people,” Shah said. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi was also present at the CWC, having stayed away from the meetings of the party’s top decision-making body since stepping down as in August owning up responsibility for the Lok Sabha poll debacle. “COVID-19 does not differentiate between political ideology, religion, caste, age or gender. The choices we make today will have a direct impact tomorrow on our family, neighbourhood, community, environment and nation,” Sonia said in her opening remarks at the CWC. She also pitched for enhancing testing for COVID-19, contending that it was the most effective way to combat it. “Our doctors, nurses, and health workers need all the support possible. Personal Protection Equipment such as hazmat suits, N-95 masks, etc. must be provided to them on a war footing. Equally important are ventilators and breathing equipment, isolation beds and designated hospitals to treat COVID-19,” she said. The Congress President said the onus was on the governments to ensure that the spread of infection and casualties were not caused owing to lack of infrastructure or preparedness. She highlighted the problems faced by farmers, micro, small and medium enterprises and those in the unorganised sector. “The livelihood of crores of our citizens has been imperilled. Government needs to put in place a comprehensive strategy to manage this crisis,” the Congress President said. Former Prime Minister Singh said the Congress party stood as one with the nation to take on the challenge of COVID-19. “We do support the government but must point out shortcomings. This is imperative to fight COVID-19,” Congress Treasurer Ahmed Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/grave-shortcomings-in-modis-covid-19-response-congress-820404.html
02-04-2020||National||One more COVID-19 patient dies in Indore; Madhya Pradesh toll reaches 8||A 54-year-old man died of coronavirus infection in Indore on Thursday, taking the COVID-19 toll in Madhya Pradesh to eight, an official said. This is second coronavirus related death reported from the state on Thursday. The man, who was a resident of Moti Tabela area, was admitted to the Maharaja Yeshwantrao Hospital on March 29. "The patient was having breathing problems since the last two days. He was suffering from fever for last 15 days. He did not have cold-cough problem," the official said. He had not travelled anywhere in the recent past, the official said. As of now, there is no information about whether he came in contact with a COVID-19 patient. Earlier in the morning, a 65-year-old woman succumbed to coronavirus at the Government Manorama Raje TB Hospital here, the official said. She was already suffering from diabetes and thyroid, he said, adding it was not clear how she contracted the infection. Eight coronavirus patients have died so far in the state. These include five from Indore, two from Ujjain and one from Khargone. Out of the total 98 coronavirus cases in the state, 75 have been reported from Indore, eight from Jabalpur, six from Ujjain, four from Bhopal, two each in Shivpuri and Gwalior and one from Khargone, a health department official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-covid-19-patient-dies-in-indore-madhya-pradesh-toll-reaches-8-820417.html
02-04-2020||National||Attacks on healthcare professionals on COVID-19 duty on rise||Healthcare professionals are increasingly coming under attack during treatment of COVID-19 patients or while visiting localities for conducting tests, adding more worries at a time several had faced harassment at the hands of their landlords and locals. Doctors are now raising the demand for deployment of CRPF personnel in the hospital to enable them to work in a safer environment besides strong action against those who take law into their hands. The latest incident was that of Tatpatti Bakhal in Madhya Pradesh's Indore where two doctors and other healthcare workers were attacked on Wednesday when they went to the locality to screen people for COVID-19. Indore has the largest number of at least 75 out of the nearly 100 COVID-19 cases in the state. The locals pelted stones at the team of doctors and Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) workers and were shooed away from the area, following which seven persons were arrested. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday issued a strong warning to those involved in such incidents in a tweet, saying no one will be spared who puts a spanner in the efforts to fight COVID-19. In another tweet, he said, “this is not just a tweet. This is a strong warning.  Human rights are for humans.” This area is under the special watch of the health authorities in the city as it has been earmarked as an epicentre of the virus spread. This was the second incident in Indore in less than a week after locals in Ranipura area allegedly spat at officials and abused them during the screening process. Another incident was reported from Telangana where relatives of a 49-year-old COVID-19 patient attacked doctors after his death, accusing them of the negligence of duty. This prompted the junior doctors to petition the government to provide them proper security. “The relatives blamed the doctors for the death and slapped and attacked them. The 49-year-old man already had co-morbidity issues. He died while being treated for COVID-19,” a statement issued by the Telangana Junior Doctors Association said. It also said there were similar incidents in Khammam and Nizamabad. On Thursday, the Resident Doctor's Association in AIIMS-Delhi joined their Telangana counterparts in solidarity and shot off a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking his intervention in ensuring the security of healthcare professionals across the country. "It is extremely disheartening to know that such events continue unabated even when this country is going through this massive pandemic. Such actions would destroy the morale of frontline healthcare workers deployed in such testing situation," the letter signed RDA President Dr Adarsh Pratap Singh, Vice President Dr Chandan Palit and General Secretary Dr Srinivas Rajkumar. Need for the deployment of police was also raised by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday after a video conference he had with doctors treating COVID-19 patients in the national capital. The doctors had told Kejriwal that some patients were turning aggressive and cited one incident in Rajiv Gandhi Hospital where doctors had to intervene to prevent the attempt of one person admitted there to commit suicide. "The doctors told me that no one was willing to touch that person. They sought deployment of police in the hospitals where COVID-19 patients. I will be approaching the Union Home Secretary for the deployment of police," Kejriwal had said. Earlier, there were complaints about doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals facing eviction from their rented accommodations as house-owners were wary of virus infection, as they were engaged closely with COVID-19 related activities. In several cities, the healthcare professionals also faced stigma and harassment with several refusing to engage with them. This had prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue an appeal not to mistreat doctors and healthcare workers as they battle to save the country from one of the most infectious viral attacks in recent years. "In this hour of crisis, those in white coats are the incarnation of God. Today they are saving lives, putting their own lives in danger," Modi had said during an interaction with the people of his constituency Varanasi on COVID-19 via video link. The Centre has also announced a medical cover of Rs 50 crore for those in the forefront of the fight against the deadly virus. Delhi government also announced a Rs one crore compensation to the families of those engaged in the treatment of COVID-19 who dies during their duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attacks-on-healthcare-professionals-on-covid-19-duty-on-rise-820418.html
02-04-2020||National||19-year-old man recovers from coronavirus in Odisha||A 19-year-old COVID-19 patient who was undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here was discharged on Wednesday after he recovered, officials said. The man, a resident of Bhubaneswar, was diagnosed with the deadly disease after he returned from London. He was the second person in the state to test positive for coronavirus on March 19. The second COVID-19 positive case in Odisha, belonging to Bhubaneswar, has completely recovered and tested negative, the state Health and Family Welfare department said. He became the first COVID-19 patient in the state to recover and get discharged from hospital, while three others are undergoing treatment in different medical facilities. A 33-year-old Italy-returned man, who was the first in the state to test positive for coronavirus infection, is undergoing treatment at the government-run Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar. The third patient, who was diagnosed with the disease on March 26, is also being treated at the same hospital. The fourth COVID-19 case, a 29-year-old Dubai-returned man from Bhadrak who was detected with the disease on Tuesday, is undergoing treatment at SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. A senior official said the first COVID-19 patient is doing fine and there is no need to panic about his health. As per protocol, discharge is considered only after two consecutive samples taken within 24 hours test negative, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/19-year-old-man-recovers-from-coronavirus-in-odisha-820419.html
02-04-2020||National||Delhi HC orders panel to examine girl's plea for donating part of liver to save father||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday ordered setting up of an expert medical panel to examine if there was any risk to the life of a girl, who wishes to donate part of her liver to her ailing father, if she undergoes the procedure. The girl wants to donate part of her liver to her father as he is suffering from a severe case of liver cirrhosis and urgently requires a transplant to survive. However, her representation to the Delhi government for approval to donate part of her liver to her father was rejected as she was a minor -- just over 17 years and 10 months old. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, who heard the matter via video-conferencing, said the government decision was not based on any medical opinion that there was potential risk to her life and was "not sustainable". "Further, there is no complete prohibition in a minor donating an organ or tissue prior to attaining majority. Donation is permissible but in exceptional circumstances and in accordance with the rules. "The decision of the committee (of the government) of rejecting the representation of the petitioner (minor girl) solely on the ground that the petitioner is a minor is not sustainable," the court said. It directed the hospital, where the man is admitted since Monday (March 30), to set up the panel to examine if there was any potential risk to the girl's life. The court said the panel's decision would be communicated to the government which shall then "forthwith" take a decision on the girl's representation for approval to donate part of her liver to her father. With the direction, the court listed the matter for hearing on April 3. The direction came after the Delhi government's health department, represented by additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan, told the court that it declined to grant approval to the girl to donate part of her liver as she is under 18 years of age. The girl, in her plea, has said that she will turn 18 by the last week of May, but her father cannot wait till then as he urgently requires a transplant and due to the coronavirus outbreak it would be difficult to find compatible donors. The girl, who is a suitable match for donating part of her liver, needed to get prior approval for the procedure as she is a minor. Under the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act of 1994, hospitals/doctors can allow a transplant from a minor relative in exceptional medical grounds but only after prior approval of the appropriate authority, which in the instant case is the Health Secretary of Delhi government, the petition has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-orders-panel-to-examine-girls-plea-for-donating-part-of-liver-to-save-father-820431.html
02-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Govt extends deployment of 100 CAPF companies in Delhi||The Centre has extended the deployment of 100 CAPF companies in the national capital for strengthening security during the ongoing lockdown in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, a senior official said on Thursday. The Union home ministry, the official told PTI, issued an order on Wednesday extending the deployment of about 10,000 troops in these companies "for maintaining law and order during lockdown in Delhi." A Central Armed Police Force company has an operational strength of about 100 personnel. These units, the official said, were deployed in the national capital from February, in batches. The forces, part of these 100 companies, include the Central Reserve Police Force (41), Rapid Action Force (7), Border Security Force (17), Central Industrial Security Force (6), Sashastra Seema Bal (16) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (13). Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 24 midnight as a measure to ensure social distancing between people and to stop the spread of the pandemic that has claimed thousands of lives and infected lakhs across the globe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-govt-extends-deployment-of-100-capf-companies-in-delhi-820434.html
02-04-2020||National||Maharashtra: Jewellery chain director booked for forgery||The police here registered a fresh case of forgery against Hemant Zaveri, one of the directors of jewellery chain Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri and Sons (TBZ), who allegedly defrauded an investor to the tune of Rs 38.85 lakh. The offence was registered on Wednesday on the basis of an order issued by the Nagpurbench of the Bombay High Court, after the accused allegedly presented forged cheques to the aggrieved depositor as a settlement. Zaveri (60) and other directors of the company had floated gold deposit scheme, in which Nagpur resident Manish Kiran Deshraj (50) had invested 1,450 gm of gold worth Rs 38.85 lakh in 2015, the police said in a statement. However, the TBZ branch stopped sharing profits with Deshraj and kept delaying his payments, forcing the complainant to lodge a complaint of cheating in 2018. Similarly, the company allegedly cheated other investors, following which an offence under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and relevant provisions of the IPC and Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act (MPDA), was registered against Zaveri, the release stated. Zaveri then filed a bail application before the Nagpur bench of the High Court and during the hearing, Zaveri's counsel submitted 10 cheques to Deshraj and six receipts. However, on verification, it was found that the cheques were forged and the gold deposits were not returned to the complainant. The Nagpur bench ordered action against Zaveri, who has now been booked under section 465 (forgery) and relevant provisions of the IPC, the release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-jewellery-chain-director-booked-for-forgery-820439.html
02-04-2020||National||'CMs should ask religious leaders to avoid large meets'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday accepted Maharashtra Chief Minister's suggestion that religious leaders should be asked to refrain from holding large gatherings. Thackeray made the suggestion during a video conference with Modi in the morning, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. Modi held a video conference with all chief ministers to discuss ways to check the spread of coronavirus. The prime minister accepted Thackeray's suggestion and asked allchief ministers to speak to religious leaders from their respective states and ask them to tell the community members about the need for social distancing and avoiding large gatherings, the CMO said in a statement. Modi also supported Thackeray's view that citizens need to be in good mental health during the lockdown period, it said. State Health minister Rajesh Tope, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray and senior bureaucrats also attended the video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cms-should-ask-religious-leaders-to-avoid-large-meets-820442.html
02-04-2020||National||15 of family violate home quarantine in Maharashtra, kept at govt facility||Fifteen members of a family from Maharashtra's Pune district have been kept at a government quarantine facility after they violated the home quarantine order, a police official said on Thursday. The family members went to the state's Osmanabad district on March 22 to attend the last rites of a relative, despite the state government having advised people to avoid gatherings and follow social distancing, the official said. Following the announcement of 21-day nationwide lockdown last month, the authorities asked them to remain under home quarantine in Osmanabad and stamped their hands. "After spending a couple of days there, the family members sought permission to return to Pune, which was turned down by local authorities. On Tuesday night, the family hired a mini-bus and a driver and escaped from Osmanabad," the official said. They used all the minor roads where police personnel were not deployed, but the bus was caught by Pune rural police near Wadgaon on old Mumbai-Pune highway. "Despite all of them having home quarantine stamps on their hands, they were travelling in a bus. We have now put them under institutional quarantine," the official said. The state government last month decided to put stamps on the hands of people undergoing home quarantine for suspected exposure to the novel coronavirus. Maharashtra has so far reported 338 COVID-19 cases and 16 deaths due to the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-of-family-violate-home-quarantine-in-maharashtra-kept-at-govt-facility-820443.html
02-04-2020||National||PM calls for staggered re-emergence plan post-lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday suggested that the 21-day lock-down to arrest the spread of COVID-19 could be lifted in a staggered manner asking chief ministers to prepare a common exit strategy for the same. In his second video-conference with chief ministers of states, the Prime Minister called for the formulation of a common exit strategy to ensure a staggered re-emergence of the population once the lockdown ends. “It is important to formulate a common exit strategy to ensure staggered re-emergence of the population once lockdown ends,” Modi told the chief ministers asking them to brainstorm and send suggestions for such an exit strategy. Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Health Minister Harshvardhan and senior officials also attended the meeting. On March 24, Modi had announced a 21-day nation-wide lock-down to arrest the spread of COVID-19. The lock-down began on the intervening night of Mary 24 and 25 and will be in force till midnight on April 14. The Prime Minister also stressed that the country cannot afford to lower its guard in the fight against COVID-19 and asked the chief ministers to enforce the lockdown “seriously”. Modi said the 21-day lockdown had achieved “some success” and asked chief ministers to focus for the next few weeks on testing, tracing, isolating and quarantining suspected COVID-19 patients to arrest the further spread of the disease. At the same time, he also cautioned them about a possible second wave of the outbreak in some countries and made a strong pitch for building up a united front based on community approach in the battle against the pandemic. “It is imperative to work on a war footing, identify hotspots of the virus, encircle them and ensure that the virus does not spread out,” Modi said amid reports of the rapid spread of the viral infection, primarily sourced at the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin here. “Our first priority for the next few weeks should be testing, tracing, isolating and quarantine. For this all State to district level efforts must be coordinated,” he said. The Prime Minister said district-level disease surveillance officers should be appointed as soon as possible to make sure that penetration of this strategy is optimum as well as the data collected from private laboratories allowed to test should be collated district-wise to be utilised for further strategies on how to tackle the pandemic. Several chief ministers spoke about the mobilisation of resources – financial as well as medical – to mitigate the crisis. Observing that this being harvest season in many parts of the country, the Prime Minister said that while farmers and labourers engaged in harvest operations were exempt from the lockdown, some social distancing norms should be maintained even in the field. He asked chief ministers to think of other platforms for procuring grains apart from Agriculture Produce Market Committee and explore the possibility of creating pooling platforms for rural areas, similar ride-sharing apps, which can be used for this purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-calls-for-staggered-re-emergence-plan-post-lockdown-820447.html
02-04-2020||National||SC penalises three pharma cos, asks to pay fine of Rs 10 Cr each||The Supreme Court has said that there can't be a concept of environment clearance with retrospective effect for an industrial activity as it would be contrary to the precautionary principle as well as the need for sustainable development. The top court held an administrative circular issued by the Union government on May 14, 2002, allowing an ex post facto permission as "unsustainable in law", for being contrary to the statutory notification on Environment Impact Assessment of January 27, 1994. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Ajay Rastogi ordered Alembic Pharmaceuticals Ltd and two others of Gujarat to pay Rs 10 crore each as compensation for causing environmental degradation as they operated without prior environmental clearance. The amount would be utilised for restoration and remedial measures to improve the quality of the environment. The bench said one must adopt an ecologically rational outlook towards development. In view of the social and environmental impacts of industrial activity, environment compliance must not be seen as an obstacle to development but as a measure towards achieving sustainable development and inter-generational equity, the bench added. In a judgement delivered on Wednesday, the court, however, set aside the National Green Tribunal's decision of January 8, 2016, for revocation of environmental clearance and closure of the industries. In their appeal, the companies claimed that they had taken environmental clearance, in accordance with 2002 circular. The bench said, "The concept of an ex post facto environmental clearance is in derogation of the fundamental principles of environmental jurisprudence and is an anathema to the EIA notification of January 27, 1994." The court said allowing for an ex post facto clearance would essentially condone the operation of industrial activities.  "In the absence of environmental clearance, there would be no conditions that would safeguard the environment. Moreover, if it was to be ultimately refused, irreparable harm would have been caused to the environment. On either view of the matter, environment law cannot countenance the notion of an ex post facto clearance," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-penalises-three-pharma-cos-asks-to-pay-fine-of-rs-10-cr-each-820450.html
02-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: More study needed on link of COVID-19 pandemic with BCG vaccine||With a new study linking BCG vaccination with scale of severity of COVID-19 globally, doctors in India said "large-scale epidemiological studies" need to be conducted before drawing any conclusion. According to the study led by a US-based researcher, a combination of reduced morbidity and mortality could make the Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccination a "game-changer" in the fight against novel coronavirus. The BCG vaccine is part of India's universal immunisation programme and administered to millions of children at birth or soon after it. Arvind Kumar, lung surgeon at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said, while there seems to be an apparent link between BCG vaccination and COVID-19 cases reported in various countries, it will be "premature" to say there is a direct correlation. "Large-scale epidemiological studies need to be conducted before we can draw any conclusion on this link, as suggested by the study," he told PTI. The lung surgeon conjectured that as far as India and its demography is concerned, there is a possibility that "we have developed a better immune system to this virus through prior infections" which people in the western countries may not have been exposed too. "Besides, their are other confounding factors like lockdown imposed in India by the government when the infection was in stage 2. And there is a possibility that a less virulent strain of COVID-19 is in circulation in India," Kumar said. India, with the world's highest TB burden, introduced BCG mass immunisation in 1948. Ravi Shekhar Jha, Senior Consultant and head of the pulmonology department, Fortis Escorts, Faridabad, echoed Kumar's views. "This is too early to say there is a direct link. Unless we do rigorous and large-scale epidemiological studies, we can't say anything conclusive in this perceive correlation as put out in the study," he said. The yet to be published study from the New York Institute of Technology (NYIT) states while citing the examples of Italy and the US that the severity of COVID-19 impact may be linked to national policies on BCG childhood vaccination. "We found that countries without universal policies of BCG vaccination such as Italy, the Netherlands, and the United States, have been more severely affected compared to countries with universal and long-standing BCG policies," noted the researchers led by Gonzalo Otazu, assistant professor of biomedical sciences at NYIT. While the US has reported almost 1,90,000 cases with more than 4,000 deaths, Italy has 1,05,000 cases and over 12,000 fatalities. The Netherlands has reported more than 12,000 cases of the disease and over 1,000 deaths. Jha of Fortis hospital, however, said the lockdown can only slow down the number of cases of infection but mortality as such will not be affected much. So, the BCG-COVID link needs to be further investigated and any direct correlation being attributed at this time would be too far-fetched, he said. Rommel Tickoo, associate Director, internal medicine, Max healthcare, also pitched for large-scale epidemiological studies to further probe this link, if any. Australia and other countries which plan to hold trials for this vaccine on health workers will be able to see the difference, if seen, he said. In Iran too, the age-group born after 1984 when the vaccination was started there, the intensity of cases in that segment is different compared to those before it, the doctor said, adding that Indians may have developed a better immunity to coronavirus due to other previous infections. So, large-scale trials are needed before one draws any conclusion, Tickoo added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-more-study-needed-on-link-of-covid-19-pandemic-with-bcg-vaccine-820455.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Naval Dockyard designs low-cost temperature sensor||The Naval Dockyard here has developed a low-cost handheld temperature sensor to screen its personnel in light of the coronavirus outbreak in the city, an official said on Thursday. As many as 20,000 personnel enter the 285-year-old naval dock and Western Naval Command in South Mumbai every day. All personnel are allowed inside only after proper screening at the gates, the official said. The infrared-technology-based sensor is manufactured using in-house resources under Rs 1,000 (which is fraction of the cost of temperature guns available in the market), he said. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, screening became essential to prevent the spread of the virus within the yard and the Western Fleet, he said. There is a shortage of non-contact thermometers or temperature guns in the market and the device has become expensive since the outbreak, he said. Citing these reasons, the Naval Dockyard designed and developed its own handheld IR-based temperature sensor with accuracy of 0.02 deg celsius, he said. The device has an infrared sensor and an LED display, with a micro-controller, which runs on a 9V battery, the official said. The dockyard is capable to scaling up the production of this affordable device and is in the process of searching for its components, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-naval-dockyard-designs-low-cost-temperature-sensor-820467.html
02-04-2020||National||328 new COVID-19 cases and 12 deaths reported since Wednesday: Health ministry||About 400 COVID-19 positive cases have been found whose epidemiological linkage can be traced to the Tablighi Jamaat cluster, the health ministry said on Thursday. Addressing the daily briefing, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agrawal said 328 new cases of the novel coronavirus and 12 new deaths have been reported since Wednesday. He said 1,965 coronavirus cases have been reported so far in India. "Yesterday, the cabinet secretary through video conferencing with chief secretaries and DGPs asked them to initiate intensive contact tracing of Tablighi Jamaat participants and implement containment measures on war-footing,” Agrawal said. After contact tracing and sampling, about 400 positive cases have been identified whose epidemiological linkage can be traced to the Tablighi Jamaat cluster, he said. This includes 173 from Tamil Nadu, 11 from Rajasthan, nine from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 47 from Delhi, two from Puducherry, 22 from Jammu and Kashmir, 33 from Telengana, 67 from Andhra Pradesh and 16 from Assam. These numbers are increasing as more samples are being tested, Agrawal said. Regarding the Dharavi COVID19 positive case, he said the building there has been sealed and sample collection and contact tracing is going on as per protocol. The joint secretary said that the prime minister has urged states to manage the coronavirus crisis at the district level. Orders have been placed for over 1.5 cr personal protective equipment (PPEs) and supply has already started, he said, adding that domestic manufacturing of N-95 masks has been stepped up. The official also informed that there have been limited cases of doctors on duty testing COVID-19 positive and asserted that it is important to follow infection prevention control at hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/328-new-covid-19-cases-and-12-deaths-reported-since-wednesday-health-ministry-820471.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Unions seek labour minister's intervention to prevent job losses; demand income support for informal workers||Trade unions on Thursday sought Labour Minister Santosh Gangawar's intervention at the ground level to stop retrenchment of employees and salary cuts and also demanded an income support scheme for over 40-crore informal workers hit by the coronavirus lockdown in the country.  The 10 central trade unions have written a letter to the minister, bringing to his attention issues like job losses, forced unpaid leave and salary cuts. In the letter, the unions said, "A comprehensive income-support scheme for all the unorganised/informal sector workers is the urgent need of the hour and we urge the government to urgently act upon the same to save overwhelming majority of the country's workforce from biggest human disaster." On the jobs front, they said, "We are still regularly getting information of forced unpaid leave, etc, including from NCR region.'' "Appeal/advisory by the government, both the Labour Ministry and Home Ministry, is not at all working at ground level to prevent loss of employment and earnings and also eviction from local residence in the process of lockdown," the letter said. The government must act urgently to rescue migrant workers with necessary transport facilities and they should be provided with food, shelter, water and required health services. Bank branches in some cases are 40-50 kilometre away from the place of workers/their families, hence the other methods of disbursal of cash transfer should also be devised, they added. The unions that have jointly written the letter to labour minister are: INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-unions-seek-labour-ministers-intervention-to-prevent-job-losses-demand-income-support-for-informal-workers-820480.html
02-04-2020||National||SC sets aside conviction of man under TADA Act||The Supreme Court has set aside the conviction and five-year jail term of a man from Tamil Nadu under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act. Raja alias Ayappan was alleged to be a member of an organisation, ‘Tamilar Pasarai’ formed to create separate statehood for Tamil Nadu. He allegedly made an abortive bid to carry out blast on September 22, 1990, at Tamil Nadu state secretariat building, ‘Namakkal Kavignar Maligai’ in Chennai. A bench of S Abdul Nazeer and Deepak Gupta, however, overturned designated Special Court's judgement of December 4, 2009, holding him guilty for the offences under the TADA Act and Explosive Substances Act and others. The accused, who had absconded, was tried separately after his arrest on July 25, 2007. He was granted bail in 2010. In his appeal, he contended he can't be convicted on the basis of confession by co-accused. He also claimed his confession, recorded in the case, was not voluntary. Agreeing to the plea, the court ruled confession of two other co-accused can't be treated as admissible under the TADA Act since there was no joint trial here. The court said Section 15 of the TADA Act specifically provided that the confession recorded would be admissible in the trial of a co¬-accused if he was tried together with the accused who made the confession.  "We are of the view, that if for any reason, a joint trial is not held, the confession of a co-accused cannot be held to be admissible in evidence against another accused who would face trial at a later point of time in the same case," the bench said.  The bench rejected the Tamil Nadu government's defence of the trial court's decision, saying, "if we are to accept the argument of the counsel for the state, it is as good as re¬writing the scope of Section 15 of the TADA Act".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sets-aside-conviction-of-man-under-tada-act-820481.html
02-04-2020||National||About 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat members, primary contacts quarantined amid COVID-19 crisis: Ministry of Home Affairs||About 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their primary contacts have been quarantined till now in the country after the government undertook "massive efforts" as part of steps to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, a senior home ministry official said on Thursday. Punya Salila Srivastava, a joint secretary in the Union Home Ministry, also told reporters during a daily briefing that out of about 2,000 such Tablighi Jamaat members in Delhi, 1,804 have been shifted to quarantine centres while 334 symptomatic persons admitted to hospitals. She said among the ones in Delhi, 250 are foreigners. "The home ministry along with states and union territories launched a massive effort and about 9,000 Tablighi Jammat workers and their primary contacts were identified and quarantined. Among these, 1,306 people are foreigners," Srivastava said during the briefing.    Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus that has claimed live and infected people. She said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is constantly reviewing the ongoing lockdown in the country and added that the home secretary (Ajay Bhalla) has written to states and union territories that "the lockdown measures should be implemented in letter and spirit".  The home secretary has said in his communication that the violation of lockdown measures is a punishable offence under the disaster management Act and the Indian Penal Code, Srivastava said. The home secretary has also said in his communication that public authorities in all states should ensure that these provisions of law are "widely circulated" for awareness of the public so that the lockdown is effective, she said.   Srivastava said as correct information supply is "very important" during disasters and fake news or rumour mongering can create panic, the home secretary had requested his counterpart in the Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Ministry for creation of a web portal where people can verify the factual position, news and information vis-a-vis COVID-19. The I&B Ministry, she said, has created a special unit headed by a director general-level officer and people can write to it at pibfactcheck@gmail.com to clear their doubts about any unverified news. The Press Information Bureau's COVID-19 Fact Check Unit (FCU) became operational on Thursday and the unit is headed by the bureau's director general, Nitin Wakankar, a statement issued by the PIB said. The home secretary has also asked chief secretaries that they establish such a mechanism at the state level too, Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-9000-tablighi-jamaat-members-primary-contacts-quarantined-amid-covid-19-crisis-ministry-of-home-affairs-820484.html
02-04-2020||National||PM Modi to share video message on Friday morning||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will share a video message with countrymen on Friday amid a nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak. "At 9 AM tomorrow morning, I'll share a small video message with my fellow Indians," the prime minister tweeted, without divulging the subject of his message. At 9 AM tomorrow morning, I’ll share a small video message with my fellow Indians. कल सुबह 9 बजे देशवासियों के साथ मैं एक वीडियो संदेश साझा करूंगा। Modi held a meeting with chief ministers on the COVID-19 outbreak via video-conferencing on Thursday. The number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 1,965 in the country on Thursday while the death toll rose to 50, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-share-video-message-on-friday-morning-820489.html
02-04-2020||National||IAS officers highlight lack of health infrastructure to fight COVID-19 in govt survey||Around one-third of the IAS officers across the country, who participated in a government survey, has said that people are alarmed and panicky due to COVID-19 even as a large proportion among them exposed the inadequate healthcare infrastructure to deal with the situation like lack of isolation beds, ventilators, ICU facilities, and personal protective equipment like masks and gloves. The officers also appear to give more credit to the state and local governments than the Centre when it comes to the question of whether sufficient steps to combat Covid-19 have been taken by these units. The findings are part of the 'National Preparedness Survey on COVID-19: Responses of District Collectors and IAS Officers (2014-2018 Batches)' conducted by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) to get a "bird’s eye view of the governance challenges" while dealing with the "greatest health crisis India faced since Independence". While 466 IAS officers registered for the voluntary online survey, only 266 submitted their responses.  "Majority of districts across the country highlighted shortage of medical staff, equipment and facilities like ICU beds, ventilators, ambulances, oxygen cylinders etc. The Sub-District hospitals and health centres centers readiness is an area of focus, particularly in the north-eastern region. Furthermore, it was felt that the healthcare workers at district level need capacity building trainings for COVID-19...In some districts, there is a perceived shortage of testing kits, other facilities and testing centers in a large number of districts," the report said. While 92% of the IAS officers agreed that people in their jurisdiction or regions were well aware and informed of the pandemic, the survey conducted during March 25-30, 75% among them were of the view that public are alert, cautious and taking necessary precautions. Eighty-two out of the 266 officers or 30.82% who participated in the exercise felt that people "alarmed and panicking" while 104 officers or 39.09% believed otherwise and the rest remaining neutral. Curiously, the report released on Thursday said 69% of the officers -- the figure arrived by adding those who disagreed there was panic with those who marked neutral -- were of the view that there was no panic. For the other 19 questions, the report did not add those officers who marked neutral with those agreeing together. When it comes to the availability of critical infrastructure needed for fighting COVID-19, 71.8% officers highlighted the non-availability of adequate ventilator machines in district and sub-district hospitals. None availability of sufficient Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds were highlighted by 59% while 28% spoke about the non-availability of isolation beds in hospitals in district and sub-district level. On the availability of personal protection equipment like masks and gloves, 47.36% officers spoke about its non-availability while only 28.57% felt that there was adequate stock with them. Asked whether the governments have taken sufficient steps to tackle the virus spread, 84.96% of the officers said state governments have done well while 84.58% said the local governments are performing well. However, 59% of the officers said that the on-ground preparedness of local health machinery to handle COVID-19 is adequate while 22% disagreed. Among the officers who are in the ground leading the efforts, 81.57% said the Centre has taken sufficient steps. Interestingly, around 10% of the officers felt that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal for 'Janata Curfew' on March 22 not was effective on the ground in keeping people at home. Identifying the main problems in the states, officers from Andhra Pradesh said there were facing a huge challenge in identifying foreign returnees and putting them in isolation while those from Assam pointed out that people were not following lockdown properly even as there are several migrating within state and coming from other states like Mizoram. Officers posted with Delhi government spoke about inadequate health infrastructure and testing facilities while highlighting the need to do enough testing for people who are suspected cases. In Jharkhand's Dumka, the officers said they cannot run ventilators as they do not have an anaesthetic there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ias-officers-highlight-lack-of-health-infrastructure-to-fight-covid-19-in-govt-survey-820491.html
02-04-2020||National||CMs should ask religious leaders to avoid large gatherings amid COVID-19 lockdown : PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday accepted Maharashtra Chief Minister's suggestion that religious leaders should be asked to refrain from holding large gatherings. Thackeray made the suggestion during a video conference with Modi, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. Modi held a video conference with all chief ministers in the morning to discuss ways to check the spread of coronavirus. During the meeting, Thackeray told Modi that the Maharashtra administration has traced all citizens from the state who participated in the religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi, and those people have been quarantined. The prime minister also accepted Thackeray's suggestion that religious leaders should be asked to refrain from holding large gatherings. Modi asked allchief ministers to speak to religious leaders from their respective states and ask them to tell the community members about the need for social distancing and avoiding large gatherings, the CMO said in a statement. Modi also supported Thackeray's view that citizens need to be in good mental health during the lockdown period, it said. Thackeray told the prime minister that the nationwide lockdown will be completely followed in the state. All the chief ministers sought direction from Modi on how to handle the situation post the lockdown period. To this, the prime minister said the state governments should end the lockdown in a phased manner as per the local situation, the CMO said. "He also asked the states to ensure people don't come out on streets in large numbers," the statement said. Thackeray said his government made provisions of food and accommodation for 3.25 lakh migrant workers in state-run shelter homes and special medical assistance was being provided to ensure they remain in good mental health. The chief minister also said that sufficient isolation facilities have been created in Mumbai and as per the new protocol, asymptomatic persons are also being isolated outside hospitals. The local administration has taken over some empty premises for this purpose and there is plan to create more isolation and quarantine facilities. Thackeray also said that since private labs have been permitted to conduct coronavirus tests, the results of samples tested in two to three days are being declared together, and this is the reason why there seems to be a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cms-should-ask-religious-leaders-to-avoid-large-gatherings-amid-covid-19-lockdown-pm-narendra-modi-820494.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine should be in focus in next few weeks: PM Narendra Modi tells CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told chief ministers that to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine should remain the focus in the next few weeks. Interacting with them through video conference, he said it is necessary to ensure availability of separate and dedicated hospital facilities for COVID-19 patients. Modi told the chief ministers that it is important to formulate a common exit strategy to ensure the staggered re-emergence of the population once the lockdown ends, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-testing-tracing-isolation-and-quarantine-should-be-in-focus-in-next-few-weeks-pm-narendra-modi-tells-cms-820495.html
02-04-2020||National||Health Ministry issues guidelines for dialysis of COVID-19 patients||The Health Ministry on Thursday asked state and Union territories to identify and earmark at least one hemodialysis facility with adequate number of machines, trained staff and other support equipment as a preparatory fixed-point dialysis unit in case of rise of COVID-19 epidemic. In its 'Guidelines for Dialysis of COVID-19 patients', the ministry said health departments may issue directives to district administrations allowing easy movements of such patients, accompanied by one attendant, to a dialysis facility. The number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 1,965 in the country on Thursday while the death toll rose to 50, according to the Union Health Ministry. It said the government-run transport system should be arranged for those who do not have private vehicles. The ministry said COVID-19, a disease caused by a novel coronavirus (SARS CoV-2), is currently a pandemic, which produces high morbidity in the elderly and in patients with associated comorbidities. "Chronic kidney disease stage-5 patients on dialysis are also vulnerable group because of their existing comorbidities, repeated unavoidable exposure to hospital environment and immunosuppressed state... These patients are therefore not only more prone to acquire infection but also develop severe diseases as compared to general population," it said. The guidelines stressed that patients on regular dialysis should adhere to prescribed schedule and not miss their dialysis sessions to avoid any emergency dialysis. The guidelines outlined that dialysis units should have a signboard posted prominently in the local language as well as Hindi and English asking patients to report any fever, coughing or breathing problem in dialysis unit and waiting area. All hemodialysis units should educate their personnel, including nephrologists, nurses, technicians, other staff and all patients undergoing treatment along with their caregivers about COVID-19, it said. All universal precautions must be strictly followed and all staff members should strictly follow hand hygiene, the guidelines stated, adding medical and support staff treating infected patients should be monitored for COVID-19 infection at the dialysis facility and should take necessary action if found infected. The ministry recommended that dialysis units should have a designated screening area, where patients can be screened for COVID-19 before allowing them to enter inside dialysis area. It said the screening area should have adequate space to implement social distancing between patients and accompanying persons while waiting for dialysis staff. It also recommended that every patient should be asked about symptoms suspected of COVID-19, history of contact with a diagnosed case of coronavirus infection and history of contact with person who has had recent travel to foreign country or from high COVID-19 prevalence area within the country as notified by the central and state/UT governments respectively. Inside the dialysis unit, the guidelines stated that suspected or positive COVID-19 patients should properly wear disposable three-layer surgical mask throughout dialysis duration and patients should maintain hand hygiene, follow cough etiquettes, like coughing or sneezing using the inside of the elbow or using tissue paper. For the Dialysis Staff, the ministry said the unit staff should make sure an adequate stock of masks and sanitizers are available in screening area to provide to the patients and accompanying person if necessary. "During dialysis, it should be ensured that a patient or staff in a unit does not become the source of an outbreak and the dialysis personnel, attendants and caregivers should also wear a three-layer surgical facemask while they are inside dialysis unit," it said. It said all patients with suspected or positive COVID-19 be dialyzed in isolation. The isolation ideally be in a separate room with a closed door, but may not be possible in all units. "The next most suitable option is the use of a separate shift, preferably the last of the day for dialyzing all such patients. This offers the advantage of avoiding long waiting periods or the need for extensive additional disinfection in between shifts. "The next suitable option is to physically separate areas for proven positive and suspected cases. Where this is also not possible, we suggest that the positive or suspected patient may be dialyzed at a row end within the unit ensuring a separation from all other patients by at least 2 meter," it said, adding staff caring for suspected or proved cases should not look after other patients during the same shift. The ministry urged the dialysis staff to use personal protective equipment (PPE) when dealing with proven or strongly suspected patients of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-issues-guidelines-for-dialysis-of-covid-19-patients-820502.html
02-04-2020||National||Air India gets nod to operate cargo flights to Shanghai, Hong Kong to get medical supplies||Amid a 21-day lockdown imposed in the country to combat the coronavirus pandemic, Air India has got approval from Indian and Chinese authorities for operating cargo flights to Shanghai and Hong Kong to get medical supplies, its Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal said on Thursday. "We have applied to the Chinese authorities to commence freighter operations to two destinations -- Shanghai and Hong Kong -- from Delhi. There have been a few regulatory challenges from the Chinese side," said Bansal. He added that the cargo coming from China would be medical supplies. "I am happy to announce that an hour back, we got the approval for launching the freighter operations to Shanghai from Delhi for two dates - 4th April and 5th April. We have applied for subsequent dates also for 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th. We hope to get those approvals also within a day," Bansal told a press conference around 4 pm. He said Air India has also got the approval for carrying cargo flight operations to Hong Kong. "Approval for Hong Kong came faster. We already have approval in place to launch cargo flight operations between Delhi and Hong Kong," he said. Bansal said that they have a group of freight forwarders and consignees and they have been informed about the flights to Shanghai and Hong Kong. He added that they have been asked to book their consignment on these flights that the national carrier would be operating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-gets-nod-to-operate-cargo-flights-to-shanghai-hong-kong-to-get-medical-supplies-820506.html
02-04-2020||National||International flights will be permitted after April 15 depending on countries they are coming from: Puri||The government on Thursday said resumption of international flights will be considered on a case-by-case basis, depending on which countries they are coming from, after April 15 when the 21-day lockdown to fight the coronavirus ends in India. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri also said Indians who are stranded in several foreign countries will have to wait till April 15 to return to India, suggesting that flights taking foreign nationals to their countries from India will not bring back any passengers. India has allowed countries like the US, UK and Germany to conduct special flights during the lockdown to take their citizens back home. Air India has also extended its services to countries such as Germany, UK and France to facilitate return of their citizens. Air India chief Rajiv Bansal said on Thursday that the airline has entered into a contract with France, Ireland, Germany and Canada to repatriate their citizens. "Embassies of these countries that are situated in Delhi had asked for assistance to repatriate their citizens from India. They wanted to charter some flights," Bansal told reporters at a press conference. "A total of 18 charter flights will be provided to these four countries only on commercial terms. On one way, they will be carrying their nationals, and on return these flights will come back without any passengers or cargo," the Air India Chairman and Managing Director added. India has suspended domestic and international commercial passenger flight operations from midnight on March 24 for 21 days in sync with the nation-wide lockdown. However, cargo flights, medical evacuation flights, offshore helicopter operations and flights specially permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA can operate during this time period. At the same press conference on Thursday afternoon, Puri told reporters: "Any incoming flights to bring Indians back home will have to await the lifting of the lockdown." "The lockdown is till April 15. And, we can start considering the resumption of flights on a case-by-case basis depending on where they are coming from after that," Puri said. During the last few weeks, Air India has conducted multiple flights to virus-infected cities such as Wuhan in China and Rome and Italy to bring back stranded Indian citizens. Moreover, the national carrier has been conducting flights to countries such as Germany, UK and Israel to repatriate their citizens from India. Till now, more than 1,900 people have been infected and 50 people have died due to the novel coronavirus in India, according to the Union Health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-flights-will-be-permitted-after-april-15-depending-on-countries-they-are-coming-from-puri-820511.html
02-04-2020||National||Used peace clause to provide excess support to rice farmers amid COVID-19: India to WTO||India has used the peace clause of the WTO to provide excess support measures to rice farmers for marketing year 2018-19 in order to meet the domestic food security needs of its poor population. Under the Peace Clause, WTO members refrain from challenging any breach in prescribed subsidy ceiling given by a developing nation at the dispute settlement forum of the Geneva-based organisation. Subsidies over and above the prescribed ceiling are seen as trade distorting. The limit is fixed at 10 per cent of the value of food production for developing countries like India. In a notification, India has informed the World Trade Organisation (WTO) that the value of its rice production was USD 43.67 billion in 2018-19 and for that it provided subsidies worth USD 5 billion, which is in access of prescribed 10 per cent ceiling. "India's breach of commitment for rice, a traditional staple food crop under a provision of the Agreement on Agriculture arises from support provided in pursuance of public stockholding programmes for food security purposes, which were in existence as of the date of the Bali Ministerial Decision on Public Stockholding for Food Security Purposes," the notification said. It said that the country's for food security purposes (covering rice and a number of other commodities) have been consistently reported to the WTO. The stocks under the programme are acquired and released in order to meet the domestic food security needs of India's poor and vulnerable population, and not to impede commercial trade or food security of others, the notification spublic stockholding programmesaid. "For these reasons, the breach of the limits for rice is covered by the peace clause set out in the Bali Ministerial Decision on Public Stockholding for Food Security Purposes and the General Council Decision," it added. Before the harvest during each Rabi / Kharif crop season, India announces the minimum support prices (MSP) for procurement on the basis of the recommendation of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), which along with other factors, takes into consideration the cost of various agricultural inputs and a reasonable margin for farmers for their produce. The Centre and state governments, through their agencies such as Food Corporation of India (FCI), National Agricultural Cooperative Federation of India (NAFED) and others, procure foodgrains from farmers at the MSP in order to meet the overall demand of different welfare schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/used-peace-clause-to-provide-excess-support-to-rice-farmers-amid-covid-19-india-to-wto-820513.html
02-04-2020||National||Around 9000 people related to Tablighi identified and quarantined: MHA||About 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their primary contacts have been quarantined till now in the country after the government undertook "massive efforts" as part of steps to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, a senior home ministry official said on Thursday. Punya Salila Srivastava, a joint secretary in the Union Home Ministry, also told reporters during a daily briefing that out of about 2,000 such Tablighi Jamaat members in Delhi, 1,804 have been shifted to quarantine centres while 334 symptomatic persons admitted to hospitals. She said among the ones in Delhi, 250 are foreigners. "The home ministry along with states and union territories launched a massive effort and about 9,000 Tablighi Jammat workers and their primary contacts were identified and quarantined. Among these, 1,306 people are foreigners," Srivastava said during the briefing.    Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus that has claimed live and infected people. She said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is constantly reviewing the ongoing lockdown in the country and added that the home secretary (Ajay Bhalla) has written to states and union territories that "the lockdown measures should be implemented in letter and spirit".  The home secretary has said in his communication that the violation of lockdown measures is a punishable offence under the disaster management Act and the Indian Penal Code, Srivastava said. The home secretary has also said in his communication that public authorities in all states should ensure that these provisions of law are "widely circulated" for awareness of the public so that the lockdown is effective, she said.   Srivastava said as correct information supply is "very important" during disasters and fake news or rumour mongering can create panic, the home secretary had requested his counterpart in the Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Ministry for creation of a web portal where people can verify the factual position, news and information vis-a-vis COVID-19. The I&B Ministry, she said, has created a special unit headed by a director general-level officer and people can write to it at pibfactcheck@gmail.com to clear their doubts about any unverified news. The Press Information Bureau's COVID-19 Fact Check Unit (FCU) became operational on Thursday and the unit is headed by the bureau's director general, Nitin Wakankar, a statement issued by the PIB said. The home secretary has also asked chief secretaries that they establish such a mechanism at the state level too, Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/around-9000-people-related-to-tablighi-identified-and-quarantined-mha-820516.html
02-04-2020||National||India's decision to accept foreign donations for PM-CARES in sync with existing norms||The government's decision to accept foreign contributions to a fund set up to fight COVID-19 is in sync with the policy of receiving similar contributions to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) since 2011, official sources said on Thursday. The government has taken a decision to accept contributions to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES) from individuals and organisations based in foreign countries, sources had said on Wednesday. Following reports about this, several people on Twitter reminded the government about its decision to not allow Kerala receive any foreign financial assistance when the state was reeling under massive floods which claimed lives of 231 people and rendered over 14 lakh homeless. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced setting up of the PM CARES fund. The prime minister is the chairman of the trust and its members include the defence minister, the home minister and the finance minister. "What has been announced is that PM CARES fund will simply accept donations and contributions from individuals and organisations who are based in foreign countries. This is consistent with India's policy with respect to PMNRF," said a source. The PMNRF has also received foreign contributions as a public trust since 2011, the source added.  On the criticisms of the government's refusal of foreign funds to some states, the sources referred to a statement by a government spokesperson in August 2018. "In line with the existing policy, the government is committed to meeting the requirements for relief and rehabilitation through domestic efforts," the spokesperson had said. "Contributions to the Prime Minister's Relief Fund and the Chief Minister's Relief Fund from NRIs, PIOs and international entities such as foundations would, however, be welcome," he said. Political leaders, corporates, defence personnel, employees of PSUs such as Railways and Bollywood personalities are among a cross-section of organisations and people who have announced their contribution to the PM CARES fund. All officials of the external affairs ministry are also donating a day's salary while some of them are voluntarily donating more, said an official. The Army, Navy and the Indian Air Force as well as employees of the Defence Ministry have decided to donate one day's salary totalling around Rs 500 crore. The number of coronavirus cases increased rapidly in the country in the last few days. India has recorded over 1,965 positive cases of coronavirus and at least 50 deaths so far. Globally, the virus has infected more than 850,000 people and claimed around 42,000 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-decision-to-accept-foreign-donations-for-pm-cares-in-sync-with-existing-norms-820528.html
02-04-2020||National||Centre nod for serological tests for COVID-19||India’s top medical research body on Thursday recommended the use of rapid antibody tests or serological tests in areas that are emerging hotspots for COVID-19 for faster detection, even as the number of confirmed cases touched 1965 and the death toll touched 50. In an interim advisory, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recommended that the population in hotspot areas may be tested using rapid antibody tests. The ICMR asked those testing positive in the antibody tests should be confirmed using the RT-PCR method by using nasal and oral swab samples, while those testing negative in the antibody test be quarantined at home. A Health Ministry document stated that 20 existing COVID-19 hotspots and an additional 22 potential ones have been identified across the country. The RT-PCR tests, currently carried out in India, look for the presence of the genomic sequence of the virus in the nasal and oral samples and take at least a day for results. These tests are considered as “gold standard” in diagnostics, whereas rapid antibody tests are faster but require a confirmatory PCR as a positive result could be due to cross-reaction with other bacteria or viruses. The US FDA had approved the rapid antibody tests, commonly used to screen a person for HIV infection, for COVID-19 on March 20. “We want the people to have access to testing, but of course, proper evaluation and safeguards will still be in place,” FDA Director-General Eric Domingo had said. He added that these kits will yield a faster result compared to PCR-based kits, but it was important that a trained health professional evaluate and interpret the results. According to Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, as many as 328 new COVID-19 positive cases and 12 deaths were reported since Wednesday taking the total number of confirmed cases to 1965 and deaths to 50. Aggarwal said on the brighter side, the number of persons recovering from COVID-19 has risen to 151. To questions on the shortage of personal protection equipment, Aggarwal said that orders have been placed for 1.5 crore PPEs and for one crore N95 masks, besides other regular surgical masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-nod-for-serological-tests-for-covid-19-820531.html
02-04-2020||National||PM Cares Fund not to accept financial assistance from foreign governments||India will not accept financial assistance from the governments of the other nations to the “PM-Cares Fund” to deal with the COVID-19 crisis, but it will remain open to receiving donations from the overseas citizens of the country, foreign individuals and non-government entities to the trust. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government made it clear that while it would accept donations from foreign individuals and non-government entities as well as international organizations to the PM Cares Fund, it would not accept any assistance by the government of any foreign country – thus sticking to New Delhi’s more-than-15-year-old policy. The PM Cares Fund was recently set up as a public charitable trust to receive donations to deal with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like the one posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected. A source in New Delhi said that the decision to accept donations from individuals and non-government organizations in India and abroad had been taken in view of the “unprecedented nature” of the crisis that the pandemic had put the country into. It, however, did not amount to a departure from the existing policy, the source clarified on Thursday. Modi’s government had in 2018 decided against accepting foreign donations to support relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction work in flood-ravaged Kerala. It had triggered protests from certain sections, particularly in Kerala. The government, however, had stuck to its decision, which had in fact been in sync with the policy formulated by the erstwhile Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime in the aftermath of the Tsunami in 2004. The source clarified on Thursday that the policy of accepting donations from the Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs) and international entities would remain valid for the PM Cares Fund. But, like the PM’s National Relief Fund, the PM Cares Fund too would not accept financial assistance from the foreign governments in accordance with the existing policy, added the source. Only President Donald Trump’s administration in Washington D.C. has so far pledged to provide $ 2.9 million to India, as part of its $ 174 million financial assistance to 64 countries to help fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The US has not yet got in touch with India to finalize how the fund would be channeled. New Delhi, however, made it clear that it would not be received as a contribution to the PM Cares Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-fund-not-to-accept-financial-assistance-from-foreign-governments-820541.html
02-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India's poor live on promises in wake of COVID-19 crisis||No food, no work and no clue when relief will come. That's life now for millions of informal workers in India, starved of a way to feed themselves or get the help pledged by government to survive a three-week coronavirus lockdown. Almost a week after the government announced billions in aid, nothing is yet disbursed in this vast and labyrinthine country, forcing many of India's poorest city workers to hit the roads and begin a hazardous walk home to their villages. The dearth of state support and desperation on the streets has revealed the lack of security in India's job market, a problem that pervades life for the poorest right across Asia. "I have heard about the money promised, but I have no idea how I will get it. We are about 150 workers here and have barely eaten in the last few days," Rahul Ahirwar said by phone from Delhi, where he has opted to stay put and ride out the crisis, sharing a tenement with his wife and parents. The 26-year-old construction worker said he had called a government hotline for help but, like millions of others without paperwork or a stable job, had neither food nor fallback. Coronavirus has infected more than 1,600 people and killed 38 in India, according to the government, since it escaped China and travelled the globe. Medics across India are struggling to curb the outbreak, saddled with a weak public healthcare system and intense overcrowding: perfect conditions for its spread. Worst hit among the employed are the so-called daily wage workers, many of whom lack documentation to prove their eligibility for help in a country in thrall to bureaucracy. Other casual workers are cut off by lack of a bank account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indias-poor-live-on-promises-in-wake-of-covid-19-crisis-820542.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Bengaluru specialist cured Prince Charles, claims Ayush minister; Clarence House denies||In a startling claim, Union Minister of State for AYUSH Shripad Naik on Thursday said that a Bengaluru-based health resort has cured Prince Charles, an heir to the British throne, of coronavirus with the use of Ayurveda and Homeopathy.  Naik claimed this in a press conference held at his private residence near Panaji and also reiterated to Deccan Herald subsequently over the phone, that one Dr. Mathai who runs SOUKYA, a holistic health care center, in Bengaluru had informed him about curing Prince Charles of COVID-19 using alternative medicine techniques.  However, a spokesperson of the Clarence House, issued a denial to Deccan Herald stating, "This information is incorrect. The Prince of Wales followed the medical advice of the NHS in the UK  and nothing more." Clarence House is the official residence of the Prince of Wales (Prince Charles) and Duchess of Cornwall (Camilla). "I will give you an example. I got a call from Dr Mathai, who runs a Soukhya Ayurvedic resort in Bengaluru. Prince Charles was suffering from coronavirus. He (Mathai) called me and said my (treatment) was successful. Using Ayurveda and Homeopathy medicine, Prince Charles has been cured of coronavirus," Naik said.  Prince Charles was diagnosed with coronavirus last month and has been in quarantine since.  Dr. Mathai's Soukya, according to the resort's official website is a 30-acre organic farm that restores the body’s natural balance of mind body and spirit.  "This first-of-its-kind healing sanctuary practises an integrative treatment approach that integrates different traditional, time-tested and natural systems of medicine like Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Yoga & Naturopathy and other Complementary Therapies," the website also says.  The Union Minister of State also told DH over phone, that the formulae used by Dr. Mathai to cure Prince Charles of COVID-19 would be studied by a special task force appointed by his ministry to develop and propagate alternative medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-bengaluru-specialist-cured-prince-charles-claims-ayush-minister-clarence-house-denies-820546.html
02-04-2020||National||Migrant workers need to assured society is with them: RSS general secretary||Expressing concern over the condition of migrant workers due to the COVID-19 lockdown, RSS general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi on Thursday said they need to be assured that society is with them and their needs would be taken care of. The condition of migrant workers is quite serious and due to the lack of trust and insecurity they are trying to go back to their homes, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Sarkaryava said in a statement. The government's announcement of the 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus sparked the exodus of hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers who undertook long journeys from major urban cities on foot to their native places. Underlining that the migration of workers, at present, can have a “serious fall out,” he said, “They need to feel reassured that the society is with them and their needs would be taken care of while staying wherever they are." "There is a need to build this confidence by working amongst these migrant workers,” Joshi said. He said a large number of RSS workers across the country are working in this regard. “At present, more than one lakh Sangh workers are involved in different service activities at around 10,000 places across the country,” Joshi said. The Sangh's workers have reached to around 10 lakh families and provided them food, sanitizers and other necessary commodities, he said, adding that they are also helping people reach hospitals. Talking about the festival of Ramnavami, the RSS leader said the country is celebrating it in a different kind of atmosphere today. “So, on this pious occasion of Ramnavmi, let us all take a resolve to display to the world, how to ride over such challenges in an ideal way,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-need-to-assured-society-is-with-them-rss-general-secretary-820554.html
02-04-2020||National||Government revokes visas, blacklists Tablighi Jamaat's 960 foreign followers||The Government on Thursday revoked the tourists visas of 960 foreigners belonging to Tablighi Jamaat, which is linked to a surge in COVID-19 cases, and put them in a blacklist for indulging in missionary activities by violating the norms. The decision came even as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) identified at least 1,306 foreigners among around 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat followers, who were put in government quarantine facilities after they participated in a religious gathering in south Delhi's Nizamuddin and stayed back at its campus as well as their contacts. An official statement said the MHA has found that 960 foreigners linked to the Tablighi Jamaat has violated visa norms by indulging in missionary activities. They came to India on a tourist visa and nobody is allowed to carry out religious activities. The MHA also directed Delhi Police and Directors General of Police of other states to take necessary legal action against 960 foreigners for violating the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. MHA officials said around 9,000 people and their contacts have been located. In Delhi alone, there were around 2,300 Tablighi Jamaat followers who attended the meeting were located. The national capital and other parts of the capital has witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases as several members who were infected spread out across the country after the March 13-15 religious gathering in Nizamuddin. At least 13 deaths and 500 cases testing positive due to COVID-19 are linked to Tablighi Jamaat. Of the 219 cases reported in Delhi till Thursday evening, 108 were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters earlier this week. Of the four deaths, two are from the Tablighi Jamaat campus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-revokes-visas-blacklists-tablighi-jamaats-960-foreign-followers-820561.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: BSF contributes one day's salary of troops to PM-CARES Fund||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Thursday contributed one day's salary of its staffers, totalling over Rs 33.28 crore, to the PM-CARES Fund to combat the coronavirus outbreak in the country. "An amount of Rs 33,28,57,504 has been deposited to the PM-CARES account. This amount is the one day salary of the troops and other staffers of the force," a BSF spokesperson said. The Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES Fund) was recently announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The about 2.5 lakh personnel strong BSF is primarily tasked to guard the borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh apart from rendering a variety of duties in the internal security domain of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-bsf-contributes-one-days-salary-of-troops-to-pm-cares-fund-820565.html
02-04-2020||National||Domestic flights can re-start from April 15 if lockdown ends: Minister||Domestic airlines can take bookings after April 15 when the 21-day lock-down to fight COVID-19 is expected to end, but a resumption of international commercial passenger services will be on a case-by-case basis, depending on the status of the pandemic in the country of origin. “Government direction is very clear. Lockdown has been announced till April 14. In case it is extended, the same process (of refunds) has to follow,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told reporters in a vide-conference, responding to questions on domestic airlines accepting bookings for April 15, a day after the 21-day lockdown. However, Puri made it clear that international commercial passenger flights will be resumed only on a case-to-case basis after an assessment is done on the COVID-19 situation in the country where the flight originates from. “The lockdown is till April 15. And, we can start considering the resumption of flights on a case-by-case basis depending on where they are coming from after that,” Puri said. The minister did not respond to questions on whether the government was mulling a financial aid package for the airlines that were reeling under heavy losses due to shut down of operations in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Puri indicated at a possible delay in the disinvestment of Air India. “We will revisit it when other pressing issues are resolved,” he said referring to the ongoing Covid-19 situation. Puri said Air India was set to resume cargo flights to Shanghai on Saturday and Sunday and permission was awaited from Chinese authorities on similar services to Hong Kong. Meanwhile, Air India Chairman-cum-Managing Director Rajiv Bansal said that the national carrier has signed a contract with Germany, Canada, Ireland and France to operate 18 charter flights to evacuate its nationals stranded in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-flights-can-re-start-from-april-15-if-lockdown-ends-minister-820569.html
02-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Netizens hit out at Centre over decision to accept foreign aid for PM-CARES||The Centre's decision to accept contributions from abroad to PM-CARES fund for fighting COVID-19 has prompted social media users to take potshots at it as Kerala was not allowed to receive foreign aid after the devastating floods in 2018. Senior Congress leader Sashi Tharoor said accepting relief for coronavirus pandemic does not affect "one's ego", while other reactions varied from taking a dig saying 'Vikas has reached new heights" to asking where is the country's pride. Government sources have said a decision had been taken to accept contributions from abroad to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES) to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. The Narendra Modi government had earlier turned away foreign aid, including a reported Rs 700 crore donation from the UAE, to help Kerala during the floods that devastated the southern state, while "deeply appreciating" the offers from various nations then. Over 480 people were killed, several had gone missing during the worst floods in a century that also rendered lakhs homeless and dealt a severe blow to the state's economy. "Flood relief for Kerala hurts ones ego. Pandemic relief doesnt. Go figure! #PMCARES!" tweeted Tharoor, who represents Thiruvananthapuram in Lok Sabha. Another twiterratti reacted to the Centre's latest move, saying: "Wow.. a nation that built 3,000 crore statue is B3GG!NG now? Sad! "Vikas has reached new heights... Where are the proud Modi Bhakts?" another wrote. "Thanks but no, says India to foreign aid for Kerala", another social media user tweeted, tagging a 2018 news report on MEA Spokesperson saying the government was committed to meeting the requirements for relief and rehabilitation in Kerala through domestic efforts. "Pandemic is unprecedented, India has taken a decision to accept foreign donations to the PM fund. But....", "5 Trillion begging bowl", "Where did the 'National Pride' go now?" another tweet asked. The Centre's present decision marks a shift from its earlier position of not accepting foreign donations to deal with domestic crisis. "In view of the interest expressed to contribute to Government's efforts, as well as keeping in mind the unprecedented nature of the pandemic, contributions to the Trust can be done by individuals and organisations, both in India and abroad," a government source has said. It said the fund was set up following spontaneous requests from India and abroad for making generous contributions to support the government in its fight against COVID-19. On Saturday, Modi had announced setting up of the PM-CARES fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-netizens-hit-out-at-centre-over-decision-to-accept-foreign-aid-for-pm-cares-820571.html
02-04-2020||National||DRDO develops bio-suits using sealant used in submarines||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Thursday displayed a bio-suit it had developed for use by medical, paramedical and other personnel engaged in fighting COVID-19. “The suit has been prepared with the help of the industry and subjected to rigorous testing for textile parameters as well as protection against synthetic blood,” a DRDO statement said adding that it had used a sealant used in submarines to enhance the safety of the bio-suit. The DRDO said it has transferred the technology to a vendor who has a manufacturing capacity of 7000 bio suits per day. Another vendor is being brought in with experience in garment technology and efforts are on to ramp up the capacity to 15,000 suits per day. India is facing a severe shortage of personal protection equipment as it gears up to face the challenge posed by the outbreak of COVID-19 which has claimed 53 lives till Thursday. The DRDO is making all efforts to ensure that these suits are produced in large numbers and serve as a robust line of defence for the medics, paramedics and other personnel in the frontline of combating COVID-19. The DRDO has prepared a special sealant as an alternative to seam sealing tape based on the sealant used in submarine applications. Presently, bio suits prepared using this glue for seam sealing by an industry partner has cleared test at Southern India Textile Research Association (SITRA) Coimbatore. This can be a gamechanger for the textile industry. The DRDO can mass produce this glue through the industry to support the seam sealing activity by suit manufacturers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-develops-bio-suits-using-sealant-used-in-submarines-820572.html
02-04-2020||National||Railways transports over 7,195 wagons of foodgrains, 64,567 wagons of coal in three days amid coronavirus crisis||Over the last three days, the Indian Railways has transported over 7,195 wagons of foodgrains, 64,567 wagons of coal, 3,314 wagons of steel and 3,838 wagons of petroleum products across the country as part of its efforts to ensure that essential commodities reach their destinations during the ongoing lockdown, the Railway Ministry said on Thursday. A total of 1,43,458 wagons of freight, each wagon containing 58-60 tonnes of consignment, were loaded in the last three days. On March 30, a total of 37,526 wagons were loaded, of which 25,617 wagons were loaded with essential commodities. This includes 2,252 wagons of foodgrains, 252 wagons of sugar, eight wagons of salt, 63 wagons of fruits and vegetables, 21,628 wagons of coal and 1,414 wagons of petroleum products, the ministry said. As many as 840 wagons of steel and 802 wagons of fertiliser were also loaded. On March 31, a total of 51,755 wagons were loaded, of which 33,265 wagons were loaded with essential commodities, including 2,600 wagons of foodgrains, 293 wagons of sugar, 84 wagons of salt, 84 wagons of fruits and vegetables, 28,861 wagons of coal and 1,292 wagons of petroleum products. As many as 1,789 wagons of steel and 1,287 wagons of fertiliser were also loaded. On April 1, 54,177 wagons were loaded, of which 17,805 wagons carried essential commodities, including 2,343 wagons carrying foodgrains, 210 wagons carrying sugar, 42 wagons carrying fruits and vegetables, 14,078 wagons carrying coal and 1,132 wagons carrying petroleum products. As many as 685 wagons of steel and 761 wagons of fertiliser were also loaded. "Issues which were earlier being faced by the railways at many terminal points in loading and unloading operations are being effectively resolved. Indian Railways, along with the Ministry of Home Affairs, is keeping in touch with state governments to sort out any such operational issues if they arise," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-transports-over-7195-wagons-of-foodgrains-64567-wagons-of-coal-in-three-days-amid-coronavirus-crisis-820598.html
02-04-2020||National||46 Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined in Goa: CM Pramod Sawant||The Goa government has traced 46 persons -- several of whom were hiding in mosques – who had returned to the state after attending the convention organized by the Tabligh-e-Jamaat in the national capital last month, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters on Thursday. Sawant also said that the health and police authorities in Goa had been given a free hand to investigate if more members of the Jamaat were hiding in homes and mosques in Goa, calling them a threat to society. “For now 46 members of the jamaat who had returned before March 15 have been located and quarantined. Their travel history is being ascertained. We are also checking if there are any more hiding. I urge religious leaders as well as my Muslim brothers to inform us if there are more jamaat members in hiding,” Sawant said. “All police inspectors are checking mosques. Muslim brothers should co-operate. This is to do with Goa and India, not related to any caste and religion. Those who continue to hide in mosques, they should come forward,” the Chief Minister also said. Last month’s congregation of the jamaat, has become one of the worst hotspots for transmission of COVID-19 and members of the community who moved out of Delhi after the meeting, have created a trail of similar COVID-19 eruptions in different parts of the country. Sawant further said, that he had given a free hand to the authorities to search the rest of the members of the Jamaat, even without a search warrant if need be, because it was an emergency situation. “I have told them to search anywhere. No need for search warrant. Even if they are at some home, they should enter their homes and search,” Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/46-tablighi-jamaat-members-quarantined-in-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-820600.html
02-04-2020||National||TV viewership soars to record levels amid coronavirus lockdown||Television viewership jumped by 37 per cent to record levels for the week to March 27, led by more watching by males and greater consumption of news and infotainment genres, industry body BARC said on Thursday. The growth in consumption is in line with similar trends world over, where television viewing has increased because of the Covid-19 related lockdowns, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) said. India has been under a lockdown since March 25 to limit the spread of the coronavirus infection. Many states like Maharashtra had gone into a lockdown in the days leading to the national shutdown itself. "TV gets the entire family together and we have seen a lot of surge in the non-primetime viewing. I think the trend will continue as the lockdown continues, though there can be fatigue with news channels," the body's Chief Executive Sunil Lulla said. Data from the body said average daily users grew by 62 million per day and Indians consumed 1.20 trillion minutes of TV during the week, the highest-ever figure. There were 622 million watching TV for 4 hrs and 40 minutes a day, it said, adding that the growth was across regions. Males led the growth with a 41 per cent rise in TV viewing as compared to 33 per cent for females, with the working age populations showing the highest growth. The share of news to total TV viewing in India has now grown to 21 per cent from the 7 per cent levels before the COVID-19 crisis onset, it said. News channels viewership soared 298 per cent, business news channels grew by 180 per cent, infotainment 63 per cent and movies by 56 per cent during the reporting week. Devotional or spiritual channel viewership grew by only 26 per cent during the difficult times, the data showed. Sports channels growth was also subdued due to non-availability of fresh content. Lulla said from an advertising perspective, volume or the number of seconds has gone up sizeably but also pointed to talks of brands coming for renegotiating contracts because of the macro difficulties. He said the advertisers include those whose supply and distribution have not been impacted, and also advised brands to invest in advertising right now given the traction which is being offered. On smartphones, market research firm Nielsen reported there has been a 12 per cent increase in the time spent by a single user to 3.8 hours per day, largely driven by chat and social networking apps. However, data grabbed from smartphones showed a huge slump in all the e-commerce activities conducted through the phone, including shopping (down 38 per cent as compared to pre-Covid days), travel (down 53 per cent), food ordering (down 41 per cent) and mobile payments (down 20 per cent). In line with the TV viewership, time spent on news apps grew by 45 per cent with a third of all users accessing news apps or websites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tv-viewership-soars-to-record-levels-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-820601.html
02-04-2020||National||Meteorological data relayed by aircraft goes down by 60% in India due to suspension of flights||The suspension of flights in India due to the coronavirus outbreak has led to a 60 per cent decline in the availability of meteorological data relayed by aircraft, Ministry of Earth Sciences Secretary M Rajeevan said on Thursday. He told PTI that due to the reduction of air traffic across the world, the crucial meteorological data shared with air traffic controls by planes has gone down by 50-60 per cent globally. The air traffic controls in turn share data with meteorological organisations. A scientist dealing with the aircraft relay data said the information is run in two models in India – the UK MeT office model and US' Noaa model – for coming out with forecasts. "It does affect the quality of forecast, but then there are other sets of data that are used to forecast to bridge the gap," the scientist, who works with one of the institutions under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, added. India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General M Mohapatra said the data shared by the flights is used in forecast models, especially in the medium range in predicting weather over the span of 10 days. He said the airlines across the globe share data with air traffic controls, which in turn share data with meteorological organisations. "The aircraft are fitted with meteorological equipment that measure the temperature, air speed and humidity. The aircraft shares the observation on the route it takes," Mohapatra said. He said the data is important as all the measurements are taken directly unlike the one from satellites which have to be converted through different models. Since meteorological phenomena is inter-linked, data from different parts of the globe is crucial in weather predictions. According to the World Meteorological Department, the idea of making meteorological and other scientific atmospheric measurements from aircraft is nearly as old as aviation itself, but it is only in the late 1980s that the Aircraft Meteorological Data Relay (AMDAR) observing system commenced as an operational programme sanctioned by WMO. "AMDAR and other aircraft-based observations provide an improvement in forecasting ability through a reduction in NWP forecast error of up to 15-20," the WMO stated on its website. A 21-day lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 to fight the coronavirus outbreak. Since then all flight services in the country have been suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meteorological-data-relayed-by-aircraft-goes-down-by-60-in-india-due-to-suspension-of-flights-820619.html
02-04-2020||National||Only 1/4th of Indians pay for news, but 2/3rd willing to pay: WEF study||With the coronavirus pandemic emphasising the media's indispensable role in society, a new study showed on Thursday that just about one-fourth of the consumers in India currently pay for news but nearly two-thirds are willing to pay. The survey of news and entertainment consumers conducted by the World Economic Forum (WEF) in six key markets -- China, Germany, India, South Korea, the UK and the US -- also found that the willingness among Indians to pay for entertainment media services in future is even higher at 87 per cent. Overall in these six markets, the study found that a majority spend 24 hours per week consuming news and entertainment, but less than half pay for it. Across these countries, young people (16-34 years) are more likely to pay for content, but low-income groups are less likely to pay for news services, suggesting that the rise of paid-for media may lead to information inequalities. China and India emerged as bright spots with big appetites for news and entertainment, said the Geneva-based WEF, which describes itself as an international organisation for public-private cooperation. The WEF said the current coronavirus challenge only emphasizes the indispensable role that the media plays in society today. "With the value of content growing, the industry needs financial models that facilitate social functions while still supporting widespread access to critical content," it said. Less than half of consumers in these six key markets pay for media, with 16 per cent paying for news and 44 per cent paying for entertainment -- but the willingness to pay is rising, the research showed. It said 80-90 per cent consumers spend 24 hours reading, watching or listening to news and entertainment per week. Almost 60 per cent of consumers have registered for a media service (free or paid) and have on average seven media services covering video, sport, gaming, music, podcasts, news and blogs. The research is based on a survey conducted for the WEF by Nielsen between early October and late November 2019, which asked more than 9,100 people in China, Germany, India, South Korea, the UK and the US about their media consumption and payment habits and preferences. In addition, between May 2019 and January 2020 the WEF consulted around 100 executives from advertising, entertainment, news and other parts of the media industry about business strategies to attract and retain consumers -- along with the implications these could have for society. Globally, those willing to pay in the future is 53 per cent for news and 70 per cent for entertainment. Furthermore, two of the most dynamic global economies -- China and India -- show reasons for optimism. In China, 25 per cent pay for news and 59 per cent have at least one paid video or sport service, numbers that may be explained by the greater prevalence of pay-per-use models in the country. In India, consumers report a significant willingness to grow the number of news and entertainment services they pay for. Indian respondents said they are willing to pay for closer to three entertainment services and four news services, more than the maximum of between one and two services that most other countries report a willingness to pay for. As per the study, 87 per cent in India are willing to pay for entertainment and 67 per cent for news, up from about a quarter for each today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-1/4th-of-indians-pay-for-news-but-2/3rd-willing-to-pay-wef-study-820621.html
02-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Another 14-day home quarantine for Indians who returned from abroad||Indian nationals who were sent to government quarantine centres after their return from abroad will be released from these centres after testing negative for COVID-19  but will have to undergo home quarantine for another 14 days. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued guidelines on the release of such persons who landed in India after February 15 and have completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine as well as foreign nationals who are stranded due to the 21-day lockdown. As per protocol, Indian nationals will be released after their 14-day quarantine period and testing negative but this will not apply to those who came in a group even when one person tests positive. "As a measure of abundant caution, upon returning to their destination, such persons would home quarantine themselves for a further period of 14 days as per standard protocol on the matter," the new addition to the guidelines said. The details of the persons released from quarantine, along with their destination, will be shared with the concerned states and union territories for follow up. The guidelines said these persons are expected to return to their homes, or to the homes of their families, relatives, friends or to other places of shelter like hotels by "making their own transport arrangements". The transit pass for movement of vehicles being used by such persons would be issued by the state government where they have been quarantined. The transit pass will be issued for fixed-route and specified validity. After it came to light that several foreign nationals are stranded in different parts of the country due to lockdown, the government has also revised guidelines to allow the transporting of those nationals for evacuation by their home countries. Several foreign countries have already approached the Centre in this regard. As per the guideline, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) will examine the requests on a case to case basis. The concerned country will have to arrange a chartered flight for evacuating their nationals in consultation with the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Before their departure, all foreign nationals will be screened for COVID-19 symptoms and only those who are asymptomatic persons would be allowed to leave. For those who have symptoms, the future course of treatment would be followed as per the standard health protocol. Once cleared, the local embassy will have to make arrangements for transportation of their nation from his point of stay, for which transit passes will be issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-another-14-day-home-quarantine-for-indians-who-returned-from-abroad-820625.html
02-04-2020||National||Modi greets Prince Charles on recovery from COVID-19, thanks him for interest in Ayurveda||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday spoke to Prince Charles of the United Kingdom over phone, complimented him for recovering from COVID-19 infection and thanked him for his keen interests in Ayurveda. Modi spoke to Prince Charles, even as Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shripad Naik, said that a healthcare centre in Bengaluru cured the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II of the UK using Ayurvedic and Homeopathic medicines. Naik said that SOUKYA, a healthcare centre in Bengaluru, had cured Prince Charles using Ayurvedic and Homeopathic medicines. The press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi after Prime Minister’s telephone-call with Prince Charles had no mention about the role of SOUKYA or Ayurvedic and Homeopathic medicines in the recovery of the UK royal. Prince Charles, who was reported to be COVID-19 positive on March 26, stated in a video-message on Wednesday that he had developed mild symptoms and had now recovered. Modi on Thursday thanked Prince Charles for his “keen interest” in Ayurveda. “He (the Prime Minster) explained the recent Indian initiative aimed at teaching basic yoga exercises through short animation videos, and disseminating easy home-made traditional remedies for enhancing immunity,” the MEA stated in its press-release. Prince Charles appreciated “the potential of these initiatives for enhancing health and wellbeing, especially in the present situation”, added the MEA. The Prime Minister and the UK royal discussed the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Modi conveyed his condolences for the loss of life in the UK over the past few days. “He expressed satisfaction that His Royal Highness had recovered from his own recent indisposition, and wished him lasting good health,” Raveesh Kumar, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said. Prince Charles expressed his appreciation for the members of the Indian diaspora in the UK, including many members of the National Health Service, who were playing a seminal role in combatting the pandemic. He also referred to the selfless work being done by religious and social organizations of the Indian community in the UK.  The heir to the UK throne thanked the Prime Minister for the facilitation and assistance provided for the citizens of his country, who got stranded in India during the lockdown imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-greets-prince-charles-on-recovery-from-covid-19-thanks-him-for-interest-in-ayurveda-820627.html
02-04-2020||National||Delhi reports 2 deaths; 141 COVID-19 cases in a day||Two persons belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat died on Thursday due to COVID-19 in the national capital which witnessed a record number of 141 fresh cases on a single day, with the majority linked to the religious meeting held in south Delhi's Nizamuddin. The total number of positive cases has now touched 293. Of the 141 fresh cases, 129 belonged to Tablighi Jamaat, which is linked to at least 13 deaths across India following its members who attended its religious gathering in mid-march spread across the country. Two other persons belonging to the Islamic missionary movement died, taking the total toll for the capital to four. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal attributed the rise in cases and deaths to the religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat in mid-March, saying the numbers could further rise in the next couple of days as more tests of people who attended the meet will be conducted. Authorities had earlier this week evacuated 2,346 from the Tablighi Masjid headquarters that houses the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid. Of this, 536 symptomatic people were shifted to hospitals while the rest 1,810 were shifted to institutional quarantine facilities. On Thursday, Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla shot off a letter to Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava seeking police deployment in hospitals where Tablighi Jamaat followers are admitted were allegedly creating trouble. Singla also referred to an incident in Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Wednesday where a Tablighi Jamaat follower attempted to commit suicide but was rescued by staff. In another incident in the Narela DDA quarantine facility, two others from the outfit escaped and were later tracked to Patparganj. "...Patients particularly those transferred from Markaz (Tablighi Jamaat headquarters), are creating a law and order problem and commotion in the hospitals which are becoming very difficult for the hospital staff to handle," Singla wrote in her letter demanding police deployment. So far, officials said, 3,120 samples were sent from Delhi for testing of which results of 375 are still pending. Of the 2745 results, 293 have tested positive. They said 2,151 people who travelled abroad are still in home quarantine while their 18,257 contacts are also yet to complete the 14-day cycle. In Delhi, they said, 243 ventilators, 3,261 personal prevention equipment, 4.63 lakh surgical mask, 20,566 N-95 masks, and 22,366 sanitisers are available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-reports-2-deaths-141-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-820629.html
02-04-2020||National||Locked in cages, beaten and shamed: Virus laws lead to abuses||By Philip J. Heijmans, Bibhudatta Pradhan and Pauline Bax When it comes to social distancing, some authorities are resorting to unprecedented tactics to try and slow the spread of COVID-19. In India, baton-wielding police have beaten those who flout the curfew-like restrictions or fail to maintain physical distancing, while others have publicly shamed violators by forcing them do squats, push-ups, crawl or roll around on the streets. A video of a police officer writing “I have violated lockdown restrictions, keep away from me” on a man’s forehead, went viral in the South Asian nation. Action has been taken against the officer, Vivek Raj Singh, a senior police official in the state of Madhya Pradesh said. Police in South Africa also forced people to roll along the road, kicking others as they performed squats for extended periods of time. After enforcing a 21-day nationwide lockdown on Friday, officers in Johannesburg were seen indiscriminately using water cannons on civilians and firing rubber bullets in the city’s poorest neighborhoods. Heavily armed officers stormed apartment buildings to check residents weren’t violating a shutdown in which the sale of alcohol and cigarettes are prohibited. South Africa’s police spokeswoman was not immediately available for comment. In the Philippines, police and local officials have been accused by Human Rights Watch of arresting hundreds of people who broke curfew, social distancing and quarantine rules. In some cases, offenders were subject to public shaming and abuse as punishment for their crimes, including placing young people in dog cages and forcing others to sit in the scorching sun. “The current state of public health emergency is no excuse for violating due process and the basic rights of the people,” Edgar San Luis, the mayor of Laguna province’s Santa Cruz municipality wrote in a Facebook post on March 20 in response to the dog cage detentions. While most cases of over-zealous policing have been condemned by local authorities, who in some instances have called for the investigation of the officers involved, there remains growing concern over the harsh punishment meted out to vulnerable populations unable to socially distance due to overcrowded living conditions. “The authorities will tend to default to using whatever means they have previously routinely applied to maintain political and social order,” said Tim Huxley, the executive director at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in Asia. In these circumstances where mass compliance will be necessary for a protracted period “it seems to me highly unlikely that coercive measures alone can work.” COVID-19 cases have now topped 861,000 cases globally, and killed more than 42,000 people, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. Still while some countries have resorted to violence in an attempt to force social distancing, others are taking a different route. In Mexico’s southern state of Yucatan people diagnosed with the virus or showing symptoms may be forced to serve up to three years in prison if they don’t quarantine themselves, local newspaper El Financiero reported. The Peruvian government has announced fines of about $600 for those who prank call its coronavirus hotline after it found 74% of calls were impertinent or malicious, according to the Lima-based newspaper Peru 21. Battling a resurgence in imported coronavirus cases, Hong Kong on Tuesday warned residents to abide by home quarantine orders and social distancing regulations or face criminal prosecution and fines. The city has already caught more than 70 people violating some of the more than 50,000 home quarantine orders, sending them to government isolation centers. Authorities would pursue criminal charges against them, Chief Executive Carrie Lam told reporters at a weekly briefing. “This is no time to let down our guard,” Lam said, adding that her government has a “zero tolerance approach” to people breaking quarantine. Violating quarantine orders can lead to fines of up to HK$25,000 ($3,225) and jail terms of up to six months, while businesses refusing to comply face fines of up to HK$50,000. Singapore has also imposed severe penalties for flouting social distancing regulations. The government last week announced it is a criminal offense to have gatherings of more than 10 people outside of work or school. People must also exercise physical distancing of at least one meter in settings where interactions are non-transient, such as queuing or sitting. The maximum penalty for either offense is a fine of S$10,000 ($7,000) and six months imprisonment. ] Civic Consciousness “There’s a real consciousness about issues of public health and safety, and over the years also a growing sense of civic consciousness -- it didn’t come about on its own,” said Gillian Koh, senior research fellow at the Institute of Policy Studies at the National University of Singapore, citing the city-states’s stringent rules against public littering and spitting that could cost repeat offenders up to S$10,000 in fines. Police attempting to enforce social distancing restrictions in Australia have issued fines on a Victoria state massage parlor following a visit from the Sex Industry Coordination Unit, while in neighboring New South Wales, state police have been patrolling Sydney’s parks to ensure protocols are being enforced. Penalties can reach A$11,000 in fines and six months in jail. But it is in India, with its population of 1.3 billion people, where the most extreme examples are emerging. The country imposed a three-week long nationwide lockdown on March 24 in some of the most far-reaching social distancing measures undertaken by any government. Earlier this week, authorities were filmed spraying a group of migrant workers with a chemical solution containing bleach after they returned to Uttar Pradesh in northern India, in an effort to disinfect them. The incident is now under investigation by the district magistrate. Niranjan Sahoo, a senior fellow at the New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation said drastic measures were needed in a country with such a massive population. Whether they will work is another matter. “Enforcing social distancing in a country with huge rural society and urban poor would be next to impossible,” Sahoo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locked-in-cages-beaten-and-shamed-virus-laws-lead-to-abuses-820631.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Congress demands probe into Nizamuddin congregation||The party said strict action should be taken in the matter and it should not be given a religious colour. "The Congress demands that a strict inquiry be ordered behind the congregation. Strict action should be taken without seeing any incident from the spectacles of religion, caste and creed," Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said during a press conference held via videoconferencing. He said coronavirus has no caste, creed and religion and giving it a communal colour is doing disservice to humanity. "The Congress reiterates that at this juncture no 'namaaz' in any mosque, no 'ardaas' in any gurdwara, no prayers in any church, no 'prarthanas' in any temple, demanding a congregation or assembly of people should be allowed till we defeat coronavirus," he added. Shergill said sometimes a bad example serves as a good warning and Indians should take a lesson from this incident that one careless step can cost many lives. At least 2,000 people, including foreigners and Indians from across the country, had stayed at the Nizamuddin markaz (headquarters) of Tablighi Jamaat from March 1-15. On Sunday night, many residents of the headquarters started showing symptoms for coronavirus infection and police and paramilitary officials locked down the area. However, authorities fear a spread of the virus. States across the country have ramped up efforts to trace and quarantine those who attended the event to contain the spread of coronavirus. Asked about reports claiming India plans to import medical gears from China to tackle coronavirus, Shergill said, "At this juncture the source does not matter, the goods matter." "I say it with the sense of caveat that China noted maximum number of virus cases, all precautions and restraints should be exercised at the time of using any Chinese product to ensure that the surface spread from these products or goods does not happen," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-demands-probe-into-nizamuddin-congregation-820268.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Chidambaram slams Yogi govt for FIR against journalist, calls it suppression of media freedom||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday slammed the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the FIR against a senior journalist for his comments on Twitter against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, saying it is a "deplorable" act intended to suppress media freedom. The former home minister demanded that the FIR be immediately withdrawn. The Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday booked The Wire editor Siddharth Varadarajan over comments on Twitter claiming that the day Tablighi Jamaat held its event in Delhi, Chief Minister Adityanath had insisted that a Ram Navami fair will take place as usual. The FIR against Varadarajan also mentioned his remark, questioning Adityanath's participation in a religious ceremony at the Ramjanmabhoomi site in Ayodhya during the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. Chidambaram, in a series of tweets, said, "UP government has filed an FIR against @thewire_in for carrying a story containing facts and only facts. No ‘fact’ is wrong or even alleged to be wrong. Where is the crime?" "The FIR is a deplorable act intended to suppress freedom of the media. The FIR must be withdrawn immediately," he said. The FIR referred to a tweet by Varadarajan which said, "On the day the Tablighi Jamaat event was held, Adityanath insisted a large Ram Navami fair planned for Ayodhya from March 25 to April 2 would proceed as usual and that 'Lord Ram would protect devotees from the coronavirus'. Later, the journalist tweeted, "I should clarify that it was Acharya Paramhans, Hindutva stalwart and head of the official Ayodhya temple trust, who said Ram would protect devotees from coronavirus, and not Adityanath, though he allowed a public event on 25/3 in defiance of the lockdown and took part himself." In his statement, Varadarajan called the FIR "politically motivated".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambaram-slams-yogi-govt-for-fir-against-journalist-calls-it-suppression-of-media-freedom-820369.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Prez, VP to hold second video conference with Governors, LGs on Friday||This will be the second such conference, a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. In the first video-conference held on March 27, Delhi Lt Governor and 14 Governors -- from the worst hit areas -- were shortlisted to share their experiences. The remaining Governors/LGs and Administrators will share their experiences Friday, it said. The agenda of the conference will be the status of COVID-19 in the states, the role of the Red Cross with focus on vulnerable sections, and the role of civil society/voluntary organisations/private sector in complementing the efforts of the Union and state governments to contain the spread of coronavirus, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prez-vp-to-hold-second-video-conference-with-governors-lgs-on-friday-820385.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Unplanned implementation of lockdown causing chaos and pain: Sonia Gandhi||Top Congress leaders on Thursday discussed the situation arising out of the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown, with party chief Sonia Gandhi calling for acting in solidarity and helping the disadvantaged during the crisis. She said while "the 21-day national lockdown may have been necessary but the unplanned manner in which it has been implemented has caused chaos and pain in the lives of millions of migrant workers all over India." Besides Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders discussed the issue at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) through video conferencing. Addressing the meeting, Sonia Gandhi said the country is in the midst of an unprecedented health and humanitarian crisis. "The magnitude of the challenge before us is daunting but our resolve to overcome it must be greater," she said. She said the COVID-19 pandemic has already caused untold suffering across the world, but it has also "reaffirmed the bonds of brotherhood" that unite humanity. "In our country, those who are most vulnerable to the consequences of this pandemic are the poor and disadvantaged. We must come together for their sake and do all we can to support them through the difficult days that lie ahead," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unplanned-implementation-of-lockdown-causing-chaos-and-pain-sonia-gandhi-820390.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Congress: Top Congress leaders criticise govt for insufficient COVID-19 measures, call for more action||Top Congress leaders on Thursday discussed the situation arising out of the coronavirus outbreak, with party chief Sonia Gandhi criticising the Centre for "unplanned" implementation of the lockdown and calling for "solidarity" in meeting the challenge posed by the pandemic. Besides Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders discussed the health crisis at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) held through video conferencing. Addressing the meeting, Sonia Gandhi said the country is in the midst of an unprecedented health and humanitarian crisis that has caused "untold suffering" across the world but also "reaffirmed the bonds of brotherhood" that unite humanity. "The magnitude of the challenge before us is daunting but our resolve to overcome it must be greater," she said. She said in India, the poor and disadvantaged have been most vulnerable to the consequences of the pandemic. "We must come together for their sake and do all we can to support them through the difficult days that lie ahead," she said. Describing as "heartbreaking" the sight of lakhs of people walking for hundreds of kilometres without food or shelter, she criticised the government for its "unplanned" implementation of the nationwide lockdown and causing hardships to the poor. "The 21-day national lockdown may have been necessary but the unplanned manner in which it has been implemented has caused chaos and pain in the lives of millions of migrant workers all over India," she noted. "It is the duty of us all to do our utmost to lessen their suffering," she said. The Congress chief said to fight the COVID-19 virus, there is no alternative to constant and reliable testing. "Our doctors, nurses, and health workers need all the support. Personal Protection Equipment such as hazmat suits, N-95 masks must be provided to them on a war footing," she said. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh said the Congress Party stands as one with the nation to take on the challenge of the pandemic. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi criticised the Centre for its alleged lack of assistance to the poor especially migrant workers. "No country in the world has attempted a lockdown with huge migrant labour without arranging for their stay, food and ration and pushing them back home," party chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said quoting Rahul Gandhi. Calling for an "India-specific strategy and consultation" with regard to COVID-19, Rahul said the party has looked at the situation caused by the pandemic for the past two months and has spoken to experts. "India needs to prepare for the economic devastation," he said. Rahul called upon Congress workers to help people and assist them in every manner possible. "Congress needs to act as a watchdog. We need to ensure that the most vulnerable and the poor are protected comprehensively. Also, let's take the message that we need to take special care of our senior citizens and elders," he said. He further said COVID-19 particularly attacks aged persons, people with lung disease, diabetics, persons with heart disease, making them most vulnerable and "all state governments need to issue special advisories for these categories and take care of them". AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed Uttar Pradesh had faced the "maximum burnt" of "heart-rending" scenes of migrant labour returning home. "People are now being quarantined in inhuman conditions and sprayed with insecticides," she alleged, adding that instead of supporting those returning home, the police and administration in UP was "beating and roughing them up". "Our workers have assisted the labour with food and medicines," she said. Priyanka also said testing for COVID-19 remains the key to prevent it. Former finance minister P Chidambaram said the government had not understood the "enormity" of the crisis completely. "Congress should engage the government constantly, support it but point out the shortcomings," he noted. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Choudhary and senior party leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and AK Antony also addressed the CWC meet through video conferencing. Senior party leader Ahmed Patel said the Congress does support the government but must point out its shortcomings. "This is imperative to fight COVID-19. It's a fact that media refuses to show suggestions but we can't shed our responsibility," he said. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, addressing the meeting, informed the CWC about the preparations and steps taken to fight COVID-19 including availability of food, medication and preventive steps. He also praised the efforts of several organisations and Punjab Police. He said the non-release of the state's share of Rs 5,000 crore by the Centre was a hindrance in the fight against COVID-19 and that he will take up the issue with the Union finance minister. Chhattisgrah chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said the Congress government in the state has given 10 kgs of ration free to every family under the PDS system. All children in Anganwadis are being sent their food home, he said. "However, GST share of over Rs 2,000 crore not released by Government of India," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-top-congress-leaders-criticise-govt-for-insufficient-covid-19-measures-call-for-more-action-820398.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Top Cong leaders criticise govt for insufficient COVID-19 measures, call for more action||Top Congress leaders on Thursday discussed the situation arising out of the coronavirus outbreak, with party chief Sonia Gandhi criticising the Centre for "unplanned" implementation of the lockdown and calling for "solidarity" in meeting the challenge posed by the pandemic. Besides Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders discussed the health crisis at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) held through video conferencing. Addressing the meeting, Sonia Gandhi said the country is in the midst of an unprecedented health and humanitarian crisis that has caused "untold suffering" across the world but also "reaffirmed the bonds of brotherhood" that unite humanity. "The magnitude of the challenge before us is daunting but our resolve to overcome it must be greater," she said. She said in India, the poor and disadvantaged have been most vulnerable to the consequences of the pandemic. "We must come together for their sake and do all we can to support them through the difficult days that lie ahead," she said. Describing as "heartbreaking" the sight of lakhs of people walking for hundreds of kilometres without food or shelter, she criticised the government for its "unplanned" implementation of the nationwide lockdown and causing hardships to the poor. "The 21-day national lockdown may have been necessary but the unplanned manner in which it has been implemented has caused chaos and pain in the lives of millions of migrant workers all over India," she noted. "It is the duty of us all to do our utmost to lessen their suffering," she said. The Congress chief said to fight the COVID-19 virus, there is no alternative to constant and reliable testing. "Our doctors, nurses, and health workers need all the support. Personal Protection Equipment such as hazmat suits, N-95 masks must be provided to them on a war footing," she said. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh said the Congress Party stands as one with the nation to take on the challenge of the pandemic. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi criticised the Centre for its alleged lack of assistance to the poor especially migrant workers. "No country in the world has attempted a lockdown with huge migrant labour without arranging for their stay, food and ration and pushing them back home," party chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said quoting Rahul Gandhi. ] Calling for an "India-specific strategy and consultation" with regard to COVID-19, Rahul said the party has looked at the situation caused by the pandemic for the past two months and has spoken to experts. "India needs to prepare for the economic devastation," he said. Rahul called upon Congress workers to help people and assist them in every manner possible. "Congress needs to act as a watchdog. We need to ensure that the most vulnerable and the poor are protected comprehensively. Also, let's take the message that we need to take special care of our senior citizens and elders," he said. He further said COVID-19 particularly attacks aged persons, people with lung disease, diabetics, persons with heart disease, making them most vulnerable and "all state governments need to issue special advisories for these categories and take care of them". AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed Uttar Pradesh had faced the "maximum burnt" of "heart-rending" scenes of migrant labour returning home. "People are now being quarantined in inhuman conditions and sprayed with insecticides," she alleged, adding that instead of supporting those returning home, the police and administration in UP was "beating and roughing them up". "Our workers have assisted the labour with food and medicines," she said. Priyanka also said testing for COVID-19 remains the key to prevent it. Former finance minister P Chidambaram said the government had not understood the "enormity" of the crisis completely. "Congress should engage the government constantly, support it but point out the shortcomings," he noted. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Choudhary and senior party leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and AK Antony also addressed the CWC meet through video conferencing. Senior party leader Ahmed Patel said the Congress does support the government but must point out its shortcomings. "This is imperative to fight COVID-19. It's a fact that media refuses to show suggestions but we can't shed our responsibility," he said. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, addressing the meeting, informed the CWC about the preparations and steps taken to fight COVID-19 including availability of food, medication and preventive steps. He also praised the efforts of several organisations and Punjab Police. He said the non-release of the state's share of Rs 5,000 crore by the Centre was a hindrance in the fight against COVID-19 and that he will take up the issue with the Union finance minister. Chhattisgrah chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said the Congress government in the state has given 10 kgs of ration free to every family under the PDS system. All children in Anganwadis are being sent their food home, he said. "However, GST share of over Rs 2,000 crore not released by Government of India," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/top-cong-leaders-criticise-govt-for-insufficient-covid-19-measures-call-for-more-action-820406.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19: Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu puts on hold oath-taking of 37 newly elected members till lockdown is over||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has put on hold the oath-taking of 37 newly-elected members till the lockdown is over, according to an advisory. The government imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Fifty-five vacancies are due to arise in the Rajya Sabha from 17 states between April 3 and 13, against which 37 members have already been elected unopposed. "The newly elected members of Rajya Sabha are advised to wait for subscribing oath or affirmation till the lockdown period is over," an advisory from the Rajya Sabha chairman to the newly elected members said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-rajya-sabha-chairman-venkaiah-naidu-puts-on-hold-oath-taking-of-37-newly-elected-members-till-lockdown-is-over-820454.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Congress playing petty politics over COVID-19, misleading people: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday slammed the Congress, saying it is playing "petty politics" over the novel coronavirus outbreak and asked it to think about national interest, instead of misleading the people. Shah's comments came hours after Congress president Sonia Gandhi criticised the government for the "unplanned" implementation of the countrywide lockdown, which, she said, caused "chaos and pain" to millions. "Under PM @narendramodi's leadership, India's efforts to fight Coronavirus are being lauded domestically and globally. 130-crore Indians are united to defeat COVID-19," the minister said in a tweet. "Yet, the Congress is playing petty politics. High time they think of national interest and stop misleading people," Shah said. Gandhi, addressing a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) through video conferencing, called for availability of all necessary equipment for medical professionals. She said the onus lies on the government to ensure that the spread of infection and casualties are not caused owing to lack of infrastructure or preparedness. The Congress chief said the country was in the midst of an unprecedented health and humanitarian crisis which can be overcome only if everyone acts in solidarity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-playing-petty-politics-over-covid-19-misleading-people-amit-shah-820508.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Congress Working Committee demands more testing for coronavirus, asks govt to set up task force for reviving economy||The Congress Working Committee on Thursday demanded more testing for coronavirus and called upon the government to immediately set up a task force of experts for suggesting measures to revive the economy. At a meeting of the CWC, the party's highest decision making body, held through video conferencing, it was also suggested that the government immediately come out with 'financial action plan 2' to help those affected due to the 21-day countrywide lockdown. The CWC accused the government of not giving any serious thought to the deteriorating economic situation in the country, even as it said the government has erred in adopting the policy of limited testing for COVID-19. It called for more testing for coronavirus and said extensive testing in many countries had led to containment of the spread of the deadly virus. Suggesting various measures, the CWC said the government should focus on containment of the virus by extensive testing, medical treatment to the infected persons, and substantial enhancement of the capacity, infrastructure and human resources to fight the epidemic. It said the government should focus on livelihood support to the poor people, especially daily wage earners, migrant workers, casual and temporary workers, laid-off workers, self-employed people, farmers, tenant farmers and landless agricultural workers. Besides, it said it has to ensure maintenance of supply of goods and services so that people locked down in their homes can access their daily household need items. The CWC called upon the government to take steps to re-start the engines of economic growth. The committee also called for making adequate and comprehensive preparations for immediate harvesting and procurement of wheat and other rabi crops at minimum support price. "The CWC is of the opinion that the government has not given any thought whatsoever to the deteriorating economic situation. This does not brook any delay. "The CWC demands that the government should immediately appoint an Economic Task Force consisting of world renowned economists to suggest three plans: an emergency plan within one week; a short to medium term plan within one month; and a medium to long term plan within three months in order to protect and revive the economy," the CWC statement read out by AICC general secretary KC Venugopal said. AICC chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "On containment and treatment, the government has erred in adopting a strategy of limited testing. A lockdown or any other kind of restrictions is futile unless it is accompanied by extensive testing." "The flawed strategy must be revised and testing must be scaled up urgently," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-working-committee-demands-more-testing-for-coronavirus-asks-govt-to-set-up-task-force-for-reviving-economy-820548.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Ex-minister Jitu Patwari named MPCC Media Cell chairman||Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath has appointed former minister Jitu Patwari as the chairman of the party's media cell in the state. Patwari succeeds Shobha Oza as the chairman of Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) Media Cell. Nath made the appointment on Wednesday. Patwari, the MLA from Rau in Indore disrtrict, is also the working president of the state Congress. He was a minister in the erstwhile Nath-led Congress government in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ex-minister-jitu-patwari-named-mpcc-media-cell-chairman-820559.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||37 newly elected Rajya Sabha members to take oath after coronavirus lockdown||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has put on hold the oath-taking of 37 newly-elected members till the lockdown in view of the coronavirus outbreak is over. The government has imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Fifty-five vacancies are due to arise in the Rajya Sabha from 17 states between April 3 and 13, against which 37 members have already been elected unopposed. "The newly-elected members of Rajya Sabha are advised to wait for subscribing oath or affirmation till the lockdown period is over," an advisory from the Rajya Sabha chairman to the newly-elected members said. Naidu said in the context of the nationwide travel restrictions on account of the lockdown, the newly-elected members of the Upper House of Parliament were informed that there was no immediate requirement of taking oath. Some of the prominent members elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha and waiting to take oath are -- Deputy Chairman Harivansh, Sharad Pawar, Ramdas Athawale, Premchand Gupta, B Kalita, Deepender Singh Hooda, Thambidurai, GK Vasan, Tiruchy Siva, K Keshava Rao, Dinesh Trivedi and Priyanka Chaturvedi. While seven Rajya Sabha seats are falling vacant from Maharashtra, six are falling vacant from Tamil Nadu, five each from West Bengal and Bihar, four each from Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Odisha, three each from Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, two each from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Haryana and Telangana, and one each from Himachal Pradesh, Manipur and Meghalaya. The newly-elected members of the Rajya Sabha are entitled to all perks from the day of notification of their election, officials said. A member elected to the Rajya Sabha is entitled to make and subscribe the prescribed oath or affirmation and take his seat in the House only upon the commencement of his term of office under the relevant provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. However, the Constitution (Article 99) and Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Rajya Sabha do not prescribe any time limit within which a newly-elected member has to subscribe the oath or affirmation. A new member is, however, not entitled to sit, participate and vote in the House or in a committee until he has subscribed the oath or affirmation, according to rules. "In view of the present lockdown in the country, neither the Rajya Sabha nor any of its Committees is likely to meet till the lockdown period is over," the advisory said. It also said that according to the relevant provisions of the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act 1954, a newly-elected member is entitled to all facilities, perks and privileges that are available to the members of Parliament from the date of commencement of his term of office, which is the date of notification of his election to the Rajya Sabha by the Ministry of Law and Justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/37-newly-elected-rajya-sabha-members-to-take-oath-after-coronavirus-lockdown-820587.html
02-04-2020||National Politics||Urgent need to devise India-specific strategy to combat COVID-19: Rahul Gandhi||There is an urgent need for an India-specific strategy to combat the coronavirus outbreak, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday, and asserted that the country must prepare for "economic devastation". The remarks came at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, where besides him, party chief Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and other senior leaders discussed the health crisis through video-conferencing. "At the Congress CWC meeting today, I emphasised the urgent need to devise an India specific strategy to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and for Congress workers and leaders to help soften the blow by assisting the poor and the most vulnerable sections of our society in every possible way," Rahul Gandhi tweeted after the meeting. COVID-19 particularly attacks aged persons, people with lung disease, diabetics, persons with heart diseases, making them the most vulnerable, the former Congress chief was quoted as saying at the meeting by the party's chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala. "All state governments need to issue special advisory for these categories and take care," Rahul Gandhi said at the meeting. "We have looked at COVID-19 for two months since February and have spoken to experts. No country in the world has attempted a lockdown with huge migrant labour without arranging for their stay, food and ration and pushing them back home," he said in an apparent attack on the government. Rahul Gandhi called on the party to act as a watchdog and ensure that the most vulnerable and the poor are protected comprehensively. "India has to fight COVID-19 with an India-specific strategy and consultation. India needs to prepare for the economic devastation," he was quoted as saying. Gandhi asked Congress workers to help the people, soften the blow and assist in every manner possible. "Also, let's take the message that we need to take special care of our senior citizens and elders," he added. Addressing the CWC, AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed that Uttar Pradesh had faced the maximum brunt of the migrant workers' exodus. "People are now being quarantined in inhuman conditions and sprayed with insecticides," she alleged, adding that instead of supporting those returning home, the police and the administration in UP were "beating and roughing them up". "Our workers have assisted the labour with food and medicines," Priyanka Gandhi said. Testing for COVID-19 remains the key to prevent it, she said. Priyanka Gandhi further said that school fee was a major challenge for parents today and should be considered. Besides Sonia Gandhi, Rahul and Priyanka, party chief ministers -- Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Amarinder Singh (Punjab) and V Narayanasamy (Puducherry) -- Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and senior party leaders Ahmed Patel, Mallikarjun Kharge and A K Antony also addressed the CWC meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/urgent-need-to-devise-india-specific-strategy-to-combat-covid-19-rahul-gandhi-820592.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Who is Maulana Saad, chief of Tablighi Jamaat?||The Delhi Police on Tuesday booked the cleric for violating lockdown orders and holding a huge religious gathering in Nizamuddin West earlier this month. Saad is "untraceable" since March 28 after Delhi Police served notice even as Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukthar Abbas Naqvi described the Islamic missionary movement's actions a "Talibani crime". Who is Maulana Saad? Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, 56, is the head of Tablighi Jamaat that organised a religious gathering now linked to at least 11 COVID-19 deaths and over 150 cases. Born on May 10, 1965, he is the grandson of Maulana Muhammad Ilyas, the founder of Tablighi Jamaat. He heads Nizamuddin Markaz faction of the Tablighi Jamaat which has over several followers in 214 countries. Tablighi Jamaat is an Islamic missionary movement that teaches Muslims to practise their religion as it was practised during the lifetime of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Saad has been a member of 'Shura' (central consultative council) of Tablighi Jamaat for 20 years (1995-2015) before he became the chief of the Tablighi Jamaat on November 16, 2015. The chief or Amir is selected by the Central Advisory Council (Shura) of Tablighi Jamaat and elders of the Jamaat and is appointed for life. However, in the case of Saad, he declared himself as the head of Tablighi Jamat as he did not agree with a new shura consisting of 13 members including Muhammad Abdul Wahhab that was formed on November 16, 2015. He studied Maulviyat from the madrasa Kashif-ul-Uloom located in a part of Markaz. Saad, who lives in Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti in Delhi, has three sons and daughters. He also has a home in Zakir Nagar in Delhi and Kandhla in Uttar Pradesh. Tablighi Jamaat is considered one of the largest Muslim movement in the world with the majority of the followers living in South Asia. There is no formal process for membership of the Tablighi Jamaat but many well-known personalities including former President of India Zakir Husain have been associated with this Jamaat. According to media reports, Maulana Tariq Jameel, a prominent member of the Tablighi Jamaat who oversees the Jamaat's work in Pakistan, recently met Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan. Case against Saad The Delhi Police registered an FIR on Tuesday against Maulana Saad and six others on charges of defying government orders on COVID-19 to organise a religious gathering and allow visitors to continue staying in the campus. According to the FIR, Maulana Saad and officials Dr Zeeshan, Mufti Shehzad, M Saifi, Younus, Mohd Salman and Mohd Ashraf were named as accused. Police sources claimed they were yet to locate Maulana Saad, who has gone missing since March 28, the day they served a notice to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/who-is-maulana-saad-chief-of-tablighi-jamaat-820271.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat activities: UP Police lodges FIRs against over 100 foreigners for allegedly violating visa rules||They said over 100 foreigners, who are at present under quarantine, have been booked under the Foreigners Act as they were indulging in religious activities. They said 236 foreigners were identified in the state and were put under quarantine. Out of them, police have so far booked over 100 foreigners for violation of visa rules as they were travelling on a tourist visa and indulging in Tablighi Jamaat activities, they said. Uttar Pradesh Police has also identified 836 Indians who took part in Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi during the first week of March and all have been put under quarantine, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-activities-up-police-lodges-firs-against-over-100-foreigners-for-allegedly-violating-visa-rules-820276.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Three fresh cases of COVID-19 reported in Bihar, total number reaches 24||Three fresh cases of COVID-19 were confirmed in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 24, officials said. A 40-year-old woman, admitted to a hospital in Gaya district, who had a travel history to Dubai, has tested positive, state epidemiologist Ragini Mishra said in the evening. Earlier in the day, one person each from Begusarai and Nalanda districts, with travel histories to Abu Dhabi and Dubai, respectively, tested positive for the virus, she added. Among the 24 positive cases reported in the state, one has died while two others have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, Mishra said. The deceased was a 38-year-old from Munger with a travel history to Qatar, who passed away the day before the test results, confirming he was COVID-19 positive, came out. He breathed his last at the AIIMS, Patna where he was admitted for renal failure. Several persons, including close relatives and health care professionals, are said to have picked up the contagion from the deceased and they are undergoing treatment at different hospitals in Patna and Bhagalpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-bihar-total-number-reaches-24-820293.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||After district magistrate, Noida chief medical officer shunted amid COVID-19 outbreak||The Uttar Pradesh government has shunted out the chief medical officer (CMO) of Gautam Buddh Nagar Anurag Bhargava, according to an official order. A P Chauturvedi has been appointed as the CMO replacing Bhargava with immediate effect, stated the order that was issued on Tuesday night by Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) to the UP government Amit Mohan Prasad. “Bhargava is being attached with Narendra Bhooshan, the chief executive officer of the Greater Noida Authority, who has been appointed by the state government as the nodal officer in-charge of Gautam Buddh Nagar for efforts to control the coronavirus infection to provide him support,” the order stated. “Bhargava is directed to immediately hand over the charge to Chaturvedi and offer his services to the nodal officer (Bhooshan),” it added. Gautam Buddh Nagar, including Noida and Greater Noida, has emerged as one of the hotspots for coronavirus cases in the country with 48 COVID-19 positive patients so far and has reported the maximum cases for any district in UP. Prior to the CMO, Brijesh Narain Singh was abruptly shunted out as the district magistrate of Gautam Buddh Nagar on March 31, within hours of a high-level meeting chaired by the chief minister to review the situation in the wake of the pandemic. The chief minister had reprimanded the officers for “their inability” to contain the spread of the virus and particularly handling of a private company in Noida which is suspected to have triggered a chain of infections. The company, Cease Fire, was on March 29 booked for endangering the lives of people and other charges on a complaint by Bhargava and has now been sealed, even as the local Health Department officials said that the source of infection to over 30 people could be traced to this firm located in Sector 135.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-district-magistrate-noida-chief-medical-officer-shunted-amid-covid-19-outbreak-820321.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||On Ram Navami, Kejriwal seeks strength from Lord Ram to fight coronavirus||The spring festival of Ram Navami is celebrated to mark the birth of Lord Ram. "Heartfelt greetings to all of you on the occasion of Ram Navami. My only request to Lord Ram is to give strength to all of us, especially healthcare personnel, to fight COVID-19," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. On Wednesday, the total cases of coronavirus in the national capital rose to 152, including 53 who attended a large religious congregation in the city's Nizamuddin area.   ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/on-ram-navami-kejriwal-seeks-strength-from-lord-ram-to-fight-coronavirus-820345.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Notices pasted outside homes of foreign returnees in UP's Badaun district||The district administration has put up notices outside the houses of 49 people here who returned from foreign tours and did not inform the authorities, in order to alert people to keep safe distance from them, an official said on Thursday. "The government has issued an order in which those who returned from foreign tours after March 12 have to provide information to the district administration otherwise they would have to face legal action," District Magistrate Kumar Prashant said. "The administration has issued a list of 49 people who returned from foreign tours and notices has also been put up outside their houses to alert others to maintain safe distance from them," he said. Prashant said such names will also be given to the media so that the neighbours of these people know about their recent travel histories and remain alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-notices-pasted-outside-homes-of-foreign-returnees-in-ups-badaun-district-820351.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Create portals to fight fake news on COVID-19: MHA to states||The direction came in a letter Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to Chief Secretaries of States and Administrators of Union Territories, days after Supreme Court asked the government to take effective measures to check the spread of fake news on COVID-19. "It has been communicated that the Government of India is creating a web-portal for people to verify facts and unverified news promptly. States and union territories have been requested to create a similar mechanism at their level for issues relating to them," Bhalla said. In the letter, Bhalla has asked the states to submit an Action Taken Report (ATR) so that the MHA could apprise the Supreme Court about the measures taken when the next hearing takes place on April 7. While hearing a petition, the Supreme Court took serious note of the panic created by fake news leading to a mass movement of migrant labourers. This has lead to untold suffering to these people, the apex court had observed. A number of messages circulated on WhatsApp regarding buses being arranged at Delhi border for them to be taken to their home states had led to an unprecedented exodus of migrant labourers in the capital last week. Besides this, there are also messages of unverified medicines and treatment and those creating panic among people about COVID-19, which are not substantiated by facts. Separately, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) has welcomed the Supreme Court order and said it agreed that the media should report responsibly and weed out any fake news in social media while telecasting news on COVID-19. NBA President Rajat Sharma said in a statement that the daily bulletin by the government through all media avenues, including social media and fora, will be made available to clear the doubts of people. "This would help media immensely to clarify their doubts and enable them to do accurate reporting. NBA appreciates that the Supreme Court has acknowledged the freedom of the press and has stated that it does not intend to interfere with the free discussion, debate and coverage about the pandemic," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/create-portals-to-fight-fake-news-on-covid-19-mha-to-states-820352.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Eight foreigners attending Tablighi event quarantined, their passports impounded||They said the eight persons had been staying at a local mosque here since their arrival in the city. "We were tipped off that some foreign nationals who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation were staying at a mosque in Babupurwa after which they were caught," Police Outpost incharge Abdul Kalam said. There was information that they reached Kanpur via Rajasthan on March 21 and since then they had been moving around in the city and had not informed the police about their stay, the officer said. All of them have been quarantined at Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital and their passports have been confiscated, DIG (Kanpur) Anant Deo Tiwari said. All eight foreigners were charged relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Foreigners Act, police said. Those held have been identified as Ibrahim Fauladi, Abdul Raheem, Younus, all residents of Iran, Mahmood Shah Husaini, Shabbir Abdul Raheem, Zareen Mohammad and Rahmatullah, all residents of Afghanistan, and UK national Dawood Ayyub Ismail.    ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-foreigners-attending-tablighi-event-quarantined-their-passports-impounded-820360.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||JNU student, guards get into scuffle after former stopped from leaving campus||A student of the Jawaharlal Nehru University and the security guards there entered into a scuffle and threatened to cough at them to spread COVID-19 after the latter did not allow him to leave the campus due to the national lockdown. A video of the incident went viral on social media on Thursday in which the student is seen in a brawl with the security guards, who were removing him from the gates where he was sitting. It was also alleged that the student told the guards that he "will cough" at them and spread the virus infection. The student, identified as Pranav, first showed the guards a letter signed by the hostel warden that allowed him to go out but the guards refused to accept it as the document did not have the official seal. The guards told him that they cannot verify the authenticity of the letter and cannot allow him to go out. As the student sat down at the gate, the guards later tried to forcefully remove him. During the incident, the mask of a guard was removed allegedly by the student. "I have written permission to move out of campus, I will not move from here (the gates) at any cost. If you want to remove me from here, then come and touch me. I will cough on you, I will spread COVID-19," the student is heard purportedly saying in the video. A complaint has been filed with the JNU administration as well as the police. Police officials said they will study the matter and take it forward according to law. The student alleged that he was beaten up by the guards and was referred to a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-student-guards-get-into-scuffle-after-former-stopped-from-leaving-campus-820384.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Kargil man tests positive for coronavirus||A man from Kargil has tested positive for coronavirus and efforts are being made to trace all his contacts, a senior official said on Thursday. "The test of one person has arrived. He is positive. The person belongs to Sanjak area of Chitan belt of Kargil", Commissioner (Health) Rigzin Samphel told reporters. The infected person is already in quarantine in a hospital, he said. Teams of health workers headed by a block medical officer (BMO) have been sent to the area of Sanjak-Chitan to find out his contacts and take urgent action, he said. "We came to know that he had also visited Achanathang area of Kargil. We have sent a team to that area to find his contacts," he said. While the man has no history of foreign travel, he had come in contact with pilgrims from Iran, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kargil-man-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-820388.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Ladakh reports first COVID-19 case after 13 days||One COVID-19 positive case was reported from Ladakh Union Territory (UT) on Thursday taking the total number of positive patients to 14. This was the first patient tested positive for the deadly virus after a gap of 13-days. On March 18, three persons were tested positive for coronavirus in Ladakh and since then no case was reported till today, officials said. The total number of positive cases in Ladakh UT has reached to 14 with three recoveries, they said adding that three positive cases were reported from Kargil district while 11 were reported from Leh. “1 more positive case in Kargil a lot more is required to be done for #BreakingTheChain. Appeal to the Kargilis", tweeted Baseer Choudhary, District Magistrate Kargil.. He said that there are three positive COVID-19 cases in Kargil district and so far no one has been discharged. Medical Superintendent of SNM hospital in Leh, Dr T Samphel said at present eight positive COVID-19 patients are admitted in the hospital while no new case has tested positive since March 18 in the district. “Three persons have recovered and were discharged a few days ago and today we have taken samples of present eight patients again and sent for tests,” he said. “Once the reports will come negative twice, they will be discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-reports-first-covid-19-case-after-13-days-820396.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Amid coronavirus pandemic J&K committee issues guidelines to decongest jails||A high-powered committee set-up by the Jammu and Kashmir government on the directions of the Supreme Court on the release of prisoners to decongest jails in view of the coronavirus pandemic has issued several guidelines. On the basis of the nature of the offence, the number of years and severity of the offence, the Committee has proposed to release convicted prisoners and under trials. The panel headed by J&K High Court Judge Justice Rajesh Bindal directed the authorities to consider release on several categories of convicts on special parole for eight weeks, extendable for another eight weeks if the lockdown by the government continues, subject to good conduct. All those who have been convicted in one case only and have spent more than ten years (eight years in case of women) in jail, except those involved in militancy-related cases, convicted for intermediate or large quantity recovery under NDPS Act or convicted under POCSO Act or convicted for offence for an offence against woman, or convicted for offence of acid attack or foreign nationals. The panel has also directed the authorities to consider the release of all those who have been sentenced to imprisonment for three years with or without fine and the conviction has been upheld by the Appellate Court but revision against the judgment by Appellate Court is pending before the High Court. All those who have completed their sentence but are still in prison due to non-payment of fine should be considered for parole, the panel has directed. The panel also comprising Principal Secretary Home and DGP Prisons has also directed authorities to examine cases of prisoners with advanced age and suffering from any illness on a case to case basis. Similarly, in case of under-trial prisoners, it is proposed that they may be considered for 60 days interim bail, extendable for another period in case the circumstances so demand, on furnishing surety and personal bond. The procedure laid by the Committee for grant of interim bail shall be dealt with either by the visiting judges in the jails on the bail applications in the jail itself; or alternatively by devising a mechanism of routing the bail applications through DLSA to the courts convened especially for this purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-coronavirus-pandemic-jk-committee-issues-guidelines-to-decongest-jails-820402.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: CM Chouhan briefs PM Modi on steps for helping stranded people||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about measures being taken by the state government to help those stranded due to the lockdown. Modi held a video conference with all chief ministers to discuss ways to check the spread of coronavirus. Chouhan informed him that 21,357 people hailing from Madhya Pradesh are stranded in 27 states of the country. He said Madhya Pradesh officials have been coordinating with their counterparts in these states to provide food and other necessities to them, an official source told PTI. "He also informed that 15,342 people belonging to other states are stranded in Madhya Pradesh and the district administrations concerned have made arrangements for their shelter, food and medicines, the source said. Chouhan also told the prime minister that on an average, 2.5 lakh people in Madhya Pradesh's rural areas and 25 lakh in urban were being provided food everyday, as part of arrangements made by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan-briefs-pm-modi-on-steps-for-helping-stranded-people-820407.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Two doctors hurt in stone pelting during coronavirus tracking in Indore||Two women doctors were injured on Wednesday in Indore when a team of health officials was pelted with stones while they were trying to trace a person who had come into contact with a COVID-19 patient earlier, police said. The incident occurred in Taat Patti Bakhal area when the team of five was trying to find out the whereabouts of the person. A woman doctor said they were rescued by police personnel. "The moment we started enquiring about that particular person' health, people started protesting and later some of them hurled stones. We were saved by police personnel," she said. Meanwhile, terming the incident as very unfortunate, Indore chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Pravin Jadia srued that the medical personnel were working to protect people from the coronavirus infection but they were pelted with stones. "Two women doctors suffered injuries on their legs in the incident. They somehow protected themselves by hiding inside the vehicle of tehsildar,"the CMHO said. A case has been registered at Chhatripura police station. A police official said that protesters also broke barricades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-doctors-hurt-in-stone-pelting-during-coronavirus-tracking-in-indore-820413.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Journalist booked for comment against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath||The Ayodhya police booked a senior journalist on Wednesday for raising questions on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's visit to the Ram Janmabhoomi for a religious ceremony amid the lockdown over the novel coronavirus pandemic. The FIR mentions a tweet by Siddharth Varadarajan, editor of news portal 'The Wire', where he said: "On the day the Tablighi Jamaat event was held, Adityanath insisted a large Ram Navami fair planned for Ayodhya from March 25 to April 2 would proceed as usual and that 'Lord Ram would protect devotees from the coronavirus." Varadarajan had clarified in another tweet that it was "Acharya Paramhans, Hindutva stalwart and head of the official Ayodhya temple trust, who said Ram would protect devotees from coronavirus, and not Adityanath, though he allowed a public event on 25/3 in defiance of the lockdown and took part himself". Taking the suo-motu cognizance, Faizabad Kotwali police station incharge Nitish Kumar Shrivastava registered an FIR under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 505(2) (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code for doing "disreputable" comment against the chief minister. Reacting to it, Varadarajan termed the FIR "politically motivated, saying that the offences invoked were not even remotely made out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-booked-for-comment-against-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-820414.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: Labourers peddle bicycles for 7-days to reach home||Two labourers, who reached home in hilly Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, after peddling their bicycles for seven days from Himachal Pradesh, have been kept at a quarantine facility by the authorities. Reports said Shabir Ahmed (27) and Mohammad Farooq (30) from Chikhri Ban village of Mandi tehsil in Poonch, working as labourers in Kangra area of Himachal Pradesh, got stuck due to nationwide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister last month to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The duo left Kangra in Himachal about a week ago on their bicycles and kept moving. As they were about to reach home, they were intercepted by the police and taken to a quarantine facility, they said. Deputy Commissioner Poonch, Rahul Yadav while confirming the incident said that the two men were on way to Chikri Ban village in Mandi but were intercepted and later shifted to a quarantine facility. “It has come to fore that the duo peddled their bicycles to reach Poonch from Himachal Pradesh,” he confirmed. While India's pandemic lockdown has turned into a tragedy for lakhs of migrant workers across the country, thousands of labourers in Jammu and Kashmir are finding it hard to reach their homes. On Wednesday three labourers had to pay with their life while trekking a treacherous route through the mountainous range from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district in order to reach homes at Banihal in Jammu amid the lockdown. Thursday was the 15th day of lockdown in Kashmir which was imposed on March 19, a day after the first positive COVID-19 case was reported. The lockdown has turned the migrant labourers into refugees overnight with their workplaces shut, and most employers and contractors, who paid them vanishing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-labourers-peddle-bicycles-for-7-days-to-reach-home-820420.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: AIIMS' doctor tests positive for COVID-19 infection, says Sources||A senior resident doctor of AIIMS, Delhi has tested positive for COVID-19, official sources confirmed on Thursday.  The doctor from the Physiology Department has now been admitted to the new private ward of the hospital and all those who had come in contact with him are being screened and advised home-quarantine accordingly. The family members of the doctor will also be screened and their samples will be tested, official sources said, adding further contact-tracing has been initiated. The source of the infection is yet to be ascertained but official sources said the doctor does not have any foreign travel history so far. Two resident doctors of the Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi also have tested positive for COVID-19, besides two doctors of two Delhi government-run hospitals who have also tested positive for the coronavirus infection, they said. One of the Safdarjung Hospital doctors, who is part of the team treating COVID-19 patients at the hospital, is believed to have contracted the disease during the course of duty, the sources had said. The other medico, a female resident doctor who is a third-year post-graduate student of Biochemistry Department, had recently travelled abroad, they had said. Both of them showed symptoms of COVID-19 and their test results came out positive two days ago. They are now undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of Safdarjung Hospital. "All doctors and staff who had come in contact with them have been tested and so far nobody else has been found positive for coronavirus infection," said sources. At Sardar Patel Hospital and Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) too, a doctor each has tested positive for the coronavirus infection, the sources had said. The DSCI has been shut for a day to disinfect the premises, an official had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-aiims-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-infection-says-sources-820422.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Significant improvement in air quality across India due to coronavirus lockdown: CPCB||The nationwide 'Janta Curfew' on March 22 and the 21-day lockdown imposed since March 24 to combat the coronavirus outbreak have resulted in a significant improvement in air quality in the country, the (CPCB) has said. Travel restrictions and closure of industries have helped reduce the pollution level. "The major sectors contributing to air pollution are transport, industries, power plants, construction activities, biomass burning, road dust resuspension and residential activities. In addition, certain activities s Central Pollution Control Boarduch as operation of DG sets, restaurant, landfill fires, etc. also contribute to air pollution," the pollution watchdog said. "As a result of stringent travel restrictions and shutting down of non-essential activities including those of air polluting sectors, air quality improvement has been noted in many towns and cities across the nation," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/significant-improvement-in-air-quality-across-india-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-cpcb-820430.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||DCW issues notice to police, seeks details of social distancing measures in brothels||The Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) has issued a notice to police seeking details of steps taken to enforce lockdown and social distancing measures in brothels on GB Road here. The Commission, in its notice, said there is an acute shortage of food as well as personal hygiene material in these brothels. The brothels are very small enclosed spaces where over two thousand women and children currently reside, the notice said  "This is a very serious matter wherein lives of thousands of women are at stake. As such, the threat of spread of a pandemic becomes much worse in such confined spaces," the notice said. The panel sought information on the steps taken to enforce lockdown and social distancing measures in the area. It also sought information about the status of availability of food and personal hygiene materials in the area and details of steps taken to ensure it. The panel has sought the reply by April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dcw-issues-notice-to-police-seeks-details-of-social-distancing-measures-in-brothels-820436.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government books 'Jamaat' members, imams for hiding them||Cracking down on the Tableegh-e-Jamaat members, many of whom were suspected to have attended the event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday ordered registration of FIRs against them and also those, who had allegedly sheltered them at mosques and their homes. According to the police sources here, FIRs were lodged in this connection at Jaunpur, Lucknow, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and some other districts. Sources said that over 1300 Jamaat members had been identified in different parts of the state, who also included over 250 foreigners, mainly from Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia and some central Asian countries. All of them had been quarantined, sources said. Police sources said that security personnel had been deployed to make sure that those quarantined did not venture out. Directives had also been issued to the police to ensure that 'namaz' (prayers) was not offered at public places or in groups even at homes. One person was arrested allegedly for organising 'namaz' of a group of people on the rooftop in Noida, sources said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who chaired a meeting to review the situation arising out of the arrival of 'Jamaat' members in the state after attending the Delhi event, directed the police officials to deal sternly with anyone not cooperating with the authorities. Police had raided several mosques in Lucknow, Bijnore and Meerut and found dozens of foreign preachers staying there for many days. The police said that the local imams (priests) of the mosques had not informed the authorities about the presence of the foreign nationals there. Sources said that many of the preachers had attended the recent religious event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-books-jamaat-members-imams-for-hiding-them-820446.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Two govt doctors booked for being absent from COVID-19 duty in UP||Two government doctors, deputed for COVID-19 duty, have been booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act for allegedly not reporting to work in neighbouring Shamli district, officials said on Thursday. The doctors, Praveen Sharma and Vineet Saini, were booked on Wednesday, they said. According to Chief Medical Officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, the action was taken after the doctors were continuously found absent from emergency duty during the lockdown announced by the government to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-govt-doctors-booked-for-being-absent-from-covid-19-duty-in-up-820451.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus poses problems of a different kind for this Uttar Pradesh village||Coronavirus outbreak in the country may have consumed lives, forced people in quarantine and also resulted in the nationwide lockdown, the residents of a hitherto nondescript village in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur district, about 90 kilometres from here, have been facing problems of a different kind. And their problems stem from the name of their village-'Korona'. Though in English it there is a difference in how the word is spelt, there is no difference if one utters the name in Hindi. The residents of the village complain that they have been experiencing a lot of problems simply because of the name of the village. ''People avoid us....they keep away from us as if we are untouchables or suffering from the disease (Coronavirus),'' said a resident. ''We have become a laughing stock in the society,'' the resident remarked. The fact that the village was very close to the famous religious town of Naimisharanya, which was flocked by lakhs of Hindu devotees around the year, has not helped in mitigating their stigma. The residents of the village, which has a population of around seven thousand, have been following the lockdown guidelines in letter and spirit.  They can not, however, change the name of their village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-poses-problems-of-a-different-kind-for-this-uttar-pradesh-village-820463.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||J&K police sets up helplines for aged & differently abled people in several districts||The Jammu and Kashmir police has set up a number of helplines to help the aged and differently-abled people in various districts across the Union Territory, officials said. The purpose of these helpline numbers is to provide prompt and dependable service to elderly and differently-abled people during the lockdown, they said. These helplines have both SMS and calling facilities. An elderly person living alone and needing medicines, medical help, food or any other essential item of daily use can contact on these numbers or send a message on them, an official said. Immediate action will be taken to help the needy, he added. A selected team of volunteers as well as selected police officials would be available at every police station of the district to assist such people, he said. The helpline numbers for various districts include 9596974434 for Reasi, 9906154100 for Kishtwar, 9906925595 for Ramban, 9622571163, for Ganderbal, 7051404001 for Awantipora and 9596767704 for Baramulla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-sets-up-helplines-for-aged-differently-abled-people-in-several-districts-820465.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: J&K govt bars medicos, health workers from speaking to media||With doctors and healthcare workers speaking out publicly about risky working conditions, the Jammu and Kashmir Government has barred them from speaking to the media or disclosing anything critical on social media about novel coronavirus. The order was issued in the backdrop of healthcare workers and doctors speaking out publicly about shortages of masks, gowns and dearth of beds and ventilators. Director of Health Services Kashmir, Dr Samir Mattoo, in a circular, has warned employees of strict action if they resort to “uncalled for reporting to media”. “Any person disobeying any regulation or order made under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860),” the order reads. Dr Mattoo said that some government employees were publicly criticising the efforts of the administration to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and that it was against service conduct rules. “There can be differences of opinion or some minor issues which the government employees can bring to the notice of the concerned authorities so that the issue is redressed instead of putting that issue out on social media, print and electronic media,” he said. “It is causing more harm than good to the public and administration in combating the pandemic.” A similar warning was issued by Director Health Services, Jammu, Dr Reenu Sharma for employees in the division. She asked employees, including chief medical officers, to desist from speaking to the media about novel coronavirus or hospital facilities. Director of super-specialty SKIMS Hospital in Srinagar, Dr AG Ahangar, has also directed heads of departments and faculty members to refrain from speaking to the press or providing any information regarding COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-jk-govt-bars-medicos-health-workers-from-speaking-to-media-820475.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Eight more test positive in J&K; tally at 70||With eight more COVID-19 positive cases detected in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, the total tally in the Union Territory touched 70. The new positive cases include five from Jammu region and three from Kashmir, an official statement said. So-far 170677 persons have been put under observation which includes 10694 in-home quarantine, 622 in hospital quarantine and 4109 home surveillance. Two persons have died of the disease while three others have recovered. Reports said five persons, who were tested positive in Jammu, include father, wife and servant of an already COVID-19 positive doctor of the Microbiology Department in the Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu. However, the mother of the doctor was tested negative. In Jammu region, nearly 50 more Tablighi Jamaat members, including 10 Rohingyas, have been traced and sent for quarantine across. Police have also registered FIR under Section 188 against a religious preacher and an outsider from Uttar Pradesh for hiding travel history in Ramgarh police station of Samba district in Jammu. Civil and police authorities across Jammu and Kashmir continued searches to trace Tablighi Jamaat cadre, who had attended the organization's Nizamuddin (New Delhi) congregation. Meanwhile, authorities in Srinagar declared Chattabal area in the city as a red zone after four COVID-19 patients were detected there recently. The red zone will comprise the administrative boundary of the residential colony where the cases had been detected and an additional five km radius, District Administration Srinagar tweeted. J&K government principal secretary and spokesperson Rohit Kansal said many of the positive cases could be traced as a result of a vigorous contact tracing exercise undertaken by the administration. “Hot spots would need to be isolated and sealed and movements fully restricted,” he said while appealing people for their cooperation in this exercise. He revealed that Jammu and Kashmir has also been testing cases aggressively and it was among the first to start testing locally through four testing centres. “Our testing rate has been nearly 77.5 per million, one of the highest in the country and next only to Kerala. We have decided to further increase it. To begin with, we plan to test every single one of the 2000 contacts that we have identified,” Kansal said. The government spokesperson said that the strategy of aggressive tracing and increased testing will continue. He said that in order to achieve the concerned authorities have well-defined protocols for quarantine, isolation and restrictions on movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-eight-more-test-positive-in-jk-tally-at-70-820483.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Chattabal locality in Srinagar declared 'red zone'||The authorities on Thursday declared Chattabal locality in Srinagar City as a "red zone" in view of a cluster of four positive cases of COVID-19 in the area, officials said.  "Chattabal has been declared Containment (Red) Zone in view of cluster of four positive cases," the Srinagar District Administration said in a tweet. *Chattabal has been declared Containment (Red) Zone in view of cluster of 4 positive cases* *_Containment zone: Administrative boundary of the residential colony and a buffer zone of additional 5 Km radius._* The containment zone has been marked from the administrative boundary of the residential colony where these cases were detected and while a buffer zone of additional five kilometre radius has been announced.   Nearly 20 villages in various districts have already been declared as containment zones in Kashmir Valley where 50 cases of COVID-19 have been detected so far. Of these, two patients have died while one has recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-chattabal-locality-in-srinagar-declared-red-zone-820486.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||UP: Suspected COVID-19 patient commits suicide in quarantine ward||A suspected coronavirus patient allegedly committed suicide in the quarantine ward of a hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district, police said on Thursday. The body of the 40-year-old man was found hanging from the ceiling in the district hospital, they said. The reason behind him taking the extreme step is yet to be ascertained, police said. Shamli DM Jasjit Kaur told reporters here that the man was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday and his test report for COVID-19 is yet to be received. He allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday night, the district magistrate said. An inquiry into the incident is underway and the body has been sent for post-mortem, the DM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-suspected-covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-in-quarantine-ward-820493.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Uttar Pradesh's tally of positive cases rises to 121||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh rose to 121 after five more people tested positive for Coronavirus infection in different parts of the state. According to the official sources here on Thursday, fresh cases of virus infection were reported from Ghazipur, Lucknow and Basti districts. A senior official here said that the samples of 429 people, who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz event organised by Tableegh-e-Jamaat in Delhi, had been sent for testing. The official said that the number of cases in the state were not rising alarmingly. ''The lockdown is being enforced strictly,'' he added. Meanwhile, two persons committed suicide in the state on suspicion of having Coronavirus infection. A suspected Coronavirus patient killed himself inside the hospital in Shamli district. A government employee also committed suicide in Saharanpur. A probe was ordered into both incidents. Two persons have died in the state from Coronavirus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-uttar-pradeshs-tally-of-positive-cases-rises-to-121-820523.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Jharkhand minister quarantined after son attended Tablighi||A senior Minister in Hemant Soren Government, Haji Hussain Ansari, and his family members have been quarantined in Ranchi after the Jharkhand’s Intelligence Department said the minister’s son Tanveer-ul Hasan had attended Tablighi at Nizamuddin in Delhi. Ansari, who is a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) MLA from Deogarh and is currently Welfare and Minority Affairs Minister in the Soren regime, has, however, denied the charge that he or his son ever visited Delhi. However, the Special Branch police has submitted to the police headquarters a list of Jharkhand residents who attended Tablighi at Nizamuddin. As per the list, the minister’s son Tanveer-ul Hasan and another person Mohammad Abbas (from Deogarh) attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin. Eventually, the minister’s son was summoned to the police station in Ranchi where a team of doctors took his swab samples and sent it to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in the State Capital for the test. Though the report is awaited, Ansari and his family members have, meanwhile, been put under quarantine. Incidentally, Ansari had attended a Cabinet meeting too. Once the medical report of RIMS, Ranchi comes, the next course of action would be decided. First Case Jharkhand, till two days back, had not reported even a single corona positive case. However, on Tuesday, the Jharkhand police apprehended a Malaysia-based woman from a mosque at Hindipidhi in Ranchi. She was the first person in Jharkhand who tested positive. “She has been kept in the isolation ward of RIMS. Besides, 24 more persons were apprehended from another mosque. These people too will have to undergo test,” a source from Ranchi informed Deccan Herald on phone. “This female, who is believed to have attended Tablighi in Nizamuddin, had travelled by Rajdhani Express from New Delhi to Ranchi on March 17 in the B-1 coach. The Jharkhand police have made an appeal to all those 64 passengers who, on that day, travelled in the B-1 compartment to get themselves tested,” the source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-jharkhand-minister-quarantined-after-son-attended-tablighi-820530.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Seven held for attacking health workers in Indore||Seven persons were arrested for the alleged attack on health workers in Taatpatti Bakhal area of Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, an official said on Thursday. A five-member team from the health department had gone to Taatpatti Bakhal on Wednesday to quarantine relatives and acquaintances of a COVID-19 patient, when an unruly mob attacked them with stones, injuring two women doctors. The video of the attack went viral on social media. "Based on the video footage, we identified seven persons who were involved in stone pelting and arrested them," deputy inspector general (DIG) Harinarayanchari Mishra told reporters here. The investigation has also revealed that the attack may have been caused by rumours spread on social media and the mob was incited by some anti-social elements. The health department was carrying out an intensive exercise to identify relatives and acquaintances of a COVID-19 patient to isolate them as a precautionary measure to contain the outbreak, the senior official said. Although the attack wasn't pre-planned, rumours were spread on social media against the health departments campaign, he said. "We are also tracking down people who are spreading these rumours on social media and taking legal action against them," the DIG said. The police have arrested seven men, between the ages of 21 to 50 years, three of whom have criminal record, Chhatripura police station in-charge Karni Singh Shaktawat said. The accused have been charged under sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobeying order issued by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other relevant provisions of the IPC, he said. The police are on the lookout for at least 15 accused, who were involved in the attack, he added. Meanwhile, Indore collector Manish Singh warned that the district administration will not tolerate such incidents and misbehaviour. "After all, who are we working for," he asked? The administration has requested the deployment of five Special Armed Force (SAF) companies in the city, he said. Taking note of the attack, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan warned that anti-social elements involved will not be spared at any cost. Chouhan said he salutes health workers for their dedication and assured to take care of their security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-seven-held-for-attacking-health-workers-in-indore-820536.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to give Rs 5,000 to each auto, taxi and e-rickshaw drivers: Kejriwal||Delhi government will provide a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to each of the drivers of public transport vehicles including autos, taxis and e-rickshaws in the city rendered idle due to lockdown, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. He said the government is planning how to do this since bank account numbers of drivers of public service vehicles like autos, taxis, e rickshaws, Gramin Sewa, RTVs and other such vehicles were unavailable. Kejriwal said he will ensure that no one in the city face starvation and the financial assistance will be provided to public service drivers in next 7-10 days. Delhi government has already provided the assistance of Rs 5,000 each to over 35,000 construction workers in the city. The whole world and the country is affected by the coronavirus pandemic and the poor have been hit hardest because of it, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-give-rs-5000-to-each-auto-taxi-and-e-rickshaw-drivers-kejriwal-820551.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Telangana cops, health department staff to get full salary, incentives amid COVID-19 crisis||The Telangana government would pay incentives to employees of medical and health and police departments, besides releasing full salaries for them, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said. The government had, on March 30, decided to implement deferment of salaries to employees including All India services officers and pensioners in the wake of dwindling coffers due to the ongoing lockdown imposed in the wake of coronavirus. Themove drew flak from the opposition parties as well as the Joint Action Committee of Telangana government employees. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to pay full month salary for medical and health and police employees and staff. He also decided to pay an additional incentive for them. He will announce incentive in a day or two, a press release issued on Wednesday said. A decision to this effect was taken by the Chief MInister at a review meeting held here at Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday. Medical and Health Minister Etela Rajender, Chief SecretarySomesh Kumar, DGP Mahendar Reddy, Finance Secretary Sri Ramakrishna attended the meeting, it said. It was decided to cut 75 per cent of salaries of the Chief Minister, Ministers, MLAs, MLCs, chairmen of various corporations and local public representatives. The government had said that in respect of all other category of employees, there shall be deferment of 50 per cent in gross salary, except Class-IV employees for Class-IV employees, outsourcing and contract employees, there shall be a deferment of 10 per cent in gross salary, an official release had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/telangana-cops-health-department-staff-to-get-full-salary-incentives-amid-covid-19-crisis-820552.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Jamia student arrested in connection with northeast Delhi violence||The Delhi Police on Thursday arrested a student of Jamia Milia Islamia for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi, officials said. Meeran Haider (35), a PhD student at Jamia, is the president of RJD youth wing's Delhi unit, sources said. On Wednesday at 10 am, Haider was called for interrogation by the Special Cell at their Lodhi Colony office and was subsequently arrested, the officials said. Rajya Sabha MP and RJD leader Manoj Jha tweeted, "Delhi Police called him for investigation and then received orders from above and arrested Meeran Haider, who has been helping people during the time of coronavirus outbreak." Chhatra RJD unit of JNU also demanded the release of Haider and said the police should become 'people-friendly' and not scare people. The Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), a group comprising students and alumni from the varsity, condemned the arrest and demanded his immediate release. "The country is facing a massive health crisis, however, the state machinery is busy harassing and framing student activists in false cases to suppress voices of dissent," they said. The JCC said Haider was diligently working to provide ration to the needy during the lockdown. "The JCC demands that he must be immediately released as all charges against him are baseless," they said. In February, the northeast part of the national capital was rocked with violence which claimed at least 53 lives and several got injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-student-arrested-in-connection-with-northeast-delhi-violence-820555.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||2 evacuated from Nizamuddin markaz have died due to coronavirus; COVID-19 cases may shoot up: Kejriwal||Two people evacuated from Nizamuddin Markaz have died due to coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to four in the national capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. In a digital press conference, he said of the 2,346 people evacuated from the Markaz, which has emerged as a major hotspot for COVID-19, 108 have so far tested positive for coronavirus. However, the number may shoot up in the coming days as the government has decide to test all those who were evacuated from the Markaz, the chief minister said. A total of 219 coronavirus cases have been reported so far in the national capital including four deaths while six people have been discharged and on has left the country, he said. According to Kejriwal, there are 208 active COVID-19 cases in Delhi who are admitted to different hospitals and 202 of them are in a stable condition. The figure includes 51 people who had foreign travel history and 29 of their family members, the chief minister said. The virus has not started spreading among the people so far in the national capital, he added. A total of 2,943 people, including 1,810 from the Markaz, have been quarantined by the government, Kejriwal said, adding that 21,307 have been directed for self quarantine at their homes. The chief minister appealed to Delhiites to stay indoors and follow the ongoing 21-day lockdown. He said, "Yesterday, US President Donald Trump has given a statement that around 1 lakh to 2.5 lakh Americans may loss their lives due to coronavirus. You can imagine how dangerous the situation is (due to coronavirus). During the conference, Kejriwal also invoked the conversation between Vidura and Yudhistira -- two central characters in the epic Mahabharata -- on how animals, who remain inside their burrows, could survive a raging forest fire. "Similarly, if you (Delhiites) stay home, you will remain healthy," Kejriwal said. The chief minister further announced that the Delhi government will give Rs 5,000 to autorickshaw, gramin-sewa and e-rickshaw drivers hit by the ongoing lockdown. On Wednesday, around 6 lakh people had dinner at the government-run shelters which have the capacity to feed 10 lakh people, he said.  In view of the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, the Delhi government will give Rs 5,000 to autorickshaw, gramin-sewa and e-rickshaw drivers, Kejriwal said further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-evacuated-from-nizamuddin-markaz-have-died-due-to-coronavirus-covid-19-cases-may-shoot-up-kejriwal-820557.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||PIL in SC for restoring 4G speed Internet speed in J&K||A group, 'Foundation for Media Professionals' has approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre to restore 4G speed mobile internet data services in Jammu and Kashmir. It contended doctors, patients and the general public were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories, daily updates and restrictions on COVID-19 pandemic. In a PIL, the group through its president and noted journalist Paranjoy Guna Thakurta said the effective and speedy internet was an indispensable tool in the struggle against COVID-19.  The petitioner specifically challenged the March 26 order, restricting Internet speed. It contended not restoring the mobile Internet speed to 4G in Jammu and Kashmir, in line with the rest of the country and in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, on the "vague" ground of national security was a violation of the fundamental rights of life, dignity, free speech and shows non-application of mind.  "The restriction in respect of mobile internet speeds effectively amounts to a targeted roll-back of such rights in respects of the residents of Jammu and Kashmir," the petition filed by advocate Shadan Farasat, stated. It pointed out that the Internet in Jammu and Kashmir has been restricted for over seven months, following the abrogation of the special status of the Kashmiri people under Article 370 on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-sc-for-restoring-4g-speed-internet-speed-in-jk-820563.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus helplines either busy or unreachable, complain users||When over the counter paracetamols did not help abate Delhi-based Ankur Tiwari's low-grade fever, sore throat and breathlessness, he tried calling up the COVID-19 helplines to check if he needed to get tested for the fatal virus, but to no avail. "The numbers were either busy or did not connect at all. I waited for over half an hour on a single call, but it never connected," Tiwari told PTI. The two helpline numbers that the 46-year-old teacher had tried calling were — 011-22307145 (Delhi govt) and 011-23978046 (central govt), both of which he took down from the audio message that plays on the phone before making a call. "Eventually, I had to go to a local doctor, who has assured me that I have nothing more than seasonal flu," he said. Tiwari is among the many people who have raised concerns, especially in the last two weeks when the number of positive COVID-19 cases in the country started spiking, about the allegedly non-functional helpline numbers issued by the central and state governments. As on Thursday, at least 1,965 people in the country are infected with coronavirus while 50 have died due to the disease. Over a month back, the central and the state governments set up 24X7 helplines to answer people's queries on novel coronavirus, including when, how and where one should get tested in case they have symptoms like coughing, fever, shortness of breath, and vomiting. City-based journalist Chinki Sinha, who wanted to inform authorities about a positive COVID-19 case in her neighbourhood of Defence Colony, also called the Delhi helpline and received a response similar as Tiwari. The helpline was busy for over 30 minutes. "I was calling about the positive case in the neighbourhood and how the guards of the landlords in the colony were sitting without masks. I wanted to ask them to sanitise the area," she said. Sinha finally tweeted to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal about the problem, to which she hasn't received a response yet. Many also turned to Twitter to register their complaints on the issue. Azhar Ullah from Delhi, who wanted to report two suspected COVID-19 cases, also pointed out that neither the state not the central helpline was functional. "#coronavirus emergency no. are not working 01122307145, 01123978046, 9599507173 i am trying to connect two suspect are their i am from delhi (sic),” he wrote. Another user Akash Deep shared a screenshot from his phone showing all his outgoing calls to the Delhi helpline number — 011-22307145 as "not connected". "Sir I called more then 100 times on helpline no. No response no help I am feeling viral if I want to check my self what I can do. What kind of services you provide. #coronavirus," he wrote. Twitter user Abhimanyu also shared screenshots where six calls made to the health ministry's 24*7 control room —011 23978046 — "didn’t connect". According to the 'Delhi Health Bulletin — COVID-19' released daily by the state government, its coronavirus help desk received and responded to an average of 287 calls per day between March 19-25. Incidentally, most complaints about the Delhi government helpline involve a single number — 011-22307145, which is the one announced on the audio message before making a phone call, and the list of state helplines that is being circulated on social media. The average number of calls too increased by over three times after the government activated 10 lines in the Directorate General of Health Services state headquarter control room on March 26. The average number of calls received and responded to were 823 between March 26-29. The 10 Delhi helpline numbers are --22391014, 22301028, 22302441, 22307133, 22304568, 22307745, 22307135, 22307145, 22300012, 22300036. Several attempts to reach out to the Union health ministry about the helpline went unanswered. People in different states have also complained about not being able to get through helpline numbers issued by both state and central authorities. In Mumbai, Allisandra D’Abreo tried calling the Maharashtra helpline — 020-26127394, after her 49-year-old mother showed persistent flu-like symptoms including fever, body pain, congestion, coughing and chest pain, but the line was “constantly busy”. "I wanted to know if I should get my mother tested for coronavirus, or if consulting any other doctor was fine. I called up the state helpline thrice in an hour, but every time it was engaged," she told PTI. D'Abreo added she also tried calling the numbers that are announced in the message before a call, but both were "busy". Eventually, she had to take her mother to a nearby clinic. Tagging Haryana health minister Anil Vij, Twitter user Ravi Wadhwa said he had been trying to call the state helpline for two days but found it was either busy or out of coverage area. "@anilvijminister sir haryana corona virus helpline number is not working either it shows not in coverage area or line is engage . I have been trying to connect call for two days .please do the needful,” Wadhawa wrote. In multiple tweets, Himanshu Mahajan from Uttar Pradesh said the state helpline was “not working”· "Help line #coronavirus numbers not working. Where should people approach," he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-helplines-either-busy-or-unreachable-complain-users-820568.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||J&K man starts cycling 2100 kms from Mumbai to meet ailing father||Like lakhs of people under lockdown during the coronavirus pandemic, Mohammad Arif from hilly Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir working in Mumbai as a watchman, had no way to get back home to attend to his ailing father. With all modes of travel blocked, 29-year-old Arif has set off on an arduous journey from Mumbai on a second-hand bicycle to meet his ailing father. A loaf of bread, Rs 800 cash and a small rucksack is all he is having, but the determination to fulfill his father’s last wish is driving him to stay the course. A local newspaper which spoke to Arif over the phone has reported that he just begun his journey from Mumbai. “My ailing father, who is in a hospital, wants to see me for the last time,” the newspaper quoted Arif as having said. Arif, who was working in Abu Dhabi as a driver met with an accident in 2018 and was sent back to India as he had gone there without legal documents. Last month, to start his life afresh after spending 11 months in jail at Abu Dhabi, he travelled to Mumbai in search of a job. Though he got a job as a watchman in Mumbai Central, his bad luck didn’t end here. He got a call that his father suffered a haemorrhage after being allegedly attacked by some relatives.  “I have no idea when I will reach home. But I am determined to continue my journey come what may. I could not find any other means because there is a curfew and no vehicle is plying,” Arif said. In recent days, lakhs of desperate and some hungry migrant workers, like Arif, have been struggling to get back to their home. On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown across India to contain the spread of COVID-19. Shortly after, hundreds of thousands of migrant workers began long and desperate journeys – often on foot – towards their homes. Seeing Arif’s plight, some concerned residents of Mumbai have launched a campaign on social media to help him. “This man is on his way on the bicycle from Mumbai to Rajouri, Jammu & Kashmir. His father is on death bed has no one to look after him. No money for his medical treatment. Is there anyone in Jammu who can help his father? I can put my contribution too. If we can share this post in J&K belt and find help? God knows when will he reach Home. “Aur hosake toh naam mein mazhab mat dhoond na” (sic),” Dipesh Tank, a social activist, wrote on his Facebook wall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-man-starts-cycling-2100-kms-from-mumbai-to-meet-ailing-father-820574.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Tablighi member booked for hiding travel history in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir police on Thursday registered a case against a Tableegi Jamaat member from northern Bandipora district for concealing travel history. A police official said that the Tableegi member, who had attended a religious event at Nizam-ud-Din Markaz in Delhi last month, had returned to the valley on March 21. However, he had not reported about his travel history as yet, he said.The official said that he has now been shifted to a quarantine centre and a case under relevant sections of law has been registered against him. Nearly 9000 Tablighi members and their primary contacts across the country, who attended the event at the Markaz that later emerged as an infection hotspot have been quarantined as of Thursday, the home ministry said. As many as seven people – one from Kashmir and six from Telangana – died of COVID-19 in the days following the congregation. Earlier, Delhi police registered an FIR against Tableegi Jamaat head Maulana Saad and others for defying lockdown orders and organising a religious event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-tablighi-member-booked-for-hiding-travel-history-in-jk-820578.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Another civilian shot dead in Kashmir||Barely 24-hours after the killing of two persons, one more civilian was shot dead by unknown militants in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Thursday evening. A police official told DH that Mohammad Saleem Dar (28), a resident of Larkipora, Fatehpora in Anantnag was fired upon by the suspected militants in the evening. Dar received four bullet wounds and was taken to Government Medical College (GMC) Anantnag, he said. However, he was declared dead in the health facility. This was the fourth such incident in south Kashmir in the last 12 days. On March 21, a youth from Turigam village of Yaripora in Kulgam district was shot dead by the gunmen. On March 27, another youth was shot dead in Redwani area of Kulgam. The latest killing came just 24-hours after unidentified gunmen shot dead two civilians in Kulgam district late Wednesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-civilian-shot-dead-in-kashmir-820588.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: IIT-Roorkee develops low-cost ventilator||IIT-Roorkee has developed a low-cost portable ventilator that can be useful in the fight against COVID-19. The closed-loop ventilator does not require compressed air and is useful when hospital wards and open areas are converted into ICUs, a press release from the premier institute said. The ventilator named 'Prana-Vayu' has been developed in collaboration with AIIMS, Rishikesh. The ventilator is based on the controlled operation of the prime mover to deliver the required amount of air to the patient. The automated process controls the pressure and flow rates in the inhalation and exhalation lines. The prototype has been tested successfully for normal and patient-specific breathing conditions. The research team from IIT-Roorkee included Akshay Dvivedi and Arup Kumar Das with online support from Debendra Tripathi from AIIMS, Rishikesh. They teamed up only a week back by remote communication to develop a quick time technology to help the distressed at the time of COVID-19. “Prana-Vayu has been designed especially for COVID-19 pandemic. It is low-cost, safe, reliable, and can be quickly manufactured. We have successfully achieved the ventilatory requirement on a test lung, and it can be used for both infants and even overweight adults,” said Akshay Dvivedi, coordinator, Tinkering Laboratory, IIT Roorkee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-iit-roorkee-develops-low-cost-ventilator-820606.html
02-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 20,000 litres of disinfectant sprayed in Delhi's Nizamuddin area||Delhi Fire Services personnel on Thursday sprayed 20,000 litres of disinfectant in a four-hour operation in south Delhi's Nizamuddin area which has emerged an epicentre for spread of the coronavirus. According to Delhi Fire Services (DFS) director Atul Garg, two fire tenders manned by nine personnel carried out the task. Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz in Nizamuddin West has emerged as an epicentre for spread of the coronavirus in different parts of the country after thousands of people took part in a congregation from March 1-15. In Delhi alone, over 50 participants of the congregation have tested positive for coronavirus till now. About 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their primary contacts have been quarantined till now in the country after the government undertook "massive efforts" as part of steps to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, a senior home ministry official said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-20000-litres-of-disinfectant-sprayed-in-delhis-nizamuddin-area-820620.html
02-04-2020||Oasis||A divine appearance||There is a beautiful story of Sri Ramana Maharishi appearing to a devotee in the form of Lord Subramanya in the Mountain Path, a journal published by Sri Ramanasramam. When the Maharishi was alive, there was a visitor who arrived at the darshan hall where the sage was seated. He was a staunch devotee of Lord Subramanya, (the second son of Lord Shiva, also known as Murugan, Kartikeya, Kumara, Skanda and Shanmukha) since his childhood. And he had scrupulously followed the practices prescribed in the scriptures with respect to the worship of Lord Subramanya. Soon after entering the darshan hall, the gentleman prostrated before the Maharishi and said plaintively: “O Swami! All my life since my childhood, I have devoted myself to Lord Murugan and yet in all this time, I’ve not been blessed with a vision of the Lord.” The Maharishi continued to sit in silence, casting but a mere gaze in the direction of the devotee. It is said that the celebrated Tamil poet Muruganar, (one of the Maharishi’s foremost devotees), happened to listen to this conversation. Normally reticent and preferring silence to a conversation, Muruganar would seldom speak or even acknowledge anyone. He would definitely not entertain a casual visitor to the Ashram. But on this occasion, he emphatically lifted his hands in Bhagawan’s direction and said: “You have been waiting for the day to have Lord Subramanya’s darshan. Why, dear man, the day you’ve been waiting for has arrived!” Then without the slightest hesitation, he gestured toward the Maharishi’s majestic form reclining on the sofa before them and said poignantly, “Who else do you think is here in front of you? Can you not see him sitting right here in front of you?” What followed was nothing short of a miracle because the Maharishi’s form underwent a dramatic transformation before this visitor’s eyes and indeed shone as Lord Subramanya! The man stood still and was speechless. It is said that he began to rub his eyes not trusting that what he was seeing was real and not some trick of sight. Finally, with his eyes wide open, his mouth agape and his countenance full of wonder, profuse tears began to stream down the devotee’s cheeks. His voice quivered and cracked as he shouted loud before the entire gathering: “Ammam, Ammam! (Meaning yes, yes.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-divine-appearance-820255.html
02-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: The lockdown and its consequences||At this writing, some 8.6 lakh people around the world have been found infected with the coronavirus and over 42,300 people have died of it. In India, some 1,580 cases have been reported, and 47 deaths. There is no doubt that India had no choice other than the lockdown to avoid the colossal toll the virus could take on lives, or at least buy time as the country, with our poorly equipped and historically underfunded health system, prepares to face it. However, the lockdown was poorly conceived and declared without preparation. Considering the time lag since the first case was reported from China (84 days), and the first case was reported in India (54 days) to the country-wide lockdown, the preparation could have been much better. The sudden lockdown, including the closing down of a considerable number of private hospitals, essential medical services and pharmacies, are causing and will continue to cause a huge damage to demographic and health outcomes. Data presented in February, when COVID-19 deaths were maximum in China, showed that it was still the 49th biggest cause of deaths in that country. More people die of TB, Malaria, HIV and other diseases annually than of COVID-19 (even if we account for the projected number of COVID-19 deaths). While these infections have been around longer and generally affect mostly lower-income groups, COVID-19 is affecting everyone.   Although we do not have reliable concurrent statistics of deaths for March 2020 in India, considering the Medical Certification of Causes of Death (MCCD) data from one of the highly affected states, Maharashtra, it is hard to believe that COVID-19 will rank among the top 20 causes of deaths in the country even after its lifetime run. Lockdown costs   The lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 is having and will have a huge impact on other healthcare provisions and outcomes. Considering the high multiple and untreated morbidity prevalence in India, it will adversely a huge number of people. In fact, out of the total deaths caused due to COVID-19, most have been reported in co-morbid patients. Ignoring other healthcare services further aggravates the chances of a large section of the population whose immunity is compromised with existing ailments being infected with Covid-19. The closing down of private healthcare facilities, especially in the smaller towns and cities that take care of a considerable proportion of the total healthcare burden will have severe implications for those with chronic diseases and those who need emergency care. At the national level, on an average, some 6.9 million people visit outpatient care on a daily basis, out of which, government hospitals, private hospitals, private doctors/clinics, and other (Charities and NGOs) healthcare service providers treat 30%, 23%, 43%, and 4% of cases, respectively. Thus, private healthcare service providers cater to 66% of daily healthcare needs. Further, the lockdown has hit hard the poor and lower middle-income classes who don’t have their own vehicles to reach hospitals in emergencies. Mobility restrictions and excessive fear have also hit the attendance of frontline health workers to basic healthcare provisions during pregnancy, delivery care and new-born healthcare. The lockdown panic and crisis are certainly going to affect outcomes for pregnant women. For instance, the limited mobility and stigmatisation of frontline health workers are harming the nutritional needs of pregnant women and new mothers and their babies. As many as 49,481 births take place per day, of which private hospitals perform 55% of the caesarean and complicated deliveries. Further, the lockdown may induce irregularities in obtaining Antenatal Care Services (ANCs), which have a potential risk of causing health complications and consequential maternal and child mortality. Even in normal times, the lack of access to healthcare services causes nearly 3,600 pregnancy-related deaths of women a month and 2,800 deaths of children under five years per day. The postponement of child immunisation can negatively affect child health outcomes. Though these essential services are available, the non-availability of transport facilities and the fear of infections hamper access to them. The lack of access to pharmacies will also affect menstrual hygiene practices. Globally, China is the second-largest exporter of pharmaceutical products. The shutdown of drug-manufacturing plants in China has delayed supplies to Indian factories for producing generic medicines. Further, the lack of access to medicine and regular healthcare among patients with non-communicable and chronic diseases results in severe healthcare issues which might be more fatal than COVID-19 in the days to come. The asymptomatic nature of the disease and isolation increase the fear and anxiety not only among the youth and older population, but children are also its invisible victims. Social disconnectedness is fuelling mental health issues among the older population while youth are suffering from a fear of an uncertain future, academic year and job losses. Many cases of mental health emergencies due to COVID-19 phobia have already been reported in India. The global evidence suggests that there was a high demand for contraceptives and abortion services during the outbreak of Zika virus in 2015-16. Limited availability and accessibility of contraceptives impact unintended pregnancies, abortion and sexual and reproductive tract infections in large numbers in India, especially given that current supplies, as well as production, have been stalled as a result of lockdowns in many countries. Previous pandemic experiences have also shown a rise in intimate partner violence, divorce and separation rates in families. Amidst the COVID-19 lockdown, therefore, it is critical that the Centre and states monitor the population’s other healthcare needs through public and private partnerships. The government must use the private sector services, which hold 62% of hospital beds in the country, instead of shutting them down. The government must subsidise other healthcare services in the private sector hospitals and clinics and ensure that these are available to people at affordable costs while it deals with the grim situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic. (The writer is NGN Research Fellow, Australia India Institute (AII), University of Western Australia)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-the-lockdown-and-its-consequences-820261.html
02-04-2020||Opinion||What Zoom’s rise tells us about future of work culture||Zoom’s rise (along with other video conferencing platforms like Skype and Slack) is indicative of a broader shift in the work culture. This shift to working from home or working remotely would have likely happened in an organic manner anyway, but the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated its speed. There isn’t much value in arguing about whether this phase will lead to a permanent shift in terms of a bulk of jobs being performed remotely from now. That question depends on too many variables, and it is impossible to predict.  But the shift itself needs to be understood as part of an evolving trend. Workspaces, for the most part, have moved from cubicles to open-plan offices. As Chris Bailey notes in Hyperfocus, it is contentious to conclude that open-plan offices improved productivity across the board. What open-plan offices did was to make employees think twice before interrupting their colleagues, and made them more respectful of each other’s time.  The future of the office space, moving on from open-plan offices, is the virtual office (widely anticipated and now catalysed by the COVID-19 threat), with people logging in and conducting meetings from home. This brings us to what the characteristics of this new work from home culture will be and what broad precautions we must take to ensure that remote working is successful for us as a people.  Thinking through the idea of working remotely  The first and most important thing to look out for here is going to be the impact this is going to have on the attention economy. With an increasing number of people working from home today, there is going to be a significant reduction in friction. Let me explain, the attention economy runs on the idea of manipulating people to spend more time on platforms. Companies do this by eliminating friction between the user and the content. This is why the feed on Instagram is endless, or why the default option on Netflix is to keep watching more instead of stopping. Because everything is either free or so easy to access, attention becomes the currency. But when in office environments, for example, during a meeting, there is a certain amount of friction in accessing these apps. Using Instagram while talking to a colleague is going to have a social cost on your relationship. However, when working from home, it is going to be significantly easier for employees to give in to their distractions instead of focusing on tasks at hand. It is no wonder that Zoom has begun offering a feature that allows hosts to check if participants are paying attention based on whether or not the Zoom window is active on their screens.  In addition, this also opens a can of worms for privacy breaches and the issue of regulating non-personal data. Because a huge number of people are shifting to working online for the foreseeable future, the value of online meetings increases in terms of the data being shared on them. This gives video conferencing and collaboration platforms the incentive to collect and share an increased amount of data with advertisers. For example, information on when users open the app, details about the user’s device – such as the model, time zone, city, phone carrier, and the unique advertiser identifier (a unique number created by user devices which are then used to target ads). In addition, increased workloads being transferred online will also generate increasing volumes of non-personal data, making the debate on how that should be regulated more relevant. For context, non-personal data is a negative term that is used to refer to all data that is not personal. This includes data like company financials, growth projections, and quite possibly most things discussed in office meetings.  It is unlikely that COVID-19 has transformed offices forever. In this regard, its role in history is likely to be seen as a catalyst, accelerating the shift from offline offices to online offices. But as it does so, we need to take precautions by introducing friction in the attention economy, being conscious of the privacy trade-offs being made to facilitate new features, and installing regulation for the governance of non-personal data. (Rohan Seth is a technology policy analyst at The Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-zoom-s-rise-tells-us-about-future-of-work-culture-820438.html
02-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus has hit oil price: How low will it go? How long will it last?||Even before the World Health Organisation declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 12, crude oil price had collapsed. Then started the guessing game of how long it would last, to what level it would fall, whether the oil market would recover, had the group of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) become powerless, why had Russia refused to cooperate, etc.  In early March, Brent crude fell from $50 a barrel to $34. By the end of March, it was close to $20. Some pundits predict that it may fall even below $10. In some landlocked areas like South Dakota in the US and in Western Canada, it’s already close to $5. This, when only a few months back, experts were predicting that Brent would average around $63 in 2020. Do we really know where oil prices are heading next week, next month or next year? But we all pretend to know, as I did during the first two oil shocks. This is not to be critical of oil economists. For operations and planning purposes, we need to have a price forecast. But it is impossible to do so to any degree of accuracy in the face of a ‘black swan’ event.  Ahead of the meeting, there were rumours that Russia would not support the additional production cut. But OPEC members expected Russia to go along in the end. That it did not was a shock to them and a big disappointment to the Saudis especially.   As expected, soon after the oil market learnt about the breakdown in OPEC+ negotiations, crude prices fell by 20% in one day. Even then, there was a glimmer of hope that Russia and the Saudis may yet agree on a production ceiling to firm up oil prices.  When nothing changed, experts started to spin out theories to explain why Russia walked out of the deal despite knowing fully well the game theoretic implication that both the parties lose out when each side tries to maximise their own gains.  Is it that Russia wants to force a reduction in US shale oil production by keeping oil prices low? There is speculation that Russia wants to punish the US for sanctions against its Nordtsream-2 pipeline to supply gas to Germany. Also, through lower oil price, Russia wants to prevent the Saudis from developing their huge gas reserves, which will compete with its own.  In 2014, Saudis attempted a similar strategy to reduce US shale production and failed. It is possible that Russia may succeed, but by paying a heavy price itself. On March 30, President Trump called Vladimir Putin to work together to support higher prices. The only thing they agreed to was to talk again.  At the start of the year, till world oil demand was savaged by coronavirus, it was expected to go up by about 1.3 million barrels per day (mmbd). However, now with several countries in partial or complete lockdown, led first by China, oil demand has collapsed.  In addition, there is a general economic slowdown. Oil demand in March might have fallen by about 10 mmbd. In April, it is likely to fall by at least another 10 mmbd. If the spread of coronavirus is not stopped or at least flattened out by the end of the second quarter, oil demand is unlikely to recover even during the third quarter. There is a good chance it may do so in the fourth quarter.  In the coming months (difficult to estimate for how long), the world may have a surplus of as much as 20 mmbd. As discussed above, demand will drop by 20 mmbd. While the Saudis, the Gulf countries and Russia, who have a marginal cost of around $3 per barrel, had expressed intentions to increase production by three, one and 0.5 mmbd, respectively, oil production in countries with marginal cost higher than $20 will be forced to cut production. Such a reduction could be 4-5 mmbd. More than likely, OPEC+ countries will find it difficult to increase their production in this unexpected environment of a historic demand fall.  When there is a massive surplus which is equal to 60% of OPEC’s production, no OPEC action or any agreement between Trump and Putin can support higher oil prices. At best, it may give some psychological support.  The oil industry is in uncharted territory because of the lockdown. During this time, the industry will find it very difficult to balance supply and demand when everyone is trying to maximize production. Only low-cost producers will succeed.  One possible scenario for market recovery is when coronavirus runs its course, and OPEC+ realizes that they have to get back to the negotiating table and hammer out a production quota to balance the market. If we look back at the history, each time oil prices collapsed, OPEC has succeeded in imposing an enforceable quota.  In 1985, the Saudis precipitated a price drop when they could not shoulder the production cuts, and prices fell by 70%. Again in 1997, when Venezuela over-pumped, the Saudis caused a 50% price drop. The latest such drop was in 2014, when prices dropped by 65%.  The crisis brought about by a black swan event like coronavirus will likely force OPEC+ to come together. If they don’t, oil importing countries like India will be able to enjoy low prices for a considerable time.  (The writer is former governing council member of Manipal Institute of Technology, and an international oil expert.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-has-hit-oil-price-how-low-will-it-go-how-long-will-it-last-820256.html
02-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus: Virus of prejudice||The privileged caste and class populations experience the lockdown from the comfort of their homes with a guaranteed pay cheque at the end of the month. Others are forced to work. If their services are not needed due to the lockdown, they are labelled as useless and dispatched from our midst in the most ignominious manner. The pourakarmikas working for the Bangalore city government are expected to report for work daily. Their services are deemed to be essential since public hygiene seems to be something that needs to be maintained during a pandemic. Little do the rest of us understand that the transport facilities they depend on are no longer available and yet they have to find ways to report to their duty wards and assigned city streets, to clean up after the happily quarantined upper classes. Neither do the rest of us realize that the vendors they usually patronise for tea and breakfast are no longer open, thanks to the lockdown. And, if in these circumstances, they asked us for a cup of tea or water – we’d shirk. Not because we don’t have the time to make them a cup of tea or don’t have soap to wash their cup; after all the lockdown has given many people a good bit of extra time. We shirk because sharing our utensils with them would break down old social distancing norms between castes.  The migrant workers of Bengaluru who make Friday evenings fun in restaurants or pubs in Indiranagar, Kammanahalli, Jayanagar or wherever else, are no longer needed. Neither are they needed to build our houses or the next mall. With the lockdown, restaurants, pubs, retail services and building construction – all routinely patronised by the well-heeled are no longer open for business. This sizeable workforce are mostly comprised of migrants to the city. They come from North-Eastern states and thus “look Chinese” and are shunned from our midst, because obviously they could be carrying the “Chinese virus”! Ignorance knows no limits. Prejudice too is boundless. They are socially distanced and denied services or asked to vacate by their landlord. As for migrants from the other states, well, they can take a hike we say, quite literally! And along the way, as they trudge hundreds of kilometres, they are faced with police brutality as punishment for violating the “curfew”!  A crisis is a useful thing. It brings out the best and worst in us. These are examples of the worst and they tell us that social distancing is pervasive. We live every day in a normalized-to-the-point-of-invisibility maze of social distances maintained along with caste, class, race, religious and linguistic identities. The first five days of the lockdown have made a few of them painfully visible. It is worth our while to pause and reflect on these lessons with humility. Fighting the virus needs physical distancing, which we are ironically still to learn. But social distancing...? Let’s reflect on the cruelty of the past four days and use this pandemic as a reason to let it go. Coming together socially, with empathy for each other and a sense of collective purpose is the best way to defeat this enemy. Human physiology requires that we maintain physical distance from each other. To be precise, a distance of at least one meter between oneself and another person in a public space. Wash our hands regularly with soap. And do not touch our faces, without thoroughly washing our hands first. It does not require us to shun others to their fate and render their suffering to the invisible side of the walls of social distance that still pervade our minds. (The writer is an assistant professor at Azim PremjiUniversity)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-virus-of-prejudice-820257.html
02-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Fear of growing old||I’m scared of getting old. Some may scoff at hearing this; some may call it irrational and ridiculous. Some may even twirl their fingers near their heads in the almost universal sign that signifies lunacy. My friends, if they read this, may laugh and say – buddy, you are already old! I recollect when I was in my 8th or 9th grade, our teacher had asked each of us how long we would like to live. I don’t recall what answers my classmates gave but I remember my response all too well. Till the age of forty, I told her, much to her astonishment. When she asked me why forty, I replied – forty is old!  I don’t know but maybe this anxiety of mine was already prevalent back then.  Of course, forty for me has come and gone and I’m still walking around on mother earth. As mentioned earlier, maybe this dread of getting old was deep-rooted and with me from my youth or, maybe it came later. However, I do know that by the time I was in my thirties I definitely had this worry. Initially, this fear was not apparent but as the years went by it crystallised and became all too real. The apprehension was that of becoming dependent. Of having to rely on someone to provide that which I could not provide for myself. I had been taking care of myself ever since I left home in my early twenties and I considered myself absolutely independent. The terror was of losing that independence.  For me, reliance on others can be put into two large buckets – financial and physiological. I’m confident I’ve prepared enough not to have to depend on someone else for the financial part, but it is the latter that absolutely terrifies me. And most of them cause one to lose control of one’s mental and physical abilities. Putting one at the mercy of someone else. Couple of years ago, my uncle (someone as independent as I am) suffered a brain stroke, which left him semi-paralysed. Immediately, his life completely changed. Gone was the man who loved and managed to do everything himself. Overnight, he had to look to others for help for almost every physical function. Yes, growing old is a part of life you might say. And I agree it is, but given a choice that is the part of life I would rather not experience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/fear-of-growing-old-820259.html
02-04-2020||Second Edit||Accountability, yes; hate-spewing, no||Yet, selectively scapegoating TJ-India or painting the whole Muslim community as irresponsible or worse is wrong and dangerous. TJ-India did not violate rules. There was no lockdown in place or even a ban on large gatherings when the event happened. In fact, on March 13, the Ministry of Health issued a statement that India was not facing “a health emergency.” Across India, followers of different faiths were still congregating at places of worship and holding mass celebrations at the time. The Tirupati temple closed its gates only on March 20. In Uttar Pradesh, the Yogi Adityanath government cancelled plans for a massive Ramanavami celebration only on March 21. Indeed, even on March 25, in the midst of the 21-day lockdown, the UP chief minister held a religious gathering in Ayodhya. Yet, none of that makes the Tablighi Jamaat right, especially since it continued to keep a large number of people at the Nizamuddin centre despite advisories and a ban on such gatherings. While the Tablighi Jamaat should be held accountable, so must the Delhi and central governments and Delhi police, who were aware of the events and yet did not act as they should have. The foreign participants at the TJ-India event were allowed to enter the country even after Malaysia had drawn the world’s attention to the TJ event there. The TJ-India in Delhi is located right next to a police station, yet the police did not act at any point of time. Neither did the Delhi and central governments. Why?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/accountability-yes-hate-spewing-no-820262.html
02-04-2020||South||Three COVID-19 deaths, 30 new cases in Telangana; all attended Nizamuddin meet||Three persons, who had attended a religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin, died due to novel coronavirus in Telangana, taking the death toll in the state to nine on Wednesday, a statement said. Thirty new COVID-19 cases were reported in the state, a press release from Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao's office said on Thursday. All the fresh cases and the deceased had a history of attending the religious meeting at Nizamuddin in south Delhi last month, it said. The earlier six fatalities had also attended the same congregation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-covid-19-deaths-30-new-cases-in-telangana-all-attended-nizamuddin-meet-820279.html
02-04-2020||South||HC directs Centre to remove blockades on NH connecting Kerala with Karnataka||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Central government to remove blockades erected by Karnataka on the national highways connecting the two states in the backdrop of coronavirus lockdown so as to allow free movement of vehicles carrying persons for urgent medical treatment. A bench comprising justices A K Jayasankaran Nambiar and Shaji P Chaly gave the order on a PIL seeking directions for opening of the roads connecting Kasaragod in Kerala and Mangaluru in Karnataka, which had been closed by Karnataka in view of the lockdown to check the COVID-19 outbreak. "...we feel compelled to issue directions to the Central Government today because we are of the view that any further delay could entail loss of precious lives of our citizens", the Court said in its order delivered on Wednesday night after a detailed hearing earlier in the day. The order came amid reports of deaths of at least seven seriously ill persons after the ambulances carrying them to hospitals in Mangaluru, 15 kms from Kasaragod, were allegedly not allowed by Karnataka police on the borders. The court said the national highways come under the administrative jurisdiction of the Central Government and that the provisions of the National Highways Act clearly provide for the maintenance of such highways by it. The act even provides for penal measures to be taken against anyone blocking such a highway, it said. The arterial roads that connect Mangaluru in Karnataka, to Kasaragod in Kerala were part of the National Highway network and it is therefore the duty of the Central Government to ensure that the said roads are kept free of blockades, the court said. "No doubt, restrictions may be imposed in times of a national emergency such as the present, but when the guidelines issued by the Central Government under the Disaster Management Act itself permits travel for urgent medical treatment, then the said guidelines have necessarily to be enforced by the Central Government through the removal of the blockades that prevent such travel. "We, therefore, direct the Central Government to forthwith intervene in the matter and ensure that the blockades erected by the State of Karnataka on the National Highways... are removed forthwith, and without any further delay, so as to facilitate the free movement of vehicles carrying persons for urgent medical treatment, across the border between the two States," the court said in its order. "We may reiterate that we expect the Central Government to act expeditiously in this matter, taking note of the human lives that are at stake", it added. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has recently taken up the matter of closure of the roads with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, citing difficulties in movement of essential commodities and people seeking expert medical help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-directs-centre-to-remove-blockades-on-nh-connecting-kerala-with-karnataka-820287.html
02-04-2020||South||British national thanks Kerala govt for 'first-class' COVID-19 care||The first-person account of the British national, Brian Neil, contradicts with the criticism of the daughter of another COVID-19-infected British couple at Kochi that her parents were in filthy hospital isolation units. As reported by some international media, she also expressed concerns that the hospital conditions may make her parents more ill and could cause a massive impact on mental health. "Medical treatment was first-class. I cannot forget it," Brain said and personally thanked every one right from the Kerala government, health minister and Ernakulam district collector and doctors for the treatment rendered to him. He would be kept under observation for nearly two more weeks. Brian Neil was among a group of tourists from Britain at Munnar high-range tourist spot in Kerala. He was tested positive on March 14 night. But the British tourists managed to go out of the hotel, flouting the direction to remain in isolation, and reached the Kochi international airport and boarded a Dubai bound flight. A team led by Ernakulam district collector S Suhas offloaded the British tourists in the last minute and shifted them to hospital. Six others in the group, including Brian's wife Jane Lockwood, were also later tested COVID-19 positive and all were admitted to the coronavirus isolation wards of the government medical college hospital. An HIV drug combination was successfully used on the British national, who suffered critical respiratory issues. In order to ensure proper hospitality, the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation was entrusted with the task of providing toiletries of their needs in the hospital rooms and even food of their choice was offered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/british-national-thanks-kerala-govt-for-first-class-covid-19-care-820389.html
02-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Andhra Pradesh govt urges Centre to extend financial aid to overcome crisis||Hinting that the state's revenue has fallen to an abysmal low of Rs 2 crore a day, the Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday made a desperate plea to the Centre to extend liberal financial assistance to tide over the "grave crisis" under the impact of COVID-19 and the consequent lockdown. "We are facing a grave financial crisis, so much so that we could not even pay full salaries for the month of March to our officers and employees. Our revenues have fallen to negligible levels," Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a videoconference on COVID-19 management. "We have promised Rs 1,000 to each BPL family as relief because of the lockdown and we immediately need 1,500 crore for this on April 4," the Chief Minister said. He urged the central government to extend liberal financial assistance to overcome the pathetic situation and bail out the state. Official sources, who took part in the videoconference, said the Chief Minister also requested that the Centre supply coronavirus testing kits and personal protection equipment in view of the spurt in the number of cases. Noting that the state recorded 132 coronavirus positive cases so far, the Chief Minister informed the Prime Minister that 111 of them were related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. Reddy said the patients and suspects were being kept in home isolation and quarantine facilities and provided all necessary medical help. "We require a lot of PPEs and also test kits. Kindly ensure their supply to AP," the Chief Minister said. He also explained about the door-to-door survey being undertaken in both rural and urban areas to keep a tab on Coronavirus patients and also identify possible carriers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-andhra-pradesh-govt-urges-centre-to-extend-financial-aid-to-overcome-crisis-820395.html
02-04-2020||South||People flock PDS outlets in TN to get doles||People flocked ration outlets on Thursday to receive Rs 1,000 cash assistance and essential commodities including rice and cooking oil free of cost across Tamil Nadu as authorities put their best foot forward to implement social distancing by giving tokens in advance to beneficiaries. After Chief Minister Palaniswami announced a Rs 3,280 crore relief package on March 24 which includes cash to 'rice' ration card holders, and essential commodities such as rice, dhal, wheat, and sugar, to all categories of cards, free of cost in April, authorities began the distribution exercise today. Though circles were drawn in front of PDS outlets to regulate people and ensure social distancing, serpentine queues of men and women could be seen in front of almost all shops in the State. Employees of the ration stores donned masks and hand sanitisers were also made available in a number of shops. Tokens specifying the date and time of distribution were already distributed to a large number of beneficiaries to avoid crowd. Card holders said they received rice, dhal, wheat, cooking oil and sugar from the ration outlets. Chairs and 'shamiana' shelters were put up in quite a few shops in some suburban localities where there were adequate open space to faciliate people to sit while on the queue. Tamil Nadu follows universal Public Distribution System under which people have the option to choose rice [green] or other categories of ration cards like sugar [white]. While commodities are sold at a very low cost like Rs 25 for a litre of palm oil, 20 kg rice is distributed for free. Now, as part of lockdown mitigating measures, all commodities are distributed free this month. The Chief Minister had said that auto drivers and construction workers will also get a special assistance of Rs 1,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/people-flock-pds-outlets-in-tn-to-get-doles-820409.html
02-04-2020||South||Stay on liquor supply based on doctor's prescription in Kerala||The Kerala High Court has stayed the Kerala Government's directive to supply liquor to those suffering from alcohol dependence syndrome based on doctors' prescriptions. The court observed that directing doctors to prescribe alcohol to those suffering from alcoholism could be only considered as a prescribing a disaster. The court stayed the government directive for three weeks and sought the Kerala government's response. The court was considering a batch of petitions including that of a Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association and some doctors. Even as the Kerala government issued the directive in this regard the other day, it was not implemented. After liquor sales were stopped in Kerala following lockdown, four persons committed suicide in the state suspected to be due to withdrawal syndrome and a large number of persons approached hospitals. Citing this scenario Kerala government decided that those suffering from withdrawal syndrome may be provided a maximum of three-litre liquor a week based on doctor's prescription and the Kerala State Beverages Corporation, which is the sole distributor of liquor in the state, decided to deliver liquor at doorsteps of the needy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stay-on-liquor-supply-based-on-doctors-prescription-in-kerala-820518.html
02-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: How difficult was tracking the Jamaat event attendees from Tamil Nadu?||The participants of the religious congregation, organised by Tablighi Jaamat, from Tamil Nadu had travelled in small groups of 10 to 20 people on separate dates and had taken different modes of transport with a majority of them travelling by trains. They followed the same pattern while returning to their respective hometowns. This made the process of tracking 1,500-odd people who attended the conference from the state quite difficult as there was no common link between them except for the fact that they all participated in the same gathering, which went on for 10 days, though in phases. For days, officials involved in tracking the contacts of those who tested positive for Covid-19, worked the phones to reach the participants of the meeting after getting hold of the list, but in vain. They could only reach 515 people as on March 31 and this was admitted by no less than Chief Secretary K Shanmugam. It was only after an open appeal by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh, who briefs the media every day on the Covid-19 situation, that more than 600 people voluntarily turned up at various government hospitals across the state on April 1 and got quarantined. The first case of Thai nationals who tested positive after attending the conference was reported on March 21, but the public appeal came only on March 31. When asked why there was a delay of ten days, the health secretary evaded a direct response saying contact tracing is a challenging task. Till the time of writing, the state has quarantined 1,103 persons who attended the Delhi conference and tested all of them, but not all results are out. So far, 234 Covid-19 patients from the state belong to the Nizamuddin cluster, including those who came in contact with them. How difficult was tracking A senior Health Department official, involved in the tracking process, told DH: “They (the Jaamat participants) travelled in small groups of 10 to 20 people. Imagine 1,500 people splitting into 40 or 50 groups and travelling according to their convenience and the difficulty in tracking all of them without much details,” the official said. And many of these people weren’t aware that some of the conference attendees had tested positive for Covid-19. Another official involved in tracking said: “The tracking was so difficult that we had to rely on various sources to get the phone numbers of those travelled. Once we got the numbers, we tried to get in touch with them. We quarantined all those who picked up and we couldn’t do much with people whose phone numbers weren’t reachable. But they all came forward after the public appeal.” How attendees travelled A senior member of an influential Jaamat in Tamil Nadu admitted that participants of the conference usually go in small groups as they don’t come under an umbrella organisation. “There is no leader as such for such organisations... At the gathering, they may talk to people who have come from districts. Except for that, there is usually no connection between the groups,” he said. He said that once the two Thai nationals and others who came in contact with them tested positive, several people in the community have been asking those who attended the conference to report to authorities, which many of them did. “The government could have made the appeal much earlier is what I feel. At least, the appeal was made final, and people showed up voluntarily,” he said. The latest statistics released by the government said people from at least 21 districts have attended the conference.  How did the tracking begin? On March 14, a sick Thai national, who had come to Erode as part of a delegation that is also understood to have attended the congregation, had come to the Coimbatore airport to board a flight back to his country.  By then, thermal scanners had been installed at the airport and officials refused to let him fly because he had fever. The 49-year-old Thai national was quarantined at ESI hospital in Coimbatore but tested negative for Covid-19 though he had exhibited symptoms of fever.  “It was a piece of information given by the Thai national, who is no more now, helped us track those who attended the conference. We came to know about the presence of Thai nationals in Erode only after talking to this traveller. We then began tracking the Thai nationals and quarantined six of them. Of the six, two tested positive for Covid-19 on March 21,” the official said. The local officials then swung into action to track the travel history of the Thai nationals in Tamil Nadu and had even closed entry of three streets where these people had lived.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-how-difficult-was-tracking-the-jamaat-event-attendees-from-tamil-nadu-820525.html
02-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: ICF to open up its factory to produce ventilators||Integral Coach Factory (ICF), which produced some of the best train coaches that chug along the vast railway tracks in the country, will open its vast premises in this metropolis for manufacturing ventilators to meet the growing demand for the breathing apparatus in times of COVID-19. A week after the Railway Board asked production units under it to explore opportunities to manufacture essential items that can be utilised to treat people during the current pandemic, the ICF on Thursday expressed its interest to explore possibilities of collaborating with established ventilator manufacturers. The railway coach-making unit on Thursday invited Expression of Interest (EoI) from ventilator manufactures for using its vast premises and already available facilities to produce more ventilators to deal with the COVID-19 crisis. It also asked the manufacturers to submit bids by April 5 for consideration. Officials at the ICF said since the factory has machinery and plant infrastructure ready, it was decided to collaborate with ventilator manufacturers to produce the apparatus to meet the shortage. Likewise, other coach factories are exploring opportunities to manufacture other medical equipment. “We have decided to collaborate with ventilator manufacturers to open up our facility for them to produce the devices. We will provide machinery, plant and infrastructure to them and they can use the facility to manufacture ventilators here. We have invited bids from manufacturers,” an official with the ICF told DH. India has just about 1 lakh ventilators and the governments at the Centre and states are stepping up their efforts to push the number up. Various multi-national companies and Indian conglomerate have promised to import or buy ventilators for state governments for use in hospitals that would need more such devices if the situation arising out of COVID-19 worsens. The ICF had earlier produced a prototype using ‘reverse engineering’ but it seems to have failed. The list of machinery available with the ICF has been uploaded on its website for manufacturers to take a call. While ICF is looking at manufacturing ventilators, the Railway Workshop in Ponmalai in Tiruchirappalli has manufactured 80 steel cots for Railway hospital in Ponmalai and Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital in Chennai in just a few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-icf-to-open-up-its-factory-to-produce-ventilators-820582.html
02-04-2020||South||Kerala CM urges PM Narendra Modi on Mangaluru road block||With the roadblock between Mangaluru and Kasargod still remaining, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan took up the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conferencing. Mr. Vijayan said that the stand of Karnataka was in-humanitarian. At times of crisis all states should stand together without any favoritism. He urged the Prime Minister to ensure that the movement of goods should not be obstructed. Kerala was not seeking free movement of people, but only patients. He also said that the personal criticisms by BJP leaders in Karnataka against him over the issue need to be considered only as political statements. Meanwhile, Kerala is pinning hopes on a favorable order from the Supreme Court which is scheduled to consider a petition filed by Kasargod MP Rajmohan Unnithan against the roadblock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-urges-pm-narendra-modi-on-mangaluru-road-block-820591.html
02-04-2020||South||74 new coronavirus cases take Nizamuddin cluster tally in Tamil Nadu to 264||Seventy-four of the 75 patients who tested positive in Tamil Nadu on Thursday are attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat conference in the national capital, taking the total number of people infected with COVID-19 from the Nizamuddin cluster in the state to 264. The 75th patient is a contact of Patient 30, a 25-year-old girl who works at the Lifestyle store inside the Phoenix shopping mall in Velachery here. The woman had contracted the virus from a man from Kerala who later tested positive in Sri Lanka. Three people from the store have so far tested positive for coronavirus and the Greater Chennai Corporation asked people who visited the mall between March 10 and March 17 to be cautious and seek health care if they exhibit any symptom. Patient 30 has the maximum contacts so far and several people who came in contact with her have been quarantined at their homes. Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said blood samples of all 1,103 attendees of the conference who were either tracked or voluntarily reported to hospitals have been collected. Out of these, 264 persons have so far tested positive for COVID-19 while the results of several people are pending and are expected to come out on Friday. “The total number of positive cases in Tamil Nadu is 309 as on Thursday. Out of 309, 264 are those who attended the conference. Seven people have been discharged from hospitals,” the Health Secretary said. She also confirmed that one doctor from Tamil Nadu, a 29-year-old woman, tested positive on March 29, responding to a question on 50 medical professionals getting infected with the virus across the country.  With 300 people still believed to be in Delhi, the Tamil Nadu government has managed to identify more than 95 per cent of the participants as it focused its entire energy on the Nizamuddin cluster since Sunday. Also, health workers across the state have so far visited 2,84,201 households and screened 13,67,534 people in 26 districts as part of the government’s containment plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/74-new-coronavirus-cases-take-nizamuddin-cluster-tally-in-tamil-nadu-to-264-820597.html
02-04-2020||South||COVID-19 cases in Kerala reache 256; Two from Nizamuddin tested positive||Twenty-one more persons in Kerala were found COVID-19 infected on Thursday, of which eight were from Kasargod. Two persons who attended the Nizamuddin Tablighi Jamaat were also among those infected in Kerala. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the total number of COVID-19 infected in Kerala so far reached 286, of which 256 were now under treatment. While 28 were already cured, two died. Of the 286 infected, only 76 got the infection through local contacts. The total number of COVID-19 infected persons under treatment in Kasargod now is 114. This apart 14 persons from the district are under treatment at nearby Kannur and Kozhikode districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-in-kerala-reache-256-two-from-nizamuddin-tested-positive-820603.html
02-04-2020||State||Lockdown violation: Dharwad cops seize 173 vehicles||The city police on Thursday collected a fine of Rs 67,000 from motorists who violated the lockdown rules and seized a total of 173 vehicles from across the district. The authorities have clamped Section 144 across the district for enforcing the lockdown. However, several motorists were seen moving on the roads unnecessarily flouting lockdown norms. The police had launched an aggressive drive to enforce the lockdown.  Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar has warned of stringent action against those violating the lockdown rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-violation-dharwad-cops-seize-173-vehicles-820529.html
02-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: Hotel turns quarantine centre in Hubballi||The district administration, as per the orders of the government, has decided to convert Hotel Ayodhya in the city as the quarantine center for the district. Hubballi urban tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal, health department officials and Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike officials visited the hotel on Wednesday and ensured that the rooms had all the basic requirements for those quarantined. The entire premises of the hotel was sanitised.  The district administration has taken over 50 rooms for quarantine purposes. Police and health department officials will shelter that in-home quarantine at the hotel. Speaking to mediapersons HDMP Medical Officer Prabhu N Biradar said the decision to shift all those in-home quarantine to the hotel was taken to ensure that their health can be monitored and also to make sure that they remain in quarantine.  Blood and swab samples of the suspects will be collected and sent for testing, he said. Biradar said so far more than 350 people in the district have completed 14 days of home quarantine and the administration will house only those who have not completed the home quarantine period at the hotel.  The centre has the required number of health officials to monitor those housed there, he said. The waste generated at the hotel will be considered as bio-medical waste and will be disposed ofscientifically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-hotel-turns-quarantine-centre-in-hubballi-820532.html
02-04-2020||State||150 contacts of Hosapete family traced and quarantined: DC||Over 150 people were in contact with the three members of an SR Nagar family in the town, who tested positive for the COVID-19, said Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, the deputy commissioner said, “As many as 25 high-risk primary contacts and 125 secondary contacts have been traced and quarantined. However, the contacts, so far, have not shown any symptoms.” “A total of 209 teams of Asha and Anganwadi workers are conducting a door-to-door survey in the town. So far they have visited over 8,700 towns and surveyed 38,673 people,” he said, Meanwhile, the CMC, using fire tenders, has started sprinkling disinfectants in all wards. A couple and their daughter from SR Nagar, with no international history, on Tuesday, tested positive for the COVID-19. Four other members of the family have been admitted to the isolation ward of the government hospital after they showed symptoms of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/150-contacts-of-hosapete-family-traced-and-quarantined-dc-820534.html
02-04-2020||State||Lockdown impact on mental health patients worrisome||The national lockdown promulgated from March 24 to April 14, 2020, has led to many unintended consequences. Persons who have experienced collateral damage include those with mental health problems. The first to suffer were those who were dependent on alcohol or illicit drugs. With liquor shops closed and access to illicit drugs curtailed by movement restrictions, persons who were dependent began to experience withdrawal symptoms. In many, the withdrawal from alcohol is mild to moderate, and is characterised by craving for alcohol, uneasiness, restlessness, tremors, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, and other symptoms. In some, the withdrawal can be serious and even life-threatening, such as when seizures or delirium develop. Across the country, there have been reports of severe alcohol withdrawal requiring hospitalisation, and even reports of persons committing suicide because of the unavailability of alcohol. Public transport has all but stopped. Personal transport, and even venturing out of houses on foot is discouraged for almost all reasons except those related to purchase of provisions, medical necessities, and emergency services. Most private clinics and outpatient departments in hospitals are closed. So how do patients receiving neuropsychiatric medications, who may need to continue their treatments for months to years, continue to get their supplies? Those who can afford medicines can show old prescriptions at pharmacies, and most pharmacists, understanding the unusual circumstances, will honour the prescriptions. Patients who depend on free medicines may not be able to afford to purchase medicines, especially when wages have dried up. If they cannot get supplies because their hospital has closed its OPD, then they must do without them. This means that patients with depression will run out of antidepressants and may suffer drug discontinuation symptoms such as restlessness, anxiety, headache, dizziness, stomach disturbances, and sleep disturbances.  Patients taking treatment for conditions such as anxiety and insomnia are likely to suffer relapse soon after running out of medicines. Patients with epilepsy will suffer withdrawal seizures within days of stopping treatment. Patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and depression are at high risk of relapse weeks or months ahead. Relapse into major mental illness will result in considerable suffering not only for the patient but also for the family.  Whereas helplines have been set up, and facilities for teleconsultation and tele-prescribing set in place, those who cannot afford treatment are also those who might not be able to access these facilities. (Dr Chittaranjan Andrade is Dean, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-impact-on-mental-health-patients-worrisome-820547.html
02-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: 11 of 14 new cases in Karnataka are Jamaat attendees||Karnataka's COVID-19 cases stood at 124, up by 14 cases from 110 on Thursday. Out of the new cases reported on Thursday, two are from Mysuru, one from Ballari and the rest are attendees of Tablighi Jamaat - nine from Bidar, one from Hyderabad, Telangana, and one from Kalaburagi. "Based on inputs given by police and the central government, nearly 1,000 people linked to Tablighi Jamaat, Nizamuddin, have been screened by the health department till morning (on Thursday). Out of them, six have been found to be symptomatic. Further, more than 200 swab samples have been drawn so far. Tests are going on in labs and out of nearly 100 preliminary test results, 11 from Bidar district are positive. Contact tracing and isolation works are already on," said Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey. All those who've attended the Jamaat congregation and asymptomatic, within 14 days of their arrival shall be quarantined at a government-monitored quarantine center.  Meanwhile, seven patients taken from KG Halli Fever Clinic to CV Raman General Hospital in Benglauru were attendees of Tablighi Jamaat. Dr Radhakrishnan HDR, Medical Superintendent, C V Raman General Hospital, told DH, "All of them are in the age group of 20-50 years and so they're not a high-risk group. Plus they have no comorbidities and are all asymptomatic. So we cannot test them. We have to watch them for 14 days and only then send a form with symptoms to the committee who can then give us approval for testing." Dr Srinivas GA, Bengaluru Urban DHO said, "They reported to the fever clinic only because they were attendees of the congregation not because they had symptoms." So far, 287 people with fever have been screened at 31 BBMP fever clinics according to Thursday's daily media bulletin of the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-11-of-14-new-cases-in-karnataka-are-jamaat-attendees-820612.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drought makes quiet entry as Karnataka battles virus||COVID-19 on one hand, Karnataka seems poised to face another crisis that comes with a harsh summer: drought and the resultant shortage of drinking water.  Muted by the noise over COVID-19 is the fact that nine districts — Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chikballapur, Tumakuru, Ramanagara, Chitradurga, Davangere and Haveri — have slipped into a drinking water problem. “The summer has started and I don’t know what to do because 70% of the borewells here have dried up,” Devanahalli legislator Nisarga Narayanaswamy told DH. Devanahalli, a drought-prone region, is some 40 km from Bengaluru.  “I have asked the local engineer to drill new borewells, but he says all the drillers have gone (due to the lockdown). Using water tankers is ruled out; there’s hardly any water for the tankers to take,” he said, pointing out that the government should start focussing on the drinking water issue besides combating COVID-19.  On Wednesday, Development Commissioner Vandita Sharma took stock of the situation with senior officials. “This year is better than last year because of good rains, and surface water is still there to feed urban areas. But in rural areas, the problem is rearing its head because the borewells are failing,” Rural Development & Panchayat Raj principal secretary L K Atheeq said.  In October 2019, the government declared 49 taluks across 18 districts as drought-hit. “In these 49 taluks, the chief executive officers of zilla panchayats have been asked to prepare contingency action plans and take up drilling of borewells, if necessary, for which Rs 1 crore per taluk is allocated,” Atheeq said. “For the remaining 127 taluks where drought has not been declared, there’s an allocation of Rs 25 lakh.”  It was decided in the meeting to ask the Finance department to release Rs 87 crore for the contingency plan to tackle drinking water problems.   “Also, the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) money can be used for tanker water supply and borewells only in places where drought has been declared. In all other places, the revenue department will need Rs 50 crore. The Finance department has been asked to release this, too,” Atheeq said.  Presently, the government has roped in 65 tankers to supply water to 59 villages and 237 private borewells for 215 villages. Last year, over 2,000 tankers and over 1,800 private borewells were hired to supply water to 2,999 villages.  On average, the government spent about Rs 5 lakh per day on water supply through tankers. Also, it takes about Rs 9 lakh to drill a successful borewell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drought-makes-quiet-entry-as-karnataka-battles-virus-820246.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM reassures farmers, citizens on essentials||Taking note of the plight of farmers due to the lockdown, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday instructed authorities to allow free movement and sale of fruits and vegetables, while assuring citizens that there will not be any shortage of essential food supplies.  Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with his deputy Govind Karjol, Agriculture Minister B C Patil and others following reports of farmers dumping their harvest. The CM also announced Rs 5 lakh compensation to the watermelon farmer who committed suicide in Kalaburagi.  "The Centre has already issued orders that the movement of goods vehicles should not be restricted at checkposts. So, at all checkposts from now, there will not be unnecessary harassment. There is no question of stopping supply of essential items that citizens need," Yediyurappa told reporters.  "Tomato, watermelon, grapes, lemon and other fruits and vegetables are sent to neighbouring states. Although demand has plummeted, police are instructed to allow the free movement of such essential goods to other states," he said, adding that arrangements will be made to transport fruits and vegetables from Karnataka by train. Yediyurappa made it clear that shops selling fruits and vegetables will be open throughout the day. He warned that those overcharging will have their licences cancelled. "There won't be any impediment in buying food grain, fruits and vegetables. There are sufficient stocks. There shouldn't be any crowding. All citizens need to do is ensure social distancing," he said. "People need to buy for only two or three days. There will be no scarcity." State-run Hopcoms stores are selling out by noon during the lockdown, the CM pointed out, adding that the government will ensure sufficient vegetables and fruits so as to keep the outlets open throughout the day. Eggs will be made available at Hopcoms, he said. Directions were issued to open rice and dal mills in the state, and also ensure adequate arrangements to harvest the standing crop. To help silk farmers, 27 sericulture markets will be opened, while teams from 14 other markets will be formed to procure cocoons directly from farmers. Directions have also been issued to builders to provide food and shelter to their construction labourers. Free milk for poor Half litre packets of milk will be supplied free of cost to about 14 lakh slum-dwellers until April 14, Yediyurappa said. For this, the government will procure milk from the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF). At present, KMF procures 69 lakh litres of milk from farmers daily and sells 42 lakh litres. After making byproducts, KMF is left with excess seven lakh litres. "The half litre packets will be freely distributed to 14 lakh people living in slums," the CM said.  Liquor only after April 14 All liquor stores will remain closed till April 14, the chief minister clarified, responding to a question. "If anyone has to drink or wants liquor, they will have to wait till the lockdown ends," he quipped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-reassures-farmers-citizens-on-essentials-820249.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lift Kasaragod-Mangaluru block: Kerala HC to Centre||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday ordered the Centre to remove blockades erected by Karnataka on the National Highway linking to Kerala and ensure movement of vehicles carrying patients in need of urgent medical treatment. Kasaragod has a high number of virus cases and Karnataka’s road blockade from the Kerala district to Mangaluru had sparked a huge legal row. As the border closure continued to take a heavy toll, the high court directed the Centre to act expeditiously, considering the human lives at stake.    The court observed that although restrictions can be imposed on the NH in times of national emergency such as the current situation, the guidelines issued by the Centre under the Disaster Management Act permit travel for urgent medical treatment. The NH comes under the administrative jurisdiction of the Centre and the provisions of the National Highways Act provide for maintenance of such highways by the Centre, and even provide for penal measures to be taken against anyone blocking such a highway. Four people have died in Kasaragod as they could not proceed to hospitals in Mangaluru, where they were undergoing treatment. Kerala had approached the high court, dubbing Karnataka’s stand as ‘inhumane.’ On Tuesday, the court had asked Karnataka to show humanitarian consideration to allow vehicles carrying patients across the border. However, Karnataka officials contended that even Mangaluru local authorities were opposed to the entry. As the legal tussle continued, a Kerala patient, Balan, who was forcibly discharged from a Mangaluru government hospital, walked nearly 50 km and fainted as he neared the border in Kasaragod. On Tuesday, Sekhar, a 49-year-old critically-ill patient, had died of cardiac arrest after his ambulance was not allowed to cross the border at Thalpadi, allegedly by the Karnataka police. In another case, a pregnant woman delivered a baby in an ambulance that was not allowed to proceed to Mangaluru. For decades, critically-ill patients in Kasaragod have been getting treated at several hi-tech multi-specialty hospitals in Mangaluru, just across the border.   Hospitalised in Mangaluru on March 21 after his fall from a coconut tree, Balan had told the police that he was forcibly discharged. Gowda mounts pressure In Bengaluru, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda had mounted pressure on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to relax restrictions on the Karnataka-Kerala border to allow movement of ambulances and other essentials.  In a letter to the CM, Gowda pointed out that Kannadigas living in Kasargod, Manjeshwar and surrounding areas, go to Mangaluru for healthcare. “Everyday, more than a hundred ambulances operated between Kasargod and Mangaluru,” he said, drawing attention to Sekhar’s death after permission was denied to his ambulance. Gowda also cited the pregnant woman’s case. The Janatha Dal (Secular) supremo said: “Several people in this region are dependent on hospitals in Mangaluru for emergency treatment. It is inhuman to stop ambulances. The government must immediately allow passage of ambulance.”   Kerala Water Resources Minister Krishnan Kutty had written to Gowda, seeking his intervention in resolving the border crisis. “This border closure has led to loss of life and has affected transport of emergency goods.  I suggest mutual talk between the governments of Kerala and Karnataka,”he had said. Gowda also urged Yediyurappa to ensure supply of fish to people in coastal areas. “Just like vegetables, poultry and groceries, fish is an essential part of the diet of those in coastal areas. The government should take measures to ensure regulated fishing,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lift-kasaragod-mangaluru-block-kerala-hc-to-centre-820250.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||2,000 forest fires in Karnataka as miscreants exploit lockdown||The nine-day lockdown has seen forest fires in more than 2,000 locations with officials reporting more than 300 fire incidents on Wednesday alone even as the department has stepped up efforts to contain such incidents amid the COVID-19 crisis. Forest Minister Anand Singh stated that the state government has requested the Indian Air Force (IAF) to be on standby with helicopters to help fight fires. "They have readily assured us full support," the note from the minister said. The state witnessed forest fires at 1,777 locations from March 21 to 30. An additional 300 fire incidents were reported on Wednesday alone, with officials suspecting foul play most cases. A senior forest officer expressed concern about the increasing fire surrounding urban areas. "We have verified the incidents and found that people are taking advantage of the lack of traffic during the lockdown to set fire to forests. As this is also the peak time, officials and staffers of the department will be busy in fire prevention exercises and miscreants see an opportunity in this," the official said. Setting forests afire is seen as the first step towards the encroachment of the forest land. Singh, however, stated that the department was using latest technology to track encroachment. "We have developed an application which gives the indication on satellite images along with GPS readings of the loss of forest vegetation of 10 square metres and above every 15 days. By this, we are able to detect and curb fresh encroachments even during the lockdown," he said. Last year, 12,000 acres of Bandipur forests were burnt due to a major fire. Investigation that followed showed that faulty firelines created at a cost of Rs 1.4 crore by skirting transparency, lack of supervision and a general slackness towards fire prevention led to the incident. The minister stated that the department has divided forests into blocks by making firelines at different intervals by the end of December. "From January 1, the fire watchers are positioned at critical places to tackle fire. Night patrolling is also carried out in areas vulnerable to fire, smuggling, hunting etc," the note from the minister said. Officials have also used camera traps and stealth cameras to detect movement of the offenders and have booked several cases of forest encroachment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2000-forest-fires-in-karnataka-as-miscreants-exploit-lockdown-820251.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: KSRTC deploys buses for emergency services||KSRTC's Mysore City Division deployed three buses, while Mangaluru (5), Davangere (1), Shimoga (6) divisions joined the force for the District Administration Emergency and essential services. Officials stressed that the buses were operating to provide emergency and essential services only.  To ferry medical staff, police, security, paramedical staff, municipal corporation workers and other emergency aid staff mentioned by district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-ksrtc-deploys-buses-for-emergency-services-820397.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: BJP leaders resist opening Karnataka border to Kerala||The Kerala High Court has ordered the Centre to remove blockades erected by Karnataka on the National Highway linking to Kerala and ensure movement of vehicles carrying patients in need of urgent medical treatment.  Kasaragod in Kerala has a high number of coronavirus cases and Karnataka’s road blockade toward Mangaluru has sparked a huge row. Kerala had moved court against Karnataka’s “inhumane” stand after four people died in Kasargod as they could not reach Mangaluru for treatment.  “Karnataka has fewer COVID-19 cases compared with Kasargod district. If the border opens, there’s no doubt that patients from there will come to Mangaluru for treatment,” BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, who represents Dakshina Kannada in the Lok Sabha, said in a tweet, hashtagged #SaveKarnataka.  “The only effective remedy for COVID-19 is social distancing. That’s why borders are closed. It's foolish to bring them to Mangaluru for treatment. The Kerala government prides on the Kerala Model, but when it comes to healthcare, it depends on another state, which is unfortunate. In the face of the deadly COVID-19, the first priority is to protect the people of our state,” Kateel said.  BJP’s Mangalore City North MLA Bharath Shetty accused the Pinarayi Vijayan government of failure. “Fifty percent of COVID-19 cases in Wenlock are from Kasargod. With the failure of Pinarayi Vijayan administration and healthcare facilities, Kasargod alone has 100+ cases which is the total count of Karnataka. We can’t let this pandemic spread to Dakshina Kannada,” he said.  The party’s Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa not to open the state’s border to Kerala. “Dear Pinarayi Vijayan, if you can’t take care of OUR Kasargod, give it back to Karnataka. We will take care of them. But don’t play politics with COVID-19,” he said.  With the border row flaring up, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda has urged Yediyurappa to allow movement of ambulances on “humanitarian” grounds.  But Karnataka has its own reasoning for closing its borders. According to a March 31 order issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Health & Family Welfare) Jawaid Akhtar, cross-border movement of patients into the state for treatment or diagnosis was restricted “in view of a severe shortage of health facilities in the state of Karnataka.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-bjp-leaders-resist-opening-karnataka-border-to-kerala-820405.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Attack on ASHA worker in Bengaluru reflects poor coordination within the Health Dept||While the Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu chose to just tweet about the incident after media threw light on the incident, none from the departments visited the health worker who was publicly attacked while on duty. When Krishnaveni's video was viewed and retweeted hundreds of times, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey was questioned about the attack. He nonchalantly asked questions about the attack to be directed to Sriramulu since he had tweeted the video.  When asked further Pandey said, "Let me check, if it is true, we will lodge a case and take strict action against culprits." On the other hand, Health department Director Dr Omprakash Patil said he was not even aware of the incident. "I was busy in other things. I am yet to collect details about the incident. I don't know her name or which area she worked in," he said.  However, Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayana who visited the ASHA worker at her home and expressed support on behalf of the government said, "Health workers went for surveillance work in Sadiq Nagar. During that time the mosque authorities made an announcement instigating the residents of Sadiq Nagar to surround those health workers. They were physically manhandled by the mob on the instructions of mosque authorities. The ASHA workers were only carrying out surveillance in the area since a domestic maid in the locality had tested positive for COVID-19. These types of incidents would only demoralise the health workers who have been working hard to fight the COVID-19 and yet no case has been registered until now. I have directed the police to immediately register a case and arrest the people responsible for instigation and those who have manhandled the health workers. They should be taught a lesson."  Health Minister Sriramulu tweeted, "Caste, creed and religion are not important here. Your personal interest is not important. The health of Indians and Kannadigas is important. In Sadiq Palya, in Bengaluru, some miscreants attacked a nurse. This is a heinous act. We will take legal action against them."  Another message posted by the minister read, "Doctors, nurses, ASHA workers, who come to your doorstep and are working day and night in this time of distress, are equal to God. Treat them with respect. If they are assaulted, we will not sit idly. Beware!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/attack-on-asha-worker-in-bengaluru-reflects-poor-coordination-within-the-health-dept-820411.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Wait till April 14 for alcohol, quips Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||For the ones looking for alcohol in Karnataka, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has an answer -- wait till April 14. During a press conference on Thursday, a question on the availability of alcohol in the state was thrown at the CM to which he jokingly said that people would have to wait till April 14 for alcohol.  Yediyurappa was flanked by the Minister of Revenue Department R Ashoka who added that the government's job was to make arrangements for food, not alcohol. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak which is set to end on April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wait-till-april-14-for-alcohol-quips-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-820416.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa downplays ASHA worker incident||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa played down the alleged assault on an ASHA worker, performing COVID-19 surveys, as a minor incident and urged people who have come in contact with Tableeg Jamaat workers who attended the Nizamuddin congregation in Delhi, to be tested. To a query at a media briefing, Yediyurappa said, "It was a minor incident. The government is trying to convince people. In view of their health, I urge them to be tested and quarantined." Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the incident had occurred when the ASHA worker went to check those who came in contact with the Tablighi Jamaat workers. On Wednesday, an ASHA worker was allegedly assaulted by members of a community during a survey, after they refused to furnish any information sought by her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-downplays-asha-worker-incident-820425.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||391 persons from Karnataka who visited Tablighi Jamaat quarantined: CM B S Yediyurappa||Briefing reporters after a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who reviewed the lockdown to curb the pandemic, he said that the government was in the process of identifying others who attended that Jamaat from Karnataka. "Some members who had gone to preach in other districts (of Karnataka and other states) are being identified. Directions are issued to quarantine them wherever they are," Yediyurappa said. Mandatory check-ups for COVID-19 will be carried out for all the primary and secondary contacts of people who attended Tablighi Jamaat event from the state. A few people have travelled to other states, he said, adding that once the Karnataka government determined where they were, respective state governments will be requested to quarantine them. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that all the quarantined are being tested and reports were awaited. "COVID-19 test results of all the 31 persons from Bengaluru who attended Tablighi Jamaat were negative," he said. In the review meeting, Yediyurappa said that the Centre has directed to implement lockdown without affecting essential services and deal stringently with violators. In order to address a shortage of doctors, AYUSH doctors will be roped in and trained online, he added. There will be relaxation on lockdown for farmers to harvest crops and sow them for the next season. Farmers are advised to practice strict social distancing and harvesting should be carried out with utmost precaution, Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/391-persons-from-karnataka-who-visited-tablighi-jamaat-quarantined-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-820428.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Lack of manpower, helpline goes kaput in Mandya||The helpline (1077), launched by the district administration to respond to the queries related to COVID-19, has turned out to be a failure in Mandya district, due to lack of manpower. There is no dedicated personnel to attend to the helpline and is being managed by the control room. Those calling 1077 helpline do not get the necessary information, complain the people. As the district administration has published the helpline number in newspapers, people call the number to know about COVID-19 and clear doubts. But, the control room personnel are helpless and are not able to provide them necessary information, for which the helpline was launched. A resident of Panahakanahalli said, "I had called the helpline to know about the symptoms and treatment. They took my name and address but did not provide the required information. According to the control room personnel, the health department had deputed two people for a couple of days. As there were not many calls, they were withdrawn and engaged for other works. We attend to the calls, but it is not possible for us to explain about the corona-related issues, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-lack-of-manpower-helpline-goes-kaput-in-mandya-820453.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa distributes free milk to urban poor amid COVID-19 crisis||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday began distributing milk packets to the urban poor here. This comes a day after he announced procurement of unsold milk from producers and its free distribution to the poor facing hardship during the lock down in the state. The Chief Minister marched through narrow lanes of slums in Ashwath Nagar and handed milk packets to the dwellers. He was accompanied by the Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, minister Shivaram Hebbar and health officials during his visit. On the milk production, Yediyurappa had on Wednesday said out of 69 lakh litres produced in the state, 42 lakh litres is sold, adding the government has decided to buy the unsold milk and distribute among the urban poor. The state government had on Wednesday taken a slew of measures to ensure uninterrupted supply of food grains, vegetables and milk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-distributes-free-milk-to-urban-poor-amid-covid-19-crisis-820477.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mandya: Free milk for 18,000 families from today||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) will be distributing free milk to 18,000 families, from April 3, till the lockdown is lifted, said Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh. Every day, 10,000 litres of milk would be distributed among the slum dwellers and destitute. The KMF officials have given approval. Discussions have been held with the taluk-level officials, the volunteers of Red Cross Society would distribute the milk from Friday morning, he said. No COVID-19 positive cases has been reported from Mandya district so far. However, 128 people are under quarantine, including 18 employees from Nanjangud Pharma company. Nine among them have tested negative, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mandya-free-milk-for-18000-families-from-today-820515.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 helpline in Mandya hit by manpower shortage||The Helpline 1077, launched by district administration to respond to the queries related to COVID-19, has turned out to be a failure in the district, due to lack of manpower. There are no dedicated personnel to attend to the helpline and is being managed by the control room. Those calling the helpline do not get the necessary information, people complained. As the district administration had published the helpline number in newspapers, people called the number to know about the pandemic and to clear their doubts. But, the control room personnel are helpless and are not able to provide the necessary information, for which the helpline was launched. A resident of Panahakanahalli said, "I had called the helpline to know about the symptoms and the treatment. They took my name and address but did not provide the required information." According to the personnel at the control room, the health department had deputed two people for a couple of days. As there were not many calls, they were withdrawn and engaged in other works. "We attend to the calls, but it is not possible for us to explain about the COVID-19-related issues," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-helpline-in-mandya-hit-by-manpower-shortage-820524.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: MCC lifts ban on poultry sale||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) lifted the ban on poultry sale on Thursday. The poultry shops are allowed to sell chicken three days a week. The civic body had banned sales of poultry following the outbreak of bird flu in the city on March 16. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde lifted the ban as Animal Husbandry department confirmed no more bird flu. Hence, the stalls are allowed to sell meat, chicken and egg on Tuesday, Friday and Sunday. No permission for bakery District In-charge Minister V Somanna directed not to open bakeries until the lockdown is lifted. Earlier, it was decided to open bakeries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mcc-lifts-ban-on-poultry-sale-820526.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HD Deve Gowda throws his weight behind Pinarayi Vijayan||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda has thrown his weight behind Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan by expressing anguish on restrictions imposed by Karnataka at the border between the two states.  Gowda, the JD(S) national president, promised to raise the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a letter to Vijayan, Gowda stated that "the inhuman and inappropriate action on the part of the authorities of Karnataka state to block the interstate highway between Mangaluru and Kasargod" had brought him "pain and anguish". Gowda had, on March 31, written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa seeking relaxation of the border restrictions on "humanitarian" grounds. Before writing to Yediyurappa, Gowda had received a letter from Kerala Water Resources Minister K Krishnankutty, a JD(S) legislator from Chittur. The JD(S) is a coalition partner in Kerala.  The authorities of the Karnataka government appear to be adamant despite the assurance given before the High Court, Gowda stated in the letter to Vijayan, adding that he condemned the attitude of the BJP government in Karnataka. He would take up the issue with the PM who, Gowda said, had assured supply of essential commodities while imposing the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hd-deve-gowda-throws-his-weight-behind-pinarayi-vijayan-820549.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Last date for paying motor Vehicle tax extended||The Transport department has extended the last date for paying motor vehicle taxes to June 1. The last date for payment for some vehicles was April 15 and it was May 15 for others. The extension will apply to both groups, according to a statement by Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-last-date-for-paying-motor-vehicle-tax-extended-820570.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Varsities, colleges told to care for hostel students ||The task force, constituted by the higher education department, has directed the state-run universities and other higher education institutions to take care of outstation students who are residing in the hostels during the lockdown period. The task force, headed by former chief secretary S V Ranganth, comprising retired IPS officers Gopal Hosur, commissioner for collegiate education Anirudh Shravan and others as members, has issued several directions to the universities and higher education institutions in this regard. It has also recommended the varsities to make use of digital content available through Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) MOOCS platform and other digital contents through the state government initiatives. “Instead of wasting the time during this lockdown period, we have recommended varsities to make use of digital contents available and start classes. After April 14, we will convene a meeting to discuss about safety measures need to be taken to keep our campuses safe from COVID-19,” said Dr SA Kori, executive director, Karnataka State Higher Education Council, who is also the member secretary of the task force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-varsities-colleges-told-to-care-for-hostel-students-820602.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru: Asha worker on COVID-19 duty, attacked||An Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker, while carrying out a surveillance work following a report of COVID-19 case, was allegedly manhandled by a group of 40-50 people in Sadiq Nagar of Sarayipalya, Bengaluru. The incident happened on Wednesday evening and came to light on Thursday morning as a mobile video of the incident went viral. ASHA worker Krishnaveni, along with other staffers, had been to Sadiq Nagar for field surveillance after a domestic maid in the area tested positive for COVID-19. The workers were checking if any of the residents had symptoms like fever, cough or cold by visiting every household and taking down the names and mobile numbers of the occupants. The workers, it is said, were also checking if anyone from the locality attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi. According to Krishnaveni, a group of 40 to 50 persons belonging to a minority community surrounded her and took objections to her work in the locality. In her statement to media persons, Krishnaveni said that she was wrongfully restrained by a huge crowd of minority community members. “They manhandled me and told me that I should not inquire anyone about the COVID-19 symptoms. They even shouted that they will die of COVID-19 and I should not be worried. They even snatched documents pertaining to surveillance work, mobile phones and other valuables,” she told media persons. She further alleged that there was an announcement made in the mike in a prayer hall of the community stating no one should entertain health workers. Only after Krishnaveni tipped off the police about the incident, a Hoysala patrolling vehicle was sent to the spot and police personnel released her from the mob. On Thursday afternoon the Hennur police have registered case against the mob under IPC Sections 353, 188, 504, 143 and 149. S D Sharanappa, DCP (East) said, “We have registered a case in Hennur police station based on the complaint filed by the senior health inspector Muniraju. Three persons have been detained and are being questioned, efforts are on to detain others involved.”  KSWC takes suo motu case Condemning the incident Karnataka State Women’s Commission chairperson Prameela Naidu told reporters that the commission had taken a suo motu case on the incident.  Police protection sought Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) union has condemned the attack on these workers and have demanded for police protection to discharge their duties. The Karnataka Asha Workers Union had a discussion over the phone with the minister for health and family welfare and sought police protection to ensure that such attacks do not happen in future.  The Karnataka Rajya Samyuktha ASHA Karyakartheyara Sangha condemned this incident. In a statement, they said that people belonging to all communities need to recognize and rather stand in support of such impersonal workers by providing them with the needed data and information for their own well being||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-asha-worker-on-covid-19-duty-attacked-820626.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt moves SC against Kerala HC's order on lifting road blockade||The Karnataka government on Thursday approached the Supreme Court challenging the Kerala High Court's order for the lifting of the blockade on the National Highway linking to Kerala, saying it would lead to "disastrous consequences" and "serious outbreak" of COVID-19. The state government contended there was an "extreme urgency" to pass the order on March 31 under the Epidemics Act, banning all movement of people and goods, including patients in order to prevent any further transmission of COVID-19. It said the blockade was the "need of the hour since Kasargod in Kerala had turned into a Coronavirus Hotspot having maximum cases of the infection".  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta would take up the matter on Friday. In its plea, the Karnataka government further contended that the HC's order was "without any jurisdiction" and thus was "liable to be set aside". It contended the existing facilities in the Mangaluru district was not as much as to support patients from outside the State and there was every possibility of a serious outbreak of the COVID-19 in the border districts of Karnataka "if free ingress and outgress of patients" was allowed. It said local residents were strongly opposing any movement of traffic and opening of the check post as Kasargod itself recorded over 100 Corona positive patients. Along with the state government's petition, the court has also listed Congress MP from Kasargod Rajmohan Unnithan's petition for a direction to the Karnataka government to open its border with Kerala at Talapaddi in Mangalore.  The BS Yeddyurappa government rushed to the top court after the Kerala HC had on Wednesday ordered the Centre to ensure lifting of the road blockade, reportedly put after a high incidence of COVID-19 positive cases in Kasargod.  Kerala, for its part, claimed the closure of road had obstructed people to access medical facilities in Mangaluru and even resulted into death of four persons, besides affecting supply of essential goods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-moves-sc-against-kerala-hcs-order-on-lifting-road-blockade-820628.html
02-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 crisis forces Karnataka government to limit expenditure||Strained by the financial implications of the COVID-19 lockdown, the state government has restricted its expenditure to most essential items such as salaries, pensions and basic administrative costs. “Needless to say, all expenditure on fighting COVID-19 will be given utmost priority,” the Finance Department said in an order laying out guidelines on release of funds and delegation of financial powers for the month of April.  “Due to the prevailing situation of lockdown, the revenues of state government are severely constrained,” the order, which has come bang in the beginning of the new financial year, said.  It has restricted the items of expenditure for which funds — amounting to 1/12th of the budgetary provision for any department — can be released, under 23 heads. For any other expenditure other than the items listed, administrative departments have to approach the Finance Department with justification. To ensure compliance of the same, the Treasury is also instructed to upload 1/12th of the budgetary provision only towards the list of items of expenditure in the order, which includes salary and allowances, office expenses, payment to daily wagers/contractual/outsource employees, pension and retirement benefits, social security pensions, subsidy under Anna Bhagya and funds for Integrated Child Development Scheme and others. Health schemes The order has allowed expenditure for Arogya Kavacha scheme, health institute building maintenance, and materials and supplies for the Health and Family Welfare Department. On Wednesday, the Finance Department had directed all administrative departments not to issue any orders on new schemes announced in the 2020-21 Budget or existing schemes.  Department heads issue such orders at the beginning of a financial year on April 1 or 2, according to sources. The Finance Department has allowed servicing of loans availed by various boards and corporations with some conditions. It has barred departments from purchasing new vehicles or taking up any major repairs of buildings during the month. According to sources, while quarterly orders designating financial powers are issued, such an order restricting it to a month alone was unprecedented. The growing cost of the lockdown might compel the government to either delay or roll back projects announced in the budget, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-crisis-forces-karnataka-government-to-limit-expenditure-820633.html
02-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Unable to get liquor, Belagavi man commits suicide||An addict who could not get liquor with the lockdown in effect for preventing the spread of COVID-19 committed suicide by hanging himself at his rented room in Angol suburb in Belagavi on Wednesday. He has been identified as Devendrappa Hadapad (42) presently from Angol and a native of Savadatti. Hadapad had been working in a haircut saloon and, with the lockdown in effect, had been forced to remain in his rented room with food being taken care of by the employer. His demand for liquor had been turned down as liquor shops are closed. Unable to get liquor, he committed suicide by hanging himself in his room. Hadapad’s wife Hemalata, in a complaint with the police, has stated that he had called her and informed of not getting liquor and suffering due to it. Inability to get liquor drove him to commit suicide. Tilakwadi police are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/unable-to-get-liquor-belagavi-man-commits-suicide-820337.html
02-04-2020||West||All five COVID-19 patients in Goa stable: Government||State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane gave this information on Wednesday. "All the five patients are stable. They are getting proper treatment and responding well," he said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that all the fair price shops would be open from Thursday, which will help the people to get the essential commodities. The state government will also start "needs-on-wheels" system, wherein the essential items would be transported to the village through state-run Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd, he said. Sawant said the government has taken up sanitation drive at various public places, while all the state-run vehicles would be sanitised from April 2 to April 22. The state government has already started applying stickers on the homes of those who are 'home quarantined', he said. "Whoever is found mingling with people despite being home quarantined, then that person would be moved to a quarantine facility," the chief minister warned.    ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-five-covid-19-patients-in-goa-stable-government-820297.html
02-04-2020||West||3 more coronavirus cases in Maharashtra; Tally reaches 338||Out of these three people, two are from Pune and one is from Buldhana, he said. Till Wednesday, 335 COVID-19 cases and 16 deaths were reported from the state. Mumbai has so far recorded deaths of 12 coronavirus patients. The state capital also has the highest number of coronavirus patients at 181, while Pune district has 50 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-more-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-tally-reaches-338-820315.html
02-04-2020||West||Lockdown: Teachers roped in to trace migrant workers in Gujarat||Teachers from government-run schools were called-in on Wednesday for door-to-door survey of villages to find the migrant workers there and inform about their whereabouts to the authorities concerned. Lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus has turned into a humanitarian crisis as it resulted in exodus of migrant workers, who have lost their jobs and have been walking to their native places in the absence of any transportation facilities. However, the government has been taking steps to stop their movement as of now. A group of teachers on Wednesday went to every house in Chacharavadi Vasna village near the Ahmedabad-Rajkot highway here in the industrial cluster of Changador. After surveying the village, the teachers found 14 families of migrant labourers hailing from different parts of the country and not having ration cards of Gujarat. "We conducted survey of every house to find the poor families who do not have ration cards. Fourteen such families have been identified in the village and we have given the information to higher officials," a teacher of a government primary school in Chacharavadi Vasna said. The list includes names of Anil Yadav and his wife, who came from Uttar Pradesh and used to sell a street snack outside a factory in the village. "Those working in factories arethe responsibility of factory owners. We are identifying those not working in the organised sector and are on their own," said another teacher. The Gujarat government has declared that it will provide one month's free ration to poor families, whose means of earnings have been affected due to the lockdown. The ration per person will include 3.5 kg of wheat, 1.5 kg of rice, and one kg each of pulses, sugar and salt. The state government had said the ration is being provided to migrant workers to contain their movement. "Migrant labourers from other states as well as those form rural areas in Gujarat will also be provided free ration from fair price shops starting April 4 on the basis of lists prepared by the district administration so as to contain their movement,"chief minister's secretary Ashwani Kumar said. They will be provided supplies under the state government's 'Ann Brahm' scheme, Kumar said, adding that the list of migrant labourers is being prepared with the help of primary school teachers. A fund of Rs 40 crore has been allocated through which food and shelter will be provided to the migrant labourers in order to ensure they do not eave the state, he said. Ahmedabad, which is one of the 10 COVID-19 hotspots identified in the country, has so far reported 31 cases of coronavirus and three deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-teachers-roped-in-to-trace-migrant-workers-in-gujarat-820328.html
02-04-2020||West||Goa to celebrate Easter without parishioners' participation||Since the deadly viral disease outbreak, the Goa Church has stopped conducting its masses, and prayers held in churches are streamed online to parishioners through social media platforms like Facebook. "This year, for the first time in the history of Christianity, the celebration of Good Friday and Easter will be held without parishioners physically attending the church services," Father Maverick Fernandes, director Caritas Goa, a social wing of the Goa Church, told PTI. He said the events will continue as per schedule, but without the participation of people. "Priests will hold prayers in their churches which would be live streamed through social media. However, not holding masses with parishioners will not affect the spirit of the celebration," he stated. Good Friday, observed to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, falls on April 10 this year, while Easter, celebrated as resurrection of the Lord, is on April 12. Goa has about 30 per cent Christian population. Meanwhile, some people in the state have demanded that liquor shops be opened for some hours in the run-up to the Easter celebrations. Social activist Aires Rodrigues, in a letter to state chief secretary last week, said "along with Catholics across the world, Goa will also be observing Easter on Sunday, April 12, which is a feast commemorating the resurrection of Jesus from the dead." Easter is a day when families get together to have a sumptuous lunch/dinner, which for most would be incomplete without the choice of wines and alcoholic beverages, he said. In view of the current lockdown in the state, the government, as a special case, may consider allowing the liquor stores to remain open on April 11, possibly from 10 am to 1 pm and 3 pm to 6 pm, so that in preparation for the festivities, people can purchase their choice of alcoholic beverages, Rodrigues said in the letter. The state government has not responded to the demand. The All Goa Liquor Traders Association has said none of its members will open shops during the lockdown period. The association president, Dattaprasad Naik, said they earlier approached Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, and asked that the government keep the liquor shops closed during the Janata Curfew (imposed last month) and the lockdown. "People from all sections come to buy liquor. We cannot differentiate between them. That is why we decided not to open the shops," he said. Naik said the state government should not reopen the liquor shops till the coronavirus crisis is controlled.    ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-celebrate-easter-without-parishioners-participation-820333.html
02-04-2020||West||COVID-19 lockdown: Rambo Circus in Mumbai faces challenges||One of the biggest circuses in the country, the Rambo Circus, is finding it difficult to make the ends meet.They are stranded at Airoli, off the satellite township of Navi Mumbai. Like the cinema halls and theatres, circuses too have been shut because of the lockdown. "These are very difficult times for us," Rambo Circus owner Sujit Dilip told DH over phone.The strength of Rambo Circus is around 90 to 100 including artistes, support staff and managerial staff. Besides, it has 17 dogs and a pony. "The running cost per day is around Rs 25,000 while the earning now is zero...it is difficult to make ends meet," Dilip said.Describing circuses as a dying art, Dilip has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for help. He also thanked Maharashtra's Food and Civil Supplies Minister and NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal for sending food material. "Mumbai is a great city,  we are surviving because of the love that this city showers on us," he said, adding that the circus just moved from Sanpada to Airoli and then to Jogeshwari.  "Our schedule is disturbed....even after Corona goes,  there would be a fear," he said.Dilip said that the daily requirement for rice and other ration itself is over 50 kg. "There is a long queue in shops....and they don't give us that quantity...in times of crisis people from the buildings surrounding the ground are helping us," he said. Dilip has also sought a relief package for circuses and travelling art form which depends on daily collection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-rambo-circus-in-mumbai-faces-challenges-820343.html
02-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Naval Dockyard in Mumbai designs low-cost temperature sensors||The Naval Dockyard in Mumbai has designed and developed its own handheld IR-based temperature sensor for undertaking screening of large numbers of personnel at the entry gates of the yard reducing the load on the security sentries at the gate. The instrument has been manufactured under Rs 1,000 through in-house resources, which is a fraction of the cost of the temperature guns in the market. "The ongoing pandemic of Covid-19 has led to one of the biggest medical emergencies the world has witnessed in recent times. In view of the massive surge in the number of infected patients, the medical infrastructure of the nation is being put to its ultimate test," official sources said. The 285-year-old Naval Dockyard (ND) of Western Naval Command (WNC) has an average influx of around 20,000 personnel entering its premises every day. In view of COVID-19, initial screening of these personnel entering the dockyard was essential to prevent the spread of the deadly viral infection within the yard and the Western Fleet. The most preliminary method to screen a probable patient is to check for body temperature by a non-contact means. Since the outbreak, the non-contact thermometers or temperature guns have become scarce in the market and are being sold at a very high cost.To overcome the scarcity and requirement of large numbers, the Naval Dockyard has designed and developed its own handheld IR-based temperature sensor with accuracy of 0.02 deg Celsius. The non-contact thermometer has an Infrared sensor and an LED display integrated with a microcontroller which runs on a 9V battery. This initiative has provided a tool for undertaking the screening of a large number of personnel at the entry gates of the yard thereby reducing the load on the security sentries at the gate. With the manufacturing cost of less than Rs 1,000, the dockyard has the capability to scale up production of these, if required, towards which sourcing of the components is in progress,  the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-naval-dockyard-in-mumbai-designs-low-cost-temperature-sensors-820344.html
02-04-2020||West||Man assaulted for 'leaking' info on Tablighi meet attendees||A man was assaulted by a group in Maharashtra's Solapur district for allegedly informing a village official about those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi, police said on Thursday. The 56-year-old man had informed the 'gramsevak' of Pimpri village about seven locals who attended the Tablighi meet and also insisted that they be tested for coronavirus, police said. Apparently angered by this disclosure of information, the group on Tuesday assaulted the man, police said. An offence has been registered at the Vairag police station in connection with the assault, police said. Meanwhile, Solapur SP Manoj Patil told PTI that the coronavirus test reports of the seven persons who attended the Tablighi meet in Delhi, have come out negative. "We made all the seven persons undergo coronavirus test. All of them have tested negative for coronavirus," the IPS officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-assaulted-for-leaking-info-on-tablighi-meet-attendees-820349.html
02-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Making music during lockdown for lifting community spirit in West Bengal||Popular singer-musicians of West Bengal are composing songs during lockdown for lifting community spirit by hoping that people will emerge stronger after the coronavirus pandemic. Leading the pack is singer-musician Kabir Suman who has given the form of classical vocal to lyrics penned by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on the coronavirus outbreak. Having christened the 'raag' as Mamata, the 'Tomake Chai' singer said on Wednesday, he was communicating with Banerjee on WhatsApp about music, when the chief minister messaged him a lyric in Bengali -Jhar theme jabe ekdin (the storm will come to an end one day). "I was simply struck by the lyrics which prophesised about the ending of the storm and the ground covered with stray leaves thereafter. At once, I decided to make it into a song. I have aptly named the raga after her, he said. Kabir Suman, an icon of Bengali contemporary music, has penned and set to tune another song tumi theko manusher sathe rastay (you are on the road with people), referring to Banerjees visit to crowded markets for creating awareness about the preventive measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus. "I salute her for being among people at this hour, as a true leader of people, and wrote the lines," he said. Another brief song of the chief minister has already been rendered by singer and Minister of State for Cultural Affairs Indranil Sen. The lyrics "Bhir theke sabbai dure thako/Coronake chhute diyo na ( Everyone maintain distance from crowd, don't allow corona to touch you) has been set to tune by Banerjee as well. Meanwhile, singer-lyricists Anupam Roy, Srijato Bandyopadhyay, Anindya Chattopadhyay and Chandril Bhattacharya are collaborating from their homes to bring out a song on the lockdown. "This is the first time four of us have come together to share our experiences on the lockdown in a creative way," Srijato Bandyopadhyay said. "Samner din achena/pather khabor nei," (we have to be ready for the unknown path in the coming days) are some of the lyrics of the song jointly being written by the four, with Anupam Roy lending his voice to the composition. Popular singer Nachiketa has composed a poem dwelling on the coronavirus crisis and how the fear is bringing people closer. The crisis is building up a united nation leaving aside all differences, Nachiketas song points out. All the songs will be available digitally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-making-music-during-lockdown-for-lifting-community-spirit-in-west-bengal-820372.html
02-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Muslim COVID-19 victim denied burial, cremated in Mumbai||A 65-year-old Muslim man from suburban Malad here, who died of coronavirus infection, was cremated after the trustees of a cemetery denied permission to bury his body there, his family members alleged on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday. The patient, a resident of Collector Compound in Malwani, died at a civic-run hospital in Jogeshwari East early on Wednesday. One of the family members of the deceased alleged that when his body was taken to Malad Malwadni Kabrastan, its trustees denied burial "as he was coronvirus positive". "This was despite the local civic authorities giving permission for the burial at 4 am," he said. The local police and a politician then tried to intervene and urged the trustees to allow the burial, but the latter did not budge, the family member said. Thereafter, some social workers intervened and requested a nearby Hindu crematorium to cremate the body. As they agreed to do so, the man was finally cremated at 10 am. Talking to PTI, Maharashtra minister and Malwani MLA, Aslam Shaikh, said, "As per the government guidelines, Muslim COVID-19 victims should be buried at a cemetery, which is closest to the place where the patient died." "But in this case, the family of the deceased took his body directly to Malad Malwani Kabrastan without informing anyone, including trustees of the cemetery, and then demanded his burial, he said. "Strict action should be taken against the civic staffs, who brought the body to the cemetery despite knowing the guidelines," he said, adding that a day before this incident, another coronavirus victim had been buried at that cemetery. The son of the deceased said, "After my father was declared dead at the hospital no one came to help me. I kept sitting beside the body outside the hospital for more than three hours." "We wanted to bury his body at the Malad-Malwani Kabrastan. But when we reached there, the trustees of the cemetery refused to allow the burial saying he was a COVID-19 patient," he said. "After the intervention by the police and other authorities, the body was cremated at a nearby Hindu shamshan bhoomi (crematorium)," he added. Local Samajwadi Party corporator Rukhsana Siddique said, "When the civic staffers know that as per the circular, a COVID-19 victim should be buried at a nearby cemetery, then why died they took the body to Malad (West) although he died at a hospital in Jogeshwari (East)?" The corporator, however, expressed shock over the denial of burial of the body at the cemetery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-muslim-covid-19-victim-denied-burial-cremated-in-mumbai-820415.html
02-04-2020||West||COVID-19 in Dharavi is Mumbai's worst nightmare||With COVID-19 positive cases emerging in Mumbai's Dharavi area, the biggest slum-cluster of Asia, the worst nightmare of the Maharashtra government has come true. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sealed two buildings and have put several people in quarantine. Tension also prevailed in the locality as a group of youth threw stones on policemen during security and concealment operations. "It is a matter of concern that COVID-19 has reached Dharavi," Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. Though a small place, Dharavi is somewhat known across India thanks to films like Om Puri-starrer Dharavi, Deewar with magnificent roles of Amitabh Bachchan and Shashi Kapoor, Amitabh Bachchan-Danny Denzongpa's hit Agneepath, Kamal Hasan-starrer Nayakan, Rajinikanth’s socio-political action drama Kaala, Mira Nair’s Salaam Bombay or Danny Boyle’s Oscar award-winning  Slumdog Millionaire. An aerial view will show it as a mosaic of match-box type dwellings in a highly-congested area. A look from the ground would show that some of the dwellings are three to four storeys high. Spread across 2.1 sq km and having a population of over seven lakh, Dharavi is expected to see a major makeover.  However, it is not an easy task as in terms of population density, it’s among the highest in the world.   It is home to over 60,000 to 70,000 families – and in terms of demography, it would not be wrong to describe it as a mini-India. Spread over 200 hectares (500 acres) – it boasts of a literacy rate of 69 per cent – the highest among the slum localities in the country.  Spread across the Sion-Matunga stations of the Central Railway and Bandra-Mahim on the Western Railway, the Dharavi locality, this also a business hub – and the turnover is difficult to estimate as it is in the informal sector. The Mithi river empties into the Arabian Sea through the Mahim creek. About 45 per cent of the population is Muslim and rest include Hindus, Christians and Neo-Buddhists. Majority of the migrants residing there are from Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. "Its mini-India, you will find people from all parts of India here," says Ramakant Gupta,  President of Yuva Jan Manch, who is now helping people during the crisis.  "The flats here are 8 ft x 10 ft,  10 ft x 12 ft,  12 ft x 18 ft....majority people use common sanitation facilities," he said. "Several people who wanted to go back could not as trains were shut down because of lockdown," said J Tambe of Roti Bank,  who is providing food packets to the migrants and daily wage earners. "The hotels are closed,  the tiffin services are shut," locals said. It has several business units right from textiles to pottery to fabrication to the leather industry. Plastic recycling and garbage segregation too is done here. It has an estimated 5,000 businesses and 15,000 single-room factories. Goods produced go to the Middle East, America and Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-in-dharavi-is-mumbais-worst-nightmare-820423.html
02-04-2020||West||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar urges Muslims to stay at home on Shab-e-Barat||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday urged Muslims to observe Shab-e-Barat staying inside their homes, and also suggested that the birth anniversary celebrations of Dalit icon Dr B R Ambedkar be postponed in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Pawar said Ram Navami, being observed on Thursday, is celebrated with fervour every year across the country. "Unfortunately, there is this threat of coronavirus this year and we have to observe some restrictions...but I am sure people must be remembering Lord Ram staying inside their homes," he said in his address via Facebook. Shab-e-Barat, also known as the night of forgiveness,will be observed on April 8. Members of the Muslim community visit graveyards to remember their relatives who are no more, Pawar said, and called for taking precautions to avoid gathering of people given the coronavirus crisis. Pawar said congregation such as the one held last month in Delhi's Nizamuddin area by Tablighi Jamaat could have been avoided, and urged people to ensure there is no repeat of such meetings on Shab-e-Barat. "The meeting should have been avoided, but it was notand others may have to pay for it," Pawar said referring to the religious meeting in the national capital. He said the "possibility of some people who attended the meeting carrying the disease cannot be ruled out" and pressed for maintaining discipline given the situation caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. "Shab-e-Barat is on April 8. Muslims remember their relatives, who are not more, by visiting kabrastan (graveyard). It should be observed inside home. Precaution should be taken to see there is no repeat of the Nizamuddin meeting-like episode," he said. The birth anniversary of Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, is observed on April 14. Pawar said people should also think about postponing Ambedkar's birth anniversary celebrations. "We normally celebrate it (the anniversary) for two or so months. We should think whether we should really observe the programme at this juncture (given the coronavirus threat). If we come together, we may have to face health issues," the former Union minister said. He said in general, 90 per cent people have been observing the lockdown, but 10 per cent are not doing so. The Centre and the Maharashtra government may have to extend the lockdown period if discipline is not observed till April 14 (till when the lockdown is in force), he said, urging people to toe the line in the interest of each other. Pawar also praised Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the state administration and police for working round-the- clock, and asked people to cooperate with them by staying at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-supremo-sharad-pawar-urges-muslims-to-stay-at-home-on-shab-e-barat-820445.html
02-04-2020||West||COVID-19 to delay Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray's election as legislator?||Due to the coronavirus outbreak, Maharashtra is likely face a tricky political situation soon as Uddhav Thackeray, who took oath as the state chief minister in November last year, has to get elected to either House of the state legislature by the end of May. Thackeray, who is still not a member of either the state Legislative Assembly or Council, was sworn in as the chief minister on November 28, 2019 following an unprecedented month-long political drama after the assembly poll results. As per Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, a minister, who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the legislature shall at the expiration of that period ceases to be a minister. The six-month period in Thackeray's case will end on May 28. However, due to the coronavirus outbreak and the ongoing lockdown, the political activity in the state has come to a standstill. The gram panchayat elections scheduled to be held in March were also deferred. Nine legislative council seats are falling vacant on April 24 and Thackeray was set to be elected as an MLC during the biennial elections to these nine seats. However, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has still not announced the election schedule due to the coronavirus pandemic. The ECI had earlier deferred the Rajya Sabha polls in view of COVID- 19 and said that the fresh date would be announced later. Similarly, the by-election to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from the Dhule Nandurbar local authorities constituency scheduled on March 24 was also postponed. According to sources, if the dates for the biennial elections to nine legislative council seats are not announced after the lockdown period ends on April 14, the state may head for a political logjam. Thackeray may have to resign from his post and cannot be sworn in till he becomes a member of either house of the legislature. Sources in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), however, said the situation will not go that extent. Sources said that in the past, NCP leader Fauzia Khan and Shiv Sena's Deepak Sawant, who were members of the legislative council, had continued as ministers after their term as MLC ended. "But both- Fauzia Khan, who was school education minister in the Prithivraj Chavan government, and Deepak Sawant, who was health minister in the Devendra Fadnavis government- resigned later," sources said. According to sources, Khan and Sawant were already members of the legislature and ministers so they could continue for another six months. "But in Thackeray's case, he is not a member of the legislature and within six months, he has to become an MLA or an MLC. The six-month time-frame is not extended as per constitutional provisions," they said. "The minister, in this case the chief minister, has to get elected in six months, failing which he ceases to be in the post," sources said. This is a peculiar political situation for which Thackeray may have to step aside and make way for other Sena leaders like Eknath Shinde or Subhash Desai, who are ministers in his cabinet. Sources, however, said that Thackeray would have the option of getting elected as one of the 12 Governor appointees. Vacancies for the 12 seats will be in June. When asked about it, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut told PTI, "We haven't given a thought to this issue as yet. But a solution would be found. A situation will not arise that the state may have to face a political crisis, I can say this with confidence." In the past, Sushilkumar Shinde and Prithviraj Chavan had become chief ministers when they were not member of either house of the state legislature. But within six months, Shinde was elected to the Assembly, while Chavan chose the Council route. Sources said a Supreme Court judgement ruled that Article 164 (4) places a restriction on a non-member to continue as minister or chief minister unless he can get himself elected to the legislature within a period of six months from the date of his appointment. The supreme court order was in respect to a case in Punjab where Tej Parkash Singh was made a minister in 1995 when he was not member of the legislature. He failed to get himself elected in six months and resigned. Talking to PTI, former state legislature principal secretary Anant Kalse said the court judgements in such cases are about misuse of Article 164 (4). "In this (Thackeray's) case, there is no misuse. There is an unprecedented situation due to which elections could not be held. If the elections to the legislative council are not announced till May end, then the chief minister can resign and the entire council of ministers can take oath again," he said. "Or else, he can become a member of the Legislative Council as a Governor appointee for the time being," he said. A senior NCP minister said at present there are two governor appointee vacancies from the party quota. Rahul Narvekar and Ram Wadkute, both NCP MLCs from the governor appointee category resigned as members to join the BJP before the assembly elections. Narvekar is now a BJP MLA from Colaba in Mumbai. "Everybody is now busy with coronavirus eradication. We have not given a thought to this issue as yet. But the matter would be resolved," a Congress minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-to-delay-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackerays-election-as-legislator-820519.html
02-04-2020||West||Air India cabin crew tests coronavirus positive, taken to Mumbai hospital||An Air India cabin crew member, who was part of the team that operated a Newark-Mumbai flight last month, has tested positive for coronavirus and has been admitted to a hospital here, a source said on Thursday. This is at least the second instance of an Air India group staff testing positive. Last week, a woman customer care of the airline's ground handling subsidiary AIASL was admitted to a hospital after she had coronavirus infection. "Our cabin crew member has been admitted to the Kasturba BMC hospital in south-central Mumbai after she was tested positive for coronavirus infection. She had operated Air india's Mumbai's flight from Newark (the US) on March 20," the source said. According to the source, efforts are on to shift her to a private hospital. When asked for comments on the cabin crew member testing positive for coronavirus, an Air India spokesperson said, "We would not like to make any comment on this". Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal told media on Thursday that there there have been some cases of ground staff who fell ill. "Luckily, they have all tested negative," he said. "Our medical team was there to assist them. Our cabin crew have been advised home quarantine after undertaking any flight. "Since we are operating very few flights, we have a large number of cabin crew and cockpit crew available. So, we are able to provide them with that gap so that they can be under home quarantine and only then come to do their duty on the next flight. Every kind of support is being given to them," he said. Regarding one of its staff being infected by coronavirus, AIASL CEO A K Sharma, on March 30, said it was suspected that the woman staff contracted the infection during the course of her duty." He also said that another 14 employees who had come in contact with the woman staff were asked to go on "home quarantine". On March 29, the woman staffer of the Air India Airports Services Ltd (AIASL), who is in her early 20s, was admitted to the BMC hospital due to fever and breathing problem. Recently, Air India's two pilot unions alleged that "sub-standard" protective equipment were provided to crew on recent rescue flights that were operated in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Regarding the allegations, Bansal, on Thursday, said cockpit crew, cabin crew and ground handling staff are of paramount importance to the airline. "We take every care to ensure that full protection is provided to them. We have made available sanitisers in our aircraft. We have made available hazmat suits, gloves and masks. "The entire PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) has been made available to them. We have brought out guidelines and advisories for all our cabin crew, cockpit crew as well as our ground handling staff," Bansal said. Further, he said the airline has a large medical team, which has been reaching out to anyone who has some doubts or needs some clarification. Since the coronavirus outbreak, Air India has operated a series of rescue flights to bring back Indians stranded in various countries, including China (Wuhan), Italy (Milan and Rome) and Japan. It has also operating relief flight to Israel (Tel Aviv) and chartered services to Germany (Frankfurt) to fly back foreign nationals stranded in India. As part of larger efforts to curb spreading of coronavirus infections, domestic and international flights have been suspended by aviation regulator DGCA till April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/air-india-cabin-crew-tests-coronavirus-positive-taken-to-mumbai-hospital-820593.html
02-04-2020||West||Gujarat: 220 crew members quarantined in their ships two nautical miles off coast||More than 220 people, mostly crew members of shipping boats returned from gulf countries, have been put under quarantine in their shipping vessels itself in Devbhumi Dwarka district, nearly 2 nautical miles off the coastline.  These crew members arrived at the shore in the past one week but the district administration stopped them from landing due to protocol that mandates medical screening and home quarantine for all coming from abroad to check the spread of coronavirus. They will be in their boats till the quarantine period, mostly 14 days, and after thorough medical examination, they will be allowed to set foot on the land. Officials said that the crew members are mostly from Salaya, a coastal town, and live in joint families with members as big as 25 to 30 in one family. They said that strict home quarantine would not have been possible and that's why the district administration devised this plan which agreed upon by everyone. In the district, a total of 538 persons are under quarantine and so far 14 tests were conducted which turned out to be negative. Although the coastal district in the Saurashtra region has not reported a single positive case, officials said that they are not taking any chance and only following the guidelines to contain the spread of the virus. "Their ships (mid size vessel) are well equipped with the facilities for staying for two weeks. We are providing them ration and freshwater on daily basis and a team of health officer also visit them in boat to check their status," said  Dwarka collector Narendrakumar Meena. When contacted, district superintendent of police Rohan Anand told DH, "Their vessels are anchored nearly two nautical miles off the coast in Salaya. We are expecting more crew members landing with their vessels in the days to come. We made this arrangement after consulting with all the stakeholders including their family members." He added that most of these vessels (dhow) have arrived earlier than the scheduled timing since all activities have been stopped due to the spread of the virus.  Meanwhile, Gujarat reported one COVID-19 positive case in the past 24 hours on Thursday evening, taking the total case to 88. So far, seven persons have died in the state that included death of a 53-year-old man in Vadodara, whose wife, son, daughter-in-law and his daughter are all infected with the virus. The man and his wife had gone to Sri Lanka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-220-crew-members-quarantined-in-their-ships-two-nautical-miles-off-coast-820634.html
02-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra figure cross 400||The COVID-19 toll in Maharashtra has shot to 19 even as the positive cases rose to 416. According to an official of the Public Health and Family Welfare department, so far 42 persons have been discharged.  The new 81 positive cases include 57 from Mumbai, 9 from Pune, 9 form Ahmednagar, 5 from Thane and 1 from Buldhana.  Meanwhile,  the state has identified nearly 1400 persons who had attended the Tableegi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and they are being quarantined. Around 40 health workers of Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali in Mumbai have been quarantined after a patient undergoing treatment at the hospital was found to be COVID-19 positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-figure-cross-400-820643.html
