03-04-2020||Comment||Solid waste management: The sordid saga||With the coronavirus scare, the vulnerability of pourakarmikas (PKs) to the disease has prompted several trade unions to file a PIL in the Karnataka High Court recently. Despite the increase in disposable masks and sanitary waste in the garbage, no masks, gloves and access to water to wash hands had been provided to the workers. At a special sitting of the court on March 30, the BBMP submitted that safety equipment has now been provided.  But a field study by the petitioners has found that only one ‘one-time use’ masks have been given to the sweepers and none at all to the drivers and gangmen. The HC has hence directed the state to provide safety equipment to every sanitation worker in the entire state and to provide breakfast at mustering centres and transport facilities during the lockdown.  That PKs have been exposed to these poor working conditions is nothing new. We have been seeing since decades the shameful daily sight of gangmen collecting loose garbage, standing on heaps of it in open auto-tippers and picking recyclables with their bare hands. There are also the abominable loose garbage heaps dumped often by PKs themselves at collection points/road-sides. The much-hyped Swachh Bharat Mission has done little to change sanitation workers’ plight or to localise garbage management. And, has anything changed at all in this regard in our city despite another PIL that is ongoing in the HC since 2012? The municipality’s emphasis has never been on ensuring sanitation workers’ rights. Other countries have mechanised garbage collection or designed it so as to avoid its manual handling to protect workers' rights to health and dignity. The solution is to similarly overhaul our entire infrastructure for garbage collection to meet these goals. In this regard, based on submissions by CIVIC in the PIL of 2012, the HC had in December 2015  directed that all garbage transportation vehicles should be covered; that waste should not be visible to public nor exposed to open environment; and that waste collection points/depots should have covered bins/containers for separate storage of wet and dry wastes. Despite this HC ruling four years ago, open auto-tippers are still flourishing. It is only a few months ago that the current mayor visited Indore, saw the covered collection vehicles there, which have a partition for collecting wet and dry waste separately, and insisted that BBMP should go in for similar vehicles.  But this went against the policy decision already taken that separate vehicles should be used for wet and dry waste. The lack of bins/containers at secondary storage/collection points is the reason for the unsightly black spots continuing everywhere. The tribulations of the PKs and their lack of labour rights can be traced to the contract system initiated around 25 years ago. In this regard, the June 2013 report of an official committee set up by the state government recommended regularisation of all contract PKs. The Supreme Court, in relation to the Mumbai Municipal Corporation, also held in April 2017 that sanitation work is the municipality’s responsibility, and it cannot be outsourced to contractors. Cabinet decisions were also taken in Karnataka in May 2016 and July 2017 to abolish the contract system for PKs. Yet, contrary to the SC ruling and cabinet decisions, contracts for garbage collection are being issued by the BBMP.  The HC also pointed out in September 2019 that Rule 22 of the Solid Waste Rules of 2016 required solid waste processing facilities to be set up by April 2017, and asked BBMP to submit a detailed compliance report on this. The BBMP submitted that only 1,500 tonnes out of 4,200 tonnes are being processed at seven centralised units. The rest 2,700 tonnes, the HC noted, are being dumped in unauthorised quarries.  But Section 15(t) of the Rules of 2016 also speaks about decentralised processing of wet waste at community level. BBMP seems to have completely forgotten that the HC had also ordered, as far back as November 2012 itself, that wet waste processing stations in all 198 wards should be set up “within four months”.  Now, over seven years later, it is a moot question how many wards set up these centres. In November 2017, the HC had again directed all 198 ward committees (WCs) to identify land and prepare action plans for local processing of wet waste “by the next date of hearing”. But in April 2018, the HC was constrained to order the BBMP commissioner to take action against the WCs, which had failed to follow the directions of the court, and to report the action taken by him to the court. It is not known what action, if any, has been taken against recalcitrant WCs by successive commissioners as per this order.  As for the historic mountains of garbage lying at landfills, the HC had directed BBMP on several occasions to file a compliance report of action taken regarding bio-mining of these mountains. But the mountains have not melted even an inch. Another serious issue, as per a newspaper report of February 17, is that garbage management contracts in 50 BBMP wards have been issued to the friends/followers of councillors, on the recommendations of corporators themselves. The recommendatory letters had also been published. This is in clear violation of the HC order of January 2013, wherein the court pointed out that as per Section 26(1)(k) of the KMC Act, a person shall be disqualified from being a councillor, and perhaps from contesting in future elections, if s/he is involved in the contract process of any civic works. No action to disqualify these 50 corporators appears to have been taken. Will they be standing for election, too, in September 2020? And will we and the workers have to suffer the same mess, within and outside the corporation office, forever? (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/solid-waste-management-the-sordid-saga-820655.html
03-04-2020||First Edit||Do not make it any harder for people||People normally stock up provisions at the start of the month. The weight of rice and other commodities they buy could easily exceed 20 kilos. Does the police chief expect people to carry that weight walking, rather than transport it by vehicle? Will not such a diktat cause people to visit the market more frequently and thus defeat the very purpose of the lockdown? What should women and senior citizens who need to shop for themselves do? While Chief Minister Yediyurappa has consistently maintained that people will have no difficulty in buying essentials, the police chief’s utterances are often at complete variance. If this is not the time to buy groceries, why are grocery stores and vegetable vends open in the first place? Why is the government working hard to restore the supply chain if not to ensure that neither farmers nor consumers suffer? To be sure, thanks to Rao’s own guidelines to his men, the police have come a long way from the initial display of brutality against those who stepped out to now going beyond the call of duty with initiatives like feeding the poor and transporting those requiring urgent medical care to hospitals in police vehicles. But these commendable acts will tend to be overlooked if the general attitude of the police is seen to be one that increases the difficulties being faced by the people in an already difficult time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/do-not-make-it-any-harder-for-people-820652.html
03-04-2020||In Perspective||Precarious workers: Left in the lurch||Ever since the national lockdown announcement, the central and state governments have announced, with not much coordination, a slew of relief measures, often overlapping. While most of these are welcome, there are serious concerns and questions, including about their adequacy given the magnitude of the crisis playing out.  The focus of the relief package should have been the daily-wage earners, the casual contract workers, migrant workers, domestic workers, street vendors, small traders, and the MSMEs. The Central Trade Unions (CTOs) appealed to the Prime Minister to extend measures like payment of ₹5,000 to workers registered under various welfare boards, and to arrest retrenchment, wage cuts, etc. Save for the additional free food grains, the Centre has not addressed them.    The Centre and a few states have issued “advisories” to private sector firms not to terminate permanent or non-permanent workers, deem their absence as paid leave. They are well-meant “advisories” but their implementation, at least during a very short tenure (say one or two months), depends on the willingness and more importantly, the “ability” of the firms. The finance minister has announced a 24% Employee Provident Fund subsidy for workers and employers in businesses employing below 100 workers and has also allowed workers to partially withdraw money from their own PF accounts. The former is inadequate, and the latter is not a relief and will hurt the very objective of providing security for the future. If we take the formal factory sector, around 35% of the total workers are contract workers and government agencies do not count casual, temporary, non-statutory trainees and even statutory trainees, who are prolonged in that position beyond their legal tenure, and if we add these workers to the officially underestimated contract workers, the proportion may well touch 50%, if not more.  Most of these workers are unlikely to enjoy employment and/or income security as per the advisory of the government. Further, they will most likely not be covered by social security laws. Even if they are covered, the footloose army of workers are less likely to be having “live PF and ESI accounts” and even if they did, their balance would not be big enough to provide them succour under the FM’s non-recoverable advance from EPF scheme. While announcing the reliefs, the governments have floated target numbers ranging from lakhs to crores. But there are serious concerns here. The FM announced that 35 million construction workers would benefit from the cess fund while economists, as per the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2017-18 data, and trade unions put the number of workers in the sector at 50-60 million. This means that there may be at least 15 million unregistered construction workers. Thus, we have further segmentation -- registered and unregistered vulnerable workers.  Further, a sizeable proportion of the construction workers will be migrant and even bonded workers as in the case of domestic and contract workers. Multiple identities or inter-sectionality of workers thus pervade the labour market. The 2011 Census counted 67 million migrant workers, and it must be higher now. In the case of the migrant workers, there are two segments, those registered under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1976, due to rather stupid eligibility conditions for registration in it, and those unregistered ones who migrate on their own. According to a statement in Parliament by the labour minister on November 23, 2016, under various schemes under the Unorganized Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008, 120.8 million workers were registered. This means that only 25% of the 2011-12 estimate of 390 million unorganized workers are covered. We thus see even coverage gaps and within the segments of the unorganized sector, formally covered and left-out workers. Finally, there may be delivery issues of even the promised assistance, given the limited coverage of payment portals maintained by these workers. To most of these workers, employment at any cost has always been the principal option, which is now being denied. Income flows are essential for them, which may not be provided either by the government or private firms in the current crisis context, not to mention their possible non-coverage under medical care. Which is why many migrant workers prefer the risk getting the Covid-19 virus as they crowd transport spaces and accept the physical hardship of having to walk hundreds of miles to their towns and villages, perhaps only to starvation even there. The stories of these workers on TV news channels show their desperate situation as well as the utter insensitivity on the part of the governments and policymakers. Worse, these hapless migrant workers may be in for a further shock as press reports show that the MNREGA Scheme has been suspended in most states and in any case the finance minister’s paltry wage hike will hardly alleviate the MNREGA workers’ suffering even if work was available. Further, this pandemic has led to ‘pariah-isation’ of the precariat, which is even more distressing as both the host and origin states disown and distance them. The segmentation and pervasive precarity in the labour market explodes in the current crisis. A few million workers are well-protected while millions of informal workers are left to fend for themselves.  Thus, this crisis should be used to design a universal unemployment allowance scheme, a universal and comprehensive registry of unorganised workers (in place of clamour for other identity-based registries) with payment ports’ coverage and comprehensive social protection as per the norms of the International Labour Organisation.   (The writer is a Professor at XLRI, Xavier School of Management)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/precarious-workers-left-in-the-lurch-820653.html
03-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three from Belagavi test positive for coronavirus||Three persons that include one from city and two from villages in Belagavi taluk who had visited Nizamuddin Markaz for religious gathering in New Delhi have tested positive.  Since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country, the district had been carrying clean slate with no cases being reported. Until Thursday results of the samples sent for tests being negative had been instilling confidence among the people that there would be no cases with precautionary measures being taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and lockdown too being nearly successful with only emergency workers moving around.  Swab samples of 33 persons among the 62 who had returned from the religious gathering had been sent for tests and three being positive has set panic among the people. A total of 42 have been admitted to the isolation ward of District Hospital.  Industries and District Incharge Minister Jagadish Shettar confirmed in Dharwad that three from Belagavi who had visited New Delhi have tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-from-belagavi-test-positive-for-coronavirus-820930.html
03-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Quarantine violation: FIR against YTPS staffer, family||Police said, "The FIR has been filed against YTPS superintendent engineer S R Kabade, Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) accounts officer Anupama Kabade, their son Preetham, and friend of Preetham, Dr Chinmayi, who returned from Germany, based on a complaint filed by COVID-19 special magistrate Anil Kumar Gokhale." The complaint stated that Dr Chinmayi arrived at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru from Germany on March 14. She was stamped a seal with directions to remain in home quarantine till March 29. However, the doctor stayed at the government quarters' of Kabade. The family did not bring the matter to the notice of the district administration. The two officials attended to their work and visited crowded places violating quarantine rules, the complaint stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/quarantine-violation-fir-against-ytps-staffer-family-821032.html
03-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mild earthquake in Mysuru||Mild tremors measuring 2.6 magnitude in the Richter scale was experienced in parts of Mysuru, Mandya and Hassan district, on Friday evening. Tremors were felt at Harave, Hirikyathanahalli and surrounding areas in Hunsur taluk, parts of K R Pet taluk, Kalenahalli and Garudanahalli in Arkalgud taluk, Hassan district. The tremors were felt at around 5.20 pm and lasted approximately for about three seconds. While the roof tiles of a few houses dropped, the household articles also fell down from the shelves. The people were seen running out of their houses for safety. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre Scientific Officer Dr C N Prabhu said, the epicentre of the mild tremor lies near Arkalgud-K R Nagar, as per the Richter scale. There is no need for panic as it is very mild, he said. However, the National Centre for Meteorology and Seismology has published in its website that the intensity of the tremor was 3.2 magnitude.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mild-earthquake-in-mysuru-821061.html
03-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fear of coronavirus infection drives coolie to suicide||Gurusangappa Jangannavar, (40), a native of Hirenandihaal village of Kushtagi taluk, was staying at Kalliganuru village, his wife's native. Police said Gurusangappa had been too Mangaluru for coolie work, a couple of weeks ago, and had returned to the village, recently. Following sickness, he received treatment at the Government Hospital. However, he became depressed over the thought that he would become infected by the coronavirus and hanged himself in the fields.  A case has been booked in this regard at the Gajendragad police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fear-of-coronavirus-infection-drives-coolie-to-suicide-821063.html
03-04-2020||National||Karnataka Congress leader moves SC against Kerala HC order for lifting road blockade||A Congress leader from Karnataka has on Thursday filed a petition in the Supreme Court, challenging the validity of Kerala High Court's order of April 1 for opening the National Highway, connecting to Kasargod. Mithun M Rai, who fought Lok Sabha polls unsuccessfully from Dakshina Kannada constituency, filed a special leave petition in the top court through advocate Sanjay M Nuli. His petition contended that a large  inflow of people from Kasargod to Mangaluru has placed a huge burden upon the healthcare facilities in Mangaluru, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.  The petition is likely to be taken up by a bench of L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta on Friday, along with a similar plea by the Karnataka government. Defending the blockade set by the Karnataka government, Rai said the influx of patients from Kerala has caused a "undesirable aura of panic and threat among the medical fraternity which further hinders the ability of the healthcare professionals to make well-reasoned decisions".  His petition stated that in light of the war like situation within the country caused by the spread of COVID-19, the Karnataka government has merely exercised its powers under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 to contain the infectious disease as well as to not overburden the healthcare professionals. "Restrictions have been imposed solely with the view of safeguarding and protecting the lives of the persons living in the district of Mangaluru," it contended.  The petitioner claimed that the Kerala High Court's interim order did not consider the fact that there was no prescribed treatment for cases of COVID-19 as of today and the only universally accepted solution has been to quarantined in self-isolation. This may be done at the homes of the patients itself instead of placing further burden upon the healthcare professionals who work day in and out to provide the same to the various affected patients, his plea contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-congress-leader-moves-sc-against-kerala-hc-order-for-lifting-road-blockade-820659.html
03-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 3, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-3-2020-edition-820662.html
03-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 3||While the impact of the novel coronavirus has been the most in China and Italy, India also is within its grasp. After making its presence in Kerala first, the novel coronavirus reached other cities/regions including Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Jaipur, Agra, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir among others. We, at Deccan Herald, bring to you the list of total positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the epidemic, according to the Union Ministry of Health and sources (the list will be updated regularly). The total number of positive cases (including deaths) in India: 3035 as of April 3. Total deaths in India: 86 Andhra Pradesh: 1 Haryana: 1 Rajasthan: 3 Uttar Pradesh: 2 Telangana: 11 Madhya Pradesh: 8 Karnataka: 4 Delhi: 6 Maharashtra: 21 Punjab: 5 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 9 West Bengal: 7 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Tamil Nadu: 1 Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Kerala: 3 States/UT with confirmed positive cases: (State-wise details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 286Punjab: 53Delhi: 386Jammu and Kashmir: 75Ladakh: 13Rajasthan: 179Uttar Pradesh: 172Maharashtra: 490Karnataka: 128Tamil Nadu: 411Telangana: 237Haryana: 43 Andhra Pradesh: 152Himachal Pradesh: 4Gujarat: 95 Uttarakhand: 16 Odisha: 9West Bengal: 53Chandigarh: 16Chhattisgarh: 18Madhya Pradesh: 154Bihar: 29Puducherry: 6Manipur: 2Mizoram: 1Goa: 6Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 10Jharkhand: 1Assam: 20Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 151 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the epidemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-3-820665.html
03-04-2020||National||India's poor live on promises in wake of COVID-19 crisis||No food, no work and no clue when relief will come. That's life now for millions of informal workers in India, starved of a way to feed themselves or get the help pledged by government to survive a three-week coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-poor-live-on-promises-in-wake-of-covid-19-crisis-820667.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Rajasthan Governor urges religious leaders to impress upon people for medical screening||The Governor also called upon members who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi to cooperate with medical staff, administration and police, a statement from Rajbhawan said. Mishra spoke to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot over the phone and discussed the situation prevailing in the state. He also talked to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditiyanath. During the conversation with Adityanath, a list of 400 labourers from UP, who are in various districts in Rajasthan, was shared with the Governor and he directed the district collectors to ensure medical assistance and food supply to all such people. Besides, the Governor also donated Rs 20 lakh to the recently constituted PM-CARES fund. The donation made from the governor's relief fund is for assisting relief work being carried out to combat the spread of coronavirus, the statement said. The Governor has also called upon people to help those in need and those who have no food. People should come forward to feed animals and birds, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rajasthan-governor-urges-religious-leaders-to-impress-upon-people-for-medical-screening-820670.html
03-04-2020||National||PM Modi urges Indians to light candles, diyas: Here's what he said||While expectations were rife that he would update the country on the coronavirus situation, extend the lockdown, or issue stronger directives to enforce measures, the “show of solidarity” was unexpected, albeit slightly. Making a passing reference to the suffering of the poor during a pandemic, worsened by the lockdown, PM Modi’s address fell short of addressing key issues: how the migrant crisis was being tackled, ease of access of essential services, the role of India Inc, monetary compensation for workers or the rehabilitation of those forced to evacuate cities.   After the success of the ‘clap’ on Janata Curfew, the Prime Minister said the lighting of diyas would "dispel the darkness" within all of us. “None of us is alone, the solidarity of the people of this nation is the strength of every man,” he said.  Here are some key takeaways from his 9 am address: 1. Dispeling the darkness:In a show of solidarity, on April 5th, 9 PM for 9 minutes everyone must light a diya, candle, a torch, flashlight or any source of light from their homes, balconies to show that 130 crore people are united in their fight against the coronavirus.  2. Stick to Lakshman Rekha:The PM warns people to not gather in this show of strength, to do it from the confines of their own homes 3. India’s ‘clap’ an example for other countriesOther countries have taken cue from India’s clapping show of appreciation for caregivers and people in essential services on Janata Curfew. "The way you paid gratitude to people fighting against COVID-19 on March 22 has become a model that is being emulated by other countries. Janata curfew and ringing of bells/clanging utensils made the country aware of its unity amid this challenging time," Modi said. 4. Strength in unity:The people of this country might begin to feel alone in this and to wonder how much longer will the lockdown continue. In such times, they must remember the strength we derive from unity and solidarity. “The strength of 130 crores of Indians is with each one of us.” 5. Praise to the people, authorities:The PM praised the people of this country who he said have shown discipline in their observance of the lockdown, he also thanked authorities and governments who have been fruitful in tackling the lockdown situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-indians-to-light-candles-diyas-heres-what-he-said-820698.html
03-04-2020||National||Light up lamps on April 5 at 9 pm to display collective strength to defeat coronavirus: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday appealed to the people to display their collective strength and resolve to in the fight against COVID-19 while maintaining social distancing, which he said was the only panacea to jointly defeat the coronavirus. In his third address to the nation, Modi reminded the people that they were not alone and urged them to display their collective resolve by switching off lights at their homes and lighting candles, diyas or mobile phone flashlights on Sunday at 9:00 pm in a nationwide show of solidarity to fight the coronavirus. “When the nation is fighting such a huge battle, one should from time-to-time keep experiencing this collective superpower manifesting itself in the form of the people. This experience boosts our morale, gives us direction and clarity, a common aim as well as the energy to pursue the same,” he said. Modi urged all Indians to challenge the darkness spread by the coronavirus crisis this Sunday on April 5 and introduce it to the power of light. “On the 5th of April, at 9 am, turn off all the lights in your homes, stand at your doors or in your balconies, and light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for 9 minutes. I repeat, light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights,” the prime minister said. At the same time, Modi made a fervent appeal to the people against thronging streets and display unity from within the confines of homes and balconies. “One must never cross the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ of Social Distancing. Social Distancing should not be breached under any circumstances. This is the only panacea to break the chain of coronavirus,” the prime minister said. “Experience the collective resolve, the collective superpower of 130 crore Indians. This will give us the strength to fight, as well as the confidence to win, in this hour of crisis,” he said. Modi also spoke about the plight of the poor as the lockdown has brought economic activity to a grinding halt.  “We have to take our poor brethren towards the light and certainty. To defeat this darkness, we have to shine the light in every direction,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/light-up-lamps-on-april-5-at-9-pm-to-display-collective-strength-to-defeat-coronavirus-pm-narendra-modi-820700.html
03-04-2020||National||Born during coronavirus lockdown, Raipur twins named 'Corona' and 'Covid'||The pandemic caused by a new virus may have brought the world to its knees, but that has not deterred a couple in Chhattisgarh from naming their newborn twins as 'Corona' and 'Covid'. The two words may evoke fear and devastation in minds of others, but for the Raipur-based couple they symbolise triumph over hardships as the twins - a boy and a girl - were born during the ongoing coronavirus-enforced nationwide lockdown which has disrupted normal life. The names, they said, would remind them about all the hardships they conquered amid the lockdown, ahead of a successful delivery on the intervening night of March 26-27 at a government hospital here. However, the couple said they may change their decision later and rename their kids. I was blessed with the twins - a boy and a girl - in the early hours on March 27. We have named them Covid (boy) and Corona (girl) for now," Preeti Verma, the 27-old mother of the newborns, told PTI. "The delivery happened after facing several difficulties and therefore, me and my husband wanted to make the day memorable. "Indeed the virus is dangerous and life-threatening but its outbreak made people focus on sanitation, hygiene and inculcate other good habits. Thus, we thought about these names," she said, giving reasons for their unusual decision. "When the hospital staff also started calling the babies as Corona and Covid, we finally decided to name them after the pandemic," she said. The couple, originally from Uttar Pradesh, resides in a rented house in the Purani Basti area of the state capital. "On late night of March 26, I suddenly experienced severe labour pain and somehow my husband arranged an ambulance operated under 102 Mahtari Express service. "As no vehicular movement was allowed on roads due to the lockdown, we were stopped by police at various places but they let us go after noticing my condition," Verma said. I was wondering what would happen in the hospital as it was midnight, but fortunately doctors and other staff were very cooperative," she said. "Our relatives, who wanted to reach the hospital, could not make it as bus and train services were stopped due to the lockdown," said Verma, who already has a two-year-old daughter. The twins were born in Dr BR Ambedkar Memorial Hospital. Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the hospital, Shubhra Singh said, the mother and the newborns were discharged recently and they were in good health. As soon as Verma reached the hospital with her husband, arrangements were made to perform a caesarean section on her as it was a complicated case, Singh said. "Within 45 minutes of their arrival, the delivery was done successfully," the PRO said. The twins had become a centre of attraction in the hospital after the couple named them as Covid and Corona, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/born-during-coronavirus-lockdown-raipur-twins-named-corona-and-covid-820737.html
03-04-2020||National||Rajasthan govt defers recovery of power, water bills for various categories of consumers||The Rajasthan government has decided to defer the recovery of electricity and water bills for different categories of consumers to provide relief to people in view of the coronavirus outbreak. The Congress government in the state, led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, has deferred the recovery of electricity bills for agriculture power connections till May 31, which will benefit nearly 13 lakh farmers. Recovery of bills for March and April for domestic consumers using up to 150 units per month has also been deferred. They can now pay the bills in May. This will benefit nearly 1.05 crore consumers, according to a release. Some other relaxations have also been given for industrial power connections and agriculture connections. The state government has also announced a five-per cent rebate in the next bills for agriculture and domestic category consumers if they pay their bills by May 31. The government will allocate Rs 650 crore to power distribution companies against this relief. It has also decided to suspend the recovery of water bills for March and April for all consumers in the state. Similarly, the government has decided to make complete payment of the state's share of premium for the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme for Kharif-2019 crops in a month so that farmers get paid for their pending claims. Several other decisions have been taken in the interest of farmers in view of the crisis being faced by them due to the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-govt-defers-recovery-of-power-water-bills-for-various-categories-of-consumers-820738.html
03-04-2020||National||Six soldiers injured in Pak firing at LoC in J&K||At least six army men were injured when Pakistan resorted to unprovoked mortar shelling and small arms fire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Sources said that cross-LoC firing took place at a few forward locations in the Sunderbani sector. “Firing took place in the wee hours of Friday in which six personnel were injured,” they said and added Indian troops also retaliated. On Thursday three Pakistan army personnel and four infiltrating militants were reportedly killed and two others injured in retaliatory action by Indian troops in the Balakote sector of Mendhar tehsil in neighboring Poonch district. Two Indian Army personnel were also injured in Pakistan shelling. There have been repeated infiltration attempts by the militants with the help of Pakistani troops along the LoC in twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri even though both the countries are facing difficult situations due to the coronavirus crisis. Last week Indian army had killed four militants including two members of Pakistan’s Border Action Team (BAT) and three Pakistani troopers while thwarting BAT action in the Poonch sector. Prior to that, the Pakistan army had fired a long-range heavy mortar shell targeting Poonch town. There were a total of 646 incidents of ceasefire violations along the International Border (IB) as well as the LoC between January 1 and February 23 this year, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said last week. Over 3,200 ceasefire violations by Pakistan troops were recorded in 2019. There is 198 km IB (International Border) and over 510 km of LoC with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-soldiers-injured-in-pak-firing-at-loc-in-jk-820740.html
03-04-2020||National||Govt extends tenure of NCLT acting President BSV Prakash Kumar||The government has extended the tenure of acting President of National Company Law Tribunal BSV Prakash Kumar for another three months. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has informed the NCLT about the decision to extend the tenure to another three months or till the joining of new President, whichever is earlier. "… it has been decided to extend the tenure of Shri BSV Prakash Kuamr as acting President for a period of another three months with effect from 5th April, 2020, or till joining of new President, or until further orders, whichever is earlier," the MCA said in an intimation issued to Registrar, NCLT. "A notification for the same would be issued in due course." Earlier, Kumar was appointed as acting President for a period of three months from January 5 after the retirement of Justice MM Kumar as the NCLT President. This three months tenure was set to expire on April 5. Presently hearing of all the NCLT benches across India is closed, following the lockdown declared by the government to contain Covid-19 pandemic. The NCLT was set up under section 408 of the Companies Act, 2013 on June 1, 2016. Besides a Principal Bench at New Delhi, it has fourteen other benches across India in cities, including Ahmedabad, Allahabad, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Chennai, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, Cuttack, Jaipur, Kochi, Amravati and Indore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-tenure-of-nclt-acting-president-bsv-prakash-kumar-820744.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: SBI warns employees of action over social media posts against bank||In a recent letter to chief general managers of all circles, SBI also said action will be taken against employees who take to social media platforms to write messages disparaging the bank, its management and policies, sources said on Friday. "We have seen a spurt in social media posts pertaining to functioning of the bank's branches and offices... There have been many such posts critical of the bank not closing down operations in context of the COVID-19 outbreak, little appreciating the role of the bank at such a critical time," the sources said, quoting a circular. The lender has already initiated action against two of its employees based in West Bengal for "offensive" posts against the bank and a senior management official, they said. The move has met with criticism by a large section of SBI employees, who called it an attempt to muzzle free speech and expression. "Being a citizen of a democratic country, we have a broader right to express our views on social media about the situations that affect our day lives, without divulging details of our organisation or using derogatory language... this circular is an attempt to curb our rights enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution," said an SBI employee, who preferred not to be named. A senior United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) official told PTI that SBI is the only bank to have come out with such a circular amid the coronavirus crisis. An official of the All India Bank Officers Confederation (AIBOC) said the state-run lender's circular on social media posts of its employees is "definitely" a breach of their democratic rights. "Indecent language in social media against banks is not encouraged, but employees are well within rights to flag concerns through their posts," he said. When contacted, SBI Chief General Manager, Kolkata Circle, Ranjan Kumar Mishra, said the bank has a social media policy in place which every employee is expected to adhere to, failing which action could be initiated. "Everybody is free to express themselves on social media regarding COVID-19 or any other subject, but if such posts tarnish the image of the bank and is violative of the set code of conduct, then disciplinary action might be taken after investigation," Mishra told PTI. On reports that some of its employees are placed under suspension over recent social media posts, he said such steps are "regular internal matters of the bank". Mishra also said SBI has been largely successful in managing customer flow at its branches across the country amid the ongoing lockdown, and help of local authorities is being sought wherever required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sbi-warns-employees-of-action-over-social-media-posts-against-bank-820748.html
03-04-2020||National||No vision of future, just feel-good moment curated by 'Photo-Op PM': Shashi Tharoor on Narendra Modi's video message||Opposition on Friday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for exhorting people to light candles on Sunday at 9:00 p.m., saying they had expected him to announce a second financial package to alleviate the pain and anxieties of the people. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor described Modi as “Pradhan Showman” and a “Photo-Op Prime Minister”, while former Finance Minister P Chidambaram advised the prime minister to listen to the opposition and to the wise counsel of epidemiologists and economists. Listened to the Pradhan Showman. Nothing about how to ease people’s pain, their burdens, their financial anxieties. No vision of the future or sharing the issues he is weighing in deciding about the post-lockdown. Just a feel-good moment curated by India’s Photo-Op PrimeMinister! “What we expected from you today was FAP II (Financial Action Plan), a generous livelihood support package for the poor, including the categories of the poor who were completely ignored by Nirmala Sitharaman on March 25,” Chidambaram said. “Turn out lights and come on balconies? Get real Mr Modi. Give India fiscal package worth 8-10 per cent of GDP,” Trinamool Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra said.. “This is no accident: the PM spoke on Ram Navami at 9 am for 9 mins, asked us to light diyas & candles on 5/4 at 9 pm for 9 mins. He is invoking all the auspicious elements Hinduism associates with number 9. Back to Ram Bharose?! #COVID19 must be more serious than we thought,” Tharoor said. The opposition leaders, remarks came after Modi gave a pep talk to the people under lock down and urged people to light a candle or “diya” on April 5 at 9 p.m. for nine minutes to dispel the darkness and gloom brought about by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-vision-of-future-just-feel-good-moment-curated-by-photo-op-pm-shashi-tharoor-on-narendra-modis-video-message-820765.html
03-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: SC rejects plea for using hotels as shelters for migrant workers||The Supreme Court Friday dismissed a plea seeking direction for using resorts and hotels for migrant workers walking back to their native places after being rendered jobless following 21-day lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic as shelter homes where they are kept allegedly lack adequate sanitation facilities. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta, which heard the matter through video-conferencing, observed that the court cannot force the government to listen to all the ideas as people may come up with millions of ideas. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, raised objections on the application and said that state governments have already taken over buildings like schools and others to use them as shelter for migrants. The apex court is already seized of petitions which have raised the issue related to migration of daily wagers from cities to their native places amid the lockdown. On March 31, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, had directed the Centre to ensure that migrant workers kept in shelter homes are given food and adequate medical aid. The top court, which had also asked the Centre to take assistance of trained counsellors and religious leaders of all faiths to help the migrants overcome their panic, had observed that "panic will destroy more lives than the virus". It had also asked the Centre to set up within 24 hours a portal for dissemination of real-time information on COVID-19 pandemic to counter the panic and fear being spread through fake news. The solicitor general had told the bench on March 31 that no migrant worker, who had left for their native places, "is on the road now".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-sc-rejects-plea-for-using-hotels-as-shelters-for-migrant-workers-820781.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Northern, North Central Railway modifying 680 coaches to accommodate 11,000 patients||Northern Railway and North Central Railway are working on a war footing to prepare 680 isolation coaches to accommodate nearly 11,000 people in case there is a sudden spurt in coronavirus positive cases, a senior official said on Friday. As many as 68 trains with 10 coaches each are being modified and they are expected to be ready within a week to accommodate 10,880 people, Rajiv Chaudhary, who holds the charge of General Manager for both the zones, told PTI. He, however, said these isolation coaches are suitable for only those coronavirus patients who do not have breathing problems and those having no hospital or quarantine facility in their nearby areas. Those having respiratory issues will have to be admitted to a proper hospital, he said. Multiple teams of railway doctors and paramedical staff will be deployed at these facilities, he said. These trains will be taken to remote areas and kept at a railway station, he said. Every train will have 10 coaches having eight cabins each in which two patients can be kept, Chaudhary said, adding that while 39 trains are being prepared by the Northern Railway, the North Central Railway is modifying 29 coaches. A special emphasis will be given on sanitation and food facilities for the patients, Chaudhary said. The North Central Railway has started the work of converting the train coaches and it is likely to be complete by April 7, seven days ahead of the April 14 deadline given to it, he said. The railways has directed all its divisions to prepare 5,000 special coaches in order to deal with the situation if there is a sudden spike in the number of cases, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-northern-north-central-railway-modifying-680-coaches-to-accommodate-11000-patients-820792.html
03-04-2020||National||PM discusses COVID-19 with top sportspersons, seeks support for awareness campaigns||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday discussed the the rapidly-growing threat of the COVID-19 pandemic with India's top athletes, including cricket icon Virat Kohli and star shuttler P V Sindhu, urging them to support awareness campaigns on social distancing. More than 40 athletes, along with sports minister Kiren Rijiju, participated in nearly an hour-long video call which started at 11am. The country is in a 21-day lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. The Prime Minister sought the athletes' support to raise awareness about the need for social distancing and personal hygiene at a time when the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in India has crossed 2,000. "Your suggestions will be taken note of. We are fighting this pandemic like Team India. I am confident that India will be rejuvenated by the inspiration provided by you," the Prime Minister can be seen telling athletes in a clip shared by shuttler B Sai Praneeth, a world championship bronze-medallist, who also attended the call. All sporting activities are currently shut in the country and it is still not clear when normalcy will resume. The much-anticipated Indian Premier League is among the big-ticket Indian events suspended till April 15. When Ganguly was asked about the development this morning, he said, "Yes, I will be joining our Honourable PM via video call." But he refused to go into the details. Cricketers formed a major chunk of the participating list. Apart from Tendulkar, Ganguly and Kohli, others in the call included top batsman Rohit Sharma, former pacer Zaheer Khan, Yuvraj Singh. The names of World Cup-winning former captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni and K L Rahul were in the list of participants but it is learnt that they could not attend the call. Olympic silver-medallist shuttler Sindhu, javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, chess wizard Viswanathan Anand, sprinter Hima Das, boxing stars M C Mary Kom and Amit Panghal, wrestler Vinesh Phogat, and teenage shooting sensation Manu Bhaker were among the other accomplished athletes who took part in the video call. "Of these, 12 have been given three minutes each to speak and present their view," a ministry source told PTI without revealing the names of the chosen athletes. It was later learnt that Tendulkar, Ganguly, Mary Kom and Kohli were among those who spoke during the interaction. Former world champion weightlifter Mirabai Chanu said the PM urged everyone to be united in the fight to combat the pandemic. "The PM asked us to spread awareness on social distancing and hygiene. He spoke about how we need Virat's (Kohli) fighting spirit to win this battle," added veteran table tennis player Sharath Kamal. The Prime Minister felt ability to face challenges, self-discipline, positivity and self-belief, which are essential to sports, are crucial tools to combat the spread of the virus as well. Sporting action has come to a halt the world over with all major events either cancelled or postponed. The list of postponed events includes the Tokyo Olympics and the European football championships, while among the biggest to be cancelled this year is the Wimbledon championship. The deadly outbreak has caused more than 50 deaths in India. The global death toll has crossed 50,000. India's 21-day lockdown ends on April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-discusses-covid-19-with-top-sportspersons-seeks-support-for-awareness-campaigns-820793.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: IIT alumni develop drone with infrared camera for thermal screening||Three alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) have developed a drone equipped with infrared camera which can help in thermal screening of groups without human intervention and identify suspected COVID-19 cases at an early stage once the lockdown is lifted. The drone also has a loudspeaker which can be used by personnel to monitor places especially with high disease prevalence and give appropriate instructions. The alumni team from IIT Guwahati, which has founded a start up called Marut Dronetech, is already conducting trial runs in coordination with state governments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh besides Trichy Municipal Corporation. "Once the lockdown is eased, and people start gathering it will be difficult to ensure social distancing and hence enhanced risk of virus spread till the time situation is completely in control," Prem Kumar Vislawath, an electronic and communications engineering graduate, told PTI. "Drones are being made for lot of other activities including delivery of foods and medicines and spraying disinfectants, we realised that to limit the risk of the personnel getting infected while conducting temperature checks, drones equipped with infrared cameras to test temperature measurements can be used," he said. "Any abnormalities can be marked as suspects for COVID-19. This information can be used by health workers and officials to take further measures. This will help in the identification of infection in a person at a much early stage and can prove to be vital in the present scenario," he added. According to another team member, Suraj Peddi, the group tested different ways to calibrate airborne infrared cameras to measure body temperature. "Results showed that by installing a cotton swab within the field of view of the thermal camera, the camera can get an accurate reading. The calibrated drone camera can then be used to measure body temperatures while the officer remains at a safe distance away. While the results are encouraging, it is essential to mention this solution is not designed to be used for standard medical procedures," he added.  Elaborating on the development, another team member Sai Kumar Chinthala, said, "At a time when countries across the world are submitting to mass lockdowns owing to the ongoing pandemic, drones have emerged as a fresh breath of air, by proving to be an alternative and plausible lifeline for stranded populations advised social-distancing". According to the Union Health Ministry, the number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,301 in the country on Wednesday while the death toll rose to 56, The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 2,088, while 156 people were either cured or discharged and one migrated to another country, the ministry stated The figure of 2,301 includes 55 foreign nationals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-iit-alumni-develop-drone-with-infrared-camera-for-thermal-screening-820801.html
03-04-2020||National||Lockdown: Odisha CM asks landlords to waive off or defer rent of poor tenants||In view of the ongoing nationwide lockdown to slow the spread of the coronavirus, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has appealed to landlords to be compassionate to poor and waive or at least defer house rent by three months. Through this gesture it can be demonstrated that people of Odisha care for each other at a time when the entire country is under lockdown, the chief minister said. "It is time for everyone to be there for each other as the entire country is under lockdown and fighting an unprecedented pandemic of #COVID-19. Appeal house owners to be compassionate to poor & waive off or at least defer the rent by 3 months. Let's show the world that OdishaCares," Patnaik tweeted. Tenants should not be asked to vacate for non-payment of rent in such difficult times, he said. Noting that the world is facing an unprecedented crisis, the chief minister said, "Let each of us rise up and be there for each other during these hard times". Patnaik's appeal comes a few days after the Union Home Ministry said that landlords cannot demand rent from students, workers and migrant labourers for a month. The chief minister had last week announced a Rs 2,200 crore special financial package to assist the weaker section of society hit hard due to the 21-day lockdown. The state government has also announced financial assistance of Rs 3,000 each to street vendors across 114 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in view of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-odisha-cm-asks-landlords-to-waive-off-or-defer-rent-of-poor-tenants-820803.html
03-04-2020||National||ICMR gives go ahead for COVID-19 testing in labs under DBT, CSIR, DAE||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its consent for initiation of COVID-19 testing in laboratories under the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and Department of Atomic Energy (DAE). The DBT, DST, CSIR and DAE laboratories have been advised to strictly follow ICMR guidelines before initiation of testing for coronavirus infection, an ICMR official said. Adding a note of caution, the apex health research body said that "SARs-CoV 2 is high-risk pathogen with high transmissbility and infectivity. Sample handling at too many points and by inadequately trained staff can lead to spills and laboratory outbreaks." The  ICMR will not provide diagnostic kits/reagents to these laboratories and laboratory test should be offered only when the sample is referred by the State Health officials or State Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). Since these research institutes are of eminence under other research organisations, ICMR will not conduct any site assessment nor accord approval for initiation of testing at these laboratories.  Secretary of these departments concerned may accord approval for initiation of testing as deemed appropriate, the official said, adding the responsibility of these laboratories will lie with departments concerned and not ICMR. These testing laboratories have been asked to ensure immediate/real-time reporting to state officials of IDSP for timely initiation of contract tracing and also follow a  robust institutional policy on biomedical waste management of human origin||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-gives-go-ahead-for-covid-19-testing-in-labs-under-dbt-csir-dae-820805.html
03-04-2020||National||Stay home, save lives: Google Doodle shares tips to prevent spread of coronavirus||Highlighting the importance of staying indoors to prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus infection, search engine giant Google, on Friday, shared the message of "stay home, save lives" with a colourful doodle on its homepage. The doodle showed animated letters of the word "Google" engaged in different activities that one can take up within the confines of their homes. While one immersed itself in reading, another played a guitar, and some talked to each other over a phone call. Clicking on the doodle redirects the user to another page that lists "Coronavirus tips”. "As COVID-19 continues to impact communities around the world, help stop the spread by following these steps," the page reads. The pandemic has claimed 56 lives in India, while 2,301 people have been tested positive for the virus. The webpage lists "Stay home", "Keep a safe distance", "Wash hands often", "Cover your cough", and "Sick? Call the helpline" as the steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus. It also features a list of Dos and Don’ts. "Wash your hands regularly for 20 seconds, with soap and water or alcohol-based hand rub. Cover your nose and mouth with a disposable tissue or flexed elbow when you cough or sneeze. Avoid close contact (1 meter or 3 feet) with people who are unwell. Stay home and self-isolate from others in the household if you feel unwell," reads the list of precautions to be taken. Further it also suggested not to "touch your eyes, nose, or mouth if your hands are not clean".  The webpage also shows an interactive map of the world with realtime coronavirus statistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stay-home-save-lives-google-doodle-shares-tips-to-prevent-spread-of-coronavirus-820809.html
03-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Will publicise notification to control prices of masks and sanitizers, Centre tells SC||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Friday that it would publicise helpline numbers for effective implementation of its notification meant to control prices of face masks and sanitizers amid the coronavirus pandemic The top court, through video conferencing, was hearing the plea of NGO 'Justice For Rights Foundation' and others seeking direction to ensure fair and equitable distribution of masks and also the sale and distribution of hand sanitizers and liquid soap among the public to deal with the pandemic, also called COVID-19. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta, which had earlier issued notices to the Centre and the Delhi government on the PIL, was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the Centre is looking into the matter and will publish and publicize helpline numbers for effective implementation of its notification to control prices of said masks and sanitizers. Lawyer Amit Kumar Sharma, appearing for the NGO, has sought the court's intervention to ensure that sale of masks and sanitizers take place at controlled and prescribed price. The NGO said though steps have been taken, their implementation has not been timely and effective and the same is required to be done for controlling the spread of this pandemic. It also said government officials including policemen be advised to take immediate and strict action in this regard of black-marketing and hoarding of masks and sanitizers. The top court on April 1 had sought responses from the Centre and the Delhi government on the plea seeking direction to ensure fair and equitable distribution of masks and also the sale and distribution of hand sanitizers and liquid soap among the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-will-publicise-notification-to-control-prices-of-masks-and-sanitizers-centre-tells-sc-820810.html
03-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: NSA to be slapped against those who attack policemen enforcing lockdown in UP||The state government's move to invoke the NSA comes in view of reports of several incidents of attack on policemen enforcing the lockdown. "The police is doing its duty by preventing people to come out during lockdown. There have been incidents in the state in which policemen were attacked by people. To deter such persons, it has been decided to invoke NSA against such persons," a senior Home Department official told PTI. The move is aimed to deter those who are taking lockdown lightly and even attacking policemen when they are prevented, he said. In one such incident in Muzaffar Nagar, a sub-inspector and a constable were seriously injured when a police team trying to enforce the ongoing lockdown was attacked by a group of villagers on Apr 1. The police team was patrolling Morna village area in Muzaffar Nagar and had spotted the residents gathered outside. When the villagers were asked to follow the prohibitory orders, they started pelting stones at the police personnel while some of them even started attacking the officials with iron roads. Some other such incidents have also been reported in the state where people are not taking the lockdown seriously, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-nsa-to-be-slapped-against-those-who-attack-policemen-enforcing-lockdown-in-up-820813.html
03-04-2020||National||The arduous journey of a bereaved son from Delhi to a village in Bihar amidst the coronavirus lockdown||Long after the governments of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh were done with ferrying Bihari migrants to their homes by busloads, a young daily wage labourer found himself at the Anand Vihar bus terminus in the national capital, grieving for his mother. Mukesh Yadav alias Dipu (26), who hails from Bhagalpur district, had been crestfallen ever since receiving a call from his father on Monday evening that his mother was killed in a freak accident that left her head severed from her body. Working as a daily wage earner since he was only 14, Dipu was out of work but had planned to stay back at his shanty in Sarai Kale Khan until receiving the terrible news. We had been visiting the Anand Vihar bus terminus with food for the hapless migrants ever since the mass exodus began. On Monday evening, the number of people was far less and it appeared that the business of sending off migrants was over. Suddenly we spotted this young man, weeping inconsolably," says Yogita Bhayana, a Delhi-based social worker. Bhayana, who has been better known for her activism against sexual crimes in the aftermath of the Nirbhaya gang rape incident, swung into action but met with initial disappointment. "I rang up many legislators and bureaucrats in Delhi for help. They all told me the restrictions on movement of people from one place to another have tightened and it was impossible to help Dipu reach his village and attend his mothers funeral. "I tweeted furiously, tagging the chief ministers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, hoping for help to come from whichever corner possible. I was told that my tweets had gone viral, with Bihar politicians like Tejashwi Yadav, Pappu Yadav and Chirag Paswan sharing these on their official handles. However, concrete help eluded us, she told PTI over phone. Bhayana said that it was late in the evening when she got a call from the Resident Commissioner of Bihar Vipin Gupta, who said he had been tipped off about her tweets by the office of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. "Gupta asked me to come right away which I did. He was forthcoming with help and wasted no time in giving a signed and stamped letter authorising travel to Bihar. There was a small obstacle, though, as he said he was not in a position to arrange a vehicle.   "My younger brother Hemant, a passionate animal lover, then demonstrated that he cared no less for humans," she remarked fondly. Hemant took Dipu in his car and took off for a gruelling, more than 1,000 kilometers long drive, around midnight on Tuesday. "Another associate of ours, Rohit, joined him to take turns at the steering wheel. I had stuffed Hemant's car with food but it could not have kept fatigue at bay," she added. On Wednesday evening, the car reached Dipu's village in Shahkund block. Dipu was disappointed that he was not there when his mother was cremated the previous evening but satisfied that at last he was with his family in their hour of grief. "I shall be indebted to Yogita didi (elder sister) for the rest of my life. She helped me when I had lost all hope. My father was alone. I am the only son. My sisters are married," said Dipu. Relieved at the mission being accomplished, Bhayana had only one thing in her mind - that her "brother returns home at the earliest". "I must express my gratitude to Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti whom I had called up for help and who ensured that Hemant reached his destination without any hassles. "Bharti was kind enough to have arranged a place for the night stay of Hemant and Rohit. It is another thing that they were eager to return and began their journey back home immediately," she added. Bhayana also expressed her gratitude to Manoj Kumar Tiwari, the Superintendent of Police of Gopalganj, for his positive response when she called him to inform that Hemant might halt there for some brief rest and refreshments. "Bihar officials have surprised me with their humaneness. I wish their counterparts in the Delhi cadre took a leaf out of their book," she remarked. "Social service is a never-ending journey. Soon after word spread about Dipu, I was approached by Sheikhpura residents Pankaj and Roshan, who have lost their father," Bhayana said. The Bihar Resident Commissioner authorised their travel on Thursday. "A vehicle has been arranged and the brothers have left for their destination. I pray to the Almighty to make me strong so that I can help more and more people," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-arduous-journey-of-a-bereaved-son-from-delhi-to-a-village-in-bihar-amidst-the-coronavirus-lockdown-820815.html
03-04-2020||National||BJP President Nadda asks BJP workers to spread PM Modi's message to masses||BJP president J P Nadda asked party workers on Friday to spread among the masses Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message to light lamps or turn on mobile phone torches on Sunday.  The way in which the entire country has fought the battle against the novel coronavirus unitedly under Modi's leadership is laudable, Nadda tweeted.  Noting that Modi has urged people to turn off lights at their homes and light candles, lamps or turn on mobile phone torches at 9 pm on Sunday for nine minutes, the BJP president asked party workers to take this message to the masses.  This exercise will help spread the light of the people's collective confidence and this will defeat the darkness of the coronavirus crisis, he said.  Other BJP leaders also made similar appeals while welcoming the announcement.  Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said, "PM Narendra Modi has made an appeal to all of us to switch off lights on April 5th for 9 minutes at 9 PM & illuminate our surroundings by lighting candles, diyas, torches or flashlights standing on balcony or at door step while maintaining social distance."  "We welcome this unique step of PM, which will boost the morale of the people," he said.  Let's awaken the spirit of togetherness in the fight against the coronavirus, Javadekar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-president-nadda-asks-bjp-workers-to-spread-pm-modis-message-to-masses-820817.html
03-04-2020||National||CNG, piped cooking gas price in Delhi, adjoining cities cut||The price of CNG used in automobiles and cooking gas piped to household kitchens was on Friday cut by 7 per cent in step with a reduction in input natural gas prices. Indraprastha Gas Ltd, the retailer of CNG and piped natural gas in the national capital and adjoining areas, said CNG price in Delhi will be cut by Rs 3.20 to Rs 42 per kg. In adjoining Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, the reduction would be Rs 3.60 to Rs 47.75 per kg. IGL, in a statement, also announced cut in its domestic piped natural gas prices by Rs 1.55 per standard cubic meters to Rs 28.55 per scm in Delhi. Piped natural gas in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad would be Rs 28.45 SCM, a reduction of Rs 1.65 per scm from Rs 30.10. This is the second reduction in rates in six months. CNG price was on October 2, 2019, cut by Rs 1.90 per kg in Delhi and by Rs 2.15 per kg in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. On that day piped natural gas rates were cut by Rs 0.90 per SCM in Delhi and by Rs 0.40 in neighbouring towns in Uttar Pradesh. The latest reduction follows the government cutting the price paid for natural gas produced from domestic fields by 26 per cent to USD 2.39 per million British thermal unit effective April 1. Natural gas gets converted into CNG on compression and is also supplied for lighting cooking stoves through pipes. IGL said the revised CNG price in Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh would be Rs 56.65 per kg, in Karnal would be Rs 49.85 per kg and in Rewari and Gurugram would be Rs 54.15 per kg. In Rewari, the applicable price of domestic PNG would now be Rs 28.60 per scm, which has been decreased by Rs 1.55 per scm. IGL sells PNG to over 9 lakh households in Delhi and over 4.5 lakh households in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Rewari in Haryana. In order to promote cashless transactions and push CNG refueling during off-peak hours, a special cashback scheme of Re 0.50 per kg is also offered for CNG fueling done only at IGL CNG Stations through IGL Smart Cards between 11 am to 4 pm and 12 am to 6 am, the company said. "With the revised price, CNG would offer over 56 per cent savings towards the running cost when compared to petrol-driven vehicles at the current level of prices. When compared to diesel driven vehicles, the economics in favour of CNG at a revised price would be over 32 per cent," it said. IGL, which had rationalised operation of its CNG stations in view of slump in demand following vehicles going off-road due to Covid-19 lockdown, said the rationalised CNG services for public fueling shall continue during the lockdown period primarily to meet the requirements of emergency and essential service vehicles. A total of 276 CNG stations are being run during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cng-piped-cooking-gas-price-in-delhi-adjoining-cities-cut-820824.html
03-04-2020||National||No democracy is fighting pandemic by gagging its media: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India has said it is "deeply perturbed" over the government blaming the media in the Supreme Court for causing panic among migrant workers, leading to their exodus in the wake of the lockdown, and asserted that such actions could obstruct the process of dissemination of news. In a strongly-worded statement, the guild said that blaming the media at this juncture can only undermine the current work being done by it under trying circumstances. "The Editors Guild of India is deeply perturbed over the recent government statement before the Supreme Court putting the blame on the media for causing panic among migrant workers leading to their mass movement in the wake of the lockdown," the statement said. This led the apex court to observe that while it did not want to inhibit the debate on the pandemic in any way, the media should refer to and publish the official version of the developments pertaining to the coronavirus pandemic, the guild said in the statement issued on Thursday night. The guild stated that it holds the court in the highest respect, but finds this advice "gratuitous and unnecessary". Such charges can also obstruct in the process of dissemination of news during an unprecedented crisis facing the country, it said. "No democracy anywhere in the world is fighting the pandemic by gagging its media," it said. Meanwhile, the Press Club of India (PCI), in a statement on Friday, said it is dismayed by the pleading of the Union government that practically appears to suggest that only the official version of the situation arising out of the massive COVID-19 crisis be reflected in the media. "This borders on censorship and we forcefully reject such an approach and express our sharp criticism of it," the PCI said. "The Supreme Court evidently was also not persuaded by the official approach. It asked the government to make its version available on a routine basis for the media. This thankfully makes facts disseminated by the government easily accessible," it said. The top court was careful not to stop the media from doing its work, the PCI noted. The mainstream media has on the whole rendered splendid service in making available reliable information, often dispelling sensationalism and fake information circulating on social media that can hamper the work against the COVID-19 pandemic or can spark social tension, it said. In doing its work, the mainstream media has on some issues attempted to show lapses in the official effort, it said, adding that this is very important for society and for the government. The PCI also hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the filing of an FIR against Siddharth Vardarajan, founder-editor of the "The Wire", saying it is reprehensible. "This media outlet had merely reported that UP CM Adityanath had presided over a religious ceremony in Ayodhya recently with a large body of people in attendance after the national lockdown announced by the PM," it said. Chief ministers, other high political and executive functionaries should present a good example to society and it is not expected that they threaten the media in doing an honest job, the PCI said in the statement signed by its president Anand K Sahay and secretary-general Anant Bagaitkar. The guild also hit out at the lodging of a First Information Report against the editor-in-chief of 'TheWire'. "A police action in the form of an FIR under criminal laws at this stage is an overreaction and an act of intimidation," the guild said. Any such intimidation of the media or blaming the media for mass migration of workers will be counterproductive, it said, adding that such actions will be tantamount to disabling the messenger. "The Guild believes for sure that the media must be responsible, free and fair. But such interference can only undermine those goals," the statement said. Taking a serious note of the panic caused among migrant workers due to fake news, the Supreme Court had earlier this week said it expects the media including print, electronic and social to maintain a strong sense of responsibility and ensure that "unverified news" with regard to coronavirus pandemic is not disseminated. The top court had said the migration of a large number of labourers working in the cities was triggered by panic created by fake news that the lockdown would continue for more than three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-democracy-is-fighting-pandemic-by-gagging-its-media-editors-guild-820836.html
03-04-2020||National||NSA against Jamaat members for misbehaving with female nurses, attacking cops||Taking a tough stand against alleged 'misbehaviour' with female nurses by some Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the recent religious event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi and had been quarantined at a Ghaziabad hospital, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday hinted that the offenders might be booked under the stringent National Security Act (NSA). The female nurses at the hospital had written to the chief medical officer (CMO) stating that some quarantined 'Jamaat' members made ''obscene gestures, listening to vulgar songs'' and 'misbehaving' with them. It was also alleged that they often walked nude in the corridors of the hospital. The state government has also decided to deploy only male nursing staff at the ward, where the quarantined 'Jamaat' members were kept, officials here said. A complaint was also lodged with the police in this regard, they said adding that the 'Jamaat' members were shifted to another hospital after the complaint. ''These people (Jamaat members) are the enemy of humanity....they do not obey the laws....it is heinous crime,'' chief minister Yogi Adityanath was quoted as having told the officials. The state government has also decided to slap the NSA against those, who had allegedly attacked the cops, when the latter tried to stop them from offering 'namaz' (prayers) at public places in groups, in Rampur, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Aligarh districts.  Around half a dozen cops had sustained injuries when they were pelted with stones, while trying to persuade the people to stay indoors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nsa-against-jamaat-members-for-misbehaving-with-female-nurses-attacking-cops-820847.html
03-04-2020||National||India's power demand falls over 25% to 125.81 GW on April 2 due to COVID-19 lockdown||India's peak power demand slipped over 25 per cent to 125.81 GW on Thursday compared 168.32 GW on April 2 amid the lockdown to contain COVID-19 outbreak, showed power ministry data. In actual terms, the demand fell around 43 GW on Thursday compared to the same day a year ago. However, the data showed that peak power demand met has stabilised around 120 GW after March 22. The government has imposed 3-week lockdown to fight the pandemic from March 24. The demand was down mainly due to lower requirements from industry and state power distribution companies (discoms) across the country due to the lockdown. The peak power demand met is the actual highest energy supply during the day across the country. According to the data, the peak demand met was 163.72 GW on March 20, which came down to 161.74 GW on March 21. This dropped sharply to 135.20 GW on March 22 due a call for 'Janata Curfew' by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The data also showed that the peak demand met improved slightly to 145.49 GW on March 23 but fell again to 135.93 GW on March 24 and subsequently to 127.96 GW on March 25. The demand fell sharply to 120.31 GW on March 26 and to 115.23 GW on March 27, indicating continuous slump in demand. However, there was little improvement on March 28 as the peak demand met rose slightly to 117.76 GW and to 120.18 GW the following day. The demand stood at 120.79GW on March 30; 123.08 GW on March 31; 123.30 GW on April 1 and 125.81 GW on April 2. The peak power demand met was 168.7 GW in March and 176.81 GW in April last year. India's peak power demand (met) was recorded at 170.17 GW on March 3, 2020. During the remaining ten days of the last month, the peak power demand was 145.49 GW on March 23. The spot power price touched a three-year low of 60 paise per unit for supplies on last Wednesday (March 25) on the Indian Energy Exchange due to low demand. The average spot power price is hovering around Rs 2.50 per unit at electricity exchanges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-power-demand-falls-over-25-to-12581-gw-on-april-2-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-820850.html
03-04-2020||National||OPD services at LNJP and GB Pant hospitals to be closed from April 4: Authorities||The OPD services at the LNJP Hospital and the GB Pant Hospital will be closed from April 4 onwards, Delhi government authorities said on Friday. Both these hospitals are among the five facilities in Delhi designated for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The decision was taken during a meeting held on Thursday by the Delhi health minister. It was decided that OPD services at the LNJP and GB Pant hospitals will be closed, the order issued on Friday said. The order will come into effect from April 4, it said. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi nearly doubled to 293 on Thursday with 141 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opd-services-at-lnjp-and-gb-pant-hospitals-to-be-closed-from-april-4-authorities-820851.html
03-04-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for free testing of COVID-19||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government to respond to a plea by a lawyer to provide free of cost testing facility of COVID-19.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta issued notice to the Centre on a PIL by Shashank Deo Sudhi. The government has last month allowed private accredited labs to conduct the COVID-19 test at Rs 4,500. The petitioner asked the court to declare the advisory of March 17, issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as arbitrary and unconstitutional for violating Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, for discriminating the accessibility of testing facilities for COVID-19 in an extraordinary health crisis. “The government of our country is completely caught in a dilemma and is forced to take an irrational decision of arbitrary capping in respect of the testing facility for COVID-19 in private hospitals/laboratories at a rate of Rs 4500. This decision is extremely sad and unfortunate," the petition stated.  The petitioner also sought a direction to the ICMR and others for ramping up the testing facilities at the earliest given the escalating mortality and morbidity rate across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-free-testing-of-covid-19-820857.html
03-04-2020||National||ICMR recommends antibody test for speedy detection of COVID-19 cases||To ensure speedy detection of coronavirus cases, those residing in COVID-19 hotspots or areas which have reported large numbers of cases may have to undergo a rapid antibody blood test for the viral infection. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in its interim advisory has recommended the use of the rapid antibody test in the country's coronavirus hotspots. The decision for the recommendation was taken at an emergency meeting of the National Task Force, formed to deal with the health crisis, held on Thursday. "Population in hotspot areas may be tested using rapid antibody test. Antibody positives to be confirmed by RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) using throat/nasal swab, and antibody negatives to be quarantined at home," the ICMR said in its interim advisory. The Health Ministry has identified 20 existing and 22 potential COVID-19 hotpsots across the country. The results of the antibody tests, similar to other blood tests, are available in 15-30 minutes.   Presently the government uses the PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests to detect coronavirus from samples of throat or nasal swab of people with symptoms or high-risk individuals who might have come in contact with positive patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-recommends-antibody-test-for-speedy-detection-of-covid-19-cases-820858.html
03-04-2020||National||At least 1,000 undertrials released on bail in Bengal||At least 1,000 undertrial prisoners have been released from various correctional homes in West Bengal on interim bail in keeping with the Supreme Court's directions to consider decongesting the jails in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, a senior official said here on Friday. The process of granting bail to the undertrials commenced on March 23, State Legal Services Authority secretary Durga Khaitan said. Following the apex court's direction, the Calcutta High Court had formed a three-member committee to examine the situation in correctional homes in the state and the number of inmates who can be granted bail or parole to decongest the jails. The committee is headed by Calcutta High Court judge Justice Dipankar Datta, who is also the chairman of State Legal Services Authority, while the Director General (Prisons) and Principal Secretary of the Home Department are the members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-1000-undertrials-released-on-bail-in-bengal-820861.html
03-04-2020||National||CERT-In alerts people about fake UPI IDs seeking donations towards PM-CARES Fund||Cyber security watchdog CERT-In has alerted people about fake UPI IDs similar to that of PM-CARES Fund and appealed to all to check the authenticity of the original ID before donating. The IDs have been created on UPI handle of Indian banks including PNB, HDFC Bank, SBI, ICICI Bank, Yes Bank, to mislead people. "CERT-In has received several reports about fake UPI IDs, which are similar to the UPI ID used by the 'Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund," the cyber watchdog said. CERT-In said that pmcares@pnb, pmcares@hdfcbank, pmcare@yesbank, pmcare@ybl, pmcare@upi, pmcare@sbi and pmcare@icici are fake ids. "It may be noted that the genuine UPI Id is "pmcares@sbi" and registered account name is "PM CARES". It is advised that citizens may verify the UPI ID and registered name before making any donations," CERT-In said. The Prime Minister's Office had announced setting up of this fund on March 28 with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the coronavirus pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected, a public charitable trust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cert-in-alerts-people-about-fake-upi-ids-seeking-donations-towards-pm-cares-fund-820862.html
03-04-2020||National||Northeast Delhi violence: Police asks people to join probe||The Delhi Police's Crime Branch has sent notices to people in Northeast Delhi asking them to join investigation in connection with the violence in the area in which 53 people were killed and over 200 injured, officials said on Friday. The notices have been sent under section 160 and 175 Code of Criminal Procedure, asking them to join the probe at the office of the Crime Branch at Nand Nagri, they said. "Notices have been sent to people whose presence were established through technical surveillance and other sources at locations where the riots took place in February," a police official said. He added that in case they are unable to join the investigation at the Crime Branch office due to lockdown restrictions, they have also been asked to convey the same so that a police team could visit their place for questioning. At least five notices have been sent to such people since March 31 whose presence was established at the locations of the riots like Shiv Vihar area and other parts of Northeast Delhi, the official said. But none of them have joined the probe yet, he added. In February, the northeast part of the national capital was rocked with violence. The areas worst affected in the violence included Jaffrabad, Maujpur, Chand Bagh, Khureji Khas and Bhajanpura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/northeast-delhi-violence-police-asks-people-to-join-probe-820863.html
03-04-2020||National||CRPF helpline gets 91% calls for COVID-19, lockdown info; few for rations, healthcare||Calls seeking to obtain information about COVID-19, its testing centres and lockdown related measures in the country constitute an overwhelming 91 per cent of distress messages received by a national CRPF helpline set up last week to help citizens, latest data shows. This is in comparison to only about eight per cent of distress messages received by it for supply of essentials like rations and medicine. The Kashmir-based 'madadgaar' helpline was expanded on March 26 for a pan-India coverage with the addition of WhatsApp number- 7082814411 to help those affected by lockdown and other restrictions declared by the government to contain the spread of coronavirus. It earlier used to only serve states in the northern part, with a strong focus on Kashmir valley and Kashmiris, through its landline number 14411 and Twitter handle @CRPFmadadgaar. As per latest data accessed by PTI, a total of 4,713 calls and messages were received by the helpline between March 26-April 2 out of which 4,289 (91 per cent) pertained to seeking information about the COVID-19 pandemic and related issues like when will the ongoing lockdown end, when will the trains services resume and even asking what kind of measures the government is taking to ensure that the disease does not spread. The data said these information-seeking calls or messages on the telephone line, WhatsApp, Twitter, email and FaceBook were about people seeking details of testing laboratories, quarantine centres, treatment facilities in their vicinity or for places where the caller had a near or dear one residing. People also contacted the 'madadgaar' helpline seeking contact details of medical and other essential services in their area, local police and administrative helplines and issues related to the ongoing 21-day lockdown that was declared on the midnight of March 24. A number of callers also sought information about the preventive measures to be deployed to combat the viral disease that has infected lakhs of people and killed thousands across the globe. "We had thought that the new helpline for COVID-19 will be deluged with calls for supply of rations and hence we were planning logistics and manpower for these physical deliveries. "But we were surprised that the overwhelming majority of calls were about seeking a variety of information about the pandemic and other details related to restrictions imposed due to the lockdown," CRPF Special Director General (JK zone) Zulfiqar Hasan told PTI. These figures also reflect that the supply of rations and other essential goods, including that under the public distribution system (PDS) is running well in the country, the officer said.  IPS officer Hasan, the brain behind the helpline that was launched in 2017 with the specific aim to help Kashmiris in distress, said a number of people called the 'madadgaar' just "for seeking reassurance whether the CRPF and other security forces be there to help till the time the coronavirus challenge gets over?. We assured them of our commitment." "We have an experienced team of young troops, led by our Assistant Commandant Gul Junaid Khan, who man the helpline and know how to deal with challenges on the ground and anxieties in the mind. In view of the increased workload, we have enhanced facilities and manpower for our helpline," Hasan said. Only 5.26 per cent or 248 calls made during the last week to this helpline were for supply of rations to Kashmiri families, migrant labourers and some other people who were not able to purchase these essential items of daily use. A person in Maharashtra's Raigarh was helped with rations on Thursday after 'madadgaar' involved the state police, a senior official said. The helpline received a total of 108 calls and messages (2.29 per cent), during the same period, seeking help for supply of medicines and assistance for dialysis and blood donation, the data said. The maximum of 4,455 contacts were made to the helpline through its landline number (14411) followed by 205 messages received on popular social media communication platform WhatsApp while the rest 52 were received either on the 'madadgaar' Twitter handle, FB page or email. The senior official quoted above said the follower count on social media accounts of the 'madadgaar' has gone up by few thousands over the last few days and it has fetched over 1.41 lakh impressions or engagements on these mediums over the last week. The 24x7 helpline has its official email id as crpfmadadgaar@gmail.com" and "madadgaar@crpf.gov.in and an SMS can also be sent to it over the number 7082814411. The Central Reserve Police Force is the country's largest paramilitary force or Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) with a strength of about 3.25 lakh personnel deployed for a variety of internal security duties including anti-Naxal operations and counter-terrorism combat in the Kashmir valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-helpline-gets-91-calls-for-covid-19-lockdown-info-few-for-rations-healthcare-820865.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Indore cops adopt 'ghost' drive to keep people home||The police in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city on Friday adopted a unique approach to stopping people from violating the COVID-19 lockdown, by using "ghosts" to scare them into staying indoors. The Vijay Nagar police enlisted the help of some social workers, who donned black masks and attires with images of lungs, and walked around slums and crowded colonies to frighten residents into staying home, an official said. The police filmed the "ghost" drive and posted videos of it on social media. "We have formed a special group of six social workers, who are reaching out to people living in slums and educating them about COVID-19," the official said. Volunteers disguised as ghosts scare those who loiter on roads during the curfew to warn them that if they step out, coronavirus will possess them, he said. At least 89 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Indore, of which five have succumbed to the infection. A curfew has been in place in Indore since March 25, and the state's business capital, which teemed with people 15 days ago, now resembles a ghost town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indore-cops-adopt-ghost-drive-to-keep-people-home-820869.html
03-04-2020||National||SC favours resolving road blockade issue between Karnataka and Kerala||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to resolve the issue, arising out of Karnataka putting blockade on the national highway connecting Mangaluru to Kasargod following the high incidences of COVID-19 patients in Kerala. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta asked the Union Health Secretary to discuss the issue with Health Secretaries of Kerala and Karnataka to find out a solution. The top court issued notice to Kerala and the Centre on a petition filed by Karnataka against the Kerala High Court's interim order of April 1 to open its borders with Kerala. The court decided to put the matter for further consideration on Tuesday, April 7. The court, meanwhile, said that no state should precipitate the matter at this juncture. The Karnataka government had on Thursday rushed to the top court, saying the lifting of the blockade on the National Highway linking to Kerala, would lead to "disastrous consequences" and result in "serious outbreak" of COVID-19. The state government had contended there was an "extreme urgency" to pass the order on March 31 under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, banning all movement of people and goods, including patients in order to prevent any further transmission of COVID-19. It had maintained that the blockade was the "need of the hour since Kasargod in Kerala had turned into a Coronavirus Hotspot having maximum cases of the infection".  Congress leader Mithun M Rai, who fought Lok Sabha polls unsuccessfully from Dakshina Kannada constituency, also filed a special leave petition in the top court through advocate Sanjay M Nuli, against the Kerala High Court's order. Kerala, for its part, claimed the closure of road had obstructed people to access medical facilities in Mangaluru and even resulted in the death of four persons, besides affecting the supply of essential goods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-favours-resolving-road-blockade-issue-between-karnataka-and-kerala-820872.html
03-04-2020||National||Opposition slams Narendra Modi's 'diya', 'candle' call||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged people to switch off lights in their homes and light candles, diyas or turn on mobile phone flashlights at 9 pm on Sunday in a nationwide show of solidarity to fight the pandemic. “On the 5th of April, at 9 pm, turn off all the lights in your homes, stand at your doors or in you balconies, and light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for 9 minutes. I repeat, light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights, for 9 minutes at 9 pm on the 5th of April,” the prime minister said. At the same time, Modi asked people against thronging streets. The Opposition slammed Modi over his new call, saying they had expected him to announce a second financial package. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor described Modi as “Pradhan Showman” and a “Photo-Op Prime Minister”, while former finance minister P Chidambaram advised the PM to listen to the Opposition and to the wise counsel of epidemiologists and economists. “What we expected from you today was FAP II (Financial Action Plan), a generous livelihood support package for the poor, including the categories of the poor who were completely ignored by Nirmala Sitharaman on March 25,” Chidambaram said. “Turn out lights and come on balconies? Get real Mr Modi. Give India a fiscal package worth 8-10 per cent of GDP,” Trinamool Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra said. “This is no accident: the PM spoke on Ram Navami at 9 am for 9 mins, asked us to light diyas & candles on 5/4 at 9 pm for 9 mins. He is invoking all the auspicious elements Hinduism associates with number 9. Back to Ram Bharose?! #COVID19 must be more serious than we thought,” Tharoor said. The leaders’ remarks came after Modi gave pep talk to the people under lockdown and urged them to light a candle or ‘diya’ on April 5 at 9 pm for nine minutes to dispel the darkness and gloom brought about by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-slams-narendra-modis-diya-candle-call-820879.html
03-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Shiv Sena slams organisers of Delhi's Nizamuddin gathering||The Shiv Sena on Friday said holding a religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin area at the time of coronavirus pandemic was an "inhuman" act and came down heavily on the organisers of the last month's event. The mega gathering at Tablighi Jamaat's headquarters at Nizamuddin in the national capital, attended by delegates from across India and also abroad, became a key source for the spread of COVID-19 in the country. "What religious and national service have these people done by such a congregation in the name of Islam. In fact, it is inhuman and great disservice," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. "Masjidsin Islamic countries have been closed down and people have been asked to offer namazat their home. There is a lockdown even in Mecca and Medina," it said. The editorial said the event has increased concerns about coronavirus spreading the country. "The programme saw congregation of over 5,000 people from 22 states in the country and eight foreign countries. Out of the 5,000 participants, 2,000 were foreigners. "Out of these delegates, 380 have tested coronavirus positive. This is nothing but unforgivable negligence and show of arrogance by fundamentalists," the Marathi daily said. The Delhi police say they asked the organisers to stop the gathering. The organisers, on the other hand, say the police and administration did not give passes to delegates to move out during the lockdown, the editorial said. "What is truth only these two will know. But just like the police cleared the Shaheen Bagh protest area after the Delhi assembly polls, this event also could have been stopped using force. "This was a matter of national health and not religion. The Muslim community, too, would have supported such a move. Violating the lockdown is playing with other people's lives," it said. The paper also noted that the issue came handy for those who want to play Hindu-Muslim politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-shiv-sena-slams-organisers-of-delhis-nizamuddin-gathering-820894.html
03-04-2020||National||'Bothered' by unknown callers, Digvijaya Singh switches off phone||Veteran Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday said that he had to switch off his mobile phone as he was annoyed by the unsolicited calls he had been getting repeatedly. He said he has taken up the matter with the police department. Taking to Twitter, Singh said, "These are the phone calls that have been bothering me since 4/5 days. I sent a complaint to the DGP of MP. I also spoke to the service provider but these calls are not stopping. Sadly in this condition, I have to switch off my mobile number." He also attached the screenshots of the numbers, some of them international, from which he has been getting the calls. Taking a swipe at Digvijaya Singh over his decision to switch off the phone, BJP MLA and state party vice president Rameshwar Sharma asked him to forward the calls to his number. "Digvijaya ji should not be worried. He does not need to switch off his mobile in this time of crisis, instead he should divert his calls to my number. I will help the needy and also deal with those who threaten," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bothered-by-unknown-callers-digvijaya-singh-switches-off-phone-820902.html
03-04-2020||National||More than 30,000 doctors volunteer to join fight against COVID-19||The government on March 25 had appealed to retired government, Armed Forces Medical Services, public sector undertaking or private doctors to come forward and join the efforts to fight the pandemic caused by the deadly novel coronavirus. "30,100 volunteer doctors, including retired government, Armed Forces Medical Services, public sector undertaking or private doctors have signed up to the government to battle COVID-19 pandemic," the official told PTI. The number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,301 in the country on Friday while the death toll rose to 56, according to the Union Health Ministry. In a statement posted on Niti Aayog's website on March 25, the government had said those who wish to contribute to this and be a part of this noble mission to serve the country may register themselves on a link provided on the official website of the Niti Aayog. "The Government of India requests for volunteer doctors who are fit and willing to be available for providing their services in the public health facilities and the training hospitals in the near future. "We appeal to such doctors to come forward at this hour of need. You could also be a retired government, Armed Forces Medical Services, public sector undertaking or a private doctor," the statement said. It had noted that in case the outbreak leads to a high number of infected individuals, India's public health facilities will face tremendous load to take care of a large number of patients. Many countries, including the US, Italy, the UK and Vietnam, have urged retired health workers to come back to work amid the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-30000-doctors-volunteer-to-join-fight-against-covid-19-820903.html
03-04-2020||National||NIMHANS director gives tips on beating COVID-19 blues||The Director of the National Institute of Mental Health & Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) here, B N Gangadhar, suggested spending quality time with family members, and doing things which one would otherwise want to do but did not. "Un-clutter your house, remove garbage from your house, play some small indoor games like cards with your family members, learn to cook with your family members, do some group activities with your family members which you would have never done and wanted to do it could be exercise, it could be yoga, meditation, bhajan, you all do it together," he said. If any member of the family is preparing for an entrance examination, which has been postponed, one can be of help by conducting mock tests for some period during daytime leveraging online resources, Gangadhar, a recipient of the Padmashri award, told PTI in an interview. "TV should be watched by all the members at specified hours (only); because you are at home, don't spend all time watching it," he said. Some women members may have tendency to feed the family with delicious food and try out new menus but one has to be careful not to add weight during the lockdown period. "More so, not exercising, not going out, makes it all the more important to reduce your indulgence on food altogether," Gangadhar said. There are no restrictions on people coming to their house compound, where they can do dome gardening and play shuttle with their own family members, suggested Gangadhar, a senior professor of Psychiatry. "If you follow all of these, you can keep the concerns, or tension or stress of this lockdown away, and actually use it very productively, reforming your house and family," he said. He stressed that unlike HIV and Hepatitis B, coronavirus does not leave any lasting scar and permanent defect. People's degree of concern over coronavirus is more than that what it deserves, he said, but added,"caution that we should take in the time of crisis, should be more that what we think it deserves." coronavirus is a "transient phenomenon" and not a permanent one, he stressed. Gangadhar, who has more than 30 years of extensive experience in the field of mental health from both clinical and academic perspectives, said there is no specific antidote medicine that is known for this disease, nor is there any vaccine that has been approved for its use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nimhans-director-gives-tips-on-beating-covid-19-blues-820904.html
03-04-2020||National||FM Sitharaman donates Rs 1 lakh from salary to PM-CARES Fund to fight COVID-19||In an instruction given to her bank branch, she said, "I wish to donate a sum of Rs 1 lakh to PM-CARES. So, please debit Rs 1 lakh from my account and credit the same to the PM-CARES (Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations)  Fund." "Smt @nsitharaman donates Rs 1 lakh from her salary to the PM-CARES fund in view of the COVID-19 pandemic," a tweet said. Earlier, responding to the appeal of BJP president J P Nadda, Sitharaman and Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur committed Rs 1 crore each from their MPLADS last week. The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) had also announced that all its members of Parliament (MPs) will contribute one month's salary to the Centre's relief fund. The party at present has 386 MPs - 303 in the Lok Sabha and 83 in the Rajya Sabha. An MP gets Rs 5 crore every year as part of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-sitharaman-donates-rs-1-lakh-from-salary-to-pm-cares-fund-to-fight-covid-19-820908.html
03-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Students to take global exams TOEFL, GRE at home||Global exams like TOEFL and GRE will be taken at home except in mainland China and Iran in view of the COVID-19 situation across the globe, according to the Educational Testing Service (ETS). The tests had been suspended across the globe following the coronavirus outbreak. "At-home solutions will now be worldwide for test-takers who have been affected by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Both TOEFL and GRE will be taken at home till the situation is conducive for tests to be conducted at centres," Srikant Gopal, Executive Director of the TOEFL Program, told PTI. "Precautions are being taken to ensure that the tests students will take from home meet the highest standards for validity, reliability and security. These tests employ multiple best-in-class security measures that use both real-time human monitoring and artificial intelligence technology," he added. The Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and Graduate Record Examinations (GRE), are crucial exams for admissions in top universities across the globe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-students-to-take-global-exams-toefl-gre-at-home-820909.html
03-04-2020||National||Supreme Court seeks Centre, Kerala govt response on Karnataka plea on border issue||The top court orally asked the Kerala government to not to precipitate the issue of opening of borders till further hearing of the matter on April 7. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta, which took up the plea for hearing through video conferencing asked the Chief Secretaries of Kerala and Karnataka to hold discussions with Union Health Secretary for amicable settlement of the issue and decide on parameters to be maintained in case of health emergencies. It observed that in the present scenario, there cannot be indiscriminate opening of borders. Karnataka's Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi, who appeared for the state, said that the order of Kerala High Court passed on April 1, was without any jurisdiction. The Karnataka government's plea filed by advocate Shubhranshu Padhi said, "The issue involved in the present SLP (special leave petition) is with regard to the closure of a road between the State of Karnataka and State of Kerala in order to combat the spread of the pandemic COVID-19...from the bordering Districts of the States." The plea said that the order of the Kerala High Court has been passed wholly without any jurisdiction and is thus liable to be set aside. "The said direction has been passed despite the earlier observations in the same Impugned Order that the High Court had no territorial jurisdiction to issue any direction to the State of Karnataka to remove any impediments which are located in the State of Karnataka. On the face of it, the Impugned Order has been passed wholly without any jurisdiction and is thus liable to be set aside on this ground alone,” the plea said. The state government said that Karnataka has locked down its borders in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19 except the movement of essential commodities. “The State of Karnataka had specifically closed the Makutta Check post on the Mysore-Virajepat-Kannur highway. However, the High Court vide the Impugned Order has directed Central Government to intervene and remove the closure on the said road,” it said. The plea said that the order passed by Karnataka is based on adequate material as the existing facilities in the Mangalore district would not support patients from outside the state and there was every possibility of a serious outbreak of COVID-19 in the border districts of Karnataka, if free ingress and outgress of patients is allowed. The High Court had on April 1 gave the order on a PIL seeking directions for opening of the roads connecting Kasaragod in Kerala and Mangaluru in Karnataka, which had been closed by Karnataka in view of the lockdown to check the COVID-19 outbreak. "...we feel compelled to issue directions to the Central Government today because we are of the view that any further delay could entail loss of precious lives of our citizens", the Court had said in its order delivered on Wednesday night after a detailed hearing earlier in the day. The order came amid reports of deaths of at least seven seriously ill persons after the ambulances carrying them to hospitals in Mangaluru, 15 kms from Kasaragod, were allegedly not allowed by Karnataka police on the borders. The court had said the national highways come under the administrative jurisdiction of the Central Government and that the provisions of the National Highways Act clearly provide for the maintenance of such highways by it. The act even provides for penal measures to be taken against anyone blocking such a highway, it said. The arterial roads that connect Mangaluru in Karnataka, to Kasaragod in Kerala were part of the National Highway network and it is therefore the duty of the Central Government to ensure that the said roads are kept free of blockades, the court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-seeks-centre-kerala-govt-response-on-karnataka-plea-on-border-issue-820910.html
03-04-2020||National||PM dashed hopes of Indians who expected answers on important issues: Congress||The Congress on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had dashed the hopes of Indians who were expecting answers from him on critical questions on the fight against coronavirus, steps to revive the economy and on helping all those affected due to the lockdown. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera also raised questions on the low testing for coronavirus in the country, saying it is the first step towards containing the virus. He said the country was expecting answers from the prime minister during his address on the issues of shortage of personal protection equipment and on helping the poor and migrant labourers who were without food and money. "Respected prime minister, today when you addressed the nation, we expected you to make some announcements and share some information with the country," he said addressing a press conference through video conferencing. "The country was dejected today, people did not get any information they were expecting from you on critical questions," he said. Khera said while the country will support the prime minister in switching off lights and lighting candles, just as they did while clapping for doctors and paramedics, but some questions need to be asked and answered. "It is the responsibility of the government to provide that equipment and fixed responsibility for the delay in doing so. The poor, labourers and farmers for whom you want us to light a candle also deserve to have fire in their stove. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure this," he said. The Congress leader said the nation expected Modi to announce that personal protection equipment have been made available for lakhs of doctors and medical staff working amidst a great threat to their own lives. "Today the country expected you to declare that Rs 7,500 will be deposited in the Jan Dhan Accounts, in the PM Kisan Scheme accounts and the pension accounts. "The jobs cardholders of MGNREGA were expecting you to announce an advance payment of three months in their accounts. State governments were hoping that you would announce the payment of GST dues," he said. "In a country with aCor population of 130 crores, we have tested less than 50,000 people. As the prime minister it becomes your duty to inform the country of the steps being taken to increase the number of tests. Testing is first critical step towards containing coronavirus," the Congress leader said. Khera said the epidemic has impacted the lives of every human being and has caused disruption in their daily lives. He said fresh vegetables are either rotting in the fields or in the mandis and as a result, the farmer is not able to sell his vegetables and the consumer is not able to get them. The unprecedented rise in the prices of vegetables and essential commodities in the last 10 days is a result of a complete collapse of inter-state and intrastate supply chain, he said, adding that 60 per cent trucks are off the roads either due to sealing of borders or due to the financial difficulties faced by the drivers. Of the 12 million Kirana stores of the country, only 2.5 million are open and the rest are shut because of disruption of supplies of essential commodities, he said. "The Centre's intervention is a must. We were hoping that you would inform us of the steps taken to restore the supply chain," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-dashed-hopes-of-indians-who-expected-answers-on-important-issues-congress-820931.html
03-04-2020||National||No dearth of medicines: Sadananda Gowda||The Centre on Friday said there is no dearth of medical supplies across the country to fight the COVID-19 outbreak. The Government of India is making sure that all the essential medical supplies are in place to fight against the virus, Union Minister for Chemical and Fertilizer D V Sadananda Gowda, here. Gowda, who reviewed the situation of availability of medicines across the country, said that 62 lifeline Udan flights transported over 15.4 tonnes of essential medical supplies in the last 5 days. "Cargo flights have supplied 10 tons of medical equipments across the country in the last 4 days", he said. The government is also paying full attention to manufacturing activities of essential items like pharmaceuticals and Hospital devices. For this over 200 units in SEZs are operational. A Central Control Room has also been set up for close monitoring of the distribution of essential medical items and to address logistic related issues, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-dearth-of-medicines-sadananda-gowda-820936.html
03-04-2020||National||Father always out roaming during lockdown, son calls police||Virender Singh, a 59-year-old man living in the national capital, does not like to sit at home and his exasperated son found a way to ensure that he does not step out at all during the COVID-19 lockdown – calls the police. And, the father now may end up spending some time in jail as police have now registered a case on his son Abhishek's complaint. Abhishek (30), who works as an assistant manager in an automobile shop, was worried that his father always steps out of their house in the morning and roam around the streets. Repeated appeals fell on deaf ears and on April 1, he made a call to police. Two policemen from the Vasant Kunj police station in south-west Delhi went to Abhishek's residence in Rajokri immediately and they met both the son and father on the road outside their house. In the presence of policemen, Abhishek once again asked his father to go inside the house but Virender was in no mood to oblige. The policemen to requested him to go inside and told him about the risks of roaming around as he may get infected putting his family also at risk. They told him he was violating the directions regarding the lockdown imposed on March 25 to ensure that COVID-19 does not spread. But the father was adamant and then police decided to record Abhishek's statement. "My father is not following the lockdown norms and that he goes out of their rented accommodation regularly. Even when he is not asked to go, he does not listen. Take legal action against him," Abhishek's statement was noted in the FIR. Police have now invoked Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code that prescribed a jail term of up to six months or a fine of up to Rs 1,000 or both for disobeying an order promulgated by a public servant. While imposing the lockdown, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued directions to states to take action against those people who violate the containment measures under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Separately, Delhi Police has so far registered 33 cases against those found violating home quarantine rules, of which 21 came from Dwarka. Eight cases were registered in South Delhi followed by two cases in North Delhi and one each in North-West Delhi and Central Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/father-always-out-roaming-during-lockdown-son-calls-police-820942.html
03-04-2020||National||IIMA extends support to prof Teltumbde who is likely to surrender in Bhima Koregaon case||Over 250 students, faculties and alumni of Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA) have signed statements in solidarity with activist and academician Anand Teltumbde who is expected to surrender himself by April 6 in accordance with the Supreme Court's order in connection with Bhima Koregaon violence case. The group has requested the chief justice of India to consider the danger to Teltumbde's life in view of coronavirus outbreak. The letter says that Teltumbde, an IIMA alumnus, is a senior citizen with pre-existing health conditions that makes him prone to getting the infection if he is lodged in jail. Requesting the President of India to intervene in the matter, the letter says that "Incarceration at such a time will most definitely endanger his life." The Supreme Court on March 16 had refused to grant anticipatory bail to Teltumbde and ordered him to surrender by April 6. The letter states, "We strongly urge the Chief Justice of India and the Supreme Court to take cognizance of the dangers posed by the pandemic COVID19 to the health and life of Teltumbde, a senior citizen." The letter also mentions activist Gautam Navlakha to say that "Neither of them has anything remotely to do with organising or the subsequent events that occurred around the Bhima Koregaon episode." It says, "We stand in solidarity with them and with unequivocal support to Teltumbde and Navlakha and all the others who are falsely implicated in the Bhima-Koregaon case, and support the petitions that request his acquittal, and specifically appeal to President of India to intervene and have all charges dropped against the accused." Navlakha, Teltumbde and many other activists have been booked by Pune Police for their alleged Maoist links and several other charges following the violence at Koregaon Bhima village in Pune district on January 1, 2018. In January this year, investigation was handed over to National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iima-extends-support-to-prof-teltumbde-who-is-likely-to-surrender-in-bhima-koregaon-case-820947.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: UP reports biggest one day surge, Tally soars to 172||Uttar Pradesh reported the biggest one day surge of COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the state tally of coronavirus positive patients to 172. According to the official sources here, as many as 51 people tested positive for virus infection in the past 24-hours. They included 40 people, who had attended the recent Tableegh-e-Jamaat religious event at Nizamuddin Markaz at Delhi. The officials said that the reports of 400 other 'Jamaat' members, who had attended the event, were awaited. Some coronavirus positive people also included foreigners. As many as 1300 members of the 'Jamaat', who were found to be staying in different mosques across the state, had been quarantined. Many of them had attended the Delhi religious event. So far two persons had died in from COVID-19 in the state. Seventeen persons had recovered and discharged from the hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-up-reports-biggest-one-day-surge-tally-soars-to-172-820949.html
03-04-2020||National||Lockdown violation: UP police to home deliver FIR||The Uttar Pradesh police, which has been delivering medicines and essential items to the old and needy ones at their doorstep during the ongoing lockdown, will also ''home deliver'' the FIRs to those found roaming in the streets. The police in UP's Muzaffarnagar district, about 500 kilometres from here, on Friday also sought the help of the people in cracking down on the lockdown violators. ''We will home deliver the FIRs lodged against those found violating the lockdown in the district,'' the police said in a message on its Twitter handle. The police urged the people to make videos of the lockdown violators and send the same to them so that that the offenders could be traced and booked. The measure was initiated to strictly enforce the lockdown in the district, the officials said. UP police have so far challaned over 1.65 lakh vehicles, seized over 13 thousand vehicles and booked around six thousand people for violating the lockdown. A few days back the cops shamed two youths, who were found roaming in the streets in violation of the lockdown in Meerut town. Earlier the cops in UP's Bareilly town forced the violators to wear placards containing slogans that they were 'enemies' of the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-violation-up-police-to-home-deliver-fir-820950.html
03-04-2020||National||Ajinkya Rahane stresses on mental health during coronavirus lockdown||Rahane, who had already donated Rs 10 lakh to the Maharashtra Chief Minister's Relief Fund, appreciated the efforts of Maharashtra government, Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai and Mpower, who have launched an initiative to help people in this difficult time. "Mental health is also important during this lockdown. Highly appreciate the efforts of Maharashtra Government, BMC & Mpower for creating a free helpline to support people for their mental wellbeing. @AUThackeray @mybmc @NeerjaBirla ," the stylish right handed batsman from Mumbai tweeted. Rahane asked fellow Mumbai citizens to call on the helpline number 1800 120 820050 created for people who are in distress. Even star batsman Rohit Sharma took to Twitter and informed people about the same initiative. "The government of Maharashtra, BMC and Mpower 1on1 have created a free helpline to support you at this difficult time. Call 1800-120-820050 to speak to a mental health professional. #LetsTalk1on1," tweeted Sharma. Till now the country has witnessed over 2000 positive cases and 50 deaths due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajinkya-rahane-stresses-on-mental-health-during-coronavirus-lockdown-820951.html
03-04-2020||National||Power, renewable energy PSUs to contribute Rs 925 cr to PM CARES fund||Central PSUs under the power ministry and the new and renewable energy ministry would contribute Rs 925 crore to the fight against COVID-19 pandemic, an official release said on Friday. The Central Public Sector Enterprises ( CPSEs) under the Ministry of Power and the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy have decided to contribute Rs. 925 Crore to ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund’ (PM CARES Fund)’, a power ministry statement said. “We feel honoured to share that the Public Sector Undertakings of the Ministry of Power & MNRE have decided to contribute INR 925 Cr to the PM- CARES fund with INR 445Cr being deposited on 31st March and remaining in the first week of April,” Union Minister of Power and New & Renewable Energy R K Singh tweeted. The amount of Rs 925 crore includes a contribution of Rs 905 crore from PSUs under the Ministry of Power and contribution of Rs 20 crore from PSUs under MNRE. "COVID-19, a highly contagious disease has spread to almost the entire world. In India too the pandemic is posing a severe health hazard, which requires the entire nation to stand together,"  Singh said.  He complimented all those who are contributing wholeheartedly to the PM Cares Fund responding to the appeal of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Among the PSUs, NTPC will contribute Rs 250 crore followed by Power Finance Corporation and Power Grid at Rs 200 crore each. The REC will contribute Rs 150 crore while NHPC will provide Rs 50 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-renewable-energy-psus-to-contribute-rs-925-cr-to-pm-cares-fund-820963.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: IIT Hyderabad incubated startup develops low-cost ventilator||A startup incubated by the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad has developed a low-cost, portable, emergency-use ventilator claiming the device could help meeting the ventilator requirements of the COVID-19 pandemic. Named ‘Jeevan Lite,’ the device offers protection to healthcare providers; it is enabled by the Internet of Things and can operate through a phone app. Designed for battery-operation too, it allows deployment in areas without assured power supply, Aerobiosys Innovations said. Aerobiosys Innovations plans to offer Jeevan Lite at Rs one lakh (USD $1,315) “which is significantly economical compared with existing products.” “Senior citizens and elderly patients affected by COVID-19 will need ventilators for emergency life support. Aerobiosys has gone a step ahead providing personal protection to healthcare providers through IoT-enabled monitoring,” said Prof BS Murty, director, IITH. Pursuant to device certification, Aerobiosys Innovations aims to produce 50 to 70 units daily through collaboration with an industrial partner. Jeevan Lite can perform both the invasive and non-invasive ventilation across a comprehensive set of modes and settings. It can be used for pediatric and geriatric patients and works on rechargeable lithium-ion batteries uninterrupted for five hours, its makers claim. Prof. Renu John, faculty co-head, Center for Healthcare Entrepreneurship (which incubated Aerobiosys), and Head, Department of Biomedical Engineering, IITH, said, “Jeevan Lite, unlike other low-cost models, offers wireless connectivity and remote monitoring. It is equipped to meet the demands of a pandemic situation like COVID-19. We urge the industry partners and the government to handhold the start-up towards a large scale-up.” The mobile app communicates with the unit and seamlessly controls the functional features of the ventilator thus providing enough isolation to the patient and protection to healthcare providers and family members.  The ventilator can be controlled using the app and provides a real-time display of the waveforms. Every breath of a patient is recorded and transmitted to doctors via the app to enable telemedicine support. The device has provision for attaching oxygen cylinders and can operate on its own in ambient air. Aerobiosys co-founders Rajesh Thangavel and Cyril Antony say the manufacturing design is expected to be delivered in the first week of April. Antony says Jeevan Lite has all features to treat COVID-19 patients as advised by pulmonologists. “We are collaborating with Hyderabad-based tertiary care hospitals for clinical validation and device certification.” Jeevan Lite meets all requirements professed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DRDO, Indian Council of Medical Research, Thangavel says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-iit-hyderabad-incubated-startup-develops-low-cost-ventilator-820969.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: MHA contributes Rs 205 cr to PM-CARES Fund||A spokesperson of the ministry said the fund has been collected from the Central Armed Police Forces (Rs 116 crore) and staffers of the Ministry of Home Affairs, central police organisations and those from six union territories without legislatures totalling Rs 89 crore. Union Home Minister Amit Shah wrote on his official Twitter handle that he has "gratitude" for all the employees and staffers of his ministry who responded to the PM's "clarion call" to contribute generously. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also lauded the MHA's effort. "An outstanding gesture by Team MHA," he tweeted. "They work round the clock to protect us and are also contributing to protecting the nation from COVID-19. #IndiaFightsCorona," Modi said. The Prime Ministers Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES Fund) was recently announced by him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-mha-contributes-rs-205-cr-to-pm-cares-fund-820979.html
03-04-2020||National||US embassy official in Delhi tests COVID-19 positive||An official of the United States embassy in New Delhi has been tested COVID-19 positive. The US Embassy in New Delhi stated that it was working with the Indian health authorities to ensure that the employee received proper treatment. It, however, did not share further details due to privacy concerns. The US Embassy in New Delhi stated that it was implementing all appropriate measures to help control the spread of the COVID-19 in coordination with the health authorities of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-embassy-official-in-delhi-tests-covid-19-positive-820985.html
03-04-2020||National||Centre to give Rs 11,092 cr to states to fight coronavirus||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday released Rs 11,092 crore to states under State Disaster Risk Management Fund to make additional funds available for taking preventive and mitigation measures to control COVID-19 spread. The approval came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured Chief Ministers during a video conference to review the measures taken to contain the spread of the virus. The Centre has released in advance its share of the first installment of State Disaster Risk Management Fund for 2020-21 with a view to augment funds available with the state governments. The SDRMF is exclusively for mitigation projects. On March 13, the Centre had allowed the states to draw money from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) after bringing the virus spread under its ambit. The funds were allowed to be used for setting up quarantine facilities, sample collection and screening; setting up additional testing laboratories, cost of consumables; purchase of personal protection equipments for healthcare, municipal, police and fire authorities; purchase of thermal scanners, ventilators, air purifiers, and consumables for Government hospitals. As migrant workers' exodus turned big, the Centre on March 28 also allowed states to take money from SDRF for providing food and shelter to homeless people including migrant labourers, who are stranded due to lockdown measures. "The Central Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, is extending all necessary support to the States in a timely manner to deal with an unprecedented global crisis which is declared to be a “pandemic” by World Health Organization," an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-give-rs-11092-cr-to-states-to-fight-coronavirus-820996.html
03-04-2020||National||India would have seen 31,000 coronavirus cases without lockdown: Researches||India could have witnessed nearly 31,000 cases of COVID-19 by April 14 had the government not imposed a three-week lockdown, said a study conducted by researchers at the Shiv Nadar University. However, the researchers cautioned that India would not be out of danger as there could be a surge of cases after the 21-day lockdown. “The 21-day lockdown only helps us buying time to prepare ourselves for the better fight against Corona,” Samit Bhattacharya, Associate Professor, Department of Mathematics and Naga Suresh Veerapu, Assistant Professor Department of Life Sciences, at the Shiv Nadar University said. The researchers have based their findings on the assumption that 80% to 90% of the population would contribute to social distancing. “In this optimistic scenario, the projected number of symptomatic cases can decline by nearly 85% at day 20 from the beginning of the lockdown (3,500 against 30,790) and deaths (105 against 619) as well. Thus, intervention (20-day lockdown) may help at slowing transmission and ‘flattening’ the COVID-19 curve,” the researchers said. They recommended that all measures that may limit opportunities for the virus to spread must be continued, which not only limit any individual’s infection hazard but also protect the entire community. Such measures may include, avoiding large gatherings, 14-day quarantine for suspected cases of infection, systematic surveillance and expanded testing for the identification of COVID-19 infections and continued work at home for employees. “In presumptive lack of a decree on 21-day lockdown, India – with its population density of 412 people per square kilometer, the average range of 4.5 to 5 people per family and the majority of these families typically have one person above 60 years of age is undoubtedly predisposed to the easy spread of highly transmissible COVID-19 and may have witnessed a super surge in symptomatic cases,” the researchers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-would-have-seen-31000-coronavirus-cases-without-lockdown-researches-821010.html
03-04-2020||National||Jamaat incident a wake up call; Ensure no religious congregations take place : President Kovind||As COVID-19 cases in the country registered a spike after the controversial Jamaat gathering in Delhi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday asked the states to treat it as a “wake up call” and asked them to ensure that no religious congregations should take place in their respective states. Holding a second consecutive video conference meeting with Governors and Lt Governors of 21 states and UTs, Kovind said the gathering of migrant workers in Anand Vihar and the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin have caused a setback to the efforts. Naidu asked them to urge the religious leaders to advise their followers to “strictly adhere to the guidelines on social distancing and to observe personal hygiene”, a suggestion which came in the background of the Jamaat gathering fall out on shooting up of COVID 19 cases across the country and incidents of some of the Jamaat event attendees in quarantine spitting on roads when being taken to quarantine centres, which evoked strong criticism on social media. “We faced problems because of movements of Tablighi Jamaat,” said the Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Shri Girish Chandra Murmu. The Lt Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Admiral D K Joshi ((Retd.) said that 10 positive COVID-19 cases in the UT were related to Tablighi Jamaat. “All those who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event are quarantined after identifying them,” he informed during the meeting. The Ladakh Lt Governor Radha Krishna Mathur expressed concern over the rise in cases due to the return of pilgrims from Iran where some of them had been infected. Vice President Naidu, who spoke at length on the issue asked the Governors and LGs of states and UTs to contact spiritual and religious leaders in their respective regions and advise them to guide their followers to “strictly adhere to the guidelines” to prevent the transmission of COVID-19.  Naidu made a mention of the Jamaat gathering, which has caused widespread adverse impact across the country and said it was “avoidable action”. Speaking on the migrant workers, Kovind emphasized the need to ensure that no one remains hungry during the nationwide lockdown and asked other participants in the conference to deliberate upon the ways and means to ensure this. He also noted with concern the incidents of attacks on doctors, health workers and police personnel in some parts of the country. Describing the incidents of assault on doctors in some states as unfortunate and condemnable, Naidu asked the Governors to sensitize the people on the crucial, life-saving role being undertaken by doctors, nurses and other frontline warriors such as sanitary staff and police personnel in the battle against COVID-19 and said the real reasons behind such attacks have to be ascertained||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jamaat-incident-a-wake-up-call-ensure-no-religious-congregations-take-place-president-kovind-821012.html
03-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Can’t evacuate Indians stranded abroad, taking steps for their safety, Centre tells Delhi HC||A bench of Justices Sanjeev Sachdeva and Navin Chawla, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, was told by the Centre’s counsel that a high-level group of ministers has been formed to review the current status and actions for prevention and management of COVID-19 and appropriate advisories are being issued from time to time. Central government standing counsel Jasmeet Singh said a large number of Indian students are studying abroad and the missions are in constant touch with their universities or educational institutions for rendering assistance to them. “In the present lockdown situation, it is not possible for the Ministry (of External Affairs) to organise any evacuation of Indian Nationals from Bangladesh or any other country, however all possible help and assistance is being provided to all Indian nationals,” he said. “A COVID-19 cell has been formed to ensure greater access and precision of information. Sub-groups dealing with different regions of the world have also been created. Missions/ Posts abroad have been advised to set up dedicated helpline numbers and given wide publicity to the same to assist stranded Indians... “Nodal officers have been identified and designated at each Mission/ Post to provide assistance to Indian nationals abroad and a 24X7 helpline number and an e-mail have been made functional for the said purpose and the helpline numbers and e-mail IDs have been widely publicized through social networking sites, official government websites so that Indians abroad get information regarding the same,” he said. The Centre, in an affidavit filed in the court, said that since the outbreak of COVID-19, the government has taken proactive steps to ensure safety, welfare and well being of the Indian nationals abroad as well as its people in India. After perusing the affidavit and status report of the Centre, the bench said it was of the view that no further orders are required to be passed on the petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking direction to the authorities to forthwith take steps for safe and secure return of around 500 Indian medical students who are stuck in Bangladesh. The advocate said most of the students are residents of Jammu and Kashmir. The court disposed of the petition and granted liberty to the petitioner to approach it in case the need arises in future. The Centre further said that the Ambassadors are interacting with the Indian community through virtual platforms for their engagement in the time of crisis and to provide assistance. It said the Indian nationals and communities are being mobilised to help fellow Indians in distress in their country and wherever possible, the Missions are providing food and accommodation to stranded citizens. Regarding the steps taken by the Mission in Bangladesh, the government said it has established a 24X7 helpline on March 15 to address the queries of Indians and regular information is being shared through website and social media. It said that since the educational institutions were closed in Bangladesh, all local students have left for their homes and only foreign students including Indians remained there and the High Commission has contacted the concerned authorities in the colleges to keep the canteens/mess running and make available the resources to ensure the students’ well being. “It is stated that there are 114 medical colleges in Bangladesh and around 6,000 Indian students study in these colleges and approximately 500 Indian students have stayed back in Bangladesh. With regard to this situation, it is stated that since most of the medical colleges are attached to hospitals. In case of any emergency these hospitals are best equipped to deal with the situation,” it said. Regarding sanitisers, the government said it was available with the colleges and in markets and the colleges in Bangladesh are trying to provide basic facilities to all the students who are in the hostels. With regard to food facilities, the court was informed by the government that a majority of students are availing mess facilities and some of them, in their own volition, have started running their own mess because of social distancing. The court was told that the nodal officer appointed in Bangladesh has contacted one student of each of the medical colleges as per the list provided by the petitioner and assured cooperation to them. The court had earlier asked the Centre to explain the steps taken by it to evacuate the Indian students stranded in Bangladesh. The court also disposed of another petition filed by a man seeking direction to the Centre to evacuate his son from Edinburgh, Scotland and to ensure that he is provided all medical facilities, if required. The man said in his plea that pursuant to the consolidated travel advisory issued by the Centre, his son was not been able to travel back to India. The court said in view of the status report filed by the Ministry of External Affairs, through Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan, and the assurance given that all possible necessary help shall be provided to all Indian students who are stranded abroad, no further orders were required to be passed in the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-can-t-evacuate-indians-stranded-abroad-taking-steps-for-their-safety-centre-tells-delhi-hc-821021.html
03-04-2020||National||Coronavirus claims one more life in Gujarat, toll reaches nine||This is the second COVID-19 death in the state on Friday. Another man from Panchmahal district died earlier in the day. "A 67-year-old man died due to COVID-19 in Ahmedabad on Friday. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension," Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanthi Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-claims-one-more-life-in-gujarat-toll-reaches-nine-821024.html
03-04-2020||National||Cannot allow COVID-19 testing for confidence building: Centre||“Testing is done as per a process and as per sampling guidelines. It might not be the right strategy to allow testing for confidence building alone, particularly at a time when testing kits are limited,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry told reporters here. Several healthcare experts have claimed that India was not testing enough, which could be a reason for the low number of infections in the country. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), more than 66,000 samples had been tested till Friday for COVID-19 by state-run laboratories. On Thursday, national laboratories across the country – 130 labs – carried out tests on 8,345 samples, the highest so far on a single day. “As per the guidelines, we are carrying out tests in areas that have been identified as hotspots. If needed we sill revise the sampling criteria. But there has been no decision so far,” Aggarwal said. Meanwhile, the ICMR has allowed faster and cheaper antibody tests to check for COVID-19 in hotspots such as Nizamuddin which have reported large number of infections. “We had a meeting on Thursday to finalise guidelines for using rapid diagnostic tests and we hope by tomorrow (Saturday), we can release these guidelines. Primary purpose of these guidelines would be how to deploy these tests in high-risk areas, low risk areas, hotspot areas and non-hotspot areas,” Manoj Murhekar, Director, National Institute of Epidemiology told reporters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cannot-allow-covid-19-testing-for-confidence-building-centre-821027.html
03-04-2020||National||PM's message evokes mixed response from netizens, memes galore||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message on Friday urging people to switch off lights at their homes and light lamps, candles or turn on mobile phone torches for nine minutes on April 5 evoked a mixed response from netizens with many hailing it, some criticising it, and others having a light-hearted take on it. Soon after the prime minister's message was broadcast asking people to participate in the exercise on Sunday 9 PM, people began to express their views on it and tweets with the "9 baje 9 minute" hashtag began trending. In a video message of over 11 minutes, Modi also asked people to maintain the "lakshman rekha" of social distancing by staying indoors and not getting together in groups during the exercise. Several among the Twitterati lauded the initiative with a Twitter user saying, "On 5th April at 9pm for 9min, Switch off the light of your home, and light a candle, diya or flashlight...Let's spread the light of unity." Actor Anupam Kher said this was a symbolic gesture that could have several meanings such as bringing people together or thanking those working to provide essential services to people in these times of crisis. In a video posted on Twitter, he also slammed those criticising the prime minister's initiative. Former Miss World Manushi Chillar hailed the prime minister's initiative, saying it was time to be united again. Indian cricketing star Harbhajan Singh also lauded the prime minister for the appeal, tweeting, "We are proud of our Team Leader @narendramodi Let’s all continue to Stay home & be Safe. 5th April at 9pm for 9 mins all lights off. Candles, Diya,torch, mobile flash to use but only from home." Indian cricket team coach Ravi Shastri also backed the initiative and urged people to build up a new energy to fight this COVID-19 crisis. However, not all were impressed as several people criticised the call as symbolism and "event management" "Event Management 9.0. A great thinker once said that history repeats itself, first as tragedy, then as farce. In 21st century India, we have farce at the time of tragedy," historian Ramachandra Guha tweeted. "The Constitution lists as a citizen's fundamental duties 'to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform'. An Amendment is in order; to ask us all to promote astrology and voodoo and blind faith instead," Guha said. "Thalis and torchlights. Welcome to the #Modi Sound & Light Show," said another Twitter user. Another netizen said he wishes '9baje9minute' sheds light on the problems daily wage workers are facing, how the safety of doctors and medical practitioners are being taken care of and what the government is doing about it. Memes flooded Twitter over the prime minister's call with several people taking light-hearted dig at the initiative. A Twitter user posted a scene from the movie 'Phir Hera Pheri' with the caption 'paisa hi paisa hoga' and said, that would be the state of "mombatti and diya sellers" on April 5. Another user posted a picture from the 1976 movie 'Naagin' in which the male actors are holding torches, with the message "me and my friends in balcony" on April 5. One user posted a picture of India's map lit up, saying, "NASA has already released an image of India from 5th April night 9pm". The prime minister told the nation that many people must have felt alone being at home during the ongoing lockdown but they must realise that the collective strength of 130 crore Indians is with each one of them. Once people everywhere light up lamps or display flashlights of their mobile phones at their doorsteps or balconies after turning off the lights at home, it will emerge in this "superpower" of brightness that "we are all fighting with a collective resolve", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-message-evokes-mixed-response-from-netizens-memes-galore-821031.html
03-04-2020||National||SC allows NDTV's plea against notice for not disclosing crores of money from foreign companies||In a relief to NDTV, the Supreme Court on Friday quashed the Income Tax notice issued to the organisation, saying the statutory authority did not give fair opportunity to the company.  However, a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao said the I-T department can pursue the case by adopting proper procedure and giving fair opportunity to the petitioner. The court allowed NDTV's appeal against the 2015 notice by the Income Tax department for allegedly not disclosing hundreds of crore received through its subsidiaries overseas. The bench, also comprising Justice Deepak Gupta, however, made it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on facts of the case and the I-T department may issue fresh notice, if permissible under the law. The court held that the I-T department has not adopted "fair or proper procedure" as the TV channel was "deprived of the fair chance" and "a proper and adequate opportunity" to reply to the notice under the law.  It said the notice having been issued without conforming to the "principle of natural justice" was required to be quashed.    The top court allowed the plea by the TV channel against the Delhi High Court's judgement of August 10, 2017 that had dismissed its writ petition against the notice for reassessment. On March 31, 2015, the revenue department sent a notice to the assesse, stating net income chargeable to tax for the assessment year 2008¬-09 had escaped assessment under the Income Tax Act. It had proposed an addition of Rs 642 crores to the assessee's account for money through its subsidiaries NDTV BV, The Netherlands, NDTV Networks BV, The Netherlands (NNBV), NDTV Networks International Holdings BV, The Netherlands (NNIH) and NNPLC. The NDTV raised its objection before the Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP) which, however, concluded that all these transactions with the subsidiary companies in Netherlands were sham and bogus transactions. It also found that these transactions were done with a view to get the undisclosed income, for which tax had not been paid, back to India by a circuitous round tripping. The judgement, authored by Justice Gupta, however, held the NDTV was not guilty of non- disclosure of material facts. "The uncontroverted fact is that in the notice of March 31, 2015 there is no mention of any foreign entity,' it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-ndtvs-plea-against-notice-for-not-disclosing-crores-of-money-from-foreign-companies-821044.html
03-04-2020||National||PM Modi, Netanyahu discuss COVID-19 cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israel counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday discussed over phone about the COVID-19 pandemic and the prospects of bilateral cooperation to contain it. Modi and Netanyahu explored “possible collaboration between India and Israel in fighting the pandemic, including by improving availability of pharmaceutical supplies and by innovative use of high technology.” “They agreed to maintain a focused channel of communication to explore such synergies,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement issued in New Delhi after the two leaders talked over phone. Netanyahu agreed with the Prime Minister that the COVID-19 pandemic is an important turning point in modern history, and offers an opportunity to forge a new vision of globalization focused on the shared interests of humanity as a whole.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-netanyahu-discuss-covid-19-cooperation-821046.html
03-04-2020||National||Centre releases Rs 17,287 cr to states for coronavirus crisis||In a bid to combat COVID-19 crisis, the Finance Ministry on Friday released  Rs 17,287 crore to states to help give a further boost to their finances. Of this amount, Rs 11,092 crore is towards State Disaster Response Mitigation Fund (SDRMF) to all states. Another Rs 6,195 crore has been released as 'post devolution revenue deficit grant' under the 15th Finance Commission recommendations to 14 states of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. The SDRMF of  Rs 11,092 crore has been given to all states as advanced payment of Central share of the first instalment to fight the outbreak of the virus in a better way, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-rs-17287-cr-to-states-for-coronavirus-crisis-821051.html
03-04-2020||National||FCI ferries 13.36 laĸh tonne of PDS grains via railways since lockdown: Govt||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has moved 477 railway rakes carrying 13.36 lakh tonne of foodgrains for PDS distribution since the lockdown, to ensure over 81 crore beneficiaries do no go hungry, the Food Ministry said on Friday. A total of 69 rakes are under loading on Friday which could transport 1.93 lakh tonne of foodgrain stocks, the ministry said in a statement. The state-owned corporation has transported foodgrains from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha to other states. About 7.76 lakh tonne rice and 5.60 lakh tonne wheat, totalling 13.36 lakh tonne, has been moved through rail rakes from these states. During the current lockdown period, the ministry said FCI is ensuring "uninterrupted" supply of wheat and rice throughout the country. The agency is able to meet the increasing demand of foodgrains by gearing up the pace of supply of wheat and rice throughout the country, mostly by rail, it added. FCI is the nodal agency involved in procurement and distribution of foodgrains in the country. It procures wheat and rice to ensure farmers get a minimum support price. It distributes the same foodgrains at a subsidised rates to over 81 crore ration card holders under the Public Distribution System (PDS). The ministry said FCI is fully prepared to meet not only the foodgrain requirement under the National Food Security law but also the additional supply of 5 kg per person for next three months under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMKAY). As on April 1, FCI had a foodgrain stock of 56.24 million tonne, of which rice was 31.64 million tonne and wheat 24.6 million tonne. Besides, FCI is offloading surplus grains to bulk users under the open market sales scheme (OMSS) through e-auction. So far, it has received bids for purchase of 1.44 lakh tonne of wheat and 77,000 tonne of rice. In view of the outbreak of COVID-19, FCI has allowed states to lift a fixed quota of grains at a reserve price under the OMSS without participating in e-auction. It has given a quota of 1 lakh tonne of wheat for 10 states, while 94,767 tonne of rice for six states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fci-ferries-1336-la-h-tonne-of-pds-grains-via-railways-since-lockdown-govt-821053.html
03-04-2020||National||Babus in J&K differ over shortage of protective kits to fight COVID-19||In official communications, Commissioner Health and Medical Education and Director Health Services Kashmir have issued two separate orders on April 1. While the Commissioner has admitted that there was lack of proper and adequate personal protection gear in hospitals, the Director in his letter has snubbed doctors and other paramedical staff and asked them to desist from criticizing administration in public. A letter by Atal Dulloo Commissioner, Health and Medical Education vide No. PS/FC/HME/2020/23 reads: “It has been observed that at many places health care Professionals have been complaining of non-availability of personal protective gears to look after the patients suffering from COVID-19 and have also been demanding of accommodation for the doctors and staff members, who are dealing with COVID-19 positive cases, admitted in the hospitals.” In the communication, Dulloo had asked all heads of departments to ensure the safety of the health care professionals, who are working hard to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic situation. However, contrary to the Commissioner's order, the Director came up with a separate order on the same day and snubbed doctors and other paramedical staff on raising voice over inadequate facilities. In a letter no DHSK/IDSP/2019-20/618-30, the Director writes: “It has been observed that some of the Government servants are publicly criticizing the efforts of the administration to combat the pandemic of Covid-19, which is against the service conduct rules. There can be difference of opinion or some minor issues, which the government employees can bring into the notice of concerned authorities so that the issue is redressed instead of putting that issue in social media, print and electronic media which is causing more harm than good to the public and administration in combating Covid-19." While issuing stern messages to medicos and paramedical staff, he writes: "Hence forth strict action will be initiated against such elements, who resort to such uncalled for reporting to the media. Any person disobeying any regulation or order made under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)." Several leading doctors have already raised voice over the lack of PPEs needed to deal with COVID-19 patients at hospitals and quarantine centers. “Doctors across the frontlines are extremely concerned about the lack of PPE. Many have told us they have tried to raise concerns through the proper channels but have been warned against taking these concerns further,” a senior medico at GMC, Srinagar, told DH wishing anonymity. “At this time when we desperately need every single doctor on the frontline, some have had their careers threatened, and at least two doctors have been suspended from work. This is unacceptable. Doctors have a moral duty to make their concerns regarding COVID-19 public if these cannot be resolved locally,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babus-in-jk-differ-over-shortage-of-protective-kits-to-fight-covid-19-821054.html
03-04-2020||National||‘Professional PIL shops’ must be locked down during COVID-19 pandemic: Centre to SC||The Centre Friday strongly opposed the petitions filed by activists for payment of wages to migrant workers who have been left without work due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown in view of coronavirus pandemic saying till the country comes out of this unprecedented tragedy such “professional PIL shops” must be locked down. Preparing PILs without any ground level information or knowledge while sitting in an air-conditioned office is not ‘public service’ entitling any of them (activists) to argue public interest litigations particularly in the present global crisis, the government said. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta, which took PILs filed by activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Swami Agnivesh on the issue of plight of migrant workers for hearing through video conferencing, was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the government has done an exemplary work in containing the spread of COVID-19 to the minimum number possible. The bench, which sought response from the Centre on the PILs, was told by Mehta that the government has taken several pro-active and timely steps at various levels to mitigate the problems faced by the citizens. Vehemently opposing the PILs, Mehta pointed out that the country is going through unprecedented crisis of fighting an unknown deadly virus and all officers are working day and night through several control rooms. He said none of the petitioners have even bothered to serve the poor and needy or the persons suffering from the virus and, therefore, can never be treated as ‘public spirited citizens’. He said that till the country and the world comes out of this unprecedented tragedy such “professional PIL shops” must be locked down as none of them have any concern about the poor and needy or thousands of patients fighting this deadly disease. Mehta asserted that genuine NGOs and bona fide public spirited citizens are tirelessly working at a grass-root level with government officials and helping the needy as also assisting the patients and doctors in whichever way they can. Filing of PILs in the midst of the government's fight with this deadly disease is proving to be detrimental in the entire country, he added. He said he has been approached by many Advocate Generals of the States sharing their anxiety that the government officers who are working day and night are losing their precious working hours in these trying times by sitting in lawyers’ chambers and preparing replies to frivolous PILs. He emphasised that officers should better be left to discharge their duties and expressed the hope that all constitutional courts in the country would be circumspect in entertaining such petitions in these unprecedented circumstances so as not to create any hindrance in the efforts of the central state governments which are working on a war footing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/professional-pil-shops-must-be-locked-down-during-covid-19-pandemic-centre-to-sc-821056.html
03-04-2020||National||IT Ministry starts hackathon to find solutions for coronavirus||"Aim of this hackathon is to strengthen fight against COVID-19.The winning ideas from few top participating teams, as implementable solutions on corona crisis is expected to help India and global citizens," MeitY said in a statement. Minister of State for Electronics & IT, Communications and Human Resource Development Sanjay Dhotre while inaugurating the program said coronavirus has thrown unprecedented challenges for the world and industries alike. "While we continue to fight these challenges as a nation, amidst business disruptions and remote working scenarios, it is important for all including governments, industry and individuals to contribute with all its might to overcome the present and emerge stronger as humanity," Dhotre said. The minister said he has strong conviction that in an era where social distancing has become the new normal, digital solutions and products will reconnect the human race and thereby contribute to the economic recovery. Over 2,000 teams and over 15,000 participants are participating in the 48-hour hackathon with expert mentoring from India, Estonia and Finland. Top teams from India will participate in 'Hack the Crisis - World’ global hackathon in the coming weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-ministry-starts-hackathon-to-find-solutions-for-coronavirus-821076.html
03-04-2020||National||COVID-19: MOIL pledges Rs 45 cr to PM-CARES Fund||State-owned MOIL on Friday said it has extended financial assistance of Rs 45 crore towards PM-CARES Fund to fight the spread of coronavirus. Besides, its employees have also come forward to offer their one-day's salary for the cause, MOIL said in a statement. "The government has urged all the citizens including corporates to contribute in this fund to support the government in fighting against COVID-19. Being a responsible corporate, MOIL has contributed Rs 45 crore to PM-CARES Fund to help in the fight against COVID-19," it said. In addition to this, MOIL has already taken up various preventive measures at all its offices, mines, plant and residential townships to protect its employees and their families against the spread of the deadly virus, the company said. MOIL, under Ministry of Steel, is the largest producer of manganese ore in the country and operates 11 mines in the states of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-moil-pledges-rs-45-cr-to-pm-cares-fund-821086.html
03-04-2020||National||No religious meets should be allowed in states: Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday urged governors and Lt governors to motivate spiritual and religious leaders to advise their followers against holding congregations and practice social distancing to prevent the transmission of coronavirus. Addressing governors, LGs and administrators along with President Ram Nath Kovind via video, Naidu also asked them to focus on the arrangements made to ensure harvesting, storage and procurement of agriculture produce in their respective states and Union territories. He urged them to contact spiritual and religious leaders in their respective regions and advise them to guide their followers to strictly adhere to the guidelines on social distancing and to observe personal hygiene, a statement from the Vice President Secretariat said. Referring to a "recent avoidable action" which caused widespread adverse impact across the country, Naidu cautioned the governors and Lt governors to treat it as a "wake-up call". “No religious congregations should be allowed to take place in your respective states,” he said in an apparent reference to the Tablighi Jamat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin. On harvesting season, Naidu urged them to advise the state agencies to ensure smooth movement of farm machinery so that the farmers do not face any hardship. He also asked them to ensure 100 per cent procurement of the produce. “That is the need of the hour”, the vice president said. Expressing concern over the incidents of assault on doctors in some states, Naidu described them as unfortunate and condemnable. He asked the governors to sensitise people on the crucial role being undertaken by doctors, nurses and other frontline warriors such as sanitary staff and police personnel in the battle against COVID-19. The vice president said such incidents would have a demoralising effect on doctors and others, according to the statement. This is the second time the president and the vice president have interacted with governors, LGs and administrators on coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-religious-meets-should-be-allowed-in-states-naidu-821091.html
03-04-2020||National||Number of COVID-19 cases in MP rises to 154||Indore, an industrial hub, alone accounts for 112 of these cases. The IAS officer who tested positive was posted with the health department here. He had traveled outside the state recently after which he developed sysmptoms of COVID-19, a health official said adding that his condition is stable. Ten persons tested positive for coronavirus in Morena district. These ten persons had come in contact with a husband and wife who had earlier tested positive in the district, chief medical and health officer R C Bandil told PTI. The husband had returned from Dubai but hid his travel history from authorities, Bandil said. A 36-year-old man tested positive for infectionin Chhindwara, which was the first case in that district. He works with a government department in Indore and arrived in Chhindwara on March 19, before lockdown was imposed, said a local official. To date, apart from 112 cases in Indore, 12 cases have been found in Morena, nine in Bhopal, eight in Jabalpur, seven in Ujjain, two each in Shivpuri and Gwalior and one in Chhindwara. The condition of one patient was serious, health officials said. So far five deaths of COVID-19 patients have been reported from Indore, two in Ujjain and one in Khargone, taking the total to eight. No death had been reported on Friday till late night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-covid-19-cases-in-mp-rises-to-154-821101.html
03-04-2020||National Politics||'Go Corona Go': Know the man behind the slogan||A few weeks ago, a video with a peculiar slogan went viral on social media, evoking smiles and laughter. In the video, a person named Ramdas Athawale raised the slogan accompanied by Chinese Consul General in Mumbai, Tang Guocai, and a few other people at the Gateway of India. The slogan 'Go corona, go' was raised as an attempt to stop the coronavirus outbreak in India and other parts of the world. The video triggered a wide range of response, and in no time, Ramdas Athawale became an even more well-known person than he was earlier. For those wondering who Ramdas Athawale is, he is the Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment in the Narendra Modi government. A social activist and a Dalit leader, Athawale is the president of of the Republican Party of India (A), a splinter group of the Republican Party of India and has its roots in the Scheduled Castes Federation led by B R Ambedkar. In 2014, Athawale was elected to the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of Parliament. He became Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment on July 6, 2016, working under Thawar Chand Gehlot. Athawale is known for creating a storm. In 2017, he suggested that Dalits should renounce Hinduism in favour of Buddhism to stop the atrocities meted out to them. He advocated inter-caste marriage as a way to prevent atrocities on Dalits, citing his marriage to a Brahmin woman as an 'example'. Once, he said that a reservation quota of 25 percent for Dalits should be introduced in sports, including cricket, after India was defeated by Pakistan in the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy Final, further adding that the armed forces should also have a quota regime. It is a mystery how the slogan 'Go corona, go' will help in the effort to fight the coronavirus outbreak. Bewildered netizens have tried to derive various meanings, leading to the birth of memes and even songs. In an interview to Times Now, he said that it was an appeal to people to get out of the places where the virus goes and a way to make people alert and watchful. For now, we can only hope that Ramdas Athwale's chant turns into a reality and the ongoing pandemic fades into oblivion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/go-corona-go-know-the-man-behind-the-slogan-820750.html
03-04-2020||National Politics||Modi's 'light up lamps' message disappointing, says NCP||The Sharad Pawar-led NCP lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for lighting doorsteps or balcony on 5 April at 9 pm for nine minutes. Two senior ministers in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, Dr. Jitendra Awhad and Nawab Malik lashed came down heavily on Modi. "The whole world is fighting a fierce battle against COVID-19. Governments, doctors, scientists, paramedics are dropping everything else and are focused on this. Huge financial packages are announced, production of necessary medical equipment is up in full swing, poor and marginalized are being looked after in other countries, R&D laboratories are burning the midnight oil to invent a vaccine or antidote. And Prime Minister of India asks people to light lamps and candles. Is this some kind of a joke?," said Awhad,  who holds the housing portfolio. "All he is consistently giving people is sedatives such as clap, bang the utensils and light the lamps like a celebration or events. His blind, irrational followers will do it dutifully, oblivious that they too are being cheated. They will not think even for a minute how this will help to tide over the alarming situation. His cockamamie and gimmicks is a narcotic they are addicted to. On his part, PM is more than happy to peddle this drug as it hides his bankruptcy of will and ability to take any concrete action," he said. "I will share the cost of the same oil with some poor and needy. Let Modi know one cardinal truth that you can not fool all the people all the time," he added. Malik,  who is the minority affairs minister and the chief spokesperson said: "The speech was disheartening". Pawar's grandnephew and MLA Rohit Pawar tweeted: "Prime minister @narendramodi ji is aiming to bring the country together through lights & if so, we should welcome this thought. Likewise, as a citizen of this country I urge you to place the flag of our country as a DP of your social media accounts for a message of solidarity."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modis-light-up-lamps-message-disappointing-says-ncp-820784.html
03-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: GoM reviews overall situation across India||As the country battles a sudden surge in coronavirus cases, the government on Friday carried out a detailed review of the overall healthcare delivery system as well as situation arising out of the 21-day nation-wide lockdown, officials said. The review was conducted by a Group of Ministers headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and comprising several key members of the Union Cabinet including Home Home Minister Amit Shah, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan and Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. Government sources said the ministers deliberated on various arrangements being made to deal with increasing cases of coronavirus cases as well as to ensure adequate supplies of medicine and essential commodities during the lockdown. India has recorded over 2,300 positive cases of coronavirus and at least 56 deaths so far. Globally, the virus has infected more than one million people and claimed around 50,000 lives. Separately, the defense ministry said five viral testing labs at armed forces hospitals have been made part of the national grid for carrying out tests for coronavirus infection. These include Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in Delhi, Air Force Command Hospital in Bangalore, Armed Forces Medical College in Pune, Command Hospital in Lucknow and Command Hospital in Udhampur. Six more hospitals are being readied with infrastructure to carry out COVID-19 testing. In addition, 15 other facilities are being kept ready as standby for use, if required, the defence ministry said in a statement, adding that dedicated infrastructure including "high dependency units, intensive care beds are being readied at 51 hospitals of the armed forces across the country. Some of these hospitals are at Kolkata, Visakhapatnam, Kochi, Dundigal, Bengaluru, Kanpur, Jaisalmer, Jorhat and Gorakhpur. At present, armed forces are running six quarantine facilities at Mumbai, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Hindon, Manesar and Chennai. A total of 1,737 people have been handled by these centres and 403 of them have been released so far. The transport fleet of IAF is being used to assist in transportation of essential supplies, medicines and medical equipment. So far, approximately 60 tonnes of supplies have been airlifted to various parts of the country, officials said. Twenty eight fixed wing and 21 helicopters are also kept on standby at various locations across the country for any possible eventualities. Six naval ships are kept ready to provide assistance to neighbouring countries. Five medical teams are also on standby for deployment in the Maldives, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-gom-reviews-overall-situation-across-india-820800.html
03-04-2020||National Politics||PM Modi trying to turn coronavirus pandemic into political event: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Hitting out at Modi who urged people to light lamps, candles or mobile phone torches at 9 pm on April 5 to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat the coronavirus, the leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha said the prime minister should stop doing politics over the issue. "Instead of working on a plan to revive the economy and fix the lacunes in health sector, the prime minister is trying to divert the attention of the people from these gaps. What purpose will lighting a lamp serve when people are losing jobs and starving. Such diversionary tactics won't work," Chowdhury said in a video message shared with journalists. He said Modi and his party BJP are trying to turn the pandemic into a "political event". "I will neither switch off my lights nor will switch on my mobile phone flash. I don't believe in such absurd things. Will clanging utensils and switching on cell phone torches solve all the problems?" the Congress leader questioned. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee declined to comment on the prime minister's appeal and said it is for the people to decide. "I don't want to comment on it. If someone is willing to do it let him do and if somebody don't want to do it, so be it. It's individual choice," the Trinamool Congress supremo said. However, her party MP Mohua Moitra slammed Modi and said the Centre should rather announce assistance for workers in the unorganised sector. "Turn out lights & come on balconies? GET REAL MR. MODI! Give India fiscal pkg worth 8-10pc of GDP Ensure immediate wages to construction & other labour during lockdown- laws exist permitting this Stop gagging real press in name of curbing fake news," Moitra said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-trying-to-turn-coronavirus-pandemic-into-political-event-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-820952.html
03-04-2020||National Politics||J-K at risk of becoming police state: NC on remarks of IGP Kashmir over domicile law||Jammu and Kashmir is at the risk of becoming a police state, the National Conference said on Friday, a day after a senior police official warned of action against anyone found instigating people on the new domicile law announced by the Centre for the union territory. "It would appear that along with everything else we also lost the fundamental right to free speech and the right to dissent last year. J&K may not be a 'state' but we risk becoming a police state (if we aren't already one)," the NC said on its official Twitter handle. A report in a local daily has quoted Inspector General of Police Kashmir Vijay Kumar as saying that "some miscreants are instigating people on the new domicile law by misusing social media. FIR will be filed and action will be taken against those found involved". Taking a dig at the IGP's remarks, NC's provincial spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said police should award those writing in favour of the domicile law. "May I add... just a suggestion... Police should also award those writing in favour of #DomicilelawJK. Awardee should be allowed to nominate any 10 people of choice for #DomicileCertificate. Halwa batt raha hai toh sab khaye...(sic)," he tweeted. The PDP too reacted sharply to the IGP's remarks. "Seriously @JmuKmrPolice Article 19(1)(a) of Constitution says that all citizens have the right to freedom of speech, expression. Freedom of Speech & expression means the right to express one's own convictions & opinions freely by words of mouth, writing, printing or any mode," the party said in a tweet. Nearly eight months after withdrawal of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, the central government on Wednesday laid down rules for domicile which can now be given to anyone who has resided in the Union Territory for 15 years. The Centre amended the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) in which a clause for domicile category was introduced under which jobs up to Group-4 in the government were protected. Under the new law, anyone who has resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir or has studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 and Class 12 examinations in an educational institution located in the Union Territory is a domicile.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-k-at-risk-of-becoming-police-state-nc-on-remarks-of-igp-kashmir-over-domicile-law-821013.html
03-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: EC uses constitutional powers to further defer RS polls to 18 seats||The polling to elect the 18 members of the Rajya Sabha from Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya and Rajasthan had been scheduled to take place on March 26, but the EC on March 24 had postponed it in view of the lockdown imposed by the Centre and the State Governments to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Thirty seven seats in the upper House of Parliament have already been filled up uncontested without requiring polling. The poll-panel on Friday further postponed the election process “beyond the prescribed term(s)” of the respective Rajya Sabha seats. The EC had on February 25 announced the elections to fill up the 55 Rajya Sabha vacancies and issued the notification on March 6. The 17 of the 18 seats, which were to go to polls on March 26, will fall vacant on April 9, while the remaining one will fall vacant on April 12. The EC reviewed the current unforeseen situation of public health emergency and the feasibility of completing the poll process for the aforesaid election. “(The) Commission, after taking all facts and circumstances in view,  is of considered view that continuing electoral process in the current environment may not be feasible in view of the restrictions for the maintenance of public safety and avoiding health hazard,” it said. “In view of the above, (the) Commission invoking its powers under Article 324 of the Constitution of India read with section 153 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 has further extended the period of election beyond the prescribed term(s) of above mentioned seats,” the EC stated on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-ec-uses-constitutional-powers-to-further-defer-rs-polls-to-18-seats-821016.html
03-04-2020||National Politics||PM's latest address lacked solutions to issues: Kamal Haasan||The actor-politician, who had welcomed the Janta curfew call given by Modi earlier, said he had high expectations from his address to the nation. In his televised short address, Modi urged people to switch off lights in their homes at 9 pm for nine minutes on April 5 and light up lamps, candles, mobile flashlights to display the nation's collective spirit to defeat coronavirus. "I had high expectations when it was said the Prime Minister was going to talk... (and it would be on) solutions to the shortage of protection equipment, free supply of essential commodities, the livelihood of the poor, future economic measures etc." Haasan said in a tweet. "But he is coming (referring) only today to the torch light which we had taken in our hands a long time ago," he quipped, in an apparent reference to his party's symbol of battery torchlight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pms-latest-address-lacked-solutions-to-issues-kamal-haasan-821057.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Bhopal: Four `Jamaat' members test positive for COVID-19||Four members of "Jamaat" including three foreign nationals tested positive for coronavirus in Bhopal on Thursday, a senior official said. However, it was not clear if they belonged to Tablighi Jamaat, which is in news after its congregation in Delhi last month turned out to be coronavirus infection hotspot. A large number of "Jamaat members" arrived in Bhopal recently and samples of 65 of them were sent for tests, Bhopal collector Tarun Pithode said in a statement. The samples of four -- three foreign nationals and an Odisha resident -- tested positive, he said. They were quarantined at the Chirayu Medical College and Hospital here, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhopal-four-jamaat-members-test-positive-for-covid-19-820671.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Bihar reports five new cases; total now 29||Five people tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 29, an official said. According to state epidemiologist Ragini Mishra, two women from Gaya, the wife and the mother of a coronavirus patient with travel history to Dubai, and as many men from Gopalganj, both of whom returned from the Middle East recently, tested positive. A resident of Saran district, who had recently travelled to the UK, also tested positive, she said. "Altogether, 1,973 samples have been tested in the state so far, of which 29 have tested positive," Mishra told PTI. Notably, Gopalganj reported its first COVID-19 case on Tuesday when a man with travel history to the Middle East tested positive. It is, however, the first time that a sample has tested positive from Saran. Of the 29 people reported COVID-19 positive in Bihar till date, one has died, while three have recovered. The deceased was a 38-year-old from Munger who returned from Qatar a month ago and breathed his last on March 21 at AIIMS, Patna, a day before test results confirmed he was COVID-19 positive. He had been suffering from renal failure and ended up infecting several others, including neighbours, relatives and employees of private hospitals in Munger and Patna before he was referred to AIIMS here. Meanwhile, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has congratulated the three people who have fully recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-bihar-reports-five-new-cases-total-now-29-820690.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases rise to 126 in Uttar Pradesh||The number of COVID-19 cases has risen to 126 in Uttar Pradesh, an official said on Thursday. Of these 126 cases, 17 have been fully cured and discharged while two have died -- one each in Meerut and Basti -- till date, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. The Health Department has been maintaining an aggressive containment exercise in and around various districts from where positive cases have been reported and this has helped to some extent, he said. According to an official bulletin, the district-wise tally of coronavirus cases in UP is Gautambudh Nagar (48), Meerut (24), Agra (12), Lucknow (10), Ghaziabad (9), Bareilly (6), Bulandshahr (3), Basti, Varanasi and Pilibhit (2 each), Ghazipur, Hapur, Baghpat, Jaunpur, Shamli, Moradabad, Kanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri (1 each). Prasad said 429 samples of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi have been taken and sent for testing. "The samples of all those who had attended the Jaamat meeting will be sent for testing and a campaign is on for this purpose in the state," he said, adding all of them will be quarantined as per the medical protocol. On Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's video conferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Prasad said the need to strictly stick to the protocols of social distancing, washing hands and hygiene were emphasised upon in the conference. He said positive results are being witnessed in the state on account of sincere efforts being put in by public and employees and officials.  The good thing is that there has been a decrease in the average rate of infection in the state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-rise-to-126-in-uttar-pradesh-820697.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat attendees quarantined in Ghaziabad hospital make vulgar signs, roam nude inside||Ghaziabad CMO has written a letter to the local police saying that the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz event attendees have been misbehaving with the hospital staff. The hospital's nursing staff has complained against these patients, the CMO in the letter. “A complaint was received from the CMO that the nurses of MMG hospital have alleged that 6 coronavirus patients admitted at the hospital's isolation ward are misbehaving with them. We are at the spot for investigation of the matter,” said ASP City. According to news reports, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to book these members of the Tablighi Jamaat under the National Security Act (NSA). Ghaziabad SSP told ANI that an FIR has been registered against persons from Tablighi Jamaat who are in quarantine at MMG District Hospital. “An FIR has been registered on a complaint that patients admitted at hospital's (MMG District Hospital) isolation ward were misbehaving with hospital staff. It has been directed to ensure fair investigation in the matter,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, SSP Ghaziabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-attendees-quarantined-in-ghaziabad-hospital-make-vulgar-signs-roam-nude-inside-820762.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||MP records eight more coronavirus cases; tally rises to 119||An IAS officer and four attendees of the controversial congregation in Nizamuddin were found positive for coronavirus in Bhopal even as the number of patients in Indore surged to 89. By Friday afternoon, a total number of infection cases in Madhya Pradesh rose to 121. Of the four Jamaat attendees, three are from Myanmar and one from Orissa. MP Health Corporation managing director and 2011 batch IAS officer J Vijay Kumar has tested positive. He had returned from outside the state last week. His staff members have also been advised by doctors to go in quarantine.     In view of the grim situation, the state government is contemplating extending the lockdown period in Bhopal and Indore beyond the stipulated period of April 14.  Meanwhile, Indore collector has imposed the National Security Act (NSA) on four miscreants who allegedly attacked a health department team four days ago. As many as 23 persons from the Muslim community have been arrested from different parts of the state on the charge of violating the lockdown rules. Curfew has been imposed in Morena district following the detection of corona infection in a married couple. Of the total 121 cases in the state, 89 are from Indore, nine each from Bhopal and Jabalpur, six in Ujjain, one in Khargone, two each in Gwalior, Shivpuri, Morena and Chhindwara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-records-eight-more-coronavirus-cases-tally-rises-to-119-820767.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||PSA detainees release not within SC guidelines: J&K committee||The panel headed by executive chairman State Legal Services Authority Justice Rajesh Bindal has made this observation after Chief Justice of J&K High Court referred a representation to it for release of PSA detainees, sources told DH. The panel, also comprising J&K Principal Secretary Home Shaleen Kabra and Director General of Prisons VK Singh, has categorically maintained that the representation for release of PSA detainees cannot be considered, even as it has urged the authorities to re-consider these cases on merits given the prevailing situation. On February 5, the Ministry of Home Affairs had informed the Parliament that 389 people were in detention under the PSA in J&K. These include former Chief Minister of J&K Mehbooba Mufti and six other top politicians. However, in the past two weeks, the government has released 47 detainees booked under the PSA after abrogation of Article 370 by the Central government on August 5 last year. States like Maharashtra, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have also released prisoners held for petty crimes on parole or furlough in the wake of the pandemic. Maharashtra released 11,000 such prisoners last week, fearing that COVID-19 would spread among jail inmates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/psa-detainees-release-not-within-sc-guidelines-jk-committee-820770.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: SC notice to Centre on payment of wages to migrant workers||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a plea by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj for payment of wages by the government to all migrant workers, whether formal, informal or self-employed, amidst the 21-day nation-wide lockdown on COVID-19 threat. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta said the court was particularly concerned about the plight of migrant workers in the unorganised sector in this time of crisis. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for his part, raised objection to the petition argued by advocate Prashant Bhushan. "These 'PIL shops' must close down. Genuine persons are helping people on the ground. Those sitting in AC rooms and filing PILs does not help," he argued.  The bench, however, decided to seek a response from the government and put the matter for consideration on April 7. The petition, filed by activists Mander and Bhardwaj, contended that the lockdown order issued by the Union government under the Disaster Management Act discriminated the citizens. The petitioners pointed out that the Act obliged the central and state governments to prepare a detailed plan and machinery for dealing with and mitigating the effects of disasters, including taking steps to help the victims whether directly or indirectly. "Thus, it is the duty of both the state as well as the central governments to jointly and severally ensure payments of wages/ minimum wages to all the migrants, who are the indirect victims of the COVID-19 disaster," they said. The petitioners asserted that the government's inaction in protecting the lives of these migrant workers, forced to move back to their villages during this "unprecedented humanitarian crisis", was violative of their right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Among others, they sought a direction to the government to immediately activate national and State advisory committees of experts in the field of disaster management and public health for management plans for dealing with the Covid-19 epidemic under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-sc-notice-to-centre-on-payment-of-wages-to-migrant-workers-820776.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: SC asks Centre to publicise prices on masks, hand sanitiser, soaps||A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to ensure strict implementation of the orders issued by the government. Mehta said the government was looking into the matter and would publish and publicise helpline numbers for the effective implementation of its notification- controlling the price of the masks and sanitisers. Satyam Singh Rajput, founder of NGO 'Justice For Rights Foundation', and advocate Amit Kumar Sharma and LLB student Prateek Sharma had approached the court against the black marketing of sanitisers and mask.  The petitioners, for their part, contended that the right to life and personal liberty as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution, was "sacrosanct and it should not be made a part of a trade in hands of nefarious few". They pointed out that the Department of Consumer Affairs, had on March 21, 2020, fixed the prices of two-ply masks at Rs 8 and three-ply at Rs 10 and that the sanitiser bottle of 200 ml at Rs 100. However, the petitioners claimed these items were sold at inflated prices. The petitioners pointed out the Ministry of Chemical and Fertilizers' Department of Pharmaceuticals through National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority passed an order on March 13 directing all the authorities to ensure sufficient availability of surgical masks, hand sanitisers and gloves at the printed MRP. The WHO had on January 30 declared the COVID-19 firstly as “public-health emergency of international concern” and then on March 11 called it a pandemic, due to the ever-increasing number of cases and the deaths caused by the said infectious disease. With this, the citizens were advised to take two important steps: one, to cover ones’ face and two, to wash hand regularly with soaps and use sanitisers.  In such a scenario of widespread infection and the growing number of cases, the petitioners said effective and precautionary steps were required to ensure availability of masks, hand sanitiser and soaps as "the life and the well-being of the citizens cannot be allowed to hang in balance".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-sc-asks-centre-to-publicise-prices-on-masks-hand-sanitiser-soaps-820779.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||No Friday congregation prayers in Kashmir as lockdown continues||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-friday-congregation-prayers-in-kashmir-as-lockdown-continues-820823.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||JK Organisation pledges Rs 10 crore to combat COVID-19||JK Organisation, which has diversified interests including tyres, cement and paper, on Friday pledged Rs 10 crore for fight against the coronavirus pandemic. While a large part of the fund will go to the Prime Minister's Relief Fund in fighting COVID-19, the rest will be utilised in meeting the immediate needs of communities and migrant labour, currently underway, at several locations across the country, the organisation said in a statement. "The relief work which has been undertaken by the member companies – JK Tyre, JK Paper, JK Lakshmi Cement, JK Fenner and others - are going on for quite some time at several places, includes distribution of food, drinking water, masks, sanitisers, safety kits for various front line workers of health and sanitation departments, creation of isolation wards etc," it said. Commenting on the initiatives, JK Organisation President Bharat Hari Singhania said: “Integral to our philosophy of making a substantive impact on the ground and working for the needy, we have been fighting the battle at several fronts by supporting the communities, helping migrant labours and our own employees families residing at our plant townships." The organisation is also constantly looking at ways to plug the shortfall of masks, protective gears, sanitisers and other items of necessity at the community level, the statement said. JK Organisation is also supporting government officials, police department and government hospital employees with packed food and drinking water with the help of NGO’s. The organisation has also been supporting the district health department by providing ambulance, safety materials, masks, soaps, hand gloves to sanitary workers in municipal corporations, it added. In more than 150 villages around JK Organisation’s plant across several states, the company has educated people about COVID-19 through public address systems, door-to-door visits, banners and posters at prominent locations and fumigation drives. More than 20,000 masks and sanitizers in the villages have also been distributed in its fight against coronavirus. The organisation has also set up 50 medical camps in several villages to check for symptoms. Awareness sessions were also conducted for nearly 5,000 truck drivers, suppliers and other vendors, and provided with masks as well as sanitizers. An apex team, which includes all directors, CEOs and other top executives have been reviewing the situation regularly, and ensuring all actions are being implemented in a timely manner, the organisation said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-organisation-pledges-rs-10-crore-to-combat-covid-19-820827.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases rise to 43 in Haryana||Cases of coronavirus rose to 43 in Haryana on Friday, with Nuh and Gurugram being among the districts to report fresh cases, officials said. As per the Health Department's bulletin, three persons who reported Covid-19 positive are natives of Kerala while two others who tested positive in Gurugram hail from Maharashtra. One more person who tested positive in Gurugram belongs to Uttar Pradesh. Addressing media via digital link, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajiv Arora said, “Total number of positive cases as of Friday morning was 43. Out of total number of positive cases, 13 have been discharged". Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Vijai Vardhan and DGP Manoj Yadava were also present.   “Among the 30 active cases, six are from Gurugram, five from Faridabad, three from Ambala, one from Hisar, three from Nuh, three from Palwal, two from Panipat, two from Panchkula, one from Rohtak, three from Sirsa and one from Sonipat,” he said. Haryana recorded its first COVID-19 death on Thursday when a 67-year-old man from Ambala, who as per doctors had multiple underlying health conditions, passed away at the PGIMER here. Arora detailed the steps which the health department is taking to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state. “We have already set up a round-the-clock helpline cum control room which has been attached with telemedicine services for people who are not able to avail of services of doctors,” Arora said. He said in the government sector, one laboratory is functional at PGIMS at Rohtak and another one in Sonipat. “We are also in the process of setting up labs in Nuh, Hisar, Karnal, Rohtak and Panchkula,” he said and added that the government has already given permission to five private laboratories in Gurugram for testing. The state, he said, has 7,346 isolation beds for COVID patients. “We have six government and aided medical colleges and 25 hospitals which have been designated as part COVID hospitals,” he said. He also said that government has earmarked the ESIC hospitals in Gurugram and Faridabad as exclusive COVID hospitals and “we are also trying to include World College of Medical Sciences and Research as one of the major Covid centres in Jhajjar.” On reports of doctors and paramedical staff facing shortage of PPEs, he said, "There has been lot of talk about availability of personal protection equipment, N-95 mask and other things. In the last one week, lot of things have improved. Now, we have more than 19,000 PPE kits, 90,000 of N-95 masks and more than 10 lakh triple ply masks which are available in different hospitals in Haryana.      The supply of PPE kits is being ramped up through the Centre and direct purchase by state government,” he said.      “We have 1,282 ventilators and we have ordered over 200 more ventilators which we will be installing from April 10,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-rise-to-43-in-haryana-820828.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||AIMPLB official warns media of legal action for using his photos instead of Maulana Saad’s||AIMPLB spokesman Maulana Khalil-ur-Rahman Sajjad Nomani Friday said some media houses are carrying his photos instead of Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad’s in their reportage on the Nizamuddin Markaz controversy and warned of legal action. "Despite disclaimers, these media reports are carrying my photograph which compels me to conclude that this is being done to defame me,” the All India Muslim Personal Law Board spokesperson said, asking media houses to not carry his pictures in their Markaz-related reports. He urged the media to act with "restraint and responsibility” while covering issues related to the coronavirus pandemic. "If, despite my request, deliberately planting of my picture continues, I will have no option but to take legal recourse," he added. "At this stage, I do not wish to go into the details of this unfortunate sequence of events because there is no point in stoking any further controversy at a time when the entire country is battling against this huge calamity," he said. Nomani said he was among the first people "to categorically and unequivocally support the Prime Minister’s call for a nationwide lockdown (announced) on March 24" “Even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a lockdown, I had taken the initiative of building up a consensus among all leading Islamic jurists and clerics on the urgent need of stopping all congregational prayers including Friday prayers," he told PTI. He said the need of the hour was for all sections of society, irrespective of class, colour or creed to join hands in this national endeavour to contain the pandemic. “We cannot allow any fringe elements from any section to spread discord or provoke religious sentiments at a time when the world is looking upto our country to confront this catastrophic situation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aimplb-official-warns-media-of-legal-action-for-using-his-photos-instead-of-maulana-saad-s-820841.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Himachal woman dies in Chandigarh hospital, HP death toll rises to two||A woman from Baddi in Himachal Pradesh's Solan district has died due to COVID-19 at the PGIMER in Chandigarh, a senior official said on Friday. The woman's case was earlier unreported, Solan Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman told PTI. With this, the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the hill state has risen to seven. This is the second death in Himachal Pradesh due to COVID-19. Earlier, a 69-year-old man who recently returned from the USA died of COVID-19 at the Dr. Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Kangra district on March 23. On March 20, two persons -- a 32-year-old man from Harchakkian tehsil and a 64-year-old woman from Dohabe village in Shahpur subdivision -- were tested positive for the disease.  The 32-year-old man was discharged from hospital after recovery whereas the 64-year-old woman is being treated at the Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in the district. On April 2, three persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat's congregation in New Delhi last month and came to Himachal Pradesh tested positive for coronavirus. All the four active COVID-19 cases are being treated at the RPGMC. The persons who came in contact with the three Tablighi Jamaat returnees and the woman who died at the PGIMER, Chandigarh are being traced, a state health official said. Their contacts will be quarantined after they are traced to check the spread of COVID-19, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-himachal-woman-dies-in-chandigarh-hospital-hp-death-toll-rises-to-two-820842.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: WHO team to visit Rajasthan's Tonk district||A team from the World Health Organisation will visit Rajasthan's Tonk district on Friday to conduct a survey in the wake of rising number of coronavirus cases in the state, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot said. "There has been a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the state in last 24 hours with an increase in the number of positive cases reported from Tonk. Given this critical situation, a team from WHO will visit and conduct a survey in Tonk today," Pilot tweeted. "We will strictly adhere and follow the report and guidelines as submitted by WHO. Prevention and containment of the virus spread is our utmost priority. If we act responsibly, the spread of the virus can be controlled," he said. We will strictly adhere and follow the report and guidelines as submitted by WHO. Prevention and containment of the virus spread is the our utmost priority. If we act responsibly, the spread of the virus can be controlled The number of coronavirus positive cases in the state increased to 154 on Friday while the total number of positive cases in Tonk stands at 16. Out of the 154, 21 cases including 12 from Tonk were reported on Friday. Four of positive cases in Tonk were attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin while the remaining 12 are their close contacts. The maximum number of 48 positive cases have been reported from Jaipur followed by 33 cases from Ramganj area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-who-team-to-visit-rajasthans-tonk-district-820852.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||'Bothered' by unknown callers, Digvijaya switches off phone||Veteran Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday said that he had to switch off his mobile phone as he was annoyed by the unsolicited calls he had been getting repeatedly. He said he has taken up the matter with the police department. Taking to Twitter, Singh said, "These are the phone calls that have been bothering me since 4/5 days. I sent a complaint to the DGP of MP. I also spoke to the service provider but these calls are not stopping. Sadly in this condition, I have to switch off my mobile number." He also attached the screen shots of the numbers, some of them international, from which he has been getting the calls. Taking a swipe at Digvijaya Singh over his decision to switch off the phone, BJP MLA and state party vice president Rameshwar Sharma asked him to forward the calls to his number. "Digvijaya ji should not be worried. He does not need to switch off his mobile in this time of crisis, instead he should divert his calls to my number. I will help the needy and also deal with those who threaten," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bothered-by-unknown-callers-digvijaya-switches-off-phone-820864.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||No fresh COVID-19 case in Noida, Greater Noida; Gautam Buddh Nagar tally stays at 48||No fresh coronavirus case was detected in Noida and Greater Noida on Thursday, with the total number of COVID-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar staying at 48, officials said. Gautam Buddh Nagar in western Uttar Pradesh, adjoining Delhi, has been identified as one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the country as it has recorded the maximum cases for any district in Uttar Pradesh. The tally in the state is 121 so far, according to official figures. "A total of 699 samples have so far been sent for the COVID-19 test from Gautam Buddh Nagar, of which 48 have tested positive, 545 negative and the results for the remaining are awaited," the state health department stated in its daily statement. Six persons have been cured and the number of active cases stands at 42, it stated. Currently, 2,005 people are under surveillance across Noida and Greater Noida, while another 393 have been quarantined -- 92 of them at a Gautam Buddh University hostel and the rest in special isolation facilities at hospitals in Noida and Greater Noida, the health department added. Meanwhile, two FIRs were registered in Noida and Greater Noida and four people arrested on Thursday for defying the lockdown imposed due to the coronavirus outbreak, the police said. A total of 701 vehicles were checked at 132 pickets in the district, challans issued to 71 of those for various violations, while four vehicles were impounded, they added. The district police has also started deploying drone cameras to monitor the lockdown situation, even as police teams patrolled the roads to ensure people adhered to the restrictions. Police Commissioner Alok Singh has directed all personnel and officers to be on the ground on Friday, and appealed to religious clerics to ensure that prayers are not held in groups in mosques or on the terraces of private buildings. "If anybody wants to offer namaaz, he can do it at home. No religious programme should be held during the lockdown. Strict action will be taken against anyone violating the restrictions," he was quoted as saying in an official statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-fresh-covid-19-case-in-noida-greater-noida-gautam-buddh-nagar-tally-stays-at-48-820876.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Suspended J-K police officer Davinder Singh sent to further custody till April 10||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir police officer Davinder Singh, who was arrested while ferrying two Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year, was on Friday sent to further custodial interrogation by a Delhi court till April 10. Special Judge Munish Markan extended Singh's custody after the Delhi Police said that he was required to be further confronted with three other accused persons -- Javed Iqbal, Syed Naveed Mushtaq and Imran Shafi Mir -- arrested in the case to unearth their respective roles. The court also extended the custody of Iqbal, Mushtaq and Mir till April 10 on a plea by the police. The Delhi Police said that the accused were required to be interrogated further to identify the other persons involved. “The custody was required to ascertain the identity of other handlers,” the police told the court. The police said that further interrogation was required to unearth the larger conspiracy and role of the accused, to trace the details of financial transactions, verify and trace other offenders. Defence advocate Prashant Prakash opposed remand on the ground that there were no fresh and adequate reasons for the remand demanded. He further said that the grounds of remand were the same as the previous ones, hence police could not be allowed to interrogate the accused further. The court directed the police to conduct Singh’s medical examination after every 48 hours. Singh was suspended from the Jammu and Kashmir Police in January this year. The Delhi Police's Special Cell had brought Singh to the national capital from Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir. Earlier, the court had sent Syed Naveed Mushtaq and others to police custody till April 3 after police said that he and other co-accused were planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country and targeted killings of protected persons. The police said that Mushtaq, the commander of Shopian district of Hizbul Mujahideen, used to chat with other co-accused and militants through various internet platforms, including darknet chat. “Mushtaq, along with other militants of Hizbul Mujahideen, were planning to execute a terror attack in Delhi and other parts of the country and targeted killings of protected persons,” police told the court. The Delhi Police filed an FIR under Section 120B of IPC, and sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The FIR said that the youths of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab were being trained for carrying out terrorist activities. The FIR also mentioned D Company and Chhota Shakeel. According to the FIR, the Special Cell had received an input that the D Company was funding pro-Khalistan terrorist organisations in Punjab. Under this FIR, Singh was taken into custody. The Special Cell had also interrogated Singh regarding the Khalistan angle, the police said. Although Singh was not named in the FIR, the Special Cell had some inputs on the basis of which the enquiry was carried out and the suspended DSP was questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspended-j-k-police-officer-davinder-singh-sent-to-further-custody-till-april-10-820881.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Court sends Jamia student to 3-day police custody||A Delhi court has sent a student of Jamia Milia Islamia, arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi, to three days police custody, said a lawyer. Meeran Haider (35), a PhD student at Jamia, is the president of RJD youth wing''s Delhi unit. Metropolitan Magistrate Prabhjeet Kaur sent Haider for custodial interrogation after the police said it was required to unearth larger conspiracy in the case related to the recent communal violence in north east Delhi over the Citizenship Amendment Act, said the lawyer privy to the matter. Rajya Sabha MP and RJD leader Manoj Jha had tweeted, "Delhi Police called him for investigation and then received orders from above and arrested Meeran Haider, who has been helping people during the time of coronavirus outbreak." Chhatra RJD unit of JNU had also demanded the release of Haider and said the police should become ''people-friendly'' and not scare people. The Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), a group comprising students and alumni from the varsity, had condemned the arrest and demanded his immediate release. "The country is facing a massive health crisis, however, the state machinery is busy harassing and framing student activists in false cases to suppress voices of dissent," they said. The JCC said Haider was diligently working to provide ration to the needy during the lockdown. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Frenzied mobs torched houses, shops, vehicles, a petrol pump and pelted stones at residents and police personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-court-sends-jamia-student-to-3-day-police-custody-820886.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||960 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, including UK, US nationals blacklisted, visas cancelled||Four Americans, nine Britishers and six Chinese nationals were among the 960 foreign Tablighi Jamaat activists who were blacklisted and their tourist visas cancelled by the Union Home Ministry, officials said on Friday. As many as 77 citizens from Kyrgyzstan, 75 Malaysian, 65 Thai, 12 Vietnamese, nine Saudis and three French nationals were also among those Tablighi Jamaat activists who were blacklisted and their visas cancelled, a government official said. Action against the foreign Tablighi Jamaat members were taken after over 2,300 activists, including 250 foreigners of the Islamic organisation were found to be living at its headquarters located at Delhi's Nizamuddin despite the 21-day lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus. More than 300 of these Tablighi Jamaat activists have tested positive for COVID-19 while others have been put in different quarantine centres. At least 9,000 people had participated at a congregation at the Nizamuddin Markaz last month after which many have travelled to various parts of the country for missionary works. So far, around 400 COVID-19 positive cases and about 12 deaths in the country were found to have links with the Nizamuddin Markaz. The other foreigners include seven from Alegria, one from Australia, two from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, three from Côte d'Ivoire, five from Djibouti, one from Egypt, three from Ethiopia, one from Fiji, three from Gambia, 24 from Iran and one from Jordan. They also include 14 from Kazakhstan, one from Kenya, three from Madagascar, two from Mali, 10 from Philippines, three from Qatar, one from Russia, one from Senegal, one from Sierra Leone, one from South Africa, four from Sudan, one from Sweden, eight from Tanzania, one from Togo, three from Trinidad, three from Tobago, two from Tunisia, two from Ukraine, 12 from Vietnam and others six. The Union Home ministry on Thursday had blacklisted these 960 foreigners and cancelled their visas after finding they were involved in Tablighi Jamaat activities, violating their visa conditions. The Home ministry also asked Delhi Police and police chiefs of other states, where these foreigners are currently living, to take legal action under the Foreigners Act and the Disaster Management Act. The Home Ministry on Tuesday had said about 2,100 foreigners have come to India since January 1 and indulged in Tablighi activities in different parts of the country. On Thursday, the ministry said over 1,300 foreign Tablighi Jamaat activists, including those from the US, France and Italy, have been identified in different parts of the country and most of them have been put in quarantine. Most of these foreigners came to India on tourist visa, which prohibits involvement in any religious activities. The government has also decided not to issue tourist visa to any foreigner who wishes to visit India and take part in Tablighi activities. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had also told states and UTs to take action against foreigners, who have participated in the missionary activities of the Tablighi Jamaat, in violation of visa conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/960-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-members-including-uk-us-nationals-blacklisted-visas-cancelled-820899.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases rise to 172 in Uttar Pradesh||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in UP was reported to be 126 on Thursday night. "Till Friday afternoon the total number of positive COVID-19 cases across the state are 172," a senior health official told PTI. The sharp increase in the number of cases, officials said, was due to confirmation of coronavirus in the samples of over three dozen people across the state who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. "The exact breakup of the districts will be made available later," they said. Earlier, the total number of positive cases in the state was 134 as on Friday morning with a total of eight fresh cases reported in Agra and Jaunpur. While six cases were found to be positive in Agra, two positive cases were reported in Jaunpur, they said. "Six more COVID-19 positive cases have found here. The total number of cases in the district are 18 now," Agra District Magistrate Prabhu Narain Singh said. "Two more case have been found to be coronavirus positive in Jaunpur. Now the total positive cases in the district are three," Jaunpur District Magistrate Dinesh Kumar Singh said. The two fresh cases are of those who attended the Tablighi Jamat congregation in New Delhi, he said. According to officials, the district-wise tally of 134 coronavirus cases as on Friday morning included - Gautambudh Nagar (48), Meerut (24), Agra (18), Lucknow (10), Ghaziabad (9), Bareilly (6), Bulandshahr and Jaunpur (3 each), Basti, Varanasi, and Pilibhit (2 each), Ghazipur, Hapur, Baghpat, Shamli, Moradabad, Kanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri (1 each). Of these 134 cases, 17 have been fully cured and discharged while two have died -- one each in Meerut and Basti. Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, "The good thing is that there has been a decrease in the average rate of infection in the state". He said the Health Department has been maintaining an aggressive containment exercise in and around various districts from where positive cases have been reported and this has helped to some extent in containing the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-rise-to-172-in-uttar-pradesh-820900.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||SC stays Rajasthan HC order for not listing bail pleas during coronavirus lockdown||The Supreme Court Friday stayed the Rajasthan High Court's order which had directed its registry not to list cases like bail and applications for suspension of sentence in the category of "extreme urgent matters" during the country wide lockdown amid coronavirus pandemic. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta, which heard the matter through video-conferencing, also issued notice on the plea challenging the March 31 order passed by a single judge bench of the high court. The high court order had said that matters like bail and applications for suspension of sentence cannot be considered to be of "extreme urgency" at a time when there is complete lockdown in the country. The high court, which had passed the order while hearing a bail plea, had said that such matters would be listed after withdrawal of lockdown by the Centre. It had observed that release of an accused or convict at the "cost of breaching the order of lockdown and at the cost of risking lives of many" cannot be considered to fall within the category of extreme urgent matter. It had also noted that during Holi, Dussehra, Diwali and winter vacations ranging from few days to few weeks, bail pleas and applications for suspension of sentence were not taken up by the high court. The high court had also referred to a report by DG Prisons, who had said there is no overcrowding in jails and inmates are regularly checked medically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-stays-rajasthan-hc-order-for-not-listing-bail-pleas-during-coronavirus-lockdown-820918.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||647 COVID-19 cases found in last 2 days linked to Tablighi Jamaat congregation: Health ministry||As many as 647 COVID-19 positive cases found in 14 states in the last two days are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, the Union health ministry said on Friday. Out of the 12 deaths reported in the last 24 hours some are related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said in a daily media briefing. The congregation took place early last month in the national capital's West Nizamuddin area. So far there have been 2,301 cases of COVID-19 in India and 56 deaths out of which 12 were reported since Thursday, he said, adding there has been a rise of 336 coronavirus cases since Thursday. He said till now 157 patients have recovered. The joint secretary said that "647 positive cases of the coronavirus have been found in the last two days that are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, and these were reported from 14 states (and union territories) Andaman and Nicobar, Delhi, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh". "If we see the rise in cases in the last few days, it has primarily been due to an increase at a particular level," Agarwal said in an apparent reference to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. He said because of the lockdown and "our efforts to promote social distancing, cases were being reported but there was no sharp rise". There are 182 labs in the country for COVID-19 diagnosis, out of which 130 are government labs, an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) official said. The official said about 8,000 samples were tested on Thursday for COVID-19. Agarwal also said that 30 lakh have downloaded the government's 'AarogyaSetu' mobile app to help people assess risk of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/647-covid-19-cases-found-in-last-2-days-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-health-ministry-820921.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Seven police personnel who were part of team to evacuate Nizamuddin Markaz sent on leave||Seven police personnel, who were part of the team which went to evacuate Nizamuddin Markaz, were sent on leave, officials said on Friday. A senior police officer said it is a routine rotation process after the lockdown in the national capital. Seven police personnel of Nizamuddin police station have been sent on rest from Thursday for 10 days. A total of 24 staff are on rest from Nizamuddin, the officer said. In an internal communication to his personnel, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava had earlier said a part of the police strength should remain in quarantine for 10 days by rotation and the rest should enforce the 21-day lockdown announced by the government. On Wednesday, the Delhi government, in coordination with the police, evacuated over 2,000 people from the markaz. Since then the building has been sealed and area sanitised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-police-personnel-who-were-part-of-team-to-evacuate-nizamuddin-markaz-sent-on-leave-820926.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||You can also prefer lighting a lantern: RJD jibe at PM||Shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked people to light candles on April 5 at 9 pm for nine minutes, the Opposition parties have been making fun of his appeal “which was devoid of any vision for the future and also lacked any roadmap for revival of the crippled economy”. The RJD, the main Opposition party in Bihar, took a jibe at the Prime Minister’s third address to the countrymen in recent times in which Modi appealed to the people to light diyas (earthen lamps), mobiles or candles. “You can also prefer lighting a lantern,” tweeted RJD legislator and Lalu Prasad’s elder son, Tej Pratap. Notably, ‘lantern’ is the election symbol of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). Bihar will have Assembly polls in the next few months. The RJD national vice-president and former Rajya Sabha member, Shivanand Tiwary, was all the more scathing. “Mr Prime Minister, you are adept at playing with words. But your address to the nation on Friday was highly disappointing,” wrote Tiwary in his Facebook post. “Your address to the countrymen showed that you neither have vision (to fight during this crisis) nor any plan on how to rebound. You failed to provide any roadmap for daily wage labourers and migrants who have been hit hard during the lockdown…. And if you have really no concrete idea for the future, then it would have been appropriate for you not to address the nation,” said the former Rajya Sabha MP in his post (in Hindi) on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/you-can-also-prefer-lighting-a-lantern-rjd-jibe-at-pm-820928.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports 91 new COVID-19 positive cases in last 24 hrs; total rises to 384||The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has risen to 384, including 259 who were evacuated from Nizamuddin Markaz, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. In last 24 hours, 91 new cases were reported in the national capital and one more person evacuated from the Markaz died due to coronavirus, taking the total number of deaths in the city to five, he said. Of the 384 cases, 58 had recent foreign travel history and 38 contracted the virus after coming in contact with them, he added. Kejriwal said community spread of the virus is not taking place in Delhi yet and there is no need to panic as the situation is under control. The government has made preparations if the virus starts spreading among people, he said. The chief minister also launched a WhatsApp helpline - 8800007722 for people to enquire about COVID-19, food banks, shelters among others. Meanwhile, Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and experts will interact with students and answer their queries related to the virus at 3 pm on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-91-new-covid-19-positive-cases-in-last-24-hrs-total-rises-to-384-820937.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Over 200 Nizamuddin congregation attendees from Himachal traced, quarantined||They were identified and quarantined in seven police districts, SP law and order Khushal Sharma said. The highest number of people were quarantined in Baddi (73), followed by Una (39), Sirmaur (35), Shimla (23), Chamba (20), Kangra (10) and Mandi (4), he added. The Nizamuddin Markaz is being seen as hotspot of coronavirus in the country as thousands of people including hundreds of foreigners, many of whom were suspected to be COVID-19 positive, took part in the congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat. "The 204 people who returned to the state after attending the gathering in Nizamuddin have been traced and quarantined," Sharma said. Meanwhile, three Himachal Pradesh residents who had participated in the Nizamuddin event had tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. They were staying in Una but are natives of Mandi district. They have been admitted to Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMS) in Kangra district, officials said. Till Thursday, a total of 190 Markaz attendees were traced and quarantined in the state, Sharma said. Besides, 17 people from the hill state have been quarantined in Delhi. According to some reports, the Union home ministry has sent a list of more than 700 people from Himachal Pradesh who attended the congregation in the national capital. The list has reportedly been prepared after tracking the mobile phone location data of those who were present at the Markaz. However, despite repeated queries by the media, no one from the state police confirmed or denied the reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-200-nizamuddin-congregation-attendees-from-himachal-traced-quarantined-820948.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Over 1,300 Jamaat members traced to Haryana, had come before lockdown: DGP||The Haryana Police has so far traced over 1,300 Tabligh-e-Jamaat members who came to the state after attending the organisation’s congregation in New Delhi's Nizamuddin last month, said DGP Manoj Yadav on Friday. He, however, said the Tabligh members entered the state before the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to check the spread of coronavirus. “There were no restrictions in place when they entered Haryana. I can assure that no one entered after March 25,” the DGP said during a joint media conference with Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Vijai Vardhan and ACS (Health) Rajiv Arora though video link. The DGP said a majority of all those 1,305 people, including 107 foreigners, who entered the state before the lockdown, came on March 14, 17 and 20. So far, eight of them have been found to be COVID positive, the DGP said.   Among the eight infected people, three each are in Palwal and Nuh and two in Ambala, he said in a statement on Friday evening. As many as 636 members, including 57 foreigners, have been traced to Nuh district alone. All 1,305 were traced to 15 districts of the state. The foreign members were located in five districts of Faridabad, Ambala, Panipat, Palwal and Nuh. These foreigners belong mostly to Indonesia, Philippines, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Thailand, the DGP said. All of them have been placed under quarantine and their passports have been taken into possession by police. Five separate FIRs have been registered under the relevant provisions of the IPC and the Foreigner's Act in these five districts, he said. If any other violation comes to the fore during the probe, then charges will be added to the already registered FIRs, he added. The authorities have maintained that nearly 1,200 of the Jamaat members who entered Haryana were from outside and belonged to states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Assam. The DGP said 266 Jamaat members belonged to Haryana, who returned after visiting various states. Since some of them could be potential carriers of coronavirus, they have also been placed under quarantine. They mostly belong to Gurgaon, Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Panipat, Nuh, Sonipat, Jind and Palwal, the DGP said. When asked about the nearly 60-70 people who were in attendance at the Nizamuddin event and had been brought to AIIMS in Badsa of Jhajjar district, ACS (Health) Arora said, "As far the National Cancer Institute at Badsa is concerned, it has been declared as a designated COVID-19 hospital by the Centre." “It is also the sub-centre of AIIMS, Delhi, and directly comes under the Centre," he said. He added that only AIIMS or the Union Ministry of Health can give updates on who all have been admitted there. The Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz (headquarter) in Nizamuddin West had emerged as a hotspot of coronavirus cases, following which it was sealed and an FIR lodged against its cleric for violating government orders. Giving details about the steps taken to combat COVID-19 in Haryanan, the DGP said they had deployed police personnel at all 162 entry points to the enforce the lockdown. Police personnel have been deployed in the mandis to ensure that when people purchase essentials, social distancing is maintained, the DGP said. In reply to a question, ACS (Home) Vardhan said 573 relief camps and shelters have been set up across the state to provide succour to the poor, especially daily wagers who have been hit hard by the ongoing situation. As many as 15,850 migrant workers have been accommodated in 288 relief camps, Vardhan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-1300-jamaat-members-traced-to-haryana-had-come-before-lockdown-dgp-820973.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Combating coronavirus in Mumbai, Nesco provides shelter to homeless||The Bombay Exhibition Center (BEC), a division of the Nesco Group of Companies, that runs the mammoth exhibition halls in Goregaon, is helping out the stranded migrant workers.It has the capacity to house over 10,000 persons. Nesco has recently tweaked and set up their exhibition halls to provide shelter and basic necessities to migrants, labourers, daily wagers and those who are suddenly rendered homeless due to the current lockdown. Thousands of migrant workers who have been adversely affected due to the closure of infrastructure projects such as  Mumbai Metro, vital Link-Roads, coastal roads, construction sites, daily jobs, etc. They have been left homeless.  Although the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation and the Maharashtra Government have been trying to accommodate them, they need much more space. The management has set up almost 2,00,000 sqft of exhibition hall space as a shelter home and has also coordinated with the BMC, local authorities and Police to use the space for those who are homeless during this pandemic.  “The world is facing this crisis and it is our duty, as a company, to contribute in whatever ways possible. Currently, we are facing a situation in our city, where thousands are rendered homeless with no access to basic necessities. It is our social responsibility and moral duty to provide a helping hand. We have provided our halls as temporary shelter and basic requirements while we battle COVID-19. We have coordinated with the local authorities to use our halls for this purpose,"  says  Sumant J Patel, Chairman, Nesco Limited. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had recently mentioned that the State will take care of all migrant labourers and provide them with basic necessities such as food and water. In this situation, Nesco has appeared as a knight in shining armour for the city, which could rescue thousands of people by providing temporary shelter during these trying times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/combating-coronavirus-in-mumbai-nesco-provides-shelter-to-homeless-820974.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||33 FIRs for home-quarantine violations in Delhi||Thirty-three FIRs have been registered across the national capital against people for flouting home-quarantine rules, police said on Friday. The violators have been booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, they said. In Delhi's Dwarka district, which has strictly enforced the home-quarantine guidelines during the ongoing lockdown for public safety and health, 21 FIRs have been registered against people who were found to be violating the rules, a senior police official said. It is ensured through regular surveillance by way of physical verification and technical monitoring, he said. While eight such cases have been registered in south district, two in the north, one each in the northwest and central districts against those people who were found violating home quarantine rules, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/33-firs-for-home-quarantine-violations-in-delhi-820976.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||4 LeT militants, 5 overground workers arrested in J&K||Four Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants and five of the terror group's overground workers were arrested from Jammu and Kashmir's Handwara and Sopore areas, police said on Friday. Security forces launched a search operation in Gund Chogal village in Kupwara district's Handwara area after receiving information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. "During the search operation, four terrorists linked to the proscribed terror outfit LeT were arrested," he said.  They were identified as Parvaiz Ahmad Chopan, Mudasir Ahmad Pandith, Mohammad Rafi Sheikh and Burhan Mushtaq Wani, the official said.  Three AK-47 rifles, eight AK-47 magazines, 332 AK-47 rounds, 12 hand grenades, three pistols and six pistol magazines were seized, he said. In another operation, security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Shalpora village in Handwara late on Thursday night following information about the presence of militants there, the official said.  He said three LeT overground workers were apprehended during the operation. They were identified as Aazad Ahmad Bhat, Irshad Ahmad and Altaf Ahmad Baba, the official said. Two pistols, two hand grenades and some incriminating documents were seized from them. Security forces arrested the two other LeT overground workers from Sopore in Baramulla district on Thursday evening during searches at a check point near Sadiq Colony.  The official said they were identified as Waseem Ahmad and Junaid Rashid Ganai. He said a pistol, two under-barrel grenade launcher (UBGL) grenades and a grenade thrower were seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-let-militants-5-overground-workers-arrested-in-jk-820984.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||55-year-old man, son test COVID-19 positive in Noida; total cases at 50||A 55-year-old man and his son tested positive for coronavirus here on Friday, taking the total number of cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar to 50, officials said.  "The two new patients are a man (55) and his son (25) from Sector 93B in Noida," a Health Department official said. Two other people who had earlier tested positive for COVID-19 were discharged from hospitals after treatment, taking the total number of cured patients to eight, the officials said. They added that the total number of active cases now stands at 42 in the district. Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh is one of the hotspots for coronavirus in India and in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/55-year-old-man-son-test-covid-19-positive-in-noida-total-cases-at-50-820986.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||647 of 2031 COVID-19 cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat: Centre||Nearly 30% of the total COVID-19 confirmed cases in India are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the national capital, the government said on Friday, virtually holding the organisation responsible for undoing its efforts to arrest the spread of the disease in the country. India had reported 2031 confirmed COVID-19 cases till Friday of which 647 were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the congested Nizamuddin area in the capital last month, spreading the infection across 14 states and union territories. These 647 cases were confirmed over the past two days. Till Thursday, health authorities had traced over 9,000 contacts of the Tablighi Jamaat workers across the country and put them either under quarantine or in hospital, depending on their health condition. President Ram Nath Kovind, addressing a meeting of Governors, Lt Governors and Adminstrators of Union Territories, over the gathering of migrant workers at Anand Vihar and the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, saying that the two incidents had caused a setback to the government’s efforts to combat COVID-19. Some studies by researchers in state-run labs, that are yet to be published in peer-reviewed scientific journals, had projected India reaching the peak of the COVID-19 outbreak by May, before starting on a downward trend. At the daily briefing on the COVID-19 situation, Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry said over the past two days as many as 647 confirmed cases of the disease could be traced back to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. “Due to the lock down and efforts to promote social distancing, we were getting cases, but they were not huge in number. It is important for us to understand that we are dealing with an infectious disease and even a small slip up could take us back to zero,” Aggarwal said. He said 12 deaths were reported since Thursday due to COVID-19, taking the total number of fatalities in the country to 56. “It is difficult to ascertain at this point,” Aggarwal said to questions on how many of the 12 deaths could be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. The government also ordered strict action in cases of attack on healthcare and frontline workers in the fight against COVID-19. The Home Ministry has ordered strict action against 960 Tablighi Jamaat workers who had arrived here from different countries, by blacklisting them from getting the Indian visa again. Similar action was being taken against 360 foreign workers of the congregation who had returned to their respective countries, Punya Salila Srivastava, Joint Secretary in the Home Ministry said. In Delhi alone, out of the 384 confirmed cases for Covid-19, 259 had attended the congregation, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/647-of-2031-covid-19-cases-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-centre-820988.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Five more coronavirus cases reported in Jammu & Kashmir; tally reaches 75||Five more COVID-19 positive cases were detected in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday taking the total tally to 75. While four new cases were reported from Kashmir Valley, one was detected positive in Jammu region, an official spokesperson said and added that cases are active in the Union Territory at present. Two patients have died and three have recovered so far. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is over six cases per million of the population. The national average per million population so far is less than two. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, the valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. A senior doctor said that the graph for COVID-19 positives is likely to rise steeply if testing is conducted more aggressively across J&K, especially in the valley. As a result of the narrow testing criteria, he said, sick people with potential exposure to the coronavirus are being sent home. “So-far social distancing especially ensuring to stay at home has flattened the curve, but there could be scores of invisible positives around us who are asymptomatic and unaware about it,” he revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-more-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-jammu-kashmir-tally-reaches-75-820992.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Supreme Court officials, staff donate over Rs 1 cr to PM-CARES fund||"To fight the COVID-19 pandemic, Rs 1,00,61,989 has been contributed to PM-CARES fund by officers and officials of the Supreme Court of India," said an official source. As per a circular issued on March 29 by apex court registrar (cash and accounts), all gazetted officers were to donate three days' salary, non-gazetted employees were to donate two days' salary and group C employees were to donate one day's salary to the Prime Minister Citizens' Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM-CARES) fund. The contribution of the employees, which was voluntary, was to be deducted from the salary of March. On April 1, all the 33 judges of the Supreme Court, including Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, had donated Rs 50,000 each to the PM-CARES fund to aid the nation's fight against the pandemic. On March 28, apex court judge Justice N V Ramana had donated Rs one lakh each to the Prime Minister's relief fund and the chief minister's relief funds of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to help in combating COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-supreme-court-officials-staff-donate-over-rs-1-cr-to-pm-cares-fund-821001.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Gathering of migrant workers, Tablighi Jamaat meet setback to efforts to combat coronavirus: President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday expressed concern over the gathering of migrant workers in Anand Vihar and the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, saying these two incidents caused a setback to the efforts to combat coronavirus, according to a statement issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan. In a video-conference with the Governors, Lieutenant Governors and Administrators of states/union territories, the president emphasized the need to ensure that no one remains hungry during the nationwide lockdown, enforced to check the spread of the virus. "In the conference there was unanimity that there is no scope for laxity or complacency in fighting the invisible enemy. In this context, the president noted with concern the incidents of attacks on doctors, health workers and police personnel in some parts of the country," it said. Affirming that people of the country have set an example by showing exemplary courage, discipline and solidarity in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic, Kovind has expressed concern over two incidents, the gathering of migrant workers in Anand Vihar and the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, both in Delhi, that caused a setback to the efforts, the statement said. Moreover, while ensuring that food and other essential items are made available to the needy, care has to be taken that no compromise is made on the question of social distancing, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gathering-of-migrant-workers-tablighi-jamaat-meet-setback-to-efforts-to-combat-coronavirus-president-ram-nath-kovind-821004.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Railways produce material to fight against coronavirus||Indian Railways is working on various fronts to fight against COVID-19 with its workshops and production units are working round the clock to produce hand sanitisers and face masks.  The railways assigned ask to its zonal offices to produce personal safety materials to meet the demand.  Uninterrupted 24X7 Freight Trains Operations and Running of Parcel Trains so far carried 4 lakh wagons of essential materials from March 24 to  April 2.  Railways already earmarked around 5000 isolation beds in Railway hospitals and 11000 quarantine beds across Railway establishments for COVID-19 patients.  In addition, the conversion of 5000 coaches with 80000 beds to serve as quarantine/ isolation facilities initially already taken up, total of 20,000 such coaches identified, the Railways said in a statement.  So far railways produced 28 lakh masks and 28,000 litres of hand sanitiser so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railways-produce-material-to-fight-against-coronavirus-821007.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||UP govt to set up Rs 1000 crore corona care fund||The Uttar Pradesh government will create a corona care fund of Rs 1000 crore which will help in setting up testing facilities and procuring ventilators, masks and sanitisers, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday. Not only will the government help with this fund, but help will also be taken from corporate houses under the Corporate Social Responsibility, he said at a meeting with senior officials here. Efforts will be made to provide testing facilities in every division and all 24 government medical colleges, he added. He also directed officials to prepare an action plan to deal with the situation if the lockdown is lifted. The 21-day nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end on April 14. "If the lockdown is lifted from April 15, then at that time people stranded in different places will try to return. Under these circumstances, it will be very challenging to adhere to social distancing. In order to deal with such a situation, prepare an action plan from now on," the chief minister said. "Prepare an action plan about when and how schools, colleges, different markets and malls will re-open after the lockdown," he said. The chief minister also asked officials to ensure that food is delivered to the needy on time. "We have to prepare at two levels. Develop a strategy in view of the current situation and future condition. Operate community kitchens in every district, and take help of voluntary organisations and other people who want to support. Establish a collection centre so that everyone does not go out to distribute food. Collect food there and then proceed for distribution," he said. Noting that the services of anaesthetist, women and child specialists are needed to deal with coronavirus, the chief minister suggested that a list be made of doctors in the private sector who have related expertise. During the meeting, he asked officials to take strict action against those not cooperating with the lockdown “File cases against such people under the Disaster Act. Those who disagree with the government, keep them under strict supervision. If someone runs away from quarantine, then make the administration there accountable", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-to-set-up-rs-1000-crore-corona-care-fund-821036.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||UP transfers lump sum pension to 86 lakh beneficiaries||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday transferred two months’ lump sum pension into the accounts of over 86 lakh beneficiaries. According to an official release, over Rs 871 crore was transferred online into the accounts of 86,71,781 beneficiaries in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath transferred the amount during a programme at his residence here. The chief minister also interacted with the beneficiaries from Varanasi, Allahabad, Gorakhpur, Moradabad and other districts through videoconferencing. Adityanath said his government has transferred Rs 1,000 to the account of each of the 27.15 lakh construction workers. The process of providing free ration to MGNREGA workers, Antyodaya card holders and other people affected by joblessness due to the lockdown is in operation from April 1, he said. Apart from this, Rs 611 crore has been successfully transferred to the accounts of 88 lakh MGNREGA workers, he said. After the programme, Basic Education Minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi presented a cheque for Rs 76,14,55,537 to the COVID Care Fund on behalf of teachers and education officers of basic schools across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-transfers-lump-sum-pension-to-86-lakh-beneficiaries-821040.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports 93 fresh coronavirus cases, two more deaths||At least one of the two persons who died and 77 of the fresh cases belonged to Tablighi Jamaat, which is linked to atleast 17 deaths due to COVID-19 across India as its followers spread across India after attending a religious gathering in Delhi in mid-march. As of now, Delhi has a total of 386 cases out of which 259 belonged to the Islamic missionary movement. Altogether, 10 people have been discharged while one left abroad leaving 369 still in hosptial under treatment. Kejriwal said most of the cases reported in the capital were linked to Tablighi Jamaat and there was no widespread virus infection among other people. "There is no community spread in the national capital at present. Most of the cases are related to Tablighi Jamaat. The government is prepared to handle the situation even if the virus is spread," he said. Authorities had earlier this week evacuated 2,346 from the Tablighi Masjid headquarters that houses the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid. Of this, 536 symptomatic people were shifted to hospitals while the rest 1,810 were shifted to institutional quarantine facilities. So far, officials said, 3273 samples were sent from Delhi for testing of which results of 296 are still pending. They said 2,151 people who travelled abroad are still in home quarantine while their 18,081 contacts are also yet to complete the 14-day cycle. In Delhi, a bulleting had said on Thursday, 243 ventilators, 3,261 personal prevention equipment, 4.63 lakh surgical mask, 20,566 N-95 masks and 22,366 sanitisers are available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-93-fresh-coronavirus-cases-two-more-deaths-821042.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Six more people test positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand||This is the first time so many people have tested positive for the coronavirus in the state in a single day. Five of the positive cases were reported from Dehradun and one from Udham Singh Nagar district, officials at the COVID-19 control room here said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-more-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-821058.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Babus in Jammu & Kashmir differ over shortage of protective kits to fight coronavirus||As coronavirus pandemic is posing more and more challenges with each passing day, babus in Jammu and Kashmir Health department are not on the same page over the widespread shortages of personal protective equipment (PPE) for medicos and other health workers in the Union Territory (UT) hospitals. In official communications, Commissioner Health and Medical Education and Director Health Services Kashmir have issued two separate orders on April 1. While the Commissioner has admitted that there was a lack of proper and adequate personal protection gear in hospitals, the Director in his letter has snubbed doctors and other paramedical staff and asked them to desist from criticizing administration in public. A letter by Atal Dulloo Commissioner, Health and Medical Education vide No. PS/FC/HME/2020/23 reads: “It has been observed that at many places health care professionals have been complaining of non-availability of personal protective gears to look after the patients suffering from COVID-19 and have also been demanding of accommodation for the doctors and staff members, who are dealing with COVID-19 positive cases, admitted in the hospitals.” In the communication, Dulloo had asked all heads of departments to ensure the safety of the health care professionals, who are working hard to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic situation. However, contrary to the Commissioner's order, the Director came up with a separate order on the same day and snubbed doctors and other paramedical staff on raising voice over inadequate facilities. In a letter no DHSK/IDSP/2019-20/618-30, the Director writes: “It has been observed that some of the Government servants are publicly criticizing the efforts of the administration to combat the pandemic of COVID-19, which is against the service conduct rules. There can be a difference of opinion or some minor issues, which the government employees can bring into the notice of concerned authorities so that the issue is redressed instead of putting that issue in social media, print and electronic media which is causing more harm than good to the public and administration in combating COVID-19." While issuing stern messages to medicos and paramedical staff, he writes: "Henceforth, strict action will be initiated against such elements, who resort to such uncalled for reporting to the media. Any person disobeying any regulation or order made under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)." Several leading doctors have already raised voice over the lack of PPEs needed to deal with COVID-19 patients at hospitals and quarantine centers. “Doctors across the frontlines are extremely concerned about the lack of PPE. Many have told us they have tried to raise concerns through the proper channels but have been warned against taking these concerns further,” a senior medico at GMC, Srinagar, told DH wishing anonymity. “At this time when we desperately need every single doctor on the frontline, some have had their careers threatened, and at least two doctors have been suspended from work. This is unacceptable. Doctors have a moral duty to make their concerns regarding COVID-19 public if these cannot be resolved locally,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babus-in-jammu-kashmir-differ-over-shortage-of-protective-kits-to-fight-coronavirus-821070.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Haryana Roadways driver 'thrashed' by UP cops, union demands action||A Haryana Roadways bus driver on his way to drop migrant workers home amid the lockdown was allegedly thrashed by Uttar Pradesh police personnel, prompting the staff union to demand strong action against them. Khurshid Ahmed, a driver with the Palwal depot of the state government bus service, said he was beaten up by policemen in Barabanki on March 29 when he asked them for directions to Gorakhpur. Instead of guiding him, they pulled him down from the bus and thrashed him with lathis, the driver told PTI over the phone. "I was severely beaten by police. Despite telling them that I have been send by the authorities to drop the migrants at Gorakhpur, the police personnel kept beating me, claiming that I had violated the lockdown," he said. Ahmed said he received serious injuries on his back and legs. He said he had to ask for directions for Gorakhpur as it was not his regular route. "I somehow managed to take the passengers to Gorakhpur and bring the bus back to Palwal depot on March 30, as there was pain in my back and the lower part of the body due the thrashing by police," he said. All Haryana Roadways Workers Union general secretary Balwan Singh has condemned the incident and demanded strong action against the policemen. "It is shameful that while our drivers and conductors were helping migrants to reach their destinations in Uttar Pradesh from the Delhi border in the time of crisis, the Uttar Pradesh government took no measures to ensure their safety," he told PTI. The Haryana government had pressed into service over 1,000 buses at the Delhi border to transport migrant workers on March 29, as asked by the Uttar Pradesh government, he said. The union leader claimed the UP government had promised to give Rs 1,000 to each driver, make arrangements free of cost for their stay and food, and provide 95 litres for each bus. However, the promise was not honoured in many cases, he alleged. Many drivers brought back the buses after refuelling them with their own money, he said. He also demanded action against state transport director Virender Dahiya, alleging that he did not take proper steps for the safety of the drivers and conductors. "The drivers and conductors were not provided masks and money, and there were no security arrangements," he said. During the continuing lockdown to contain coronavirus, the Uttar Pradesh government had for some time allowed buses bringing back migrant workers who hailed from the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-roadways-driver-thrashed-by-up-cops-union-demands-action-821084.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||Demand surge for ‘game changer’ COVID-19 drug hydroxychloroquine despite lack of clinical evidence||With US President Donald Trump describing hydroxychloroquine as a "game changer" in the fight against COVID-19 and several countries, including India, approving it for emergencies, pharmacies are reporting a surge in demand for the drug yet to be proven as a cure against the disease. Though there have been no large-scale clinical trials of the drug’s efficacy in treating coronavirus, chemists all over say they are facing a shortage of the medicine, not so long ago known mainly to those who had malaria or were prescribed it for arthritis pain. Hydroxychloroquine entered the layperson’s lexicon with Trump’s tweet on March 21. A few days later, several countries approved it for restricted use in coronavirus emergencies and for certain categories of people only. And while the White House's own infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci countered the claims, adding that the drug's effectiveness was only "anecdotal" and needed controlled clinical trials to prove its effectiveness, Trump's tweets had already had a ripple effect across the globe.  "The drug has been out of stock ever since Trump tweeted about it," a pharmacist from New Delhi's Kailash Colony told PTI on the condition of anonymity. He added that efforts are being made to restock the medicines. Asked about the current availability of the drug in the country, a pharmacist in the city’s Govindpuri area said the drug has been out of stock in his store for days. He also expressed concern that patients with joint aches and other bone related conditions are being deprived of the drug, prescribed to them by their doctors. "We do not have a supply for more than a week and we have asked the distributors to resupply the medicine," added another chemist nearby. According to Dr Rohini Handa, senior consultant rheumatologist at Apollo Hospital in New Delhi, arthritis patients have been finding it difficult to get hydroxychloroquine for the last 10 days. "Ever since news came out in the media that it may help fight coronavirus infection, there has been indiscriminate buying by people. So it seems to have disappeared from the market," Handa told PTI. "Everyday I am getting phones, and emails from my patients who are not able to get it… In rheumatology, this is an anchored drug for many conditions. And we are apprehensive that the non availability may lead to a flare-up of arthritis in these patients,” he explained. People need to realise that not every person in this country needs hydroxychloroquine, Handa said. Two days after the US president's tweet, the Indian Council of Medical Research on March 23 recommended that the drug be reserved in India only for healthcare workers, and persons caring for COVID-19 patients in households. The protocol was then approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) for restricted use in emergency situations "Hydroxychloroquine is found to be effective against coronavirus in laboratory studies and in-vivo studies. Its use in prophylaxis is derived from the available evidence of benefit as treatment and supported by preclinical data," the DGCI's advisory said. Estimating a surge in global demand for the drug, the Indian government banned the export of hydroxychloroquine  with immediate effect to ensure sufficient availability of the medicine in the domestic market.  An exception of sales to other countries on humanitarian grounds was made on a case-to-case basis. ] On March 28, Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said a reduction in the viral load was observed in patients treated with hydroxychloroquine. He later added that the drug be given only to doctors and contacts of lab-confirmed COVID-19 cases. While the demand for hydrochloroqine has seen a rapid uptick, the safety and effectiveness of the drug in treating COVID-19 still remains a concern. Recent research, published in the preprint platfrom MedrXiv, said the anti-malarial drug could have a protective function against COVID-19, but cautioned that the number of people involved in the study was very few.  The study also said the drug's side potential effects in people must be taken seriously. "Despite our small number of cases, the potential of HCQ in the treatment of COVID-19 has been partially confirmed. Considering that there is no better option at present, it is a promising practice to apply HCQ to COVID-19 under reasonable management," the scientists from Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University in China wrote in the study. "Large-scale clinical and basic research is still needed to clarify its specific mechanism and to continuously optimize the treatment plan," they concluded.    The study, initially cited by Trump, also had a very small sample size of 26 patients treated with hydroxychloroquine and 16 control patients. Other studies have cautioned that the drug must be administered with care since its long-term use is reported to have side-effects, including impairment or loss of vision, gastrointestinal reactions, cramps, liver dysfunction, itching, and headaches. Hydroxychloroquine and the antibiotic azithromycin, which are being considered by some for treating COVID-19, may increase the risk for dangerous abnormal heart rhythms, US cardiologists have warned. The researchers from Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) and Indiana University recommend that clinicians treating COVID-19 patients with the malaria-antibiotic drug combination should consider monitoring those patients for ventricular arrhythmia. The condition leads to the lower heart chambers beating quickly and irregularly, and can lead to cardiac arrest, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/demand-surge-for-game-changer-covid-19-drug-hydroxychloroquine-despite-lack-of-clinical-evidence-821085.html
03-04-2020||North and Central||5 arrested, 15 booked for attacking cops who were enforcing lockdown restrictions||Five persons have been arrested and a case registered against them and 10 others for allegedly attacking a police team that was trying to enforce lockdown restrictions at Morna village in Bhopa police station area here, police said on Friday. Two policemen, including the incharge of the police outpost sub-inspector Lekhraj Singh were seriously injured in the attack that took place on Wednesday, they said. The FIR was registered on Thursday under several sections of the Indian Penal Code against 15 people identified as former village head Naher Singh, Sudesh, Brijesh, Reshu, Sorabh, Rashim, Rama, Devi, Pintu and six other unidentified persons, police said. While five of them have been arrested, attempts are being made to identify and nab the others, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-arrested-15-booked-for-attacking-cops-who-were-enforcing-lockdown-restrictions-821087.html
03-04-2020||Oasis||Will you file your personal returns?||With the end of the financial year, everyone is in a hurry to take stock of their financial dealings, get all their bank statements, account details and papers in order and hand them to their chartered accounts for filing returns before the due date. But has anyone ever filed their emotional, mental, health and relationship returns? Looks like I’ve caught you by surprise. In the hustle-bustle of life, everyone, including me, is in such a hurry to climb the professional ladder of success. We more often than not forget other things in life. Agreed that financial stability is one of the most important factors of life, as money pays bills and makes life comfortable. What about mental health, emotional well-being, relationships and physical health?  Isn’t it time to take stock of all these and file our returns for them too? Did we spend a decent amount of time working out thereby looking after our health? Did we invest in some special time for ourselves, listening to our favourite music, reading a book that has been on our wish list? What about the time spent with loved ones watching a funny movie, laughing at jokes or just chatting with them? Or did we do the opposite? Spend more time grumbling and wallowing in self-pity and anger. Spending more time at the doctors’ clinics because we were too lazy to look after our health by way of exercising. I’m sure if most of us file these equally important returns, our balance sheets will be tilting dangerously towards one side. And our personal chartered accountant will be frowning in disapproval.  Strange isn’t it? That most of us overlook these aspects of our lives while racing ahead with our financial goals. While the notes stack up in our accounts, we are in a big deficit where our health: emotional, mental and physical. While our fixed deposits increase, our relationships decline. While our stock portfolio is increasing, our outlook is narrowing. If this scenario continues, the balance sheets of our lives will never add up and our personal chartered account, watching us from above, won’t be able to successfully file our personal returns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/will-you-file-your-personal-returns-820650.html
03-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus: A time to unite and heal||The truism that global problems are ideally addressed by global solutions is applicable equally, if not more. Even if there is no unity in thought or ideologies, it is indisputable collective action can combat national emergencies. India, today, faces like the rest of the globe an unprecedented danger cum emergency with the onset of coronavirus. That this virus has affected lakhs of people all over the globe and caused over numerous fatalities with no signs of abating, calls for both global cooperations.    Statistics on the spread of the disease and observations and actions by the Indian government and other medical institutions clearly point out that the numbers of those affected in the region and country is gradually and alarmingly rising. It was indeed a good initiative by India to get the SAARC nations together to synergise the fraternity to pool their resources and energies to combat this virus. Indian PM Narendra Modi’s announcement to allocate 10 million dollars for the SAARC fund to fight this deadly disease is a step in the right direction and has been welcomed by all. The Pakistan PM intentionally not participating in video-conference, with PM Modi coordinating the effort, was rather immature.  It is equally important that within the nation, politics has reduced unity in thought, word or deed to resolve national problems, to abysmally low levels. Divisions within our polity in virtually every aspect is more the rule than the exception. Some unscrupulous politicians display a propensity to accentuate societal faultlines. Why should it be so in a nation, the largest democracy in the world? Though the Union Health Minister and the Centre including its institutions like the Indian Council of Medical Research, various AIIMS, governmental and civil hospitals and state governments have undertaken many steps, it will be appropriate for the PM to get heads of political parties, of our large medical institutions and large hospitals together and announce a National Action Plan incorporating the views and recommendations of these political parties and other stakeholders. To avoid physical and close contact this can be done by video conferencing which should be in camera for useful interactions shorn of publicity. For the time being, divisive communal politics and petty politicking can be kept in cold storage as their total elimination appears impossible currently.  Historically, this great nation’s diversity is also its strength and it has amply demonstrated its steely unity in the past whenever national emergencies of various kinds have arisen. As the problem to contain the spread of the virus among our huge population is indeed humungous, there appears a lack of coordination among certain state governments. Lakhs of migrants are now marching back to their native states from the northern states to Bihar, MP, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand and UP. The management of this migration is of monumental proportions.  This is no time to apportion blame on each other but the Centre and the state governments have to synergize their efforts and resources.  In addition, strict measures to prevent the already spreading epidemic have to be enforced by all stakeholders. Our medical services require all the gratitude and support of the nation for their dedicated and courageous endeavours.  Importantly, the services of the Indian Armed forces with their matchless high standards of professionalism and dedication to the nation should be utilized to the extent possible in combating the coronavirus. Let posterity and history recall in the future, that when this monumental tragedy had struck India in early February and March 2020, India’s 130 crores people rose as one, and by synergetic endeavour set an example to the entire world.n Let India show the way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-a-time-to-unite-and-heal-820649.html
03-04-2020||Panorama||Kerala and Karnataka are at loggerheads over a new issue: COVID-19||For over half a century, Karnataka and Kerala have fought over language and land, but that fight was over with the death of poet-writer Kayyara Kinhanna Rai. Kerala is also fighting with Karnataka on the issue of allowing night traffic between the two states through the wildlife corridor. Then there was, of course, the allegation that Kerala had been dumping garbage in Karnataka. The two states are now sparring over the newest issue -- Covid-19. And sadly, over the issue of allowing people from the Malabar area to come to Mangaluru for medical treatment.   The interstate borders were sealed on March 21 following the rise of Covid-19 cases since March 10 after it became known that some people were coming from Kerala to Mangaluru for treatment and hospitalisation. This had left in Mangaluru four patients from Kasargod and one from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada. Mangaluru itself did not have a single local Covid-19 case until March 27. That’s the day when the spread of Covid-19 began into Karnataka through its south-western border. As on March 28, Kerala had reported 178 cases, out of which 39 were from Kasargod alone, and 35 of them had arrived from the Persian Gulf region. The Dakshina Kannada district administration was quick to initiate a total blockage of traffic from Kerala at a place called Talapady. Mangaluru is known for its medical facilities, and its airport is close to Kasargod and Kannur districts, whose residents use it as the preferred airport to travel to and fro West Asia. Authorities in Karnataka deemed it fit to close the borders as the possibility of an influx of infected persons into cities like Mangaluru and Mysuru grew. “It is not just patients seeking medical attention but also students from Kasargod who were visiting Mangaluru in large numbers. If we were serious about containing Covid-19 cases being exported from Kerala, we had to close down the border at Talapady. It was resisted by the Kerala government initially but we stopped the vehicular traffic diligently and sent a strong message to them,” said Nalin Kumar Kateel, the Dakshina Kannada MP.  Kerala’s anger grew when taluk panchayats in Puttur, Sullia and the Nagar Panchayat of Vitla started blocking the interior roads by dumping huge quantities of mud and boulders at 24 different entry points into Karnataka. Arlapadavu, Jalsoor and Eshwaramangala were among the places from where ambulances used to come into the state using interior roads. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan took exception to the blockade, saying it was “inhuman to not to allow ambulances.” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka medical education minister and the man in charge of managing the state’s Covid-19 challenge, also expressed the same sentiment, but at the ground level, things were different. His own party men were behind the blockade in the Mangaluru-Kasaragod border area. Some BJP leaders in the area said that initially, they had allowed ambulances from Kasargod into Karnataka but, “our workers found that many of them were carrying passengers (not patients), which was not just unethical but also dangerous” because Kasargod had several cases of Covid-19. Political overtones Following Vijayan’s announcement that Kerala would set aside Rs 20,000 crore for the management of Covid-19 in his state, the blockade hit a high note. BJP leaders on the coast started a campaign on social media stating that with that kind of money, Kerala should be able to take care of its Covid-19 sick within its own borders. Karnataka did not have such resources to spend on the pandemic and so could not let cases spread from the neighbouring state through Mangaluru and Mysuru. Last week, Union minister DV Sadananda Gowda, who has been put in charge of coordinating with Kerala on managing the pandemic, was dragged into the interstate and state-Centre standoff. Vijayan, who is keen on opening the roads between Kerala and Karnataka, tried his ‘pro-poor’ charm on Gowda, but the latter did not take the bait. “I have reports that people from Kerala come to Mangaluru and stay there for a long time and refuse to go back. Since that state has a heavy load of corona infections, I cannot risk that being spread to Karnataka. All the interior roads leading to Madikeri, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru will remain closed indefinitely. However, one-driver-one-crew vans carrying rice and vegetables from Karnataka and vice versa from Kerala will be allowed,” Gowda said. However, he said his task was to mitigate the pandemic in Kerala.   On the other hand, coastal Karnataka also shares borders with Goa in the west, Andhra in the north, Tamil Nadu in the east. “We have not closed our borders with these states,” minister Sudhakar noted during a high-level review meeting in Bengaluru on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Is this politically the right behaviour in a federal set-up? Is it medically ethical to block people from the neighbouring state seeking treatment? “Going strictly by medical ethics, blocking the movement of patients seeking medical attention is wrong, but in a situation like the pandemic we are facing now, we are constrained with the responsibility of stopping its spread. In such situations, it is appropriate to go by the local wisdom and action,” Mangaluru North MLA Bharat Shetty, himself a doctor, said.   “The idea of federalism does have a great role to play in circumstances such as national emergencies, but by closing the borders with Kerala, we have not committed sacrilege. Rather, we have done a service to the people by taking all steps to protect them from the pandemic. By doing so, we have tried to mitigate the virus from affecting a larger community of people,” Prof P L Dharma of Mangaluru University said. On Wednesday, the Kerala High Court ordered the Centre to remove the blockades from Kasargod to Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/kerala-and-karnataka-are-at-loggerheads-over-a-new-issue-covid-19-820651.html
03-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Time to be choosy about choosing||Enter anything in the search bar on Amazon and one gets more than 100,000 results from thousands of vendors. The search for perfect choice goes on and on. The sheer variety and convenience of choice in shopping today is mind-blowing. The other day my son said to me, “if you have a phone and money in your pocket, dial you can have any meal you want”. With my son’s utterances, a river of memories gushed through my mind and nostalgia tightened its grip on me. As a kid in my home ‘atta’ was never purchased, it was wheat that was bought in sacks during summers, washed, dried in sun and stored in a huge iron drum. The month’s requirement was taken out, sent to chakki and grinded into atta. The journey of steaming hot roti was a long one. Nowadays, whenever I need ‘atta’ or ‘rice’, we go to the grocery shop and find numerous varieties of atta and rice adorning the shelves. You can find M P wheat, bran, atta, soya and gram atta, basmati rice and brown rice. And the milk-- flavoured, low-fat, full cream, soya milk all in plastic pouches made me recall my ‘gwala days’, when a buffalo owner delivered it at our door-step. After the milk was boiled and cooled, malai with thick foam on it was eaten after adding sugar in it. Otherwise ‘malai’ was churned into dazzling white butter which was eaten with paranthas in the breakfast. Amul butter was an occasional treat that we got. Seasonal vegetables were cooked at home. Now vegetables and fruits come from different countries and states. From a menu, one can hardly tell whether it is summer or winter. Vico vajardanti cream is replaced by numerous brands of moisturizers which revitalize, and rejuvenate skin. In footwear there are casual, formal, canvas shoes, sandals, floaters, sports, running, jogging shoes and high heeled boots.  An overload of choice unsettles the layers of neurons in the brain. The confusion with an overload of choice, raises a question in mind--do more choices equal better choices? American psychologist Barry Schwartz captures this conflict of choices in his book, ‘The Paradox of Choice’. When people have no choice, life is almost unbearable but as the number of choices kee growing, negative aspects of having a multitude of options begin to appear. At this point choice no longer liberates but debilitates. Consumers get confused and many times make the wrong choice in a moment’s whim. I believe it is time to change our attitude from more is better to less is more?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/time-to-be-choosy-about-choosing-820656.html
03-04-2020||Second Edit||Olympics decision was inescapable||Japan itself has seen many cases of Covid-19 and is still taking measures to contain it. Many athletes and sports federations have told the IOC that they would not be unable to participate in the Games even if the virus threat diminishes by July. The world will be under the cloud of the virus threat for many more weeks even if active transmission stops before July. Some countries had already declared that they would not send their athletes to Tokyo. Many athletes who were to take part in the Games had stopped training because of the lockout in their countries. The issue is not just about the participation of athletes. The world’s biggest sports event will attract tens of thousands of spectators, officials and other supporting staff, and allowing such a large congregation to take place is unthinkable in these times. Japan has invested much in the Olympics, financially and otherwise. The country had expected it to be an occasion for reassertion of its place in the world. Abe had a personal stake in it, as he is now the country’s longest serving prime minister and is set to complete his term next year. The country will take a financial hit from the postponement, but Japan is better placed than many other countries to cope with it. The losses can be made up later, and other positives of hosting the Games will not go away. There is an additional advantage also. The Olympics symbolises the human spirit that always strives to stretch physical and mental boundaries by pushing the limits. When it is held, whenever it is, it will celebrate the victory of the human will over one of the deadliest challenges it has experienced in living memory. The Olympics will provide the best victory stand to declare it from.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/olympics-decision-was-inescapable-820654.html
03-04-2020||South||Kerala doctor postpones marriage, continues to serve COVID-19 patients||While scores of marriages in Kerala are being postponed in view of COVID-19, the postponement of the marriage of a 23-year-old girl hailing from North Kerala stands apart as she is a doctor on duty in COVID-19 isolation wards. Dr Shifa Mohammed, who is a house surgeon at the Pariyaram Medical College and Hospital in Kannur, was scheduled to tie the nuptial knot on March 29 with Anus Muhammed, a Dubai-based businessman. Shifa was working in the COVID-19 isolation ward in the medical college hospital. Both families had no second thought in postponing the marriage and incidentally on the day scheduled for her marriage also she was on duty in the COVID-19 ward. Shifa's comment about her marriage being postponed was that she did not do anything great considering the sufferings faced by scores of people across the world owing to COVID-19. He father Mukkam Muhammed, a local politician, said that since his daughter was involved in the fight against COVID-19, there were no plans of going ahead with the marriage even as a low-key affair. A family in Kollam in Kerala is keeping its fingers crossed as the marriage of their daughter, who is a junior doctor, is scheduled for the end of the month. "We are unable to take a decision on whether to postpone the marriage or not so far as the situation is not clear yet," said a close relative of the bride. Kerala Government Medical Officers Association State President Dr Joseph Chacko said that the personal lives of doctors have been shattered by COVID-19. Some of the doctors are even virtually staying in the hospitals itself these days. The inadequate number of safety gadgets like three-layer masks are also posing health risks to doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-doctor-postpones-marriage-continues-to-serve-covid-19-patients-820751.html
03-04-2020||South||First coronavirus death confirmed in Andhra Pradesh||Andhra Pradesh has on Friday reported its first COID-19 death of a 55-year-old who acquired the virus from his Delhi Markaz returned son. As on Friday evening, the state has a total of 161 positive cases. 140 of these cases are related to the Nizamuddin event.   According to Dr Arja Srikanth, state COVID-19 nodal officer, the death occurred on March 30 within an hour of the person with diabetes, hypertension, etc., conditions brought to the Vijayawada general hospital in a critical condition. “The death occurred after we took his swab samples. His son, who returned from Delhi on 17 March also tested positive. He would have infected his father,” the official said. “The delay in the announcement is because we wanted to ascertain the cause as COVID-19 positive.”   The family is from the Kummaripalem area of Vijayawada. 29 contacts are identified and sent to quarantine. The details of the flight the son travelled from Delhi to Vijayawada is shared with the central government, Dr Srikanth told DH. Following the announcement of the state’s first death, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meeting and instructed officials to strictly implement all the COVID-19 guidelines “keeping in view the sudden hike in cases after the return of attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat.” A total of 1085 people attended the event and 946 among them are now in AP whose samples are collected and tests conducted. “Results are out for 881 samples where 108 samples detected positive and 65 test reports are yet to come. About 626 members who came in contact with the event attendees were also tested and 32 among them were detected positive and 335 test reports are yet to come,” said officials. Out of 161 cases, 32 are from Nellore, followed by 23 from the Krishna district where Vijayawada is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-coronavirus-death-confirmed-in-andhra-pradesh-820788.html
03-04-2020||South||Prisoner flees from coronavirus isolation ward in Kerala jail||The inmate, suspected to have fled the prison ward last night, was identified as Ajay Babu, a native of Aamirpur in Uttar Pradesh. An accused in a bank burglary case in neighbouring Kasaragod district, Babu had been lodged at the isolation ward within the prison since March 25, a senior jail official said. "He was shifted to the isolation ward as he was arrested from Kasaragod, a hotspot of COVID-19 in the state. We suspect that he escaped in the night...we noticed his absence this morning," he told PTI. A search has been intensifed to nab him, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prisoner-flees-from-coronavirus-isolation-ward-in-kerala-jail-820814.html
03-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Congress wants alcohol addicts treated during COVID-19 lockdown||Billing the coronavirus lockdown period as a rare opportunity, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee on Friday urged the state government to start rehabilitation centres to treat people addicted to alcohol and work towards implementing prohibition by cutting down on number of liquor vends. The state-run Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation liquor outlets have been shut following the clamping of lockdown and eversince hooked up people were running from pillar to post to source their drink, TNCC president K S Alagiri said. Tamil Nadu is under lockdown from 6 pm on March 24. Claiming that about one crore people in Tamil Nadu were addicted to liquor, he said in a statement that the lockdown presented a "rare opportunity" and using it the government should set up rehabilitation centres to treat them. Recalling late J Jayalalithaa's assurance, during the run up to the 2016 Assembly elections, of implementing stagerred prohibition, the Congress leader alleged the Palaniswami government has buried the prohibition policy desired by the former Chief Minister. "If the AIADMK government is concerned about people's welfare and interested in fulfilling the objective of Jayalalithaa, the government should cut down on the number of TASMAC outlets in the State in a phased manner and reduce its revenue from liquor sale," the top Congress leader said. Apparently, Alagiri asked the government to work towards implementing a complete ban on production, sale and consumption of liquor, reffered to as prohibition. Also, the senior leader drew the government's attention to news reports of alleged brewing and sale of illicit liquor in Vellore's Anaicut area. Despite arrests "here and there," in this connection, "I would like to state that the Tamil Nadu government has failed to prevent sale of illicit liquor in the State," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-congress-wants-alcohol-addicts-treated-during-covid-19-lockdown-820833.html
03-04-2020||South||Why Kerala Government's second salary challenge call raises eyebrows||In order to tide over the worsening financial crisis caused by COVID-19, the CPM-led left-front government in Kerala has come up with yet another salary challenge call, as it did after the 2018 floods. It has urged Kerala government employees to contribute one month salary to the Chief Minister's distress relief fund. While only around 60 per cent of the employees took up the challenge in 2018, this time the salary challenge call seems to have raised more eyebrows. The key reasons could be the alleged misappropriation of funds, that too involving some CPM cadres and the lack of any austerity measures from the political leadership, some instances being foreign trips by jumbo delegations led by the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, his cabinet and bureaucrat colleagues and their family members and creating more Cabinet rank posts for appeasements. Even while calling for the second salary challenge, the Kerala Government shows no signs of tightening its belt as Rs 1.7 crore was released just the other day for a much-opposed chopper service to be hired for multiple services like security operations to VIP movement. While the Kerala Government was targeting to collect over Rs 2,000 crore from the 2018 salary challenge, the amount so far collected on this account was only close to Rs 1230 crore. Hardly one month ago, a couple of CPM workers in Kochi were held by the Kerala Crime Branch for siphoning off Rs 15 lakh meant for flood relief. The opposition parties alleged that it could only be the tip of the iceberg. Moreover, there were reports of hundreds of families still awaiting due compensation after the 2018 floods. Even after the 2018 floods, there was no dearth in foreign trips by the CM and ministers, even in the name of looking for ideas and receiving support for rebuilding the flood-ravaged state and which are still on paper. Five new posts with cabinet ranks were formed, even three of which after the floods - former MP A Sampath as a Kerala Government representative in Delhi, CPI MLA K Rajan as Chief Whip and elevating post of Advocate General C P Sudhakara Prasad. Former Chief Minister V S Achuthanandan and former minister R Balakrishna Pillai are the others enjoying cabinet rank for political appeasements. While Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress demanded the Government to go ahead with salary challenge call only after taking the employees into confidence, BJP State President K Surendran said that people had lost confidence in contributing relief fund to the government owing to misappropriation and extravaganza.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-kerala-governments-second-salary-challenge-call-raises-eyebrows-820837.html
03-04-2020||South||Alcoholics Anonymous goes online; sessions increase due to COVID-19||TASMAC shops that sell liquor in Tamil Nadu are closed since March 24 due to the nation-wide lockdown. And to provide psychological help to those who might be suffering from withdrawal symptoms due to closure of liquor shops, Alcohol Anonymous has begun holding online sessions from March 26. The number of online/telephonic sessions has increased from a mere three on March 26 to 25 on April 3 in Tamil Nadu, as new members have also shown interest in joining the meetings to listen to people who have successfully quit alcohol and living happily with their families. Due to the demand, the sessions are now held from 6 am to 10 pm and the numbers have increased over the past week, members of Alcohol Anonymous told DH. The group was conducting such sessions thrice in a week at public places but turned virtual due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “Liquor shops are closed and people who used to drink regularly have no place to go. We have been getting phone calls from several people asking whether they can attend our sessions. They are allowed to attend the first session but cannot speak. But once we get an idea that the person can be trusted, we allow him to speak from the second meetings,” coordinator of an Alcohol Anonymous group told DH. While no incidents of suicide have been reported from Tamil Nadu so far due to alcohol withdrawal issues, several people have taken their own lives after failing to get their daily dose of alcohol. Health experts have been flagging the issue with the state governments asking them to look into the issue of alcohol withdrawal. The coordinator added that he has been getting at least 10 calls a day seeking psychological support from people addicted to alcohol to remain strong in times of lockdown. “We get calls from family members of those who drink regularly seeking to know whether their loved ones can join the call. But we insist that only the concerned should talk to us because we are clear that the initiative has to come from the person who is into alcohol,” another member of the group said. Tamil Nadu is split into two regions – North and South – and the state has 700 groups. On March 26, the first online session was launched on April 3, the number of meetings every day has gone up to 25 and at least 15 to 20 members participate in each session. While the Coimbatore chapter alone conducts 7 meetings in a day, Salem (3), Madurai (1), Pudukkottai (1) and Chennai region (7). “There is a willingness among some people to quit alcohol and when they approach us, we tell them how we also quit alcohol after being addicted to it for long. When people who had been alcoholics earlier speak about their experience, people do listen. We know how an alcoholic behaves because we have been one a few years ago,” the coordinator said. Such sessions, during the 21-day lockdown period where people can’t get liquor, can help people who are really interested in quitting alcohol and were looking for some assistance to get convert their thoughts into reality, says Coimbatore-based psychiatrist Dr N S Mony. “When someone comes to me for alcohol withdrawal issues, we usually subscribe to medicines and ask them to look at the option of deaddiction centres only the medication is over. Counseling will also help them. Especially when it comes from someone who had been through a similar situation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alcoholics-anonymous-goes-online-sessions-increase-due-to-covid-19-820887.html
03-04-2020||South||Kannur district in Kerala too tightens vigil along Kasargod borders||With the number of COVID-19 cases in Kasargod in Kerala witnessing a steep increase, Kannur district that borders Kasargod to the south has also upped vigil. According to a police officer on the border areas of Kannur, the police have put up barricades in all roads from Kasargod to Kannur and strict screening of persons entering Kannur from Kasargod was being done. Only those with genuine medical reasons were being allowed to enter Kannur from Kasargod district, he said. The people of Kasargod, where 128 COVID-19 cases were reported so far, were literally struggling even for emergency medical needs after neigbouring Mangaluru in Karnataka shut the border roads for emergency medical needs. People of Kasargod mostly depend on Mangaluru for medical needs owing to a large number of medical facilities available there and easy accessibility than Kannur. In Kannur, there is only one major government medical college and some private hospitals. Police sources said that the people of Kannur were also quite vigilant against the movement of vehicles from Kasargod. A couple of days back, a speeding vehicle from Kasargod to Kannur that breached the police checking was reportedly stopped by a section of local people and roughed up the driver, who was said to have criminal track records.  At present out of the 128 COVID-19 infected persons hailing from Kasargod, 12 were admitted to Kannur medical college hospital. Apart from that, 44 others were undergoing treatment in Kannur with Covid infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kannur-district-in-kerala-too-tightens-vigil-along-kasargod-borders-820889.html
03-04-2020||South||100 new coronavirus cases take Nizamuddin cluster tally in Tamil Nadu to 364||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 from the Nizamuddin cluster in Tamil Nadu continued to witness a sharp spike with blood samples of 100 more attendees of Tabliqi Jamaat conference rendering positive on Friday. While the total tally of the state stood at 411, the number of people tested positive from the Nizamuddin cluster rose to 364. The state on Friday reported 102 new patients – 100 of them attended the Delhi conference, while one person had travel history to the US and the contact or travel history of another who tested positive is being traced. Tamil Nadu now has the second largest COVID-19 patients next only to Maharashtra. Of the 411 patients, seven have been discharged from hospital and one person, a 54-year-old man from Madurai, passed away on May 25. Chennai city topped the list with 81 patients – 35 of them tested positive on Friday alone, followed by Dindigul (43), Tirunelveli (36) and Erode (32).   Around 90 people who attended the conference have voluntarily turned up at the hospital, taking the number of people who attended the conference and admitted to hospitals to 1,200. “All 1,200 people have been tested. But all results haven’t come out. While 364 have tested positive, samples of 303 people have rendered negative,” Health Secretary Dr. Beela Rajesh said. Maintaining that Tamil Nadu was still in stage 2 and has not yet entered the community transmission stage, the Health Secretary said the department tested 376 people with a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and only 3 tested positive. The three have contact history, she added. The state has witnessed a massive increase in the number of positive cases in the past few days. However, Dr. Beela Rajesh said there was no cause of concern as all patients are stable to the extent that no one is in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of any hospital. She also asked people not to stigmatise those who are under home quarantine and also requested people to maintain physical distance and personal hygiene. The state has so far tested 3,684 samples and have placed 1,580 persons in isolation wards in hospitals, a chunk of them is from the Nizamuddin conference. The testing of 484 samples is under process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/100-new-coronavirus-cases-take-nizamuddin-cluster-tally-in-tamil-nadu-to-364-820981.html
03-04-2020||South||COVID-19: India's oldest couple, 14 others recover in Kerala||Thomas, 93, and Mariyamma, 88, who were considered to be the most aged couple in India who suffered COVID-19 infection, were discharged from Kottayam medical college hospital in Kerala on Friday, adding a feather to the Kerala health sector. The two, hailing from Pathanamthitta district, got infected from their son who came from Italy along with his family with COVID-19 infection, skipping screening at the airport. The aged couple was found infected on March 8. As the two were initially kept in two separate rooms at the hospital, they were found to be uncomfortable. Hence they were shifted to the same room and they could see each other. Thomas suffered multiple health issues, including heart attack, chest infection and urinary infection and Mariyamma also suffered an acute urinary infection. Both were in critical condition at some point in time but later recovered. For a group of seven doctors, 25 nurses and 40 other medical staff, the aged couple were more than patients for them. At some times, the nurses even used to sing a lullaby for them to sleep and used to tell stories. "The aged couple often used to insist on going home and having their local food. But the nurses even managed that too with love and care," said Kerala Health Minister KK Shailaja who was all in praise for the medical team who cared the aged couple. Even one nurse who cared for the aged couple got infected. She was also tested negative. The healthy lifestyle of the two was also considered to be a reason for their recovery.  Kerala Chief Minister said that the recovery of the aged couple was a remarkable achievement for Kerala health workers as COVID-19 infected persons aged 60 were considered in the high risk group. Nine more tested positive Nine more persons were tested positive in Kerala on Friday, while 14 more recovered. So far 295 persons in Kerala were infected, of which 42 already recovered, while two died. Remaining 251 were now infected and undergoing treatment. While seven more persons in Kasargod were found infected on Friday, three in the district were cured, taking the total infected persons hailing from the district now to 132. Three persons who attended the Nizamuddin congregation were also among those infected in Kerala. Kerala Chief Minister said that going by the present trend it seems that the state was able to contain the spread of the infection compared to other places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-indias-oldest-couple-14-others-recover-in-kerala-821003.html
03-04-2020||South||Southern Railway to turn coaches into isolation wards||Southern Railway has begun work on converting 20 train coaches into isolation wards for treatment of COVID-19 patients here on the instructions from the Railway Board. Twenty coaches have reached the central railway station here and two of them have already been converted into isolation wards for suspected coronavirus patients. Work on setting up toilet facility and bathroom in the coaches after removing seats and modifying their design is under progress in the remaining coaches which will also be converted into isolation wards within a week, Southern Railway (Palakkad division) public relations officer Gopinanthan said. The coaches will be kept at the second entry of the central railway station here and handed over to the health department. The coaches will have spaces for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, besides arrangements to install medical equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/southern-railway-to-turn-coaches-into-isolation-wards-821022.html
03-04-2020||South||Row over Kerala BJP leader's travel during lockdown||Surendran, who was at Kozhikode when the lockdown was declared, travelled to Thiruvananthapuram, about 375 km from his place recently and also conducted a press conference. Surendran justified his act saying that he travelled after obtaining permission from Kerala State Police Chief. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that since Surendran was the state leader of a political party there could have been some necessity for him to travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-kerala-bjp-leaders-travel-during-lockdown-821103.html
03-04-2020||State||Karnataka: Lockdown pushes mutton rate through the roof||The nationwide lockdown against COVID-19 seems to have cast a dark spell on the trade of meat products especially in Karnataka. Despite the thriving demand for meat products in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka, the price of meat products has left a hole in the pocket due to clampdown on transportation and logistic facilities. Amidst such a scenario Karnataka consumed a whopping 6 lakh kilogram of mutton during the Post-Ugadi celebration with Bengaluru city alone consuming about 1.5 lakh kilogram of mutton. With the ban on the sale of livestock across Karnataka in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, the mutton shop owners in Bengaluru are finding it extremely difficult to source livestock. “With much difficulty, we have been able to get 5 to 10 sheep just to keep the business alive,” revealed a mutton shop owner. The sudden demand and fall in the short supply of animals have left the price of mutton, chicken skyrocketing in the meat market. A kilogram of mutton which was sold at ₹ 560 to ₹ 600 has now been shot up to ₹ 750 to ₹ 800. Similarly, the cost of mutton in rural areas has also gone up from ₹ 350 to ₹450 to ₹ 550 to 650 per kilogram, according to sources in the market. Even though the state government has permitted the sale of meat under essential commodities, the mutton and chicken shops are refusing to open shops. The Karnataka Mutton Stall on Ullal Road in Maruti Nagar has not opened for business except on Sunday since the lockdown. Even on Sunday, the shop was open for a few hours. The Papanna Mutton Stall in Byatarayanapura, off Mysuru Road, is known for quality mutton in Bengaluru. The shop, except for a Sunday, has never opened for business. “On a regular Sunday, we slaughter about 120-125 sheep. But last Sunday we had to manage with just 60 sheep. Keeping in mind the health of the people, we did not slaughter much,” said Santosh, son of Papanna, the proprietor of the shop. According to him, last Sunday one kilogram of mutton was sold at ₹ 750. “It is inevitable that this week we may have to increase it to ₹ 800. There is nothing much in our hands. A sheep that was normally sold at ₹ 10,000 is now sold anywhere between ₹ 13,000 and ₹ 14,000. Adding to it, the transportation cost has also increased. We are doing business under police security,” Santosh explained. They are also distributing masks and sanitizers to the customers at the shop.   6 lakh kilo mutton sold on post-Ugadi day. Ushering in the New Year on Ugadi, people celebrate the festival by treating friends and relatives with sumptuous lunch. On the New Year day post-Ugadi festival, Karnataka witnessed the sale of whopping 6 lakh kilogram of mutton. The Bengaluru city alone accounted for 1.5 lakh kilogram of meat, according to Lokesh Gowda, President of Karnataka Sheep and Goat Farmers Cooperative Association. “There is a demand for mutton. But due to a lack of transport facilities, the prices have shot up. At some places a kilogram of mutton was even sold at Rs 1,000,” he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-lockdown-pushes-mutton-rate-through-the-roof-820661.html
03-04-2020||State||Kerala road blockade: SC asks Centre to resolve issue||A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta took note of the assertion on behalf of Kerala that blockade at the interstate border by Karnataka has resultedin some deaths as ambulances bound for Mangaluru were not being permitted to cross the border. Kasargod has emerged as the hotspot with over 100 COVID-19 patients, forcing the Karnataka government authorities to block its border linking to Mangaluru. This led Kerala to approach the High Court, which ordered for reopening it. On Friday, the top court issued notice to Kerala and the Centre on a petition filed by Karnataka against the Kerala High Court's interim order of April 1. The court decided to put the matter for further consideration on Tuesday, April 7. After hearing Karnataka's Advocate General Prabhuling Navdagi and senior advocate Jaydeep Gupta on behalf of Kerala through video conferencing, the court favoured for resolving the issue, arising out of Karnataka putting blockade on the national highway at Talapadi. The court, meanwhile, said that no state should precipitate the matter at this juncture. The Karnataka government had on Thursday rushed to the top court, saying lifting of blockade on the National Highway linking to Kerala, would lead to "disastrous consequences" and result in "serious outbreak" of COVID-19. The state government had contended there was an "extreme urgency" to pass the order on March 31 under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, banning all movement of people and goods, including patients in order to prevent any further transmission of COVID-19. It had maintained that the blockade was the "need of the hour since Kasargod in Kerala had turned into a Coronavirus Hotspot having maximum cases of the infection". It further claimed reopening the border would cause serious harm to its people and may cause law and order problem. Congress leader Mithun M Rai, who fought Lok Sabha polls unsuccessfully from Dakshina Kannada constituency, also filed a special leave petition in the top court through advocate Sanjay M Nuli, against the Kerala High Court's order. Kerala, for its part, claimed the closure of road had obstructed people to access medical facilities in Mangaluru and even resulted into death of four persons, besides affecting supply of essential goods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kerala-road-blockade-sc-asks-centre-to-resolve-issue-821030.html
03-04-2020||State||Mild tremors in parts of Mysuru, Hassan districts||Mild tremors measuring 2.6 magnitude in the Richter scale was experienced in parts of Mysuru, Mandya and Hassan district on Friday evening. Tremors were felt at Harave, Hirikyathanahalli and surrounding areas in Hunsur taluk, parts of KR Pet taluk, Kalenahalli and Garudanahalli in Arkalgud taluk, Hassan district. The tremors were felt at around 5.20 pm and lasted approximately for about three seconds. While the roof tiles of a few houses came down crashing, household articles also fell down from the shelves. The people were seen running out of their houses for safety. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre Scientific Officer Dr C N Prabhu said, the epicentre of the mild tremor lies near Arkalgud-K R Nagar, as per the Richter scale. There is no need for panic as it is very mild, he said. However, the National Centre for Meteorology and Seismology has published in its website that the intensity of the tremor was 3.2 magnitude.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mild-tremors-in-parts-of-mysuru-hassan-districts-821033.html
03-04-2020||State||Elephant calf, separated from mother, dies at Bannerghatta||Baby calf Saraswathi, separated from its mother since last one month, passed away in the early hours of Friday at the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP). BBP executive director Vanashree Vipin Singh informed that the calf was in the care of Bannerghatta Biological Park ever since it was separated from its mother. The calf was spotted near Raagihalli on March 3 when it got separated from its mother and a herd of elephants. In the last few days, the calf suffered from loose motions, and on Thursday night, developed stomach pain. Though the BBP doctors were treating it, it failed to respond to the treatment and died. Forest Minister Anand Singh had personally visited the BBP and had instructed the staff to take care of the calf. He had also made efforts to locate its mother near Raagihalli. The calf had been adopted by Snehalatha and Dinesh Kumar Singhi. The mahouts and the BBP staff are grieving the calf's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/elephant-calf-separated-from-mother-dies-at-bannerghatta-821034.html
03-04-2020||State||Karnataka's 1st press photographer T L Ramaswamy no more||Senior press photographer T L Ramaswamy passed away in the city on Friday morning. He was 89. He had worked as a photographer with Deccan Herald and its sister publication Prajavani between 1950 and 1985. Ramaswamy is survived by his wife and two sons. The last rites were performed at the Banashankari crematorium. He had continued in the profession even after his retirement. He had received his diploma in photography from Nihon Shinbun Kyokai of Japan and the Thomson Foundation of London. Ramaswamy had worked as a photographer with a few Japanese newspapers also. He was the first press photographer in the state and had received the Rajyotsava award as well the media academy award. Ramaswamy was also a life member of the Karnataka State Cricket Association. A photograph clicked by Ramaswamy, of the country’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Acharya Vinobha Bhave, had been published in Prajavani. Nehru had even autographed this picture.   The Mysore News Photos agency started by Ramaswamy in the 1950s used to provide photographs to Deccan Herald and Prajavani. Senior press photographer T Abdul Hafiz, who worked under Ramaswamy, recalled that he was known for his simplicity and loved to experiment in press photography. Another senior press photographer described Ramaswamy as a legend who groomed many youngsters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-1st-press-photographer-t-l-ramaswamy-no-more-821064.html
03-04-2020||State||Cops attacked for stopping mass prayers; 90 detained in Karnataka||While 91 people were detained in Shivamogga and Ballari districts when they tried to congregate for Friday prayers, worshipers attacked the police in Hubballi and Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh when they tried to stop them from offering mass prayers. However, in Hubballi, worshipers said policemen entered the mosque with shoes on and even beat up people there.  At Kumsi in Shivamogga district, the police took more than 70 people who had gathered for prayers into custody. The worshipers at Kesavinakatte near Ayanur-Harnahalli were charged with violating lockdown directives and were told to remain in quarantine for 14 days. In Kumsi, doctors said seven persons who attended the mass prayer had fever. In Hagaribommanahalli of Ballari district, the police detained 21 people for taking part in a mass prayer. They were shifted to the district McGann Teaching Hospital in Shivamogga but showed no signs of COVID-19 symptoms. The rest have been lodged in a school building in the village.  Shivamogga superintendent of police K M Shantaraju told DH, “We had requested them not to gather for mass prayer. While a majority of them remained at home, around 70 people gathered at the masjid. We rushed to the spot on learning about the gathering and locked the masjid after sending them out.” In Ballari, tahsildar Ashappa Pujar said a case has been registered against all the 21 persons. In Hubballi, more than 50 people, including women, hurled stones on policemen at Aralikatti Oni on Mantur Road when they tried to prevent them from gathering for the Friday prayer. Five policemen, including assistant sub-inspector M K Kale, constables S H Policegoudar, Y B Morab, M B Basannavar, and P S Bachagondi, attached to the Town Police Station, were injured.  More policemen rushed to the spot and dispersed the mob. Town police registered a case against Davalsab Nadaf, Basha Bepari and others, and investigation is on, while five persons were detained. “People were asked not to gather, but they assumed that the police were preventing a prayer itself. Later, religious leaders and senios members of the community pacified them,” DCP P Krishnakanth said. “When they were asked not to gather and offer prayers at home, they abused the policemen, and started hurling stones and footwear, asking the police not to interfere in their religious matters” said police inspector M S Patil. Police commissioner R Dileep, DCP P Krishnakanth, and Muslim leaders visited the spot and convinced people to avoid crowding Noorjahan Nadaf (56) of Aralikatti Oni, who was also injured in the incident, and her son Dadapeer, alleged that residents did not hurl stones, but claimed the police caned them unnecessarily due to which his mother was injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cops-attacked-for-stopping-mass-prayers-90-detained-in-karnataka-821066.html
03-04-2020||State||3 Jamaat attendees from Belagavi test positive for coronavirus; Karnataka tally rises to 128||Addressing reporters here on Friday, S Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and government's spokesperson on COVID-19, said, "Karnataka is in the ninth position in the country with respect to COVID-19 cases. Samples of 288 people, who attended Tablighi Jamaat event from Karnataka, have been collected, so far. Of which, the samples of 187 have turned out to be negative while 13 have returned positive. The results of 88 samples are awaited. A total of 134 people are housed in Bengaluru's Haj Bhavan," Kumar said. The minister said, "The CM Relief Fund received Rs 62,89,40,000 in donations on Friday alone. While PES University donated Rs 3 crore, former minister MTB Nagaraj donated Rs 1 crore, Agricultural Produce Market Committee donated Rs 23 crore, Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited donated Rs 25 crore, JSS Mahavidyapeetha, Mysuru, donated Rs 50 lakh and an Udupi organisation gave Rs. 1 crore. Till date Rs 87 crore has been donated to the CM Relief Fund." He added, Rs 150 crore from Construction Workers' Welfare Fund has been disbursed to construction workers registered with the Construction Welfare Board in the state.  "So far, the workers used to get Rs. 1,000. Now they will get an additional Rs 1,000, making it Rs 2,000 each," Kumar said.  Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, Karnataka had received 1.39 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE). Of which, 53,000 PPEs are in warehouses. "Order for one lakh PPEs have been placed already. Order for additional two lakh PPEs will be placed shortly."  Services of medical, para-medical, clinical and non-clinical staff, who will retire in April and May, will be extended for the next three months till 30th June, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/3-jamaat-attendees-from-belagavi-test-positive-for-coronavirus-karnataka-tally-rises-to-128-821067.html
03-04-2020||State||8 Kyrgyzstan nationals quarantined in Bidar||The presence of eight Kyrgyzstan nationals at Markaz Masjid in Ratkalpura area of the city has caused concern among the people of the city. Deputy Commissioner H R Mahadev told reporters that they came to the city 25 days ago. “We quarantined them as soon as they arrived. Doctors who examined them said that there is no need to collect their throat swab samples for testing,” the DC said.  Superintendent of Police D L Nagesh told DH that though they belonged to the Jamaat organisation, it was not clear whether they attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin in Delhi.  "Kyrgyzstan nationals came to Delhi in January itself and stayed there till March 9. They came to Bidar on March 10. On examining, we came to know that they had come on tourist visas. They have been quarantined at the masjid after a health check-up,” he said.  According to sources, eight people from a few villages of Bidar district, said to be linked to the Jamaat organisation, had travelled to Indonesia on December 12, 2019. They are stranded there due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/8-kyrgyzstan-nationals-quarantined-in-bidar-821069.html
03-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: Construction workers to get additional Rs 1,000 relief||The government had already announced that construction labourers will get Rs 1,000 each at a cost of Rs 150 crore. Yediyurappa directed the Labour department to credit another Rs 1,000 to their bank accounts.  Yediyurappa was chairing a high-level meeting to review the COVID-19 situation.  Taking stock of the availability of personal protective equipment (PPE), Yediyurappa directed officials to place orders for an additional two lakh PPEs to strengthen frontline health workers. The state has received 1.39 lakh PPEs so far of which 53,000 are in warehouses.  Subsequently, Yediyurappa held a separate meeting with ministers representing Bengaluru - Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, Housing Minister V Somanna, Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraja, Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah and Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar.  The CM pointed out to his ministers that half of the COVID-19 positive cases are from Bengaluru. Concerns were also expressed on the misuse of the free food distributed through Indira Canteens.  Yediyurappa has fixed another meeting with all Bengaluru MLAs, MLCs and MPs to discuss containment and management of COVID-19 on Saturday.  Ola, Uber for emergency Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed officials to see if taxi-hailing platforms Ola and Uber can provide vehicles that can be used during emergencies for patients who need medical care or hospitalisation. Ola has already agreed to give 500 vehicles for services related to combating COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-construction-workers-to-get-additional-rs-1000-relief-821072.html
03-04-2020||State||Govt withdraws free food at Indira Canteen over misuse||"There are concerns about the quality and quantity of the food at the Indira canteens. People would fill autos with 100 packets to 200 free packets of food. This was brought to the notice of the commissioner. However, food that was previously given at a nominal price will continue as usual," said S Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and spokesperson for COVID-19 in Karnataka, informed reporters here on Friday. The minister said there was no shortage of food supplies in the state. Sufficient stock of food grains, fruits and vegetables: The minister assured that there is no shortage of food supplies in the state. 26,23,116 quintals of rice is currently in stock in the state. 1,32,539 quintals of wheat is also in stock in the state as of today." Ragi and jowar are available in sufficient quantities in the state. There is no shortage of green gram, bengal gram and tur dal in the state. Fruits and vegetables are sufficient in enough quantities in the state. Wherever there is an excess, we will give it to food processing units in the state," Kumar said.   450 HOPCOMS outlets are there in the state. Everyday 400 tonnes to 450 tonnes sale of fruits and vegetables is happening in the state. "In addition to the 220 HOPCOMS stores in Bengaluru, via 40 mobile vans, we are selling 120 tonnes of fruits and vegetables," he said. Shivamogga has 28 mobile vans of fruits and vegetables, Belagavi has 40, and other districts have 40 vans each, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-withdraws-free-food-at-indira-canteen-over-misuse-821074.html
03-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Not equipped to be fever clinics, pvt labs tell Karnataka govt||Two days after the state government announced that private labs testing coronavirus samples would double up as fever clinics, the labs have expressed their inability to do so. They have also alleged that no consultations have been held with them before the government sent the circular. The government circular on Tuesday said only fever clinics would be the first point of contact for Covid-19 suspects. Sixty urban primary health centres, 36 private hospitals and two labs — Neuberg Anand Diagnostic Laboratory, Shivajinagar, and Cancyte Technologies Private Limited, Basavanagudi — have been identified as fever clinics. “We are only a lab,” Dr K N Sridhar, founder and managing director of Cancyte Technologies Private Limited, told DH. “Unless we have a facility with clinicians, it will be difficult for us (to function as a clinic). Clinicians must run the clinics.” “Hospitals must take the lead. We have conveyed this to the government on Wednesday and they have convened another meeting on Thursday,” he added. Dr Sujay Prasad, medical director, Neuberg Anand Diagnostic Laboratory,  said the government did not hold a dialogue with the private labs before issuing the circular. “We sent back a walk-in patient who came for checkup after getting the news that labs would double up as fever clinics,” he said. “We expect more people today, but have no choice but to turn them away. Currently, six of our staff are testing swab samples in eight-hour shifts, wearing bodysuits.” Dr Prasad said the lab has no manpower or protective equipment to function as a clinic. Procedural issues Cancyte is getting only two or three samples due to issues in sample collection. “The physician must upload a symptom form that needs to be reviewed by a committee, which then rules if the sample qualifies for testing, based on their understanding of the symptoms,” Dr Sridhar explained. “This frustrates the physicians who see the patient and refer him for testing, only to be overruled by the committee. They ask ‘what are we for?’ I have conveyed this to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “If the committee refuses test for a patient and he later turns out to be positive, who is responsible?” Dr Sridhar asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-equipped-to-be-fever-clinics-pvt-labs-tell-karnataka-govt-820773.html
03-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM seeks Muslim leaders' help to identify Nizamuddin attendees||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held a meeting with leaders of the minority community, seeking their cooperation in identifying those who visited the Tablighi Jamaat Nizamuddin congregation in Delhi, here Friday. During the meeting, the leaders have also agreed to appeal and convince people from the community to cooperate with health workers conducting surveys for COVID-19 symptoms among residents in the state. "They have agreed to provide details of persons who visited Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Nizamuddin and also to convince them to undergo tests for COVID-19 and strict quarantine for a prescribed period," the CM said. After discussions on the manhandling of ASHA workers at a locality in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa has advised people of the state to not pay attention to any rumours. "We must all strictly follow precautionary measures," he said. Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan requested any members of Tableeg Jamaat who visited Nizamuddin on March 13, 14 and 15 to check voluntarily for Covid-19. "In my constituency (Chamarajpet), Home department had formed a team to check those who took part at the Delhi event. A total of 11 people were tested and all were negative," he said. While there were curbs on community prayers at mosques, there was no restriction for Azaan - call for prayer from mosques. However, people should pray at home, Zameer said. On the ASHA worker incident, he said that it was triggered by rumours that the workers were carrying out surveys for the controversial National Register of Citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-seeks-muslim-leaders-help-to-identify-nizamuddin-attendees-820797.html
03-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K'taka CM meets Muslim leaders, seeks cooperation to contain COVID-19||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said Muslim MLAs of the state have agreed to provide details of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, to the government and also convince them to undergo COVID-19 tests along with quarantining themselves. Yediyurappa held a meeting with Muslim leaders and legislators, seeking their cooperation in containing coronavirus in the state that was attended by N A Haris, C M Ibrahim, Zameer Ahmed Khan, Rizwan Arshad, Saleem Ahmed among others. "They have responded positively and assured to extend full cooperation in this endeavour," the Chief Minister said in a statement after the meeting. Noting that the MLAs have agreed to give details of those who visited Jamaatand convince them to undergo tests for COVID-19 and quarantine themselves for a stipulated period, he said, "They informed that, they have conducted meetings with religious leaders of the community and created awareness about it." They (legislators) are advising the members of the community to offer prayers at home and also to stay indoors to maintain social distance during "azan," he added. Observing that the leaders unanimously agreed to the fact that prevention was the only way to contain the virus, the CM said they will appeal to and convince the people from the community to cooperate with the health workers. "I appeal to the people of the state to not heed to any rumours. Let all of us strictly follow precautionary measures and win the battle over Coronavirus," he added. The Chief Minister's meeting with Muslim leaders comes even as the government was mounting efforts to track people, who might have travelled to the state after taking part in the conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month, which has turned out to be the hotbed of COVID-19 spread in the country. Nearly 1,000 people from Karnataka, who are linked to Tablighi-Jamaat have been screened and so far 10 men from Bidar and one woman from Kalaburagi (who is the contact of a person who has attended congregation), have tested positive, health department officials had said on Thursday. Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan said the CM has requested us to appeal to the community regarding COVID-19 tests, especially those attended theTablighi Jamaat meet. "I appeal to the Muslim community of the state, who ever had been to Nizamuddin, voluntarily get the medical checks done, it is good for you, also for every one. There is nothing wrong in it," he said. He stated that 11 people got tested in his constituency and all turned out to be negative. "I appeal with folded hands, go get tested. Those who have gone to Saudi Arabiaand other countries also get health checkups done," he added. Congress MLC C M Ibrahim, assuring full cooperation to the government said, the authorities have made a list of those who had been to Jamaat and are testing them. "By getting tested it is both good for the individual and to the society.... we appeal to all those who had been to these places (Nizamuddin)," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ktaka-cm-meets-muslim-leaders-seeks-cooperation-to-contain-covid-19-820859.html
03-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, Education Minister to be Karnataka's coronavirus spokesman||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday asked Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar to be the government’s spokesperson on the COVID-19 crisis management effort, a move that is seen as keeping too many cooks from spoiling the broth.  At a high-level meeting to review measures on COVID-19 containment, Yediyurappa is said to have taken exception to his Cabinet colleagues making multiple, and often contradictory statements, leading to confusion.  “The CM has directed Suresh Kumar to be the only one to brief the media on COVID-19 going forward,” a source from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) confirmed. Accordingly, Kumar will brief the media on Friday evening.  Kumar, who represents Rajajinagar in Bengaluru, was the one who briefed the press on Cabinet decisions for the most part when the BJP was in power earlier (2008-13).  Yediyurappa was forced to appoint Kumar as the government’s spokesman because lack of coordination had become evident in disbursing information related to COVID-19.  Initially, it was apparent that Health & Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar had issues with coordination - both used to brief the press, dishing out contradictory numbers. The CM had to intervene by making Sudhakar responsible for COVID-19 affairs in Bengaluru, while Sriramulu would look at the rest of Karnataka.  The latest example of ministers being out of sync is the Tablighi Jamaat convention - Sriramulu’s numbers would be different from Sudhakar’s, with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai citing fresh figures altogether.  The CM is also said to have asked ministers to refrain from appearing on news channels for panel discussions on COVID-19.  In other decisions, the CM asked officials to place orders for 2 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) in addition to 1 lakh PPEs already ordered. It was also decided that 15 lakh construction labourers will get Rs 2,000, as against Rs 1,000 approved earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-education-minister-to-be-karnatakas-coronavirus-spokesman-820895.html
03-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa meets Muslim MLAs, seeks cooperation to contain COVID-19 in Karnataka||"They have agreed to help provide details of persons who were at the Markaz at Nizamuddin and also to convince them to undergo tests for COVID-19 and strict quarantine for the prescribed period," Yediyurappa said. According to the Health department, some 1,500 people from the state may have attended the religious congregation in Delhi, which has emerged as an epicentre for the COVID-19 transmission. While there is no clarity on the exact numbers, the government has said that 391 of the attendees had been identified and quarantined.  In the meeting, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Saleem Ahmed said some 1,800 from the state had attended the event in February and only 90 went in March.   Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan requested any member of Tablighi Jamaat who visited Nizamuddin on March 13, 14 and 15 to a voluntary check-up done for COVID-19. "In my constituency (Chamarajpet), the Home department had formed a team to check those who took part at the Delhi event. A total of 11 people were tested and all were negative," Khan said. Khan added that while there were curbs on community prayers at mosques, there was no restriction for Azaan - call for prayer from mosques.  During the meeting, the leaders also agreed to convince people from the community to cooperate with health workers conducting surveys for COVID-19 symptoms among residents in the state. An Asha worker was allegedly gheraoed by locals at Sadiq Nagar in Bengaluru earlier this week. Khan said that it was triggered by rumours that the Asha workers were carrying out surveys for the controversial National Register of Citizens (NRC). Yediyurappa advised people of the state to not heed any rumours. "We must all strictly follow precautionary measures," he said. Following their meeting with the CM, the Muslim leaders held talks with moulvis, including Maulana Maqsood Imran Rashadi, the Imam of the Bengaluru Jamia Masjid. The clerics were urged to inform members of the community to pray at home, instead of attending mosques.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-meets-muslim-mlas-seeks-cooperation-to-contain-covid-19-in-karnataka-820901.html
03-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nizamuddin returnees throw tantrums at KIMS, demand VIP treatment||The medical staff at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi faced tough times while pacifying the 17 members who were quarantined at the Institute after they returned from the Tableeghi Jamaat held at Nizamuddin in South Delhi, as they demanded ‘VIP treatment’ during their quarantine. They even threatened the hospital staff of running away from the facility if their demands were not met. On Wednesday (March 31, 2020), the district administration had placed 17 of the 63 members who had returned from a religious Markaz at Nizamuddin, South Delhi, as preventive measures. The medical reports of all the 17 persons were declared negative on April 2. However, during their stay at KIMS, the patients are said to have demanded ‘VIP’ treatment and indulged in a verbal duel with the medical staff. Sources said things fell into place after the hospital management took the help of the police personnel. Speaking to DH, KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antartani said, it was not such a big issue. The inmates were not maintaining social distancing in spite of repeated appeal. They also demanded toiletries and mineral water bottles. However, senior doctors requesting anonymity claimed that the inmates' demands were unending. “They started their demand with hot water for bathing and new toiletries. In spite of the beds being new, they demanded the management to change them. Later, they refused to eat the breakfast prepared by the hospital and demanded Idli, vada, masala dosa, and others be supplied,” said the sources. Even after all these, they threatened to run away from the hospital, forcing the management to inform the police. The medical staff deployed at the quarantine room informed DH that the inmates intentionally spit on the floor and outside the room in spite of repeated request against this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nizamuddin-returnees-throw-tantrums-at-kims-demand-vip-treatment-820998.html
03-04-2020||West||Third coronavirus case found in Mumbai's Dharavi||A 35-year-old doctor who has a clinic on the main road in Dharavi area of Mumbai tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, a civic official said. This is a third COVID-19 case where the patient has a connection with Dharavi, considered to be Asia's biggest slum with a high population density. An official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said a doctor who had a clinic on Dharavi's main road and who was also attached as a surgeon to a prominent private hospital tested positive for the virus. "The building where he lives will be quarantined and all high-risk contacts will be traced," the BMC official said. The doctor did not have any travel history, but further details were being probed, he added. On April 1, a 56-year-old garment shop owner living in a Slum Rehabilitation Authority building in Dharavi became the first person from the area to test positive for coronavirus. He died on the same evening. On Thursday morning a municipal sweeper who lived in Worli but was posted at Dharavi tested positive. The BMC has already created containment zones where these two cases were found and restricted the movement of over 2,500 persons in these areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/third-coronavirus-case-found-in-mumbais-dharavi-820685.html
03-04-2020||West||BJP leaders knowingly twisted Cong chief's comment on lockdown: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot accused BJP leaders, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, on Thursday of knowingly twisting Congress chief Sonia Gandhi's message to party workers on the ongoing nationwide lockdown, saying they did it for the sake of "petty" politics. "BJP leaders including Amit Shah ji, JP Nadda ji and Prakash Javdekar ji have knowingly twisted Congress President Smt. Sonia Gandhi ji's message for their petty politics. In the mid of pandemic this was really uncalled for," he wrote on Twitter. In a series of tweets, Gehlot said it was baffling that constructive criticism was not being tolerated by the leaders of the saffron party. "They start reacting and go to the extent of calling the critics anti national. That is why we have to say that they do not believe in democracy, they are fascists and undemocratic," the veteran Congress leader said. "The Congress President has already made it clear in a letter to the Prime Minister that the entire Congress Party is with him in this time of crisis, he should have welcomed this publicly," he said in another tweet. "In a democracy, if the opposition points at certain lacunae, even that should be taken in a positive spirit so that things can be improved," Gehlot said. He added that the points highlighted by Gandhi and the resolution passed by the Congress Working Committee (CWC) should have been taken as constructive criticism by the leaders of the ruling party at the Centre.  Shah on Thursday alleged that the Congress was weakening the country's fight against the coronavirus outbreak and wondered when would the grand old party give priority to national interest over its own. His comments came in reaction to the government's criticism by Gandhi for the "unplanned" implementation of the countrywide lockdown, which, she said, caused "chaos and pain" to millions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-leaders-knowingly-twisted-cong-chiefs-comment-on-lockdown-gehlot-820695.html
03-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra government launches online self-assessment tool||The government has created a digital platform, wherein citizens can assess their symptoms from the comfort of their homes and later contact authorities if they have any doubts about their condition, an official release stated. The state government has collaborated with Apollo 24x7 and launched an online tool, which is available at https://covid-19.maharashtra.gov.in/, to help people assess their symptoms at home. Immediate medical advice and other relevant contact information are also available on this link, the official release said. As per the guidelines issued by the WHO and Government of India, persons experiencing mild symptoms associated with coronavirus infection are required to self-quarantine or report to a hospital if their condition worsens. The online self-assessment tool allows the authorities to have a real-time dashboard and helps them keep track of people with strong coronavirus symptoms who have used the tool, the release stated. Apart from this, the platform also has dos and don'ts, helpline numbers and other information about the pandemic. The authorities also plan to upgrade the tool with a facility to avail healthcare advice over phone or video calls from doctors, it was stated.    ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-government-launches-online-self-assessment-tool-820713.html
03-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra denied permission for Tablighi-like event in March, averted chaos||More than 50,000 people across India were expected to attend the two-day religious meeting.  Vasai is located in Palghar district, 80 km off downtown Mumbai.  It was almost a month ago when the COVID-19 issue was compounding into a big health scare in India.  The Tablighi Ijtema was to be held at Diwanman in Vasai West and the permission was reportedly sought by Shamim Education and Welfare Society. "The permission was withdrawn as a precautionary measure," Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said in a press statement. The Home Department felt that in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, it was not advisable that such an event held in a densely-populated area of Mumbai metropolitan region, at a time when the call across the world is that of social distancing. The Vasai event would have been much bigger than the Nizamuddin Markaz congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi."We believe that it was a wise call," said Singh. "The event was to be attended by a large number of people including foreigners. There was an obvious threat of community spread," added Kaushik. The Delhi event had seen a participation of over 2,500 people and had added to the spread of COVID-19 across India. "The alertness has averted a Delhi-type fallout," said Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-denied-permission-for-tablighi-like-event-in-march-averted-chaos-820736.html
03-04-2020||West||One more tests positive for coronavirus in Goa; tally rises to 6||A man with international travel history has tested positive for COVID-19 in Goa, taking the number of infections in the state to six, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday. The person came back to Goa on March 19 and contacted the Goa Medical College and Hospital after he developed symptoms related to COVID-19, he said. Rane said the patient has been shifted to a special hospital set up for COVID-19 patients in south Goa. As per the protocol, people who had come in contact with him will be quarantined and tested for the infection, the minister said. With the latest case, the number of COVID-19 patients in Goa has gone up to six.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-more-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-goa-tally-rises-to-6-820754.html
03-04-2020||West||Fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan, curfew imposed in two areas||Curfew has been imposed in two areas of Bikaner after two persons who had attended the Nizamuddin congregation tested positive. Additional Chief Secretary, medical and health, Rohit Kumar Singh said the test reports of 21 patients came positive on Friday morning. The patients include 12 close contacts of those who had tested positive for the virus in Tonk. The total number of cases in the state has now climbed to 154. Of the nine people who attended the congregation in Delhi, two are in Bikaner, while six men are from Maharashtra and two are from Jharkhand. They are placed under isolation in Rajasthan University of Health Sciences hospital in Jaipur. 12 patients are from Tonk. They include a 30-year old woman, a 9-year-old boy, and three men in the age group of 20 to 32 years. Singh said two persons have recovered from coronavirus in Bhilwara. In Bikaner, both the men who tested positive for coronavirus had also travelled to Tripura. Bikaner Collector Kumar Pal Gautam has clamped curfew in Ranibazar and Fadbazar areas after the two men tested positive. CMHO-Bikaner Dr BL Meena said intense contact tracing and screening of those who came in contact with both have started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-curfew-imposed-in-two-areas-820757.html
03-04-2020||West||Seven more positive cases of COVID-19 in Gujarat||Seven more positive cases of coronavirus were detected in Gujarat on Friday morning. They were all in Ahmedabad, which is among the hotspots of the virus spread in India, thus taking the total cases to 95 in Gujarat. Gujarat also recorded its eighth death, while officials said that 10 of the infected persons have recovered from the virus so far. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi, while updating the cases, said that seven COVID-19 cases were detected on Friday, all in Ahmedabad. Six of them got infected through local transmission and included a seven-year-old girl while one had travelled to Delhi. Ravi said that out of the active cases, two are on ventilators and the condition of others is stable. The Gujarat Government's latest figure states that out of 95 COVID-19 cases, 33 have a history of foreign travel, nine are said to have made intrastate journeys, while 53 cases are the result of local transmission. As a matter of fact, in the past three days, not a single case of overseas travel history has been detected. In the case of eight dead, data says that four locally infected persons died compared to two cases of persons who had international travel history, while the remaining two had travelled to other states. Out of eight deaths recorded in Gujarat, the source of infection is not known in four cases and that includes two cases in Ahmedabad, one in Bhavnagar and one Panchmahals district, where a 78-year-old man died late on Thursday night. District officials said that patient had kidney disorder and was almost immobile for more than one and a half years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/seven-more-positive-cases-of-covid-19-in-gujarat-820766.html
03-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Maids barred from entry into Mumbai's housing societies||The COVID-19 lockdown has thrown the daily routines of Mumbaikars out of gear, with many housing colonies and residential complexes restricting entry to maids and domestic helps. A 65-year-old house help testing positive for COVID-19 last week could have triggered the move to bar entry to maids in housing complexes. The domestic help had reportedly worked at the home of a man, who tested positive for the infection 10 days after his return from the United States. "After the outbreak and lockdown, housing societies, bungalows and even chawls have restricted entry to maids," said Manisha Khot, a domestic help from Santacruz. While some employers have paid their house staff salaries in advance, others like Khot don't have money to buy essentials to survive the lockdown. For Rushina Mansuri, a house help from Kalina area of suburban Kurla, the fear of contracting the infection is what forced her to remain home. "I decided to stay at home after one of the residents in the locality I was working in tested positive for the virus. I didn't want to endanger my family's life and mine as well," Mansuri said, adding that she has to depend on ration shops for her essentials.  House helps are an indelible part of Mumbai households, and the pandemic has caused several to leave their jobs with homes they had been working in for decades. "I had to quit my job with a family I had been working with for more than 10 years. Who will give me work if I test positive for coronavirus," a maid on the condition of anonymity said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maids-barred-from-entry-into-mumbais-housing-societies-820774.html
03-04-2020||West||Prithviraj Chavan seeks airing of Benegal-directed serials on Doordarshan||Senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Friday requested the Centre to telecast Shyam Benegal-directed "Discovery of India" and "Samvidhan- Making of the Indian Constitution" serials on Doordarshan during the ongoing lockdown. Welcoming the decision to telecast popular old shows like "Ramayan", "Mahabharat" and "Shaktiman" on Doordarshan, Chavan, in a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said, "'Discovery of India' and 'Samvidhaan' will help people develop curiosity about our history and our Constitution." He also asked the ministry to obtain some highly- acclaimed international science documentaries and serials like "Cosmos: A Personal Voyage" by Carl Sagan (1980) or "Cosmos A Spacetime Odyssey" by Neil deGrasse Tyson (2014) for Doordarshan telecast. "There are many other high quality international educational documentaries short films and TV serials. These could be obtained for small fee considering the special circumstances that we are in," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prithviraj-chavan-seeks-airing-of-benegal-directed-serials-on-doordarshan-820791.html
03-04-2020||West||Energy Minister Raut urges CM Thackeray to save hungry people who don't have ration cards||Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut has urged Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to provide ration through the Public Distribution System (PDS) to people who are starving, even though they do not possess any kind of ration cards and are not covered under National Food Security Act 2013 (NFSA) during the lockdown period. In a letter sent to Thackeray on Thursday, Dr Raut pointed out that there are thousands of people residing in slums and without ration cards. They are mostly industrial workers, labourers, cycle rickshaw pullers, autorickshaw drivers, sanitary workers, scavengers, homeless persons living on footpaths, orphans, brickyard workers, construction workers, boot polishers, hamals, coolies, sugarcane labourers etc. They are in this position as the lockdown has put them out of employment. Also, since they do not have any type of ration card, they are not covered under the National Food Security Act 2013. Keeping in mind the need for the situation to be addressed at the earliest, he urged the Chief Minister to make necessary changes in the Maharashtra policy to cover them under the National Food Security Act 2013 with immediate effect. The beneficiaries covered under this act are provided food security under the PDS. They belong to the weaker sections of society, including below poverty line and above poverty line. It is to be mentioned here that following the lockdown due to COVID-19, the Maharashtra Government has made arrangements to provide food supplies to the weaker sections of the society who are in possession of various ration cards, including the Tricolour Ration Card, Yellow Ration Card, Saffron Ration Card, White Ration Card and Priority House Hold Cards. They will be provided ration for a period of three months through the PDS. Those do not have any kind of ration card are not covered under the act. They cannot be provided food through the PDS. To save them from hunger and starvation, Dr Raut has further demanded that the Chief Minister to allow MLAs to spend Rs 25 lakh from MLA fund to provide them food at the earliest. He has further demanded the Chief Minister to instruct cable TV operators not to disconnect the cable on failure of monthly payments from the subscribers and which should be collected after a period of one month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/energy-minister-raut-urges-cm-thackeray-to-save-hungry-people-who-dont-have-ration-cards-820807.html
03-04-2020||West||Amrutanjan Bridge to demolish amid COVID-19 lockdown||The historic Amrutanjan Bridge, near Lonavala, which links Mumbai and Pune, will be demolished with a controlled blast on Saturday, an official said on Friday. The Raigad district collector has granted permission to the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) to carry out the demolition work between April 4 to 14, he said. As traffic on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway has reduced significantly since the COVID-19 lockdown, the authorities granted permission to raze the 187-year-old structure, the official said. Traffic diversions will be put in place on both lanes of the Mumbai-Pune Expressway on the 10-km stretch, he said. The Amrutanjan Bridge has been shut for vehicular traffic for the last several years, as it is in a dilapidated condition. The MSRDC had earlier written to the Railways, who are custodians of the bridge, seeking consent for its demolition and had also approached the district collector and state highway police to provide security and regulate traffic, he said. The bridge, which was built by the British in 1830, has often been blamed for causing traffic snarls and accidents on the route, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amrutanjan-bridge-to-demolish-amid-covid-19-lockdown-820812.html
03-04-2020||West||1,400 Nizamuddin event attendees from Maha traced: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that around 1,400 people from the state, who had attended the religious congregation at Delhi's Nizamuddin last month, have been traced. Talking to PTI, Tope said these people are being isolated or quarantined by the district administrations. "The quarantine facilities for them will be put in place in their respective districts," the minister added. At least 9,000 people had participated in the religious congregation at Tablighi Jamaat's headquarters at Nizamuddin in the national capital last month. The event became a key source for the spread of COVID-19 in India as many of the participants travelled to various parts of the country for missionary works. So far, around 400 COVID-19 positive cases and about 12 deaths in the country were found to have links with the Nizamuddin Markaz. According the health department officials in Maharashtra, the COVID-19 count in the state so far is 423, while 21 patients have died due to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1400-nizamuddin-event-attendees-from-maha-traced-tope-820819.html
03-04-2020||West||COVID-19: 235 cases in Mumbai, 212 containment zones created||With 17 new coronavirus cases coming to light in the city, the number of cases rose to 235 on Thursday while three COVID-19 patients died, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said. Earlier, state health officials had put the number of new cases in Mumbai at 57, but according to a civic official, 40 of these cases had already come to light through testing at private labs and were only confirmed by the government on Thursday. The number of demarcated containment areas in the city, meanwhile, was increased to 212. "Today, 317 people were tested in the city and 105 were admitted to hospitals as suspected patients. Seventeen persons tested positive for coronavirus while three patients died," Pednekar said. She also said the police had traced 127 persons in the city who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi with the help of mobile phone records. "Of these, 105 are already quarantined," she said. A senior civic official, meanwhile, said as many as 212 containment zones have been set up and "sealed" in the city. A release from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said the administration is using CCTV camera network in the city for surveillance of movement in these areas. "For the first time, computerized automatic video analytics system is being used for effective surveillance of the containment zones and it will allow timely action against violators," said the BMC release. If one or more persons are found roaming in the containment zone or going in or out violating lockdown, the system will immediately alert the local police station through SMS. "Mumbai has a network of 5,000 CCTVs, which can capture small details from far," said a BMC officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-235-cases-in-mumbai-212-containment-zones-created-820831.html
03-04-2020||West||Chavan urges Maharashtra govt to resume newspaper distribution||In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chavan said the public perception that the government has barred newspapers from reaching them needs to be removed. The state government must talk to newspaper distributors and provide them protection if necessary, he said. "Give them protection and with help of volunteers, newspaper distribution should be resumed," he said. The former Chief Minister also asked the government to provide meals to children of migrant workers in the state, with the help of anganwadis and social organisations. A helpline number should be set up for distribution of meals, he added. Flour mills should be included as essential service, he said, adding that police protection should be given to grocery stores and vegetable vendors to check on unruly behaviour and crowding. Chavan further suggested that the government engage the services of doctors and health workers who have retired in the last two years during emergencies. Coming to the issue of migrant labourers, Chavan said, the Central government has allocated Rs 31,000 crore for construction workers, while the state has given Rs 8,000 crore. The state government should deposit Rs 5,000 every month in bank accounts of these workers, Chavan urged. The Congress leader further said the disaster management fee, which is recovered from students of government universities every year, must be used to strengthen online education system. Fixed charges levied in electricity bills of private businesses and commercial establishments should be waived off for the next three months, he said. The Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) should not be deducted for micro and mini industrial workers and the government should bear 50 per cent of their wages for three months, Chavan suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chavan-urges-maharashtra-govt-to-resume-newspaper-distribution-820839.html
03-04-2020||West||Maharashtra minister pooh-poohs PM's appeal, says won't light candle||Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad on Friday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the country and announced that he would not light a lamp or candle on Sunday night as appealed by the PM. In a video, the NCP leader said it was expected that Modi will talk about issues such as the plight of the poor because of lockdown to contain coronavirus pandemic, but he disappointed. "I don't understand why they want to make an event of everything. This is nothing but foolishness, childishness," said Awhad. "I want to announce, I am working, I meet the poor, I take care of them, give them food. I will give the money to the poor instead of spending it on oil and candles. I will keep all the lights in my house on and not light even a single candle," the minister said. It was expected that Modi will assure people that there was enough stock of essential commodities, masks, sanitizers, medicines and testing kits but he did not do that, Awhad said. In his 9 am video message to the nation, the prime minister urged people to switch off lights at home at 9 pm on April 5 and light lamps, candles and switch on mobile flashlights to display a collective spirit to defeat coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-pooh-poohs-pms-appeal-says-wont-light-candle-820907.html
03-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Sharad Pawar's kin differs from NCP stand, backs PM's 'light' message||While the NCP criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'light up lamps' message to people, an MLA of the party, who is also a relative of Sharad Pawar, on Friday struck a different note and appeared to welcome the appeal. Rohit Pawar, grandnephew of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, also urged citizens to use the national flag as the display picture (DP) of their respective social media accounts. Prime minister @narendramodi ji is aiming to bring the country together through lights & if so, we should welcome this thought. "Likewise, as a citizen of this country I urge you to place the flag of our country as a DP of your social media accounts for a message of solidarity, the MLA from the Karjat -Jamkhed Assembly segment tweeted. In his 9 AM video message to the nation, Modi urged people to switch off lights of their homes at 9 pm for nine minutes on April 5 and light up lamps, candles and mobile flashlights to display the nation's collective spirit to defeat coronavirus. The NCP criticised Modi over the message, saying it left citizens "quite disappointed" in the fight against coronavirus even as one of its Maharashtra ministers, Jitendra Awhad, termed it as pure stupidity to tell people to do so. The party maintained it was expected that the prime minister would talk about measures being taken to combat COVID-19, but people were instead told to light up lamps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-sharad-pawars-kin-differs-from-ncp-stand-backs-pms-light-message-820911.html
03-04-2020||West||COVID-19: 11 new cases in Pune district, count at 71||The number of COVID-19 cases in Pune district in Maharashtra grew by 11 on Friday to 71, Collector Naval Kishore Ram said. Of the total, 57 are from Pune city limits and 14 from neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad area, he added. "The 11 new cases are from two private hospitals, state-run Sassoon Hospital and Pune Municipal Corporation's Naidu Hospital," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-11-new-cases-in-pune-district-count-at-71-820967.html
03-04-2020||West||Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat slams PM's 'light a lamp' move||Prime Minister Narendra Modi must get "serious" about the magnitude of the novel coronavirus outbreak in the country, Maharashtra Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said on Friday. He said it was time for the PM to take some firm policy decisions to fight the outbreak and give relief to people rather than "create an event" out of the issue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier in the day, urged people to switch off lights of their homes at 9 pm for nine minutes on April 5 and light up lamps, candles, mobile flashlights to display the nation's collective spirit to defeat coronavirus. "Is it the PM's job to ask people to clap, light lamps? The BJP just wants to create an event out of any issue. During such times, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to take some firm policy decisions. It is about time the PM gets serious on these issues," Thorat said. He said the need of the hour was to firmly be behind the people who are in the frontline fighting to stop the spread of the coronavirus, and to increase infrastructure like ventilators, testing kits and labs, personal protection equipment, he said. The general public needs to be given hope during these distressing times and relief packages must be provided to those affected by the lockdown. "After hearing the address, the question being raised is whether Narendra Modi will behave like a PM or not. When a country is going through a crisis, a responsible leadership is required. The BJP is taking away the seriousness of the issue at hand by announcing such PR stunts," Thorat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-chief-balasaheb-thorat-slams-pms-light-a-lamp-move-820995.html
03-04-2020||West||Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut lashes out at PM's 'light up lamps' appeal||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to people to switch off electricity in their homes and light lamps, candles and flash mobile phone torches to show the country's collective spirit to defeat coronavirus. In a video message, the PM asked people to be part of the initiative for nine minutes from 9pm on April 5. In a tweet, Raut, a Rajya Sabha MP, said, "When people were asked to clap, they crowded the roads and beat drums. I just hope now they don't burn down their own houses." When people were asked to clap , they crowded the roads and beat drums , I just hope now they don't burn down their own houses , sir 'diya to jalalenge ' but please tell us what the government is doing to improve condition The PM's appeal to clap and clang utensils to show appreciation to frontline staff on March 22 saw its fair share of violations of social distancing norms with mobs coming out on the streets and indulging in raucous tributes. "Sir 'diyato jalayenge' but please tell us what the government is doing to improve the condition," Raut further asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-senas-sanjay-raut-lashes-out-at-pms-light-up-lamps-appeal-821000.html
03-04-2020||West||Over nine lakh surveyed in Maharashtra for COVID-19 symptoms: Tope||Over nine lakh people in Maharashtra have been surveyed for coronavirus symptoms under the state government's `cluster containment action plan', Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday. To start with, the plan was implemented in areas where three or more patients were found. An area in the radius of three km from where the patient was found was treated as containment zone and surveyed for possible cases of infection. But the minister said that now even if a single coronavirus case is detected, the surrounding area is considered as containment zone and door-to-door survey is conducted by government squads. As of Thursday night, 423 coronavirus cases had been found in Maharashtra. "As many as 2,455 squads are working under the cluster containment action plan in 18 districts," Tope said in a statement. "Till yesterday, 9,25,828 people were surveyed," the minister added. During the survey, people are checked for symptoms such as fever, cold, cough and breathing difficulties. If a suspected patient is found, local health officer arranges to send him or her to hospital, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-nine-lakh-surveyed-in-maharashtra-for-covid-19-symptoms-tope-821005.html
03-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Ajit Pawar demands GST exemption on medical equipment||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking Goods and Services Tax (GST) exemption for some medical equipment used in the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak. In a letter, Pawar asked Sitharaman to exempt 3-ply masks, N95 masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, testing kits, ventilators and other equipment from GST. Such a decision wil bring down their prices, which will help in the efforts to stop the virus outbreak, Pawar, also state finance minister, said. He told the Union minister that the number of COVID-19 patients was increasing day by day in Maharashtra. He said the mantra of 'trace, track, test and treat' was being followed to fight the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-ajit-pawar-demands-gst-exemption-on-medical-equipment-821009.html
03-04-2020||West||Gujarat: 103 persons who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation traced, second COVID-19 case found from the lot||Director General of Police, Shivanand Jha while briefing media in Gandhinagar said that “In the past three days, we have traced 103 persons who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz and returned to Gujarat. One of the persons have been found infected with the virus. He has been quarantined as per the guidelines by the health officers, while others have also been isolated as per the guidelines." Majority of these persons have been found in Ahmedabad, Bhavnagar, Mehsana and Surat among other districts. The state on Friday recorded seven more positive cases of coronavirus, all in Ahmedabad including the one person who attended the congregation. The total figure in the state rose to 95 that included nine deaths. Meanwhile, state and central government on Friday submitted affidavits in Gujarat High Court which had sought information on persons who attended the congregation and returned to Gujarat. The court observed that “Union of India woke up late” but it is now in full gear to identify violators and track them down.  The state government also made a statement saying that it had received a list of 1350 persons from the central government who attended the gathering and out of them 1287 persons had already been traced. It said that all the temples, churches and mosques in the state have been closed for prayers. It said that Special Operation Group (SOG) in the respective localities are constantly monitoring these lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-103-persons-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-traced-second-covid-19-case-found-from-the-lot-821037.html
