04-04-2020||First Edit||In some, the virus of prejudice||It is unfortunate that the fear of the coronavirus has touched the baser instincts in some people, given rise to negative emotions and caused the most unwelcome and uncivilised responses from some towards others. These range from exorcising people who are active in the fight against the virus to racist slurs against some sections and insults and hate crimes. Some days back, the airlines staff who evacuated stranded Indians from other countries were ostracised by their neighbours. Air India had to seek police action in support of their staff. In some places, doctors and other medical personnel who attend to COVID-19 patients and even ambulance drivers have been told to vacate their rented houses by some landlords. Instead of appreciating the service they are rendering to society by playing different roles in the campaign against the pandemic, some people are resorting to ostracism and vigilantism against them. Many people across the country are being maligned and subjected to ill-treatment for their looks and demeanour. People from the North-East states are victims of discrimination and racist insults even in normal times. They are most absurdly being associated with the coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, because they are thought to have features similar to those of the Chinese. A Manipuri woman was called corona and spat upon on the street in Delhi. There have been many other instances of such insults, in public and in private, in every part of India. Many are being abused and harassed and being told to go to their home states and even to Wuhan. There have also been cases of physical assault and violence. Students and workers from the North-East have always faced such harassment and ill-treatment. There is a spurt in them recently and many North-Easterners fear for their safety. The fight against the pandemic should be driven by positive sentiments and cooperation and unity of all people. Ignorance, prejudices and divisive attitudes only weaken the national campaign. People are being ignorant and selfish when they deny accommodation and ostracise those who are trying to help COVID-19 patients and to save their lives. Observance of social distancing measures is enough to ensure the safety of everyone, and those who take it too far are doing a disservice to the most important cause of the nation now. Racism and holding prejudices against people who look, speak and dress differently or have different beliefs and creeds is always bad. Such attitudes tend to become stronger in stressful times. But it must be realised that they weaken the nation and its ideals and should invite not just disapproval from enlightened society but legal consequences also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/in-some-the-virus-of-prejudice-821123.html
04-04-2020||Gadag, Haveri, Ballari||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Karnataka's Ballari; district tally at 5||On Thursday, a child from Siraguppa was infected with the coronavirus. Three members of a family residing at SR Nagar of Hospete town tested positive on March 30.  Now, the throat swab samples of one of their relative confirmed positive for the virus. He has been isolated and is being treated at VIMS, said district health authorities. After three persons tested positive for COVID-19, a total of 10 people including their relatives and neighbourhood were isolated and their throat swab samples were sent for laboratory for testing.  While one person confirmed positive for the virus, the remaining nine tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadag-haveri-ballari/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-karnatakas-ballari-district-tally-at-5-821183.html
04-04-2020||In Perspective||When our world toppled||“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times; it was the season of light, the season of darkness; it was the spring of hope, the winter of despair…” Could Charles Dickens have known that he was painting a scene of what the world would look like 200 years after he published “A tale of two cities,” describing the horrors of the French Revolution? His words, like those of so many other writers, touch us now with their sorrow and despair. They also reveal glimpses of the incredible goodness that surfaces in the midst of all this carnage and cruelty. Sidney Carton stands like a beacon of hope in a mad, mad world. Literature has always offered insights into the harshest truths of life which we simply refuse to accept. Did we have the faintest inkling even a few months ago that an invisible virus would turn our world upside down, leaving us all in a state of shock and disbelief? If the December 2004 tsunami left its victims devastated by its fury and suddenness, COVID-19 has caught the world unawares with its frightening assault across cities and countries. It may take years before its traumatized victims pick up the pieces to resume their normal lives. At present, they are too stunned even to react. But, this is also a time for introspection. To take stock of our lives, our struggles, our achievements, our failures. In our mad rush to succeed in life, we have forgotten the art of sane living. Forgotten that each one of us is only a part of the whole, and if one part becomes wobbly, the whole will disintegrate. In our crazy march to wealth and success, we did not mind brushing aside others. We have often disregarded our less fortunate, less successful colleagues and neighbours and funnelled ahead brandishing our own achievements. Some of us have even trampled on others to reach the top. What an irony that it required a tsunami or a coronavirus to show us our own selfishness. Or, to make us realise that we are mere pygmies in the world order. It is not just individuals who suffered from this illusion of superiority. Nations that considered themselves invincible are now seeing their own puny selves in a shattered mirror. Their imaginary strength has been sadly deflated. If America thought that it controlled the world by the mere strength of its arms and its money, it is now brought down on its knees by a tiny virus that is capable of mass destruction of unimaginable proportions. If England once thought the sun would never set on its great empire, its earlier nemesis which came in the form of “a half-naked fakir” has now returned in a much more insidious shape to destroy it totally. COVID-19 has dealt a severe blow to proud nations and the puny men who rule them. At least, India has shown all those countries which swatted it aside as a mere banana republic, that it can unleash its hidden strengths in a crisis. The present lockdown is an example. The whole country has come to a standstill by following the order to “stay home and be safe.” How does it matter that its leader appealed to his countrymen in a language that may sound bizarre to the highbrow literati? It is a language that the man in the street will understand and respect. “Don’t cross this Lakshmana rekha,” he warned. The average Indian knows what happened to the daughter of Mithila who crossed it, even if BBC and other foreign media don’t. We do not need elitist words and means to knock sense into people’s heads. This is a major crisis and we have to appeal to one billion-plus citizens in the language they understand. We are also a country notorious for breaking laws. So, make sure they are respected by any means at times like these. Re-run the Ramayana and Mahabharatha serials in all their garish crudity if that is the best way to keep the nation glued to television sets at home. Tell them this is a warlike the Kurukshetra battle that must be won at all costs and sacrifices. Do anything, however incongruous, to ensure that the virus does not spread. This crisis has brought out the best in us. People are reaching out to others, the young helping the old and the infirm. When I heard the story of this 80-year-old visually disabled, bedridden woman in a neighbouring apartment raising funds to buy medicines for her cancer-ridden security guard, I felt that “God is truly in His Heaven and all is well with the world.” COVID-19 has, at last, restored our humanity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/when-our-world-toppled-821126.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's fourth COVID-19 casualty buried on April 3 night in solitude||With no dear ones to bid him a final farewell, Karnataka’s fourth COVID-19 casualty, a 75-year-old man from Bagalkot, was buried on Friday night, Bagalkot Deputy Commissioner K Rajendra confirmed to DH. The burial happened just three hours after his death. The man was diagnosed with the virus only 24 hours before his death. The deep burial happened in solitude at 1 am in the absence of all his family members and relatives. District surgeon Dr Prakash Biradar said, “As his wife, son and daughter were isolated at the hospital, they were not allowed to come to the burial ground. Four doctors along with district officials were present. The last they saw of this man was in the hospital.” Rajendra said that though they suspect he contracted the virus after his son and daughter from Bengaluru visited him, they had no international travel history. “They came in contact with him on March 24. So far, five of his family members have been quarantined -- his wife, son and daughter aged 24 and 22, his brother and his brother’s wife,” he said. The district health officer of Bagalkot Dr Anant Desai told DH that he, along with the taluk health officer, district surgeon and resident medical officer of the district hospital where he passed away, were present during the burial. The protocol stipulates at least one medical officer is present for the burial. The body was sprayed with hypochlorite. The personnel had worn two-layers of personal protection equipment. “We have to take the medical history of people who came in contact with him before administering prophylaxis hydroxychloroquine. Twenty-one primary contacts and 51 secondary contacts are under observation. These include doctors who treated him, his house help and secondary contacts like those who worked in the doctors’ houses,” he said. “The patient had bilateral pneumonia and then his sample turned out to be positive for COVID-19 positive as well,” he added. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and COVID-19 spokesperson S Suresh Kumar said, “He went to a local ayurveda doctor first and then to a private hospital. An ECG was done at Amareshwara Hospital. He was at another private hospital for four days. When COVID-19 was suspected, he was sent to a designated public hospital. He already had a cardiac stent and uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension. One of his lungs was affected.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-fourth-covid-19-casualty-buried-on-april-3-night-in-solitude-821223.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada administration asked to look after people's woes||The Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee task force, set up on the direction of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), has urged the district administration to be pro-active to the problems faced by the people during the lockdown. Former MLA J R Lobo, who is heading the three-member DCC task force, urged the district administration to seek the suggestions before taking an unilateral decision in the district. Welcoming the measures announced by the Centre and State governments to solve the problems faced by the people following lockdown, he said the Task Force is monitoring the implementation of the assurances made by the government. “Any lacunae will be brought to the notice of the authorities concerned along with the suggestions.” Stating that it is necessary to shift the wholesale fruits and vegetable vendors to APMC yard, Lobo said the move is ill-timed during the lockdown. The decision to impose complete ban on movement of private vehicles too is illogical and has created confusion among common man, said former MLA. MLC Harish Kumar said though the State government promised to provide two months ration to BPL families in one go has limited the rice to 10-kg per member of a family against earlier entitlement of 7-kg per month for a member. Wheat has not been supplied to the fair price shops so far. He urged the state government to provide month’s supply of other pulses and cereals to people. MLC Ivan D’Souza said several promises including disbursement of pensions are yet to take off and benefit the poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-administration-asked-to-look-after-peoples-woes-821346.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Dakshina Kannada Cong sets up task force||Dakshina Kannada district Congress Committee has set up a task force under the instructions of the party state leadership to tackle the issues faced by people during the lockdown period, former MLA J R Lobo said Saturday. Welcoming the steps taken by the Karnataka government to address the problems of the public, Lobo told reporters here that the task force would be closely monitoring the implementation of the schemes. The task force, led by Lobo, has DCC president Harish Kumar MLC and Shubhoday Alva as members. Lobo said eight sub-committees have been formed to look into the difficulties faced by the people during the lockdown period and help them in need. He wanted the district administration and BJP MLAs from the district to consult the Opposition before taking unilateral decisions on important matters. The decision to shift the wholesale vegetable and fruit shops to Baikampady from the central market is welcome but ill-timed, he said, adding it led to confusion among the public. Harish Kumar said the governments promise to distribute free ration for two months to BPL families has not yet been implemented. Apart from rice, cooking oil and dal should be made available to the families for the period, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-dakshina-kannada-cong-sets-up-task-force-821375.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru reports seven more coronavirus cases; tally reaches 28||With seven more persons, including a 19-year-old boy, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the number of cases increased to 28 in Mysuru. Out of seven, four has travel history to Delhi and two others are the contacts of COVID-19 victims, also employees Jubilant Generics, a pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud and the authorities are gathering the details of another one. In a media bulletin released by the government, seven cases (P134 to P140) are identified on Saturday. While P139 and P140 are contacts of P52 and P78, the employees of the pharmaceutical company, four have travelled to Delhi. All the seven victims are male. It has to be recalled that the first case was confirmed on March 21. He is a man in his mid-30s, a resident of the city, who had travelled from Dubai to Bengaluru via Goa. He went to KR Hospital and got himself admitted on March 20. The second case was confirmed on March 23. It is a man in his mid-40s from Kerala, who had travelled from Dubai. He arrived in KIA from Dubai on March 22 and took a taxi to Mysuru. He too admitted himself for treatment at KR Hospital. The third case was confirmed on March 26, a 35-year-old man, a resident of Mysuru city, who had no travel history. He is an employee of Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences. Again five persons of the same company were tested positive on March 28. While four of them are residents of Nanjangud town, one is a resident of Mysuru city. On March 30, four more confirmed cases also belonged to the same company. Two more positive patients were declared on March 31. While the first three patients are housed at the Isolation Ward of KR Hospital, the remaining are being treated at the designated COVID-19 Hospital, the new District Hospital, on KRS Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-reports-seven-more-coronavirus-cases-tally-reaches-28-821404.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 positive persons toured Mandya for 40 days||Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said that the five persons, who have been tested positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru, residents of Delhi, have travelled across Mandya district for 40 days. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, the DC said that besides, seven persons of Malavalli have taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi from February 5 to 8. They returned to Malavalli on February 13 and were helping the persons from Delhi, during their tours in the region. They have been isolated and quarantined. Venkatesh said, “10 persons, said to be clerics, took part in the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz in January, left Delhi on January 27 and reached Mysuru on January 29. They have taken part in mass prayers in various mosques across Mandya district and have been involved in preaching. Among these 10 persons, five have tested positive.” He said that these people have been preaching in Nagamangala from March 13 to 23. “They had stayed in the mosque and participated in all five mass prayers daily, over these days. From March 23, up to 29, they had stayed in Malavalli. Since the declaration of the lockdown, they were staying in a house near the mosque. When they were crossing over to Mysuru, on March 29, they were intercepted by Mysuru District Administration officials, at Bannur checkpost, and isolated,” said the DC. “Twenty-four persons of Nagamangala, who had come in direct contact with the clerics from Delhi; the seven persons of Malavalli, who had been to Delhi; and their family members have been isolated and quarantined. Those who have participated in the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz gatherings are not volunteering to provide details. If they are traced, cases will be filed against them,” said Venkatesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-positive-persons-toured-mandya-for-40-days-821431.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Meet the warriors against coronavirus at KIMS||For the last two weeks or so, a few doctors of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) at Hubballi have not been home to meet their families. They too are living a ‘quarantined’ life, just like COVID-19 positive patients, because they volunteered to attend to only coronavirus positive patients of Dharwad district. Dharwad district is just one step away from being declared as ‘zero positive COVID-19’ case district, and one of the major reasons for achieving this feat is the sacrifice and efforts of the doctors at the KIMS. A team of three doctors led by Medicine Department Chief Eshwar Hasbi, Dr Sachin Hosakatti, and Anand Koppad, along with 18 faculty members and 69 resident PG students have worked day and night to ensure that the only positive patient-reported in Dharwad district is also set to go home recovered fully. Doctors feel letdown However, the doctors at KIMS feel let down by the citizens of twin cities that their efforts and sacrifice were not responded by positively implementing the lockdown norms. “It was our duty and we had to provide the best possible care to the victim,” the three doctors said, and added that they did their best to help the patient recover. “Our efforts would be rewarded only if the people take it upon themselves to respect the social-distancing norms and prevent in spreading the disease” they said. At present, the COVID-19 disease does not have medicine, and social distancing is the only means through which it can be prevented, they said, and added that by violating the lockdown norms, the people have not only put their lives at risk, but of others also. Fighting against an unknown devil Preparations for the fight against the COVID-19 began at KIMS three months ago. In January, the KIMS started conducting seminars and continuous medical education programme for the faculty members. “We watched videos and studied case reports related to COVID-19 positive patients from elsewhere and understood the line of treatment to be undertaken,” said the doctors. Initially, there were few shortcomings, but the entire KIMS management worked under the policy of non-complaining attitude. While the district administration was generous in providing all the required facilities, there were also philanthropists who donated masks, PPEs, and other medical requirements, said KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antartani. Not just medical resources, but also infrastructure and other necessaries at the isolated ward was readied in a short period of time, he added. No need to fear Doctors say there is no need to fear COVID-19. However, there is a need to be cautious as it can spread rapidly and senior citizens, kids, and medically complicated patients are at risk. “Quarantine is not life in jail,” said Dr Sachin, and added that the positive patient at KIMS co-operated very positively, and helped us in providing better treatment to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/meet-the-warriors-against-coronavirus-at-kims-821453.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three more test positive for coronavirus in Mangaluru||Three persons have been tested positive for COVID-19 in Mangaluru. With this, total tally in Dakshina Kannada district has risen to 12, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh.   A 43-year-old man from Thumbe in Bantwal had travelled to Delhi on March 10 and returned on March 22. The road leading to Thumbe has been blocked to prevent the entry of outsiders into the village. The villagers have been asked to remain quarantined at home. The police have made the announcement on the same using public addressing system.  A 52-year old man from Thokkottu went to Mumbai on February 6 and later travelled to Delhi and returned to Mangaluru on March 20.   A woman from Udupi district had arrived from Dubai to Mangalore International Airport on March 21 and was admitted for medical observation at hospital in Mangaluru. All the 32 people who had contact with the infected patient from Udupi have completed 14 days of home quarantine period. “We will monitor their health for the next 14 days, said Udupi DHO Dr Sudhirchandra Sooda. Sindhu B Rupesh said 4629 people are under home quarantine in Dakshina Kannada. A total of 1057 have completed 28 days of the quarantine period. 28 samples have been sent for testing from the district, on Saturday. Five are under observation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-mangaluru-821457.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Free mobile health service for poor||Manasa Hospital has launched the service. On Saturday, free medications were provided to people in the villages under the limits of Hudugur and G Kothuru gram panchayats. After launching the health service, MLA N H Shivashankara Reddy said, " The free health service provided by the Dr H S Shashidhar and staff of Manasa hospital is commendable." Special officer for Covid-19 B N Varaprasad Reddy, Tahasildar M Rajanna, THO O Ratnamma, taluk panchayat EO N Muniraju, Afroz and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/free-mobile-health-service-for-poor-821465.html
04-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Reports on differences with colleague 'fake', says Karnataka Minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar has dismissed as "fake" reports in a section of media that he had differences with his cabinet colleague B Sriramulu, and said there was a "dirty political conspiracy" behind it. In a tweet, Sudhakar clarified that there weren't any differences of opinion between him and Health Minister Sriramulu. "We have girded up our loins to combat the coronavirus. We are finding ways through conversation. Me and Sriramulu are toiling like brothers for the development of people," he tweeted. Taking a dig at those who have been saying that differences popped up between the two ministers, Sudhakar said he and Sriramulu do not believe in "cheap politics" to fight like kids in these distressing times "We have our own responsibility. There is a dirty political conspiracy behind this fake news (about differences)," Sudhakar alleged. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy had days ago commented about the race for publicity between Sudhakar and Sriramulu, which the Medical Education Minister refuted strongly. However, the government has assigned state primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar to brief reporters on the status of COVID-19 in the state, giving credence to the theory of differences between the two ministers. A BJP insider told PTI that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa did take note of the varied statements coming from the two ministers creating confusions among people. "The Chief Minister preferred Suresh Kumar to brief the media instead of the health minister and education minister as they were giving different data, creating confusion among people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/reports-on-differences-with-colleague-fake-says-karnataka-minister-k-sudhakar-821240.html
04-04-2020||Main Article||Include migrants in plans||There is an impending crisis at the intersection of the coronavirus pandemic, urban India and migration. In the war against COVID-19, the migrant crisis is, without doubt, the biggest, challenging the idea of India as a common market. In the wake of the seemingly unstoppable virus, it is seriously testing interstate coordination and migration management, while creating an unprecedented stranded-ness hitherto unknown, from an economic, social and humanitarian perspective. The disruption of the mobility of labour across state borders, the socio-economic impact on the well-being and livelihoods of millions of individuals and households, and the downward spiral in India’s development trajectory that it signals must not be underestimated. Migrant workers remain among the most vulnerable groups affected by the COVID-19 lockdown and are at risk of stigmatisation. This is particularly poignant because the low productivity, low wage work they are compelled to do is often the only means of livelihood for the families they leave behind, and contributes significantly to India’s national income. Now that there is an exodus of migrant workers who are traversing long distances, across the length and breadth of the country, the states -- of origin and destination alike -- need to respond on a war footing to prevent, detect and respond to health threats along the migration corridors. This must be done ensuring migrant-inclusive approaches that minimise stigma and discrimination. Migrant workers and their reverse migration pose challenges -- risk exposure, large numbers, and rapidity -- to cross-border disease control. Especially since the migrants require to be quarantined in camps or collective sites, the need to adopt systemic and multi-sectoral responses is immediate, if only to negate the high risks of the spread of the virus in the rural hinterland. Rural India will be far more vulnerable, owing to poorly prepared health systems and assistance mechanisms to respond at scale. For these fragile contexts, state government responses that presage anticipatory action will be paramount. The focus of interventions -- migrant camp coordination and camp management, displacement tracking and migrant health protection -- must ensure effective surveillance, isolation and treatment, where necessary. Migrants affected by the coronavirus crisis, particularly those required to be quarantined in camps or collective sites, will face specific challenges and vulnerabilities that states must consider when planning for receiving the returning migrants. The states of origin would do well to adhere to the broad principles contained in the WHO technical guidance for COVID-19 strategic preparedness and response plan: limit human-to-human transmission, including reducing secondary infections; identify and provide optimised care for infected patients early; communicate critical risk and information to all communities, and ensure protection remains central to the response. In particular, it is important to ensure that the migrant workers are not stigmatised, are provided timely information and assistance, and are incentivised, through wage transfers, for instance, to fully participate in the response plans. Their most urgent need that we must all help meet is cash in hand for daily necessities. The scope of the states’ responses must now expand to deal with the substantive migrant populations requiring mainstream attention. The measures that states must initiate include: First, a camp specific epidemiological risk assessment to determine the risk of the transmission of the COVID-19 as a result of the return migrants or the migrants’ camp conditions, despite quarantining. This must be based on the state’s risk assessment, the epidemiological situation of the area where the camp is located, the travel and trade connections between the camp location, its host communities and the surrounding areas reporting COVID-19 cases that can turn as amplifiers of transmission. Second, specific COVID-19 outbreak readiness and response plans need to be developed for each collective site, in alignment with the state government’s response plans, and based on the prevailing risks, capacities and gaps that the state encounters. The state-level multi-disciplinary outbreak response team needs to be on red alert to respond to a camp-based outbreak. To implement a coordinated response, roles and responsibilities and lines of communication and reporting need to be clearly defined. The District Collector needs to play the first-among-equals and ensure the team responds at its best. Should a team already be in place in the district, it needs to be re-oriented to COVID-19 response, especially to ensure a gendered response. This means including women in decision-making for outbreak preparedness and response and ensuring women’s representation in camp management and COVID-19 community engagement spaces. Special arrangements need to be developed in relation to site-specific potential transmission amplification events, such as food distribution and logistics. Community engagement approaches will be important to facilitate the implementation of measures to reduce the risk of virus transmission. Thus far, the state, the market, and the community have responded unitedly to face the coronavirus threat. The spectre of zoonosis has changed us -- our perceptions about ourselves, our neighbours and the migrant workers who are an inseparable part of our daily lives. But, perhaps, the profound long-term change that it has wrought, a change that will last long after the coronavirus, is to compel us to look at how we live our lives -- that humankind is but a small part of the greater population that inhabits this planet. It might yet offer us the opportunity to live our lives with epistemic humility, and a little less material greed. To paraphrase John Maynard Keynes “The pace at which we can reach our destination of economic bliss will be governed by four things – our power to control population, our determination to avoid wars and civil dissensions, our willingness to entrust to science the direction of those matters which are properly the concern of science, and the rate of accumulation as fixed by the margin between our production and our consumption; of which, the last will easily look after itself, given the first three.” This is the lesson that we must learn. Else, we will have failed our children. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/include-migrants-in-plans-821124.html
04-04-2020||Mysuru||Container from China behind COVID-19 outbreak in Nanjangud, suspects Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, on Saturday, urged the district administration to investigate the spread of COVID-19 in a pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud. Siddaramaiah was speaking to reporters in the city on Friday evening. He said the authorities suspect that a container that came from China to the pharmaceutical company may have caused the outbreak of the disease. However, the exact reason is yet to be ascertained. The samples from the container have been collected and sent for tests, he said. Siddaramaiah urged the people who were at a religious congregation in Nizamuddin to co-operate in the fight against the disease and asked them to be in self-quarantine. When asked about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to light lamps on April 5, Siddaramaiah said the PM did not give a solution to the problem. "Will lighting lamps  combat COVID-19?" he said. Firm gives Rs 25L to CM’s fund Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences has contributed Rs 25 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and has also donated other materials to support the government’s efforts to combat the spread of COVID-19. On March 26, one of its employees, a 35-year-old  resident of Mysuru city who had no travel history, tested positive for COVID. Later, his wife and father-in-law also tested positive. Among the 21 COVID positive cases in Mysuru district, 19 are related to the company, either directly or indirectly. A company spokesperson said, “the company has distributed over 7,000 masks and 325 litres of sanitisers.” “As a precautionary measure, operations at the Nanjangud plant have been temporarily suspended and all personnel are under self-quarantine,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/container-from-china-behind-covid-19-outbreak-in-nanjangud-suspects-siddaramaiah-821158.html
04-04-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru reports seven fresh COVID-19 cases, tally at 28||With seven more persons, including a 19-year-old boy, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the number of cases in Mysuru has increased to 28. Out of the seven, four have travel history to Delhi and two others are contacts of COVID-19 victims, who are employees of Jubilant Generics, a pharmaceutical company in , and the authorities are gathering the details of another one. In a media bulletin released by the government, seven cases (P134 to P140) are identified on Saturday. While P139 and P140 are contacts of P52 and P78, the employees of the pharmaceutical company, four have travelled to Delhi. All the seven victims are male. It has to be recalled that the first case was confirmed on March 21. He is a man in his mid-30s, a resident of the city, who had travelled from Dubai to Bengaluru via Goa. He went to KR Hospital and got himself admitted on March 20. The second case was confirmed on March 23. It is a man in his mid-40s from Kerala, who had travelled from Dubai. He arrived in KIA from Dubai on March 22 and took a taxi to Mysuru. He too admitted himself for treatment at KR Hospital. The third case was confirmed on March 26, a 35-year-old man, a resident of Mysuru city, who had no travel history. He is an employee of Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences. Again five persons of the same company were tested positive on March 28. While four of them are residents of Nanjangud town, one is a resident of Mysuru city. On March 30, four more confirmed cases also belonged to the same company. Two more positive patients were declared on March 31. While the first three patients are housed at the Isolation Ward of KR Hospital, the remaining are being treated at the designated COVID Hospital, the new District Hospital, on KRS Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-reports-seven-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-at-28-821352.html
04-04-2020||Mysuru||People representatives fail to maintain social distance in Mysuru||People's representatives are moving around in groups and are distributing essential items to needy people, without maintaining social distance of at least one metre between each other, as per the guidelines. MLAs L Nagendra, S A Ramdas, G T Devegowda and MP Pratap Simha, who are touring their respective constituencies, are violating the guidelines. For instance, MLA Nagendra distributed milk to needy people on Saturday, but no social distance was maintained. Similarly, Ramdas distributed candles at JK Grounds and Lalitha Mahal Palace Grounds. But, the people as well as the MLA failed to maintain the guidelines. Likewise, G T Devegowda, District In-charge Minister V Somanna and MP Pratap Simha came under criticism for spraying disinfectants, violating the guidelines. Not time for publicity A member of an organization, who is working to combat COVID-19 said, “We have been struggling to contain the spread of COVID-19. But, the politicians are reluctant to cooperate. Of course, their involvement is much needed. But this is not the time for seeking publicity." An officer, who wished to maintain anonymity, said, it has become difficult for them to maintain people's representatives. In many instances, we are forced to be mute spectators, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/people-representatives-fail-to-maintain-social-distance-in-mysuru-821413.html
04-04-2020||Mysuru||Srikanteshwara Rathotsava held in simple manner||Following the outbreak of COVID-19, Srikanteshwara Swamy Rathotsava was held in simple manner inside the temple, on Saturday. The utsava murthy was placed in a small chariot and rathotsava was performed inside the temple. However, all religious rituals and puja were performed by priests, led by Nagachandra Dixit. The rituals were held between 5.25 am and 6.30 am. It was a disappointment to the devotees as it was a low-key affair this time. A large number of devotees used to participate in the event every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/srikanteshwara-rathotsava-held-in-simple-manner-821417.html
04-04-2020||Mysuru||'No non-essential shops be opened after 6 pm'||City Police Commissioner Chandragupta on Saturday said that no shops, except medical shops, hospitals and home delivery kitchens, are allowed to open after 6 pm from Sunday. The commissioner said despite several warnings, a few people are reluctant to be at home. The police have seized more than 500 vehicles for violating the guidelines. "To ensure proper lockdown, except emergency services, no shops are allowed to open from 6 pm, until the lockdown is relaxed," he said. Misuse of pass The commissioner said that the people are approaching the police, demanding for pass unnecessarily. He urged the citizens to get the pass, only if there is an emergency. First two cases Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that the first two cases, which were reported on March 21 and March 23, also foreign returns, are nearing completion of their isolation. They will be tested twice and will be discharged, if they are tested negative. The DC is hopeful of discharging them soon. As many as 2,833 people were observed as on Saturday. Out of them 1,626 are under quarantine and 1,179 have completed the quarantine period.  The 28 people, who are tested positive are isolated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/no-non-essential-shops-be-opened-after-6-pm-821434.html
04-04-2020||National||PM Modi urges Indians to light candles, diyas: Here's what he said||Known for his penchant for making massive revelations in his nation-wide addresses, PM Narendra Modi’s address on Friday did not live up to the hype. In a video message he requested Indians to switch off all lights in their houses on April 5 at 9 pm for 9 minutes, and light a candle, diya, torch or mobile's flashlight, in a show of collective strength to mark the country's fight against coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-indians-to-light-candles-diyas-heres-what-he-said-821133.html
04-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 4, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-4-2020-edition-821132.html
04-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 4||While the impact of the novel coronavirus has been the most in China and Italy, India also is within its grasp. After making its presence in Kerala first, the novel coronavirus reached other cities/regions including Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Jaipur, Agra, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir among others. We, at Deccan Herald, bring to you the list of total positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the epidemic, according to the Union Ministry of Health and sources (the list will be updated regularly). The total number of positive cases (including deaths) in India: 3,569 as of April 4. Total deaths in India: 105 Andhra Pradesh: 1 Haryana: 1 Rajasthan: 4 Uttar Pradesh: 2 Telangana: 11 Madhya Pradesh: 11 Karnataka: 4 Delhi: 6 Maharashtra: 32 Punjab: 5 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 10 West Bengal: 7 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Tamil Nadu: 3 Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Kerala: 3 States/UT with confirmed positive cases: (State-wise details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 295Punjab: 55Delhi: 445Jammu and Kashmir: 92Ladakh: 13Rajasthan: 200Uttar Pradesh: 203Maharashtra: 635Karnataka: 146Tamil Nadu: 485Telangana: 272Haryana: 70Andhra Pradesh: 180Himachal Pradesh: 4Gujarat: 105Uttarakhand: 22Odisha: 9West Bengal: 54Chandigarh: 16Chhattisgarh: 19Madhya Pradesh: 164Bihar: 32Puducherry: 6Manipur: 2Mizoram: 1Goa: 7Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 10Jharkhand: 1Assam: 25Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 213 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the epidemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-4-821135.html
04-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Schools, colleges asked to advise students to follow Ayush ministry protocols||The HRD Ministry directed schools and colleges on Friday to advise students to follow protocols developed by the Ayush Ministry to boost immunity and light diyas and candles on April 5 as advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a letter sent to CBSE, UGC, AICTE, NCERT and other bodies under the HRD Ministry, Secretary Amit Khare has listed suggestions to aid the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-schools-colleges-asked-to-advise-students-to-follow-ayush-ministry-protocols-821167.html
04-04-2020||National||Rajasthan: 60-yr-old coronavirus positive woman dies; 12 new cases reported||Of the new cases, eight can be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in mid-March, he said. "A 60-year-old woman admitted at a government hospital (PBM Hospital) at Bikaner for last four days died today. She had no travel history. She was handicapped and on ventilator," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said that out of eight Tablighi Jamaat-linked cases, six are from Jhunjhunu and two from Churu district. Of the rest four, three are from Banswara and one from Bhilwara. The three in Banswara include two who had initially tested negative, but whose test results returned positive on Saturday, he said. In Bhilwara, an OPD patient at a private hospital, where doctors and nursing staff were found coronavirus positive earlier, has also been confirmed positive, Singh said. The total number of coronavirus positive cases has risen to 191 in the state, the official said. The entire state has been in a lockdown since March 22 and massive survey and screening is underway to trace possible infected people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-60-yr-old-coronavirus-positive-woman-dies-12-new-cases-reported-821185.html
04-04-2020||National||Indian Railways issues 'restoration plan' to zones, asks to prepare for resumption of services from April 15||Sources said all railway safety personnel, running staff, guards, TTE and other officials have been told to be ready to join their posts from April 15. Trains, however, will begin operations only after a green signal from the government which had formed a Group of Ministers (GoM) on the issue. Meanwhile, the railways has issued a "restoration plan" to all its railway zones with a schedule of trains to be run, their frequency and the availability of rakes. All 17 zones have been sent a missive to be prepared to run their respective services, the source said. Around 80 per cent trains are expected to run as per schedule from April 15 which include Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Duronto trains. Local trains too are likely to begin operations. Sources say the railways is likely to also conduct thermal screening on all passengers and follow all protocols as advised by the government. Senior officials, however, said no fresh orders have been issued and since cancellations were only upto April 14 "no fresh orders required for starting with effect from April 15." Sources said a concrete action plan will be sent to the zones later this week. In an unprecedented move, the railways had suspended the services of 13,523 trains for 21 days after the lockdown was announced by the PM on March 24. Its freight trains however continued to run during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-issues-restoration-plan-to-zones-asks-to-prepare-for-resumption-of-services-from-april-15-821205.html
04-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Switching off lights could lead to grid collapse, says Maharashtra Energy Minister||Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut has expressed fear that switching off the lights simultaneously for nine minutes could lead to a multi-state grid collapse and result in blackout in the entire country. In his statement issued on Friday night, Raut has appealed to the people to keep the necessary lights on at home while igniting lamps and candles on Sunday, as asked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to avoid this situation. His statement came on the day Modi urged the people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus. "Switching off the electricity at one time can reduce the electricity demand. If all lights are switched off at one time for nine minutes there is possibility of a grid collapse resulting in blackout in the entire country," Raut said. "Due to the lockdown, there is a change in the demand and supply situation. If there is a sudden drop or increase in the demand or supply in the grid, there could be disturbance in the grid frequency," he said. "Considering the possible situation, citizens and all the electricity generation, distribution and transmission companies should take required precautions," he added. At present, the power demand in the state has come down from 23,000 MW to 13,000 MW, the minister said. Due to the lockdown, the industry load is zero. The 13,000 MW load is on essential services and residential, he said. "If the electricity is switched off together, all power stations can go on high frequency and there is possibility of grid tripping. If all power stations are shut, there can be multi-state grid failure," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-switching-off-lights-could-lead-to-grid-collapse-says-maharashtra-energy-minister-821206.html
04-04-2020||National||UP’s Banda reports first coronavirus case as Jamaat returnee tests positive||Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Santosh Kumar said the test report came positive on Friday evening. "The 40-year-old resident of Banda city had gone to attend the Tablighi Jamaat congregation (in Delhi). He returned to Banda on March 11,” the CMO said. He was moved in the isolation ward of a hospital on April 1, and his sample was sent to the King George's Medical University, Lucknow, for testing, the CMO said. “Late on Friday, his sample was found to be corona positive. He has been shifted from the isolation ward to a special ward,” the CMO said. He said this is the first COVID-19 positive case reported from the district. All who came in contact with the person are also being examined, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-s-banda-reports-first-coronavirus-case-as-jamaat-returnee-tests-positive-821214.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Government issues advisory asking people to wear 'homemade face covers'||Centre on Saturday recommended the use of simple do-it-yourself homemade face masks by healthy persons to prevent getting COVID-19 infections. “It is suggested that such people who are not suffering from medical conditions or having breathing difficulties may use the handmade reusable face cover, particularly when they step out of their house. This will help in protecting the community at large,” an advisory from the Health Ministry said. Earlier, the ministry had recommended the use of surgical masks only for those with respiratory infections and cough, with a clear advisory against N-95 masks which it said were only for those working in hospital conditions. “Certain countries have claimed benefits of homemade face cover for the general public. Such a homemade face cover is a good method for maintaining personal hygiene. Such usage certainly will help in maintaining overall hygienic health conditions,” the ministry advisory said. However, the ministry made it clear that the home made masks were not recommended for either health workers or those working with or in contact with COVID-19 patients or are patients themselves. “.. these categories of people are required to wear specified protective gear,” it said. The advisory said that such face covers could be made out of clean cloth available at home which should be washed and dried before stitching the protective gear. “Such face covers should also not be thrown anywhere but kept safely, washed properly with soap and hot water and dried properly before they are used,” the advisory said. The ministry said the face cover should be prepared in such a manner that it can cover the mouth and nose completely and can be tied over the face easily. Earlier this week, Principal Scientific Advisor to the government, K Vijayraghavan had issued a manual for making face masks at home, contending analyses showed that if 50% of the population were to wear masks, only 50% of the population would be infected by the virus.   ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-government-issues-advisory-asking-people-to-wear-homemade-face-covers-821230.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID-19 Lockdown: PM shares Vajpayee's famous poem to remind people to light diyas on Sunday night||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday shared a video clip of BJP veteran Atal Bihari Vajpayee reciting his famous poem, to remind people to light up lamps on Sunday night to show the country's "collective resolve" to fight coronavirus. "Aao diya jalayen" (come let's light the lamp), Modi tweeted. "Aao phir se diya jalayen" is an iconic poem by the former prime minister. In the brief clip, Vajpayee is seen reciting the poem from a stage. Modi had on Friday urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5 to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-pm-shares-vajpayees-famous-poem-to-remind-people-to-light-diyas-on-sunday-night-821231.html
04-04-2020||National||Naidu urges Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to help 60 Andhra Pradesh fishermen stuck in Mumbai||Leader of Opposition in Andhra Pradesh Assembly, N Chandrababu Naidu, has urged Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to provide relief to 60 fishermen from his state, who are stranded in Mumbai due to the lockdown. Responding to his plea, Thackeray said the fishermen have been located and food supplies are being given to them. Naidu had on Friday tweeted a copy of his letter to Thackeray, in which he informed the latter that 60 fishermen from Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh were stranded on Mumbai's Madh Island. "Their families and relatives are worried for their safety and well being. I appeal to you to provide relief in form of shelter, food, medical aid, water and other essential commodities until the COVID lockdown is ended," he added. Within an hour, Uddhav Thackeray responded through @CMOMaharashtra Twitter handle informing Naidu that the district collector has located the fishermen. "They have adequate shelter, but are in shortage of food. Arrangements are being made to send them food supplies. Also rest assured they will be provided with sufficient food till the time they are in Madh island," Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naidu-urges-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-help-60-andhra-pradesh-fishermen-stuck-in-mumbai-821253.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID-19: PM directs officials to ensure sufficient availability of essential medical equipment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a meeting of various empowered groups set up to respond to the coronavirus threat and directed officials to ensure sufficient availability of all essential medical equipment such as personal protective equipment, masks, gloves and ventilators. In a series of tweets, the Prime Minister's Office said Modi reviewed the countrywide preparedness regarding availability of hospitals, proper isolation and quarantine facilities as well as disease surveillance, testing and critical care training.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-directs-officials-to-ensure-sufficient-availability-of-essential-medical-equipment-821274.html
04-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Justice Chandrachud holds meet with HC judges for prompt hearing of urgent matters||The Supreme Court E-committee Chairperson Justice D Y Chandrachud has held a meeting through video conferencing with high court judges heading such committees to ensure urgent matters are heard promptly and litigants are not required to come to court during the lockdown. Justice Chandrachud emphasised that prompt measures be adopted "at this time of crisis" and said the use of technology must be institutionalised even after the lockdown is lifted and normalcy returns. The committee, in its meeting on Friday, also discussed the possibility of live streaming of court proceedings held by video conferencing but based on an assessment of technical issues like availability of bandwidth and dedicated servers, it was felt that the recordings should be hosted on court websites by the next day to ensure that people have access to the proceedings. The committee also noted that, ideally, judicial officers and advocates should work from their homes but it was left to the high courts to decide to what extent this was feasible. Justice Chandrachud reviewed the measures initiated by the high courts in the operation of virtual courts and after noting the difficulties faced by some states in e-filing of cases, he proposed a meeting of the chairpersons of the computer committees of the high courts to discuss the issues. Judges of 23 high courts, heading the computer committees, participated in the meeting. The chairpersons of computer committees shared their views on steps taken and the challenges faced and agreed with the suggestions of Justice Chandrachud on taking prompt measures and institutionalising the use of technology. Justice Chandrachud also informed the judges about an e-filing module which is in an advanced stage of development in the Supreme Court and it was agreed that such modes may be used during the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. He suggested the high courts may use the funds unutilised so far from Phase II of the e-courts project for meeting immediate needs and assured that demands for funds or software will be promptly processed by the e-committee and submitted to the Department of Justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-justice-chandrachud-holds-meet-with-hc-judges-for-prompt-hearing-of-urgent-matters-821278.html
04-04-2020||National||NHA, Uber team up to help transport healthcare workers||National Health Authority has announced a tie-up with ride-hailing platform Uber to provide transport service to frontline healthcare workers in the country, who are engaged in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Uber will initially facilitate the provision of 150 cars free of cost to support medical facilities in New Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Prayagraj and Patna through its recently launched UberMedic service, according to a statement from NHA and Uber. All UberMedic cars supplied to NHA will be equipped with roof-to-floor plastic sheeting enclosing the driver's seat, thereby acting as a protective barrier between the rider and driver, it added. Additionally, each UberMedic car will be disinfected after every ride to ensure the highest possible safety and hygiene standards in line with government guidelines, the statement said. Indu Bhushan, chief executive officer of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PMJAY) and National Health Authority, said the partnership with Uber in this hour of need was a much-needed initiative to extend necessary support to the healthcare workers who are leading this fight against COVID-19. “All drivers will be specially trained in safety procedures and provided with personal protective equipment including masks, sanitisers, and disinfectants to sanitise UberMedic cars after each ride,” Uber India and South Asia President Pradeep Parameswaran said. With the implementation of the 21-day lockdown, the government has allowed only people in essential services like healthcare, banking, and media to commute. Limited mobility options have made it difficult for these people to travel to their workplace. “Limited mobility options had made it difficult for frontline workers to travel to their workplaces which is the hospital. This initiative will further strengthen India's response to contain the spread of COVID-19,” Bhushan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nha-uber-team-up-to-help-transport-healthcare-workers-821283.html
04-04-2020||National||NIT-Karnataka produces hand sanitizers in view of shortage in market||The chemistry department of National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K) here has started producing hand sanitizers in view of its shortage in the market after the coronavirus outbreak. The social initiative led by Arun Isloor, professor and head of the department, was launched by NIT-K director K Uma Maheshwar Rao.   The raw materials needed for this product were provided by the institute. It has plans to produce 5,000 bottles of sanitizer containing 70 mm each. The sanitizers already manufactured were distributed to Suratkal police station, health department, petrol bunks and employees of NIT-K, including the security staff. Isloor said the product has been manufactured conforming to high standards set by the World Health Organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nit-karnataka-produces-hand-sanitizers-in-view-of-shortage-in-market-821286.html
04-04-2020||National||Don't publicise AYUSH related claims on COVID-19: Press Council of India||The Press Council of India has asked print media to stop and prevent the publicity and advertisement of claims related to Ayurvedic, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy (AYUSH) on curing COVID-19. In its advisory issued on Friday, the Press Council said it is needed to "prevent dissemination of misleading information about AYUSH drugs and services" in view of the emerging threat in India due to COVID-19 spread. The Press Council advisory came after the Ministry of AYUSH, on April 1, directed all Ayurvedic, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathic regulatory authorities in states and union territories to prevent publicity of COVID-19 related claims in print and electronic media. Those who violate this would face action. "In view of the emerging threat in the country due to COVID-19 outbreak, it is imperative to apply and implement various measures for maintaining public safety in all aspects and to control dissemination of misleading information about AYUSH drugs and services," the Ministry had said in its letter, while warning that violators will face jail term under Disaster Management Act, 2005. During an interaction with AYUSH practitioners on March 28, an official statement had said, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had underlined the "importance of countering and fact checking unsubstantiated claims of AYUSH having cure for the disease, adding that AYUSH scientists, ICMR, CSIR and other research organisations must come together for evidence based research".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-publicise-ayush-related-claims-on-covid-19-press-council-of-india-821295.html
04-04-2020||National||Supreme Court directs for releasing juveniles on bail in view of Covid-19||The Supreme Court has directed for releasing on bail all those children, who were kept in observation homes on being found in conflict with the law, as COVID-19 was intensifying in the country. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta said that urgent measures need to be taken on priority to prevent the spread of the virus to Child Care Institutions (CCIs).  "All states need to recognise that COVID-19 has been declared a pandemic, which warrants urgent attention and action to preempt emergency and disaster situations from arising with regard to children in State care," the bench said. The top court issued a slew of directions on Friday, after suo moto registering a case as 'In Re Contagion of COVID-19 in Children Protection Homes', "because of the pandemic, which is sweeping the country". The court, however, stressed that it will be ensured that the directions issued in respect of lock­down would not be violated. The directions included keeping hygiene behaviour, maintaining social distancing, cleaning and disinfecting rigourously and avoid watching, reading, listening or discussing too much news about the COVID-19 and persuading children to divert their attention to other topics as well. In the measures to be taken by Child Welfare Committee, the bench directed for holding special online settings or video sessions, considering the best interest, health and safety concerns. In directions to Juvenile Justice Boards and Children Courts, the bench said they should consider taking steps to release all children on bail unless there are clear and valid reasons against it.  Among others, the court said video conferencing or online sittings can be held to prevent contact. "It is important to consider that violence, including sexual violence, may be exacerbated in contexts of anxiety and stress produced by lockdown and fear of the disease. JJBs would need to monitor the situation in the Observation Homes on a regular basis," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-directs-for-releasing-juveniles-on-bail-in-view-of-covid-19-821315.html
04-04-2020||National||Activists move SC for wages to MNREGA workers||Social activists Aruna Roy And Nikhil Dey have approached the Supreme Court for payment of wages to MNREGA workers, temporary job cardholders and migrant labourers, during the period of 21-day lockdown in the country.  They said all active job cardholders should be deemed to be on work and entitled to full time-rate wages for the duration of the COVID-19 lockdown period. The petitioners, through their advocate Prashant Bhushan, contended that no active MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005), job cardholders should be forced to risk their health and lives by being physically present for work during the period of the COVID-19 lockdown. They also urged the court to ensure the issuance of temporary job cards to all migrants who have returned to their native villages. The petitioners also sought an increase in the entitlement of households from 100 days of work to 200 days of work.  The petition, which was mentioned on Friday before the court, may come up for hearing on Tuesday.  They asked how the migrant workers and labourers would survive when they cannot risk their health and lives by reporting for work to earn their wages under lockdown conditions when transport was not available. "The orders of March 24, and 29, 2020, of the central government, under Sections 6 and Section 10 of National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) 2005, are binding on all the Ministries and state governments. MGNREGA works have not been classified as of essential services in nature," the petition stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activists-move-sc-for-wages-to-mnrega-workers-821326.html
04-04-2020||National||Liquor shop looted in Delhi amid lockdown||A case of alcohol craving or an attempt to make a quick buck? Unidentified people broke into a wine shop in the National capital in the wee hours of Saturday and left with "some liquor bottles and crates", amid a lockdown in the country due to COVID-19. The incident was reported from Roshanara Road in the morning by a police patrolling party. When the police party was moving around, they found that the shutter of the wine shop of the Delhi Consumer Cooperative Whole Store (DCCWS) was open. As no wine shops are allowed to function during the lockdown, suspicious policemen immediately checked the spot. Manager of DCCWS Ramesh was informed. "The shutter of wine shop had been forcibly pulled up and some liquor bottles and crates had been stolen," a senior police official said adding that cases under sections 380 (theft) and 457 (trespass in the night) of the Indian Penal Code has been reported. The exact quantity of liquor stolen could not be ascertained and would only be done after remaining stock is tallied. A similar case was reported in Hyderabad where owners of a wine shop found out that an unidentified man looted liquor worth Rs 25,000 and Rs 8,000 in cash. The incident had happened on March 31, but the owners came to know about it on Friday only after they examined the CCTV footage and found that there was no feed from the cameras. Finding that there is no footage, they went to the shop where they found that the wires of the camera installed at the entrance were cut, PTI reported. Examining the shop, they found out that liquor and cash were missing, following which they informed excise and police officials. Last week in Hubballi, unidentified men had entered the Mysuru Sales International Ltd liquor shop by breaking the shutters and decamped with beer and other liquor bottles. Liquor shops in Karnataka are shut since March 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liquor-shop-looted-in-delhi-amid-lockdown-821339.html
04-04-2020||National||Govt assures protocols in place to handle fluctuation in load from switching off of lights||The government on Saturday sought to assuage fears of electricity grid instability due to simultaneous switching on and off of most lights in the country, saying adequate protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand without causing any damage to appliances. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked citizens to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday and light candles and torches to "challenge the darkness” of the coronavirus crisis that has forced a three-week country-wide lockdown. Several states shot off letters to power utilities to take steps to deal with the possibility of a sudden drop in electricity demand, which has already dipped by 25 per cent to 125.81 gigawatts due to the lockdown shutting down most businesses. Power System Operation Corp Ltd, the agency responsible for managing electricity grid, said the lighting load of household consumes may be no more than 12-13 GW. "Unlike normal operation, this reduction in load of the order of 12-13 GW would happen in 2-4 minutes and recover nine minutes later," it said. "This sharp reduction in load and recovery, which is unprecedented, will need to be handled through hydro and gas resources." Its gameplan of managing the sudden change in demand is to reduce hydro power generation during 6:10 pm to 8:00 pm on Sunday and conserve it for providing flexibility during the 9:00 pm event. Also, coal-based generators as well as gas fired power stations would be scheduled in a manner so as to manage the peak demand. The switching off of only lights may lead to about 10-15 GW of reduction in electricity consumption out of expected demand of 115-125 GW on Sunday, Ashwini Vaishnav, BJP MP and a bureaucrat who served in Atal Bihari Vajpayee's PMO said. The government on its part moved to assuage any concerns on this front, saying the call was only for voluntary switching off the lights, and appliances such as computers, TV, refrigerators and ACs are to function normally. Also, lights in all essential services including hospitals, police stations and manufacturing facilities as well as street lights are not to be switched off. "Some apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm the electrical appliances. These apprehensions are misplaced," an official statement said. "The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand." It said the appeal of the Prime Minister is to simply switch off the lights in their homes from 9 pm to 9:09 pm on April 5. "There is no call to switch off either street lights or appliances like computers, TVs, fans, refrigerators and ACs in the homes. Only lights should be switched off," the statement said. "The lights in hospitals and all other essential services like public utilities, municipal services, offices, police stations, manufacturing facilities, etc will remain on." Stating that the Prime Minister has appealed to the people to voluntarily switch off their lights between 9:00 p.m to 9:09 pm, it said all local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety. Union Power Secretary Sanjiv Nandan Sahai also wrote to heads of state power departments, saying "the National Load Despatch Centre has worked out the procedures for grid balancing during the period which they will be communicating to the regional and state load despatch centres separately." He said there is no call to switch off either street lights or appliances in homes. "Adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand. People should be assured not to worry and continue running all appliances as usual." A power ministry spokesperson had on Friday said there would be no such impact on grid stability as everything has been taken care of. Meanwhile, the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) of Uttar Pradesh has written to state utilities to take a series of steps to deal with the possibility of a sudden drop in power demand. The SLDC in its letter asked the utilities to keep all the reactors of state grid in service while keeping capacitor banks inoperational. The SLDC has also asked them to start load shedding from 8 pm to 9 pm on Sunday in a staggered manner. Similar instructions have been given by the Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation in a letter to its operational executives, saying that availability of sufficient staff should be ensured. Meanwhile, an official on the condition of anonymity said power demand may fall by 10 GW to 12 GW during the blackout, which will have no bearing on stability of the national power grid. The official further said this is not the first time the country is going for a blackout, as earlier too such exercises have been conducted for initiatives like 'Earth Hour'. The country had gone through a grid failure in 2012 due to technical reasons. BJP MP Vaishnav said apprehensions being made about the impact on the power grid are false. The Prime Minister's request is for switching off lights at home, and all other appliances will continue to run besides street lights and essential services, he said, adding out of about 115-125 GW expected power demand on Sunday, only about 10-15 GW will reduce by switching off of home lights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-assures-protocols-in-place-to-handle-fluctuation-in-load-from-switching-off-of-lights-821342.html
04-04-2020||National||Fears of grid failure due to Sunday blackout misplaced: Power Ministry||Allaying fears of electricity grid failure following the Prime Minister's appeal to switch off lights on Sunday night, the power ministry said these apprehensions are misplaced and all protocols are in place to handle the fluctuation in demand.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Friday urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat the coronavirus. There have been concerns that the blackout may impact the electricity grid due sudden drop in peak power demand, which was already down 25 per cent at 125.81 GW on April 2 compared to a year ago. However, the power ministry in a statement on Saturday said these "apprehensions are misplaced." The ministry noted there have been some concerns that the blackout on Sunday may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage, which may harm the electrical appliances.  The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable, and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand, it explained. The ministry further said the Prime Minister's appeal is to simply switch off the lights, and there is no call to switch off either street lights or appliances like computers, TVs, fans, refrigerators and ACs in homes. Additionally, the lights in hospitals and all other essential services like public utilities, municipal services, offices, police stations and manufacturing facilities will remain on, it said. All local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety, the power ministry said. Meanwhile, state load dispatch centres and transmission utilities are gearing up to deal with the situation. The State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) of Uttar Pradesh has written to state utilities to take a series of steps to deal with the possibility of a sudden drop in power demand. The SLDC in its letter asked the utilities to keep all the reactors of state grid in service while keeping capacitor banks inoperational. The SLDC has also asked them to start load shedding from 8 pm to 9 pm on Sunday in a staggered manner.  Similar instructions have been given by the Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation in a letter to its operational executives, saying that availability of sufficient staff should be ensured in view of the call given by the Prime Minister. The corporation also asked them to adhere to SLDC directions. Meanwhile, an official on the condition of anonymity said power demand may fall by 10 GW to 12 GW during the blackout, which will have no bearing on stability of the national power grid. The official further said this is not the first time the country is going for a blackout, as earlier too such exercises have been conducted for initiatives like 'Earth Hour'. The official said the advisories issued by the National Load Despatch Centre (NLDC) and SLDCs to the utilities are part of the standard operating procedure before any such event. Opposition parties have criticised the blackout call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A state minister has also requested people not to switch off the lights at 9 pm on Sunday. The country had gone through a grid failure in 2012 due to technical reasons. However, India presently has a strong transmission network which is capable of handling fluctuations in power demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fears-of-grid-failure-due-to-sunday-blackout-misplaced-power-ministry-821351.html
04-04-2020||National||LNJP hospital will function as dedicated COVID-19 hospital: Vardhan||Vardhan visited the hospital to take stock of its preparedness to deal with the deadly disease. "Keeping in view the emerging requirement of isolation beds, the LNJP Hospital will function as a dedicated COVID-19 hospital consisting of adequate isolation wards and beds," the health minister said. He said the government has identified 1,500 beds in LNJP and 500 in GB Pant hospital for COVID-19 patients. The health minister visited the fever ward, new surgical ward block, dietary department, special ward, coronavirus screening centre, corona care unit and ICU in the hospital. The doctors and health staff manning these wards are provided special facilities for boarding and lodging in the nurses' hostel in the campus and a hotel nearby to avoid the issues of transportation and prevent the exposure to their families, he said. After a detailed review and inspection of the various wards of the LNJP hospital, the health minister appreciated the dedication and hard work of the frontline health workers. He asked them to follow proper infection control protocol in the hospital. Vardhan also suggested that officials of the hospital install a system of tele-medicine and tele-consultation for the patients. A similar set up has already been commissioned at AIIMS, New Delhi, he added. On the availability of personal protective equipment, N-95 masks and ventilators, the health minister said, “We have already placed orders for sufficient quantity in order to meet the increasing requirement.” Various states already have enough number of PPEs. There are currently 4,66,057 PPEs and 25,28,996 N-95 masks in stock. States will be provided with more PPEs (1,54,250) and (1,53,300) N-95 masks in the next few days, he said. Talking about the incidents of discrimination against doctors, Vardhan said the Union Home Ministry has taken cognizance of such incidents and advised authorities to take stringent action under the National Security Act. He urged people to follow the social distancing guidelines and other Do’s and Don'ts necessary for prevention and containment of the spread of coronavirus in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lnjp-hospital-will-function-as-dedicated-covid-19-hospital-vardhan-821357.html
04-04-2020||National||Don't use alcohol-based hand sanitisers before lighting candles or diyas on Sunday: Govt||The government on Saturday cautioned people against the use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers before lighting candles or diyas on Sunday as they are inflammable. In a video message of over 11 minutes, Modi had also asked people to maintain the "lakshman rekha" of social distancing by staying indoors and not getting together in groups during the exercise. "Please refrain from using alcohol-based hand sanitisers tomorrow before lighting candles or diyas," K S Dhatwalia, Principal Director General of PIB, said at a media briefing. Modi had said once people everywhere light up lamps, diyas or display flashlights of their mobile phones at their doorsteps or balconies after turning off the lights at home, it will emerge in this "superpower" of brightness that "we are all fighting with a collective resolve".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-use-alcohol-based-hand-sanitisers-before-lighting-candles-or-diyas-on-sunday-govt-821358.html
04-04-2020||National||UP medical college staff sacked after complaining of lack of PPE||Over two dozen employees, including members of the nursing staff at the isolation ward at the government medical college in Uttar Pradesh's Banda town, about 175 kilometres from here, were sacked allegedly after they complained of lack of santiser, gloves, masks, and other Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs). In a video, which the employees had uploaded on the social networking sites, one of the nurses, said that they had been on a 'dharna' for the past three days demanding that protective kit be made available to them. ''Instead of providing us the equipment, the college authorities asked the service provider to terminate our services,'' the nurse was heard saying in the video. She did not identify herself. The nurses also claimed that they were paid half the salary after being terminated. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra slammed the UP government for ignoring the justified demands of the nursing staff. ''Our medical staff need every kind of help....they are lifesavers...the government is doing injustice with the medical staff at Banda medical college by not providing them the protective kit,'' Priyanka said in a Tweet on Saturday. She also tagged the video uploaded by the nursing staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-medical-college-staff-sacked-after-complaining-of-lack-of-ppe-821373.html
04-04-2020||National||No need to worry about grid failure, system is safe : Centre||Dismissing apprehension over possible grid failure due to switching off lights for 9 minutes at 9 PM on April 5 as per the call given by Prime Minisrer Narendra Modi, the Centre on Saturday said the its system is robust and adquate arrangements have been made to face the situation. "Some apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm the electrical appliances. These apprehensions are misplaced," the Union Power Ministery said. "The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the any situation", the Ministery said in a statement. "The appeal of the Prime Minister is to simply switch off the lights in their homes from 9 pm to 9.09 pm on the 5th of April. There is no call to switch off either street lights or appliances like Computers, TVs, Fans, Refrigerators and ACs in the homes. Only lights should be switched off", the statement said. The lights in Hospitals and all other essential services like Public Utilities, Municipal Services, Offices, Police Stations, Manufacturing Facilities, etc will remain on. The call given by Hon’ble PM is to just switch off lights in residences. It said. All local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety, the Ministry said in a statement. The government clarification came in the background of apprehension expressed by some people over possible grid failure to sudden fluctuation in load due to switch of lights from all houses and surge in demand when people switch on lights after the 9 minutes switch off. In an advisory to Load Dispatch Centres, the Power System Operation Cooperation Limited (POSOCO) said that there would be a sudden load reduction of around 12 GW - 13GW and recover within 2-4 mins. This sharp reduction in load and recovery will need to be handled through tapping into hydropower and gas based power generation resources. Power generation companies supplying to the state have been directed to operate below technical minimum to ensure no over supply. The instruction given to hydropower stations are to reduce their generation as per requirement. India' s peak hour power demand was 176.76 GW in April last year while this year March 20 it was 127.96 GW. However due to lockdown and shutting down factories and commercial operation, the power demand come down drastically since March 22. During switch of period, there will be sudden dip in power consumption around 12 GW to 13 GW. However we are able to handle the situation effectively as system is strong, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-need-to-worry-about-grid-failure-system-is-safe-centre-821376.html
04-04-2020||National||Explained: Here's how power system will be managed during lights-out on Sunday||A 9-minute lights-out by most of households on Sunday evening can potentially collapse the grid due to sudden drop and then a quick surge after the event. But to manage the dramatic changes in electricity and its impact on the grid, the government has drawn an elaborate plan to manage it. Following are the broad plan of action. Electrical appliances such as AC, fans, TVs, refrigerators are not supposed to be switched off and only household lights are to be switched off from 9 pm to 9.09 pm on Sunday. Also, lights in all essential services, including hospitals, police stations and manufacturing facilities as well as street lights are not to be switched off. These two steps will ensure sizeable household demand continues irrespective of lights-out. Power System Operation Corp Ltd - the agency responsible for managing the grid - has mapped all India lighting load and estimated such demand at 12-13 gigawatts (out of a total consumption of 125-126 GW). Unlike normal operation, this reduction in load of 12-13 GW would happen in 2-4 minutes and recover nine minutes later -- within 2-4 minutes. This sharp reduction in load and recovery, which is unprecedented, will need to be handled through hydro and gas resources. The drop in load and subsequent rise will be managed by using hydro and gas generators that require the least amount of time for ramp up. All regional entities have been advised to maintain their interchange with the grid as per schedule. Distribution companies have been advised to avoid any feeder switching operation from 20:00 to 22:00 hrs. Also, control room staff at national and all regional/ state load centres will be strengthened and grids will be closely monitored to tackle any contingency. State load distribution centres have asked distribution companies to ensure that substations and housing society/ residential apartments' main supply is not be switched off at feeder / mains level. During the evening peak hours -- 18:10 to 20:00 hrs -- hydro generation will be reduced and conserved for providing flexibility during 21:00 hrs event. During this time, thermal and gas generation will be scheduled in a manner so as to manage the peak. Subsequently after the peak hours, at thermal Inter State Generating Stations (ISGS) generation would be gradually reduced to near technical minimum level of 60 per cent by 20:55 hrs and simultaneously, hydro generation will be increased to maintain the load generation balance. Hydro generation and gas generation will be ramped down starting from 20:57 hrs. keeping a watch on the system frequency. The hydro units will be kept rolling at 0–10 per cent of the rating and not to be disconnected during this period. Gas station will be ramped down to the minimum level. Ramping up of thermal machines will be carried out from 21:05 hrs onwards. Further from 21:09 hrs onwards hydro generation will be ramped up to meet increase in load. After stabilisation of system parameters hydro units may be withdrawn. Pumped storage hydro units will be brought in pumping mode by 20:45 hrs and will be kept in service till 21:09 hrs. After that, machines will be withdrawn from the grid. Wind generators of ISGS/ intra state level will be advised to automatically disconnect the wind generating plants and units will be synchronized after 21:30 hrs. To avoid voltage fluctuation, all India grid frequency may be kept at lower side of the IEGC band i.e 49.90 Hz from 20:30 hrs onwards in view of anticipated frequency rise due to demand reduction at 21:00 hrs. All defence mechanisms such as Under Frequency / df/dt relays and automatic demand management systems will be in service and healthiness will also be ensured. Voltage Control measures - Since COVID-19 containment measures implemented from March 25, 2020 nearly 220-240 lines at 400 kV voltage level and above are kept in open condition for voltage control. System voltages have been within the Indian Electricity Grid code (IEGC) band. Line where voltage level is expected to rise by more than 0.01 pu have been identified. While all transmission lines, line reactors & bus reactors will be readied by 20:00 hrs for stable voltage, all reactors will be put in service wherever required. Also, capacitors at distribution level will be kept off to maintain voltage at nominal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-heres-how-power-system-will-be-managed-during-lights-out-on-sunday-821380.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Delhi police sets up isolation centre for its personnel||At the isolation centre, police personnel will be provided a basic hygiene kit. The 10 beds are placed at a safe distance from each other, the officer said. A number of police personnel stay in barracks and they have no permanent residence in Delhi. Last month, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava said in an internal communication to his force that a part of police strength should remain in quarantine for 10 days by rotation. The Delhi police personnel are among those on the frontlines ensuring law and administration during the 21-day lockdown announced by the government to contain the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-delhi-police-sets-up-isolation-centre-for-its-personnel-821381.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID-19 testing, treatment free for Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries at private labs, empanelled hospitals||Testing and treatment for COVID-19 will be free of cost for Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries at private laboratories and empanelled hospitals, the National Health Authority (NHA) said on Saturday.  The NHA, which implements the national health insurance scheme, said this will strengthen the country's response to the novel coronavirus pandemic. "Testing and treatment of COVID-19 is already available for free in public facilities. Now, more than 50 crore citizens, eligible under the health assurance scheme will be able to avail free testing through private labs and treatment for COVID-19 in empanelled hospitals," it said in a statement. Hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) can use their authorised testing facilities or tie up with an authorised testing facility, the NHA said.  The COVID-19 tests will be carried out as per protocols of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and by private labs approved or registered by it, the authority said. Treatment of COVID-19 by private hospitals will be covered under the AB-PMJAY, it said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-testing-treatment-free-for-ayushman-bharat-beneficiaries-at-private-labs-empanelled-hospitals-821384.html
04-04-2020||National||Centre asks state allow street vendors to sell essential commodities during coronavirus lockdown||Union Minister for Housing and Urban Development Hardeep Puri in his letter to all states said that while allowing to sell products, the state governments must ensure maintaining social distancing of buyers. According to the Ministry , there are around 18 lakh identified street vendors across the country and in which around 14 lakh have identity cards. The government issued advisory as the most of the vendors are poor and lockdown hit their livelihood severely. “In order to ensure the livelihood of street vendors and encourage home delivery of essential items, we have issued an advisory that street vendors carrying valid identity card/ certificate of vending, may be allowed to sell essentials like groceries, fruits and vegitables," the Minister tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-state-allow-street-vendors-to-sell-essential-commodities-during-coronavirus-lockdown-821392.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Health ministry comes out with cluster containment strategy||The government has drawn out a containment plan as clusters posing high risk of further spread of COVID-19 cases have emerged in several states like Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana as also Delhi and Ladakh. The cluster containment strategy would be to contain the disease within a defined geographic area by early detection of cases, breaking the chain of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas. Noting that local transmission will lead to clustering of cases in time and space, epidemiologically linked to a travel related case or a positive case that has links to a travel related case, the health ministry has drawn out the plan. The ministry said with 211 districts now reporting COVID-19 cases, the risk of further spread remains very high.  India would be following a strategic approach for possible scenarios - travel-related case reported in India, local transmission of COVID-19, large outbreaks amenable to containment, widespread community transmission of COVID-19 disease and India becomes endemic for COVID-19, the ministry said. According to the document, "containment for large outbreaks through geographic quarantine strategy calls for near absolute interruption of movement of people to and from a relatively large defined area where there is single large outbreak or multiple foci of local transmission" of COVID-19.  "In simple terms, it is a barrier erected around the focus of infection. Geographic quarantine shall be applicable to such areas reporting large outbreak and/or multiple clusters of COVID-19 spread over multiple blocks of one or more districts that are contiguous," it said. The cluster containment strategy would "include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases, quarantine of contacts and risk communication to create awareness among public on preventive public health measures", the document stated. As far as the evidence for implementing geographic quarantine is concerned, the document said that the "current geographic distribution of COVID-19 mimics the distribution of H1N1 pandemic influenza".  "This suggests that while the spread of COVID-19 in our population could be high, it's unlikely that it will be uniformly affecting all parts of the country," the ministry said while stressing this calls for differential approach to different regions of the country, while mounting a strong containment effort in hot spots.  Large-scale measures to contain COVID-19 over large territories have been tried in China. Mathematical modelling studies have suggested that containment might be possible especially when other public health interventions are combined with an effective social distancing strategy, the document stated.   The ministry listed some of the factors affecting large outbreak cluster containment. A number of variables determine the success of the containment operations through geographic quarantine which include the number and size of the cluster or clusters and also how efficiently the virus is transmitting in Indian population, taking into account environmental factors especially temperature and humidity, it said. The factors also include public health response in terms of active case finding, testing of large number of cases, immediate isolation of suspect and confirmed cases and quarantine of contacts along with the geographical characteristics of the area. According to the document, the authorities will do extensive contact tracing and active search for cases in containment zone, test all suspect cases and high risk contacts, isolate all suspect or confirmed cases, implemen social distancing measures and intensive risk communication as part of the cluster containment strategy. For large outbreaks amenable to containment, the documents stated that the strategy will remain the same but vary in extent depending upon spread and response to be mounted to contain it.  ] Geographic quarantine and containment strategy will include defining the area of operation, active surveillance for cases and contacts in the identified geographic zone, expanding laboratory capacity for testing all suspect cases, high risk contacts and SARI cases and operationalising surge capacities created for isolation (COVID-19 hospitals/blocks) to hospitalise and manage all suspect or confirmed cases. It will also include implementation of social distancing measures with strict perimeter control, providing chemoprophylaxis with Hydroxychloroquine to all asymptomatic healthcare workers and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases and further intensification of risk communication through audio, social and visual media.    In alignment with strategic approach, the document provides action that needs to be taken for containing a large outbreak. The actions for mitigation phase will be dealt separately under a mitigation plan. "The objective of this plan is to stop the chain of transmission thus reducing the morbidity and mortality due to COVID-19," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-health-ministry-comes-out-with-cluster-containment-strategy-821394.html
04-04-2020||National||PM Modi, US President Donald Trump have telephonic conversation on fight against COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Donald Trump on Saturday held a detailed discussion on the situation arising out of the coronavirus outbreak and resolved to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight the pandemic. The two leaders held an "extensive" telephonic conversation. "We had a good discussion, and agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight COVID-19," Modi tweeted. The discussion comes at a time when both countries are in the grip of the COVID-19 pandemic. The US has so far confirmed 278,458 cases of COVID-19 and more than 7,100 deaths. India has 3,072 coronavirus cases and has reported 75 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-us-president-donald-trump-have-telephonic-conversation-on-fight-against-covid-19-821396.html
04-04-2020||National||PM directs officials to ensure steady supply of PPEs, ventilators to fight COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the countrywide preparedness toward tackling the COVID-19 outbreak and issued directions to officials to ensure sufficient availability of medical equipment such as ventilators, coveralls and masks for healthcare workers. The Prime Minister “also directed the concerned groups and officials to ensure sufficient production, procurement and availability of all essential medical equipment such as PPEs, masks, gloves and ventilators,” the Prime Minister’s Office said. The directions were given at a joint meeting of the Empowered Groups constituted to plan and ensure the implementation of COVID-19 response activities across the country convened by the Prime Minister on Saturday. Modi reviewed countrywide preparedness regarding the availability of hospitals, proper isolation and quarantine facilities as well as disease surveillance, testing and critical care training,” the PMO said. The Prime Minister also reviewed disease surveillance, testing and critical care training and also directed the concerned groups and officials to ensure sufficient production, procurement and availability of all essential medical equipment such as PPEs, masks, gloves and ventilators. Centre has ramped up domestic manufacturing of personal protective equipment (PPE) and medical equipment, including ventilators, to meet the increasing demand from healthcare workers fighting COVID-19. While the Defence Research and Development Organisation has been roped in to manufacture N-95 mask, self-help groups across the country have also taken up production of face masks under the Rural Development Ministry’s National Rural Livelihood Mission. Ventilator manufacturers have teamed up with automobile giants to ramp up production of the crucial lifesaving devices that keep COVID-19 patients in a critical condition breathing. As many as 12 domestic manufacturers have cleared quality tests for manufacturing PPE and would provide 2.6 million kits.  Besides, medical equipment was also being sourced from China with Air India operating cargo flights to Shanghai on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-directs-officials-to-ensure-steady-supply-of-ppes-ventilators-to-fight-covid-19-821397.html
04-04-2020||National||With 17 new patients, COVID-19 positive cases jump to 92 in J&K||In a steep single-day rise, the number of COVID-19 positive patients jumped to 92 in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday with 17 positive cases reported in the day. Those who tested positive, include eight patients admitted at Government Medical College in north Kashmir’s Baramulla while five others are admitted at super-specialty SKIMS hospital in Srinagar and one at Chest Disease Hospital, Srinagar. The rest of the three positive cases, who were reported in the early morning, are from the Udhampur district of the Jammu division. As per officials, out of these 92 COVID-19-affected people, 87 are active patients as three persons—two from Jammu and one (first COVID-19 patient) from Kashmir have recovered while two others died. Among the active cases, 68 are in Kashmir and 19 are in Jammu. It was the single highest day rise in J&K since the first positive COVID-19 case was reported on March 19. Earlier on March 28, J&K recorded a single-day jump as 12 persons were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 which included a doctor from Jammu. A senior doctor said that the graph for COVID-19 positives is likely to rise steeply in the coming days as more testing is conducted across J&K, especially in the valley. As a result of the narrow testing criteria, he said, so-far a lesser number of positive cases are coming to the fore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-17-new-patients-covid-19-positive-cases-jump-to-92-in-jk-821405.html
04-04-2020||National||Do not single out communities over coronavirus: Jagan||The state has, as of Saturday evening, reported 190 positive cases, with around 90% of them linked to the Nizamuddin Markaz congregation.     Reddy’s remarks are made in wake of a few people purportedly attributing the alarming situation to one religion, especially the Tablighi Jamaat cult. “Such contamination could have happened in any other congregation of any faith. There is no reason to discriminate against a section of our own people and attribute motives. The spread was not intentional,” Reddy said on Saturday in an address to the public. “Some people from our state went to a religious congregation at Delhi attended by members from foreign countries. Some of them are said to be infected and the coronavirus has spread from there. But there is no reason to attribute it to a community.” The CM went on to say that large scale religious congregations are held in the country even by other spiritual leaders like Mata Amritanandamayi, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, or Paul Dinakaran and John Wesley. “We should not discriminate against people as it happened unfortunately and was not premeditated. We must put up a united fight as Indians allowing no room for caste or religion-based differences,” Reddy said. He asked people to join the nation in lighting lamps at 9 pm on Sunday as called for by Prime Minister Narendra Modi “to show unity as Indians and to drive the darkness away.” Out of the 190 cases, Nellore and Krishna districts are on the top with 32 cases each, followed by Guntur at 26 cases. On Friday the state reported its first COVID-19 death of a 55-year-old Vijayawada man, whose son had returned from the Markaz. The chief minister has announced that the frontline departments—medical and health, police, sanitation—working relentlessly for containing COVID-19 would get the full month’s pay and “there would be no deferment, unlike other employees.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-not-single-out-communities-over-coronavirus-jagan-821407.html
04-04-2020||National||Health ministry issues guidelines for states on oxygen supply to facilities handling COVID-19 cases||In a letter to the additional chief secretaries, health secretaries and mission directors of the National Health Mission of all states and Union territories, the ministry said the COVID-19 pandemic is throwing up unique challenges for our health systems and also leading to challenges of not only ensuring an adequate oxygen supply but also regarding the protocols related to handling the major sources of supplies. "Keeping the above facts in mind, guidelines have been prepared by incorporating the major sources of oxygen supply, oxygen system component, normative requirement of the quantity of oxygen and precautions required for handling oxygen cylinders, including disinfecting the cylinders right from the filling point to transportation, loading, unloading, use, exchange, carriage in the hospitals and in critical care facilities. "All concerned hospitals and staff must be informed to ensure timely requisitions and payments so that there is no disruption in oxygen supplies," the ministry said. It has enclosed with the guidelines the control room emergency contact numbers of the All India Industrial I Gases Manufacturers' Association for the states and Union territories in case they face any difficulty or need clarifications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-issues-guidelines-for-states-on-oxygen-supply-to-facilities-handling-covid-19-cases-821408.html
04-04-2020||National||Amidst lockdown, two policemen arrested for offering prayer at a mosque in south Gujarat||Both the policemen have also been booked for violating section-188 of Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and section-51 (B) of National Disaster Management Act, 2005 (refusal to comply with the direction issued by government).  A release from the office of Surat Range Inspector General of Police, Rajkumar Pandian, stated that both the officers have been booked, arrested and suspended from work. Pandian didn't respond to call made by DH, however, the release stated, "Despite being policemen and knowing the rules, they breached them along with other persons. A case has been registered with Ahwa (district headquarters) police station." When contacted, Dangs district Superintendent of Police Sweta Shrimali told DH, "The police inspector (I B Ajmeri) and sub-inspector (S S Daraiya) were posted in different police stations and were deployed to enforce lockdown in view of COVID-19 cases. They were supposed to see that all places of worship are closed as notified by a district collector. Instead of enforcing these, they were found to be offering prayers along with five to six others and that's why they have been suspended and booked." Dangs is a tribal dominated district in the southern most part of Gujarat that has not yet reported any positive case of coronavirus. Health department data shows that 36 persons are under quarantine who are suspected to have some symptoms. The state has reported 108 COVID19 cases including 10 deaths till Saturday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amidst-lockdown-two-policemen-arrested-for-offering-prayer-at-a-mosque-in-south-gujarat-821418.html
04-04-2020||National||India's five-scenario approach to fight COVID-19||According to the Health Ministry, the current geographic distribution of COVID-19 has similarities with the H1N1 (bird flu) pandemic of 2009 and spread of the disease among the population could be high, but not uniform across the country. The Containment Plan for Large Outbreaks of COVID-19, released by the Health Ministry on Saturday, have drawn up its strategic approach based on five scenarios viz. Travel related cases, local transmission, large outbreaks amenable to containment, widespread community transmission and the country becoming endemic to the disease. Health ministry officials have been maintaining that the COVID-19 outbreak was still at the local transmission stage and current efforts were focused on managing hotspots and ensuring cluster management through aggressive tracing of contacts. As on Saturday, health workers across the country had traced 1023 confirmed cases of COVID-19 – an astounding 35.25% of the total 2902 cases in the country so far – to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. Aggressive contact tracing of those attending the meeting had led to placing 22,000 Jamaat members and their contacts under quarantine across the country. Of the 2902 COVID-19 patients across the country, 8.61% fall in the age group of 0-20 years, 41.88% are in the age group of 21-40, 32.82% in 41-60 year and 16.69 % patients are above 60 years of age. The health ministry document lists actions to be taken for containing a large outbreak, with the objective to stop the chain of transmission, thus reducing the morbidity and mortality due to COVID-19. It noted that during the 2009 H1N1 Influenza Pandemic in India large number of cases were reported in large cities which has substantial movement of population. Rural areas and smaller towns with low population densities and poor connectivity had reported few cases. “This calls for a differential approach to different regions of the country, while mounting a strong containment effort in hot spots,” it said adding that large scale measures to contain COVID-19 over large territories have been tried in China. In India also, clusters have appeared in multiple states, particularly Kerala, Maharashtra,Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana and UT of Ladakh. It said that as many as 211 districts were now reporting COVID-19 cases and the risk of further spread remains very high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-five-scenario-approach-to-fight-covid-19-821422.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Goa not in community transmission phase yet, says CM||Sawant also ordered a probe into the assault on a Muslim youngster, allegedly by members of the Tablighi Jamaat on Saturday, after the youngster claimed that his identity as a person who had tipped off the COVID-19 helpline about the presence of Jamaat members who had returned to Goa from an outstation trip, was revealed and was now out in the open. “Altogether, we have seven positive cases. Six cases are on account of foreign returnees. Our transmission is in first phase. Community transmission has not started in Goa yet because of people's co-operation. We want to prevent community transmission,” Sawant told reporters. Sawant also said, that while other states were affected by community transmission of the virus on a large scale, Goa had managed to stave the critical phase off at least for now.  “Every one should come together to ensure that it does not happen,” the Chief Minister said.  According to officials statistics, more than 1000 persons continue to be in quarantine, either at their respective residences or in government isolation facilities. Meanwhile, the Goa Police have been directed to investigate an assault on a Muslim youth from the village of Navelim in South Goa, after a video of the youngster, claiming he was attacked by members of the Tablighi Jamaat went viral on social media. In the video, the youngster identifies himself by name and states that he had tipped off the state government’s COVID-19 helpline about the possible presence of Jamaat members, who had returned to Goa surreptitiously after attending the Nizamuddin Markaz. On Saturday, the youth said that he was beaten up by members of the religious organization, after his name which was given in confidentiality to the helpline, leaked into the public domain. He has also called for a ban on the organization. Sawant said, that he had ordered the police to probe the leak as well the assault. “I know a Muslim lad himself is calling for a ban on the Tabligh. I saw the video this evening and I have asked the police department to enquire into it,” Sawant told reporters in Panaji. “What is their activity? What are they doing? How many branches do they have in Goa will be checked and a decision will be taken after we receive a report,” the Chief Minister also said. Ends||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-goa-not-in-community-transmission-phase-yet-says-cm-821423.html
04-04-2020||National||Nearly 22,000 Tablighi Jamaat members, their contacts quarantined across country: MHA||Nearly 22,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their primary contacts have been quarantined across the country so far, a home ministry official said on Saturday. During the daily briefing, Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary in the Union Home Ministry, told reporters that the Union government undertook "massive efforts" in coordination with states to trace the Jamaat members and their contacts to contain the spread of COVID-19. All issues related to the ongoing lockdown are being monitored by a 24x7 control room of the Ministry of Home Affairs here, she said, adding that about 200 personnel from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Central Armed Police Forces are linked to it on the ground level. The officer said all measures to implement the three-week nationwide lockdown, set to end on April 14, have been effective till now and the supply of essential goods and services has been "satisfactory". Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to states and Union Territories to ensure that the supply chain of essential items is not obstructed during the lockdown period, she said. The first installment of Rs 11,092 crore under the state disaster response fund was released by the MHA on Friday. States can utilise this money for ensuring aid to migrant workers and other calamity-related work, she said.  States and UTs are running relief camps for migrant workers and all those affected by the pandemic in coordination with NGOs and other community groups, she added.  She said various state governments are also "engaged" in enhancing safety measures for their health care professionals and frontline workers and "we hope that these measures will help in ensuring an effective lockdown and we all will be able to break the COVID-19 chain." PTI NES   http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-22000-tablighi-jamaat-members-their-contacts-quarantined-across-country-mha-821425.html
04-04-2020||National||Row kicks in over PM's light a candle campaign||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for switching of lights and lighting up a ‘diya’ or candle on Sunday has triggered a row with the Opposition saying this would cause the electrical grid to crash and slamming the plan as a decision taken without proper thinking. Dismissing such criticism, the ruling BJP has decided to go big on the move with the BJP President J P Nadda appealing to all party workers to reach Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s candle lighting message to all workers. Those who backed the Prime Minister’s measure also wondered why such a hullabaloo is not made when Earth Day is celebrated. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted “an unprecedented drop in electricity demand at 9pm Sunday &an immediate surge at 9.09 pm could cause the electrical grid to crash. So Electricity Boards are contemplating load shedding from 8 pm & staggered return to normal after 9.09pm. One more thing the PM didn’t think about!” As a number of Opposition leaders like former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh and CPI-M Secretary General Sitaram Yechury went hammer and tongs against Modi’s move, BJP national general secretary (Organisation) B L Santhosh  said, “their worries are eternally increasing ... Now they are more worried about the power grid on 5 April 2020 ... As usual for three days many of them have turned into super electrical engineering professionals.” He further said, “After 9 09 pm tomorrow many among them will turn into PPE , Ventilator, mask, vaccine specialists . By Apr 12 every one among them will become #ExitPlan experts . The usual suspects .!!! #IndiaFightsCorona.” Former IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, who had resigned citing “lack of freedom of expression” in August called it an “ill-thought call” stressed that that any one “bureaucrat with spine and basic understanding of the power sector in the PMO could have briefed and avoided all this panic. “Let us be clear. Job of a bureaucrat as permanent executive is also to advise politicians in power. Not just scramble to blindly execute political will,” he said. Acclaimed author Chetan Bhagat, however, had a different take. “Am no electrical expert but claims the grid may collapse if people switch off lights, really? The fridge is on. So are fans, lifts. Street lights too. Think of this, lights are off in daytime and the grid doesn’t collapse right? Light jalao na jalao, dimaag ki batti zaroor jala lena!,” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-kicks-in-over-pms-light-a-candle-campaign-821426.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID 19: Big surge in Coronavirus positive cases in UP, tally reach 227||Uttar Pradesh continued to witness a big surge in Coronavirus positive cases for the second consecutive day on Saturday with as many as 55 people testing positive for the virus infection taking the state tally to 227. Additional chief secretary, home, Avaneesh Awasthi here said that 94 members of Tableegh-e-Jamaat, who had attended the recent religious event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi, have so far tested positive for Coronavirus. He said that one thousand 'Jamaat' members had been quarantined. ''Efforts were on to trace the other Jamaat members, who may have attended the Delhi event,'' he added. Agra also reported a surge in the Coronavirus positive cases as 25 people, including many 'Jamaat' members, tested positive for the virus infection on Saturday. So far over 3500 samples had been sent for testing. As many as 21 COVID-19 patients had recovered fully and discharged from the hospitals. So far two people had died from Coronavirus in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-big-surge-in-coronavirus-positive-cases-in-up-tally-reach-227-821427.html
04-04-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat event attendees should be 'caught', seize phones to examine call details: Adityanath||People who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi should be "caught" and their mobile phones seized to examine call details, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday. The event, which had taken place earlier last month in the national capital's West Nizamuddin area, became a key source for the spread of COVID-19 in India as many of the participants travelled to various parts of the country after attending it. The chief minister said the "intentional violation of social distancing norms or spreading of chaos", despite the lockdown, are part of a well planned conspiracy, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement issued here. "Be very strict with such people. Those who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event should be caught. Seize their mobile phones and check their call details. Examine their belongings and if anything suspicious is found, seize it. Pay special attention to the cleanliness and sanitisation of the places where such people are staying," Adityanath directed members of 'Team-11'. The team has 11 senior officials as its members and was constituted by Adityanath following the outbreak of COVID-19. The chief minister also discussed with them a detailed action plan to deal with the situation after the lockdown is over, according to the statement. "The boundaries of the state are international, inter-state and inter-district. Thus, movement at these places will also have to be taken care of," Adityanath said. The 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 was announced by the central government to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. To reduce the impact of the lockdown on Uttar Pradesh's economy, he said discussions should be held with state and district level bankers from now and a strategy should be prepared accordingly. The strategy should be made on what can be done through employment fairs, the Vishwakarma Shram Samman Yojana, the One district one product ODOP) scheme and the Mati Kala Board, so that it can be implemented as soon as the situation becomes normal, the chief minister said. The statement said Adityanath also instructed the officials to ensure that every needy person gets food on time without discrimination. "In districts where community kitchens have not started yet, the chief secretary should talk to DMs (district magistrates) today to ensure availability of food," he said. The chief minister said "along with this, fix the accountability of DMs, and also provide me the list of such DMs". "For distribution of food, help should be taken from village pradhans, councillors and other employees of local bodies," Adityanath said. He added that everyone should get LPG cylinders, medicines and other essential items. If anyone does not receive the calls in the control room, then strict action should be taken against such person, the chief minister directed 'Team-11'. The district supply officer should be instructed that if someone complains about not getting ration, his or her ration card should be immediately made, and they should be provided Rs 1,000 too, he said. "Districts, where complaints are received in large numbers on the CM's helpline, should be monitored, and their list should also be provided to him (Adityanath) as well," the statement said. The chief minister appealed to the people that they should cover their face when they go out of their house as a COVID-19 precaution in the lockdown period and after the lockdown is over. "Apart from masks, you can also use a scarf as an option," he said. Adityanath said services of microbiologists should be availed, and testing capacity of COVID-19 samples should be enhanced. Farmers should maintain necessary distance among themselves, and tie a 'gamchaa' on their face while working, he said. Salaries of people working in private hospitals or schools, which have been closed due to lockdown should not be stopped, Adityanath said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-event-attendees-should-be-caught-seize-phones-to-examine-call-details-adityanath-821440.html
04-04-2020||National||Modi, Trump agree to deploy full strength of Indo-US cooperation against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and American President Donald Trump on Saturday agreed to “deploy full strength” of India-US partnership to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, which wreaked havoc not only in the two countries, but also around the world. Modi and Trump discussed about the pandemic over phone. This was the first bilateral engagement between the two leaders after the Prime Minister hosted the US President, who was on a two-day visit to India on February 24 and 25. “Had an extensive telephone conversation with President @realDonaldTrump. We had a good discussion, and agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight COVID-19,” Modi posted on Twitter after speaking to Trump. The Prime Minister and the US President exchanged notes on the respective steps taken in each country for mitigating the health and economic impacts of the pandemic, according to a press-release issued by the government after the two leaders spoke to each other on phone. The two leaders also touched upon the significance of practices such as Yoga and Ayurveda (traditional Indian herbal medicine practice) for ensuring physical and mental well-being in these difficult times. They agreed that their officials would remain in close touch with respect to the global COVID-19 crisis, the Prime Minister’s Office stated. Modi and Trump, according to the sources, discussed the ways to step up coordination among the healthcare providers and researchers of the two nations to deal with the pandemic, which infected over one million people around the world and killed over 60,000 of them. They also had discussion about the Indians in America, including the students and the Information Technology (IT) professionals, who could not return despite closure of the varsities and the hostels due to the lockdown in the US. He also requested the US President to ensure that the visas issued by American Government to the Indians – both students and professionals – are extended without any hassle, if the validity of the travel documents expire during the lockdown, sources told the DH. Trump also thanked Modi for assistance provided by the Government of India to the American Embassy in New Delhi and the American Consulates in the other cities of the country to evacuate the US nationals from India, sources said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke to each other over phone twice recently – on March 15 and on April 1. They discussed coordinated response by India and the US to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister also spoke to Brazilian President, Jair Bolsonaro, and Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez Perez-Castejon, over telephone on Saturday and discussed the COVID-19 pandemic. “Had a productive telephone conversation with President @jairbolsonaro about how India and Brazil can join forces against the COVID-19 pandemic,” tweeted Modi. The Prime Minister earlier spoke to several of his counterparts around the world and discussed about the pandemic and the global response to it – including Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom, President Vladimir Putin of Russia and President Emmanuel Macron of France. He also had a video-conference with the SAARC leaders and participated in a G20 virtual summit convened to discuss the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-trump-agree-to-deploy-full-strength-of-indo-us-cooperation-against-covid-19-821450.html
04-04-2020||National||Fake news amid COVID-19 outbreak, a cause of concern for WB govt||Spreading of fake news on social media amid the COVID-19 outbreak has become a cause of concern for the West Bengal Government. Over the last few days, 145 of such incidents have taken place in the state. While 30 persons have been arrested 98 have been cautioned in this regard. Indicating that they are ready to crack the whip over the issue West Bengal Police in a recent tweet stated that those who make such posts will be in trouble. “Please refrain from spreading rumors, fake news and posting objectionable comments on social media. This may put you in trouble. In the last few days, 145 of such incidents were detected. 30 persons have been arrested and 98 persons were cautioned. Do not become one of them,” tweeted West Bengal Police. According to police sources, such false news and information are being spread through fake social media profiles. They also said that those who are spreading such fake news are mostly claiming that a new COVID-19 positive patient has been found in the locality or the vaccine for the virus has been invented. “We have noticed that in some cases such offenders are even using proxy servers to avoid detection. But soon we will nab all of them,” said a senior police official. The state’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and the Special Task Force (SIT) of Kolkata Police have increased social media monitoring. The state government has also stepped up legal action against those violating the nationwide lockdown. West Bengal Police has arrested 387 persons in the last 24 hours for violating the lockdown and lodged 53 FIRs. Kolkata has arrested 1780 persons in the last 48 hours for violating the lockdown. Meanwhile, with 11 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 infection the total number of active positive cases in the state went up to 48. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha made the announcement on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-news-amid-covid-19-outbreak-a-cause-of-concern-for-wb-govt-821451.html
04-04-2020||National||One more test positive for COVID-19 in Nagpur; tally 17||The man who tested positive had a travel history to Delhi, but it is not confirmed whether he had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin Markaz last month, said Dr Deepak Pandey, Deputy Medical Superintendent, Indira Gandhi Government Medical College. Meanwhile,samples of 11 persons who had travelled to Nizamuddin in Delhi tested negative on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-nagpur-tally-17-821452.html
04-04-2020||National||287 released in Srinagar after two-week quarantine||The 287 persons — most of who are students and had returned from Bangladesh — were discharged from various quarantine facilities, they said. They said this was the fourth group to be released from quarantine in four days. On March 31, seventy-eight persons were discharged, while 236 were allowed to return to their homes on April 1. The next day, 324 were released and on April 3, another 488 were discharged after completing their two-week quarantine periods. The officials said 70 students were released from a quarantine centre in Pahalgam – the picturesque resort in south Kashmir's Anantnag district on Saturday. Similarly, they said 33 students — 23 in Sopore and 10 in Baramulla – in north Kashmir's Baramulla district were discharged after their 14-day quarantine period was over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/287-released-in-srinagar-after-two-week-quarantine-821454.html
04-04-2020||National||Yes Bank commits Rs 10 crore for COVID-19 relief works||The struggling private sector lender, which had to be bailed out through state-run SBI and a consortium of private sector banks, will donate Rs 10 crore into the PM-Cares Fund. “The Bank stands in support of the Honourable Prime Minister's call for joint action in tackling the unprecedented challenges posed by COVID-19,” a statement said. Meanwhile, mid-tier information technology firm Persistent Systems has also committed Rs 25 crore for relief efforts, the Pune-based company said in a statement. Multiplex chain operator Inox has also made a commitment of Rs 5 crore towards various relief efforts, its head Siddharth Jain tweeted. This includes Rs 2 crore each to the PM-Cares Fund, and a clutch of other government bodies and the remaining Rs 1 crore towards providing personal protective equipment to health workers and food to stuck migrants in Maharashtra, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yes-bank-commits-rs-10-crore-for-covid-19-relief-works-821462.html
04-04-2020||National||COVID-19: PM Modi’s call to switch off lights en masse risks blackouts||By Rajesh Kumar Singh and Archana Chaudhary Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to Indians to switch off lights Sunday evening for nine minutes and instead use candles to “challenge the darkness” of the coronavirus outbreak will mean blackouts for some citizens as utilities take steps to safeguard their equipment. Modi asked people to switch off lights at 9 p.m. That may result in a sudden drop of about 15 gigawatt of power demand across the nation, said S.N. Sahai, secretary in the nation’s power ministry. In Uttar Pradesh, India’s most-populated state, the local utility plans to switch off electricity in phases to stop the surge in voltage from threatening the state’s power grid and equipment, U.P. Power Transmission Corp. said in a letter sent to generators. The country plans to switch off some of its hydropower generation capacity to deal with the sudden dip in demand, Sahai said. The power ministry, in a statement, said adequate arrangements had been made to handle the variation in demand. While India has barely tested 66,000 for the disease in the world’s most populated nation after China, Modi has spoken to his citizens twice, each time asking them to do a new activity to show solidarity in the fight against the disease. The prime minister asked Indians to clap, rings bells, bang utensils and blow conch shells on March 22, and this time, switch off lights and use candles. “These symbolic calls for solidarity will be more meaningful and credible if they’re accompanied by substantive, stepped-up measures to combat the virus,” said Michael Kugelman, senior associate for South Asia at the Wilson Center in Washington. “Otherwise, they’re easy to dismiss as empty gestures meant to distract from the government’s struggle to curb the spread of coronavirus.” India is battling to secure foreign-made test kits while red tape is slowing the deployment of locally-made ones. The number of tests in India is far slower than the pace in the U.S and even further behind that of top testing countries like South Korea, sparking speculation that the official tally of infections is underestimating the true size of its outbreak. On March 22, many Indians rushed outside and gathered in groups to clap and make noise, violating the need to maintain distance. To avoid a repeat, Modi asked citizens not to step outside their homes on Sunday. “We have been asked by the grid operator to be flexible,” said Bharat Rohra, chief executive officer at Jindal Power Ltd. “Our grid handles such shocks on a daily basis when the solar generation goes out in the evening. The system can handle this too if it’s planned well.” India has been under a lockdown since March 25 for three weeks. The nation has more than 3,000 infections while 86 people have died, according to Johns Hopkins University,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-modi-s-call-to-switch-off-lights-en-masse-risks-blackouts-821464.html
04-04-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi sends sanitizers, masks, soaps to Amethi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has sent 12,000 sanitizers, 20,000 face masks and 10,000 soaps for distribution among the people of Amethi, a party leader said on Saturday. The Gandhi scion had earlier sent trucks full of wheat and rice for distribution among the locals, he added. Gandhi represented the Amethi Lok Sabha seat since 1999. He lost the seat to Union minister Smriti Irani in the last general elections. He is currently a Member of Parliament from Wayanad constituency in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-sends-sanitizers-masks-soaps-to-amethi-821482.html
04-04-2020||National||'Send us PPE kits' - Delhi's SOS to Centre||Fifty-nine fresh COVID-19 cases, including 42 linked to Tablighi Jamaat, was reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the total to 445, amid Delhi government sending an 'SOS' to the Centre for personnel protection equipment (PPE) as it is running out of kits essential for healthcare professionals engaged in treating patients. There were no fresh deaths and the toll remained at six, including three linked to Tablighi Jamaat, but 16 patients tested positive for the virus infection are serious -- five on ventilator and 11 in Intensive Care Units. While on Friday 93 cases were reported, the number came down on Saturday. Of the 59 patients who tested positive, 17 people have no connection to Tablighi Jamaat, which is linked to one-third of the positive cases across the country after people who attended its religious gathering in south Delhi's Nizamuddin in mid-March spread across the country. Kejriwal said they have decided to conduct tests on all the remaining people among the over 2,300 people, who were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, in the next two-three days and the capital may see a surge in cases. However, he said the pattern clearly showed that there was no community transmission. Analysing the deaths, he said of the six, all but one were above 60 years of age and had co-morbidity. Two of them had breathing issues while one each had liver, sugar and heart issues. "We have analysed the 6 deaths caused by corona. Most of them were either old or had some major disease. I request senior citizens to stay home and take extra precautions. All those who are suffering from some major diseases also need to be cautious," he said. The Chief Minister raised concerns about the shortage of PPE kits and said the Delhi government has not received a single kit from them. "We are facing a shortage of PPE kits. We have written to the Centre to supply the kits, essential for our doctors and nurses. But we haven't received even one PPE kit from the Union government so far," he said adding the Delhi government had on Friday written to the Centre of the kits. Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain said they have only 7-8,000 PPE kits left in their stock which will last 2-3 days. "We have demanded 50,000 PPE kits on urgent basis," he said. Meanwhile, 108 members of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital staff, including doctors and nurses, have been quarantined after they came in contact with two patients who in their second test report were found positive for COVID-19. Eighty-five are in home quarantine and 23 are in the hospital, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/send-us-ppe-kits-delhis-sos-to-centre-821486.html
04-04-2020||National||15 Indians died from COVID-19 in foreign countries||India has lost at least 15 of its nationals abroad to the COVID-19 so far. Six Indians died in the United States, five others succumbed to the virus in Italy. Two Indian nationals have died in the United Arab Emirates, while one each in Iran and Egypt, sources in New Delhi said. The COVID-19 has infected over one million people and killed nearly 57000 around the world. India has evacuated nearly 2500 of its nationals from the “ground zero” of the pandemic at Wuhan in Hubei province of China. Notwithstanding restrictions imposed on flight operations around the world to contain the pandemic, the government is working on repatriation of the mortal remains of some of the 15 Indians, who died of COVID-19 in the other countries, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-indians-died-from-covid-19-in-foreign-countries-821494.html
04-04-2020||National||Haryana sees sharpest spike with 26 fresh COVID-19 cases; nearly 90% linked to Tablighi Jamaat members||The number of coronavirus infections jumped by 26 to 70 in Haryana on Saturday, the biggest daily rise in the number of cases in the state, with Tablighi Jamaat members accounting for nearly 90 per cent of these. Palwal district reported the sharpest spike from three to 17, the state health department said in its evening bulletin. Of the total 70 cases, it said, one person is from Nepal, while 20 are from other states of India -- Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Telangana, Bihar, Punjab, Delhi, Karnataka and Maharashtra. The total also includes 15 patients who have been discharged. There are 55 active cases in the state, it added. Of the 26 persons who tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, 23 are Tablighi Jamaat members, officials said. They admitted this is a cause for concern. Earlier in the day, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said Tablighi Jamaat members had entered the state before the lockdown was imposed. While most of them are from Palwal, a few are from Ambala, Nuh, Gurgaon and Kaithal, said Vij, who also holds the home portfolio. As many as 652 of the 1,300 Tablighi Jamaat members who came to Haryana have been traced to Nuh district alone, he added. Vij, who held a review meeting with health department officials, said it has been decided that all Tablighi Jamaat members who have been tracked down in the state will be tested for coronavirus. "The samples of all of these members will be taken irrespective of whether they show any symptoms," he said. Over 1,300 Tablighi Jamaat members, including 107 foreigners, came to Haryana before the lockdown came into force on March 25, Director General of Police Manoj Yadava had said on Friday. All of them have been quarantined, he said, adding that five FIRs have been registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Foreigner's Act against the foreigners among the Tablighi Jamaat members for various violations. On the sudden spurt in the number of coronavirus cases in Haryana, Vij said the state government is prepared to tackle any situation. Containment zones have been created in nine villages in Palwal and movement of vehicular traffic or people is not allowed as health officials are conducting vigorous checking for suspected cases, the officials said. Earlier in the day, the Haryana government announced that Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, in Nuh district's Nalhar will be an exclusive COVID-19 hospital. The medical college has a capacity of 600 beds. Haryana's Public Works (Building and Roads) Department has decided to allow district administrations to utilise free of cost its rest houses across the state for accommodation of doctors, paramedical and essential services staff who are at the frontline of the battle against coronavirus. With 70 cases, Haryana has now surpassed its neighbour Punjab which has reported 65 cases so far. However, while Punjab has reported five deaths, Haryana has reported one. A 67-year-old man from Ambala who died at PGIMER here on Wednesday became Haryana's first coronavirus casualty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-sees-sharpest-spike-with-26-fresh-covid-19-cases-nearly-90-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-members-821499.html
04-04-2020||National||Two more test positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, total count 32||Two more test positive for COVID-19 in BiharTwo more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, taking the total number of patients suffering from the dreaded disease in the state to 32, a top official said on Saturday. Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar, said that the latest case was that of a 65-year-old man from Bhagalpur district, with a travel history to the UK. Earlier, a 37-year-old Gaya resident, who had recently returned from Dubai, tested positive for coronavirus infection, the principal secretary said. Gaya District Magistrate Abhishek Singh said the patient was admitted to a hospital along with his wife, who had contracted the disease a few days ago. The principal secretary stated that 2,629 samples have been tested so far at three designated facilities in the state -- the RMRI, an ICMR centre here, the city-based IGIMS hospital and the DMCH hospital at Darbhanga. Of these, 2,239 tests have been conducted at the RMRI alone, followed by 362 at IGIMS and 28 at DMCH. Munger is the worst affected in the state and has reported seven cases, including that of a Qatar returnee who died last month. Siwan comes second with six cases, followed by five each in Patna and Gaya, three in Gopalganj, two in Nalanda and one each in Lakhisarai, Saran and Begusarai and Bhagalpur. For 11 of the 32 cases in the state, the infection has been traced back to the deceased Munger resident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-count-32-821500.html
04-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19: Priyanka Gandhi calls for large scale testing, says government must act||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday said it is imperative for India to immediately ramp up its rate of testing for coronavirus and that the government must act now for the lockdown to yield results. The Congress general secretary asserted that extremely valuable information about the severity of the disease, disease clusters and focal points is gained from testing. "It is imperative that India immediately ramps up its rate of testing. Extremely valuable information about the severity of the disease, disease clusters and focal points is gained from testing," she said in a tweet.  "In order for this lockdown to yield results, it has to be backed up by large scale testing and other measures to support the medical infrastructure systems in this country. The government must act now," she said. Priyanka Gandhi also raised the issue of nurses and medical staff allegedly not getting protective equipment and cutting of their salaries. At this time, the medical staff needs all the cooperation, she said. "They are life givers and have taken to the field like warriors. In Banda, a great injustice is being done by not giving nurses and medical staff personal protective equipment and cutting their salaries," Priyanka Gandhi said. She appealed to the Uttar Pradesh government to look into the issue, saying this is not the time to do injustice to these "warriors" but to listen to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-priyanka-gandhi-calls-for-large-scale-testing-says-government-must-act-821215.html
04-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19: PM Modi to interact with floor leaders of political parties on April 8||Amid a countrywide lockdown due to COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with floor leaders of various political parties via a video link on April 8. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said Prime Minister Modi will interact with floor leaders of all those parties who have more than five MPs in both houses of Parliament on April 8 at 11am. COVID-19 and countrywide lockdown are likely to be discussed during the meeting. This will be the prime minister's first interaction with opposition leaders after the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-pm-modi-to-interact-with-floor-leaders-of-political-parties-on-april-8-821330.html
04-04-2020||National Politics||PM Modi to hold video interaction with political leaders on April 8 on COVID-19||All political parties, who have at least five members put together in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha can participate in this discussion on April 8, which will be the first video conference meeting of the Prime Minister with politicians in the country. The Prime Minister had earlier addressed people thrice through video messages, first giving a stay indoors call for a day, then announcing a 21-day lockdown and finally on Friday asking people switch all lights for nine minutes and light a candle in the balcony or outside their day on this Sunday to spread the spirit of positivity and togetherness. The Prime Minister’s video conference meeting with political leaders will be taking place when two weeks of the 21 lockdown announced by the Prime Minister on March 24 would have already been completed. In the meeting that will take a comprehensive view of all COVID-19 related issues, the Prime Minister is likely to urge leaders of political parties in Parliament to put up a united national face in the wake of this international calamity. Making the announcement, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi has merely said that the video conference pertains to COVID-19 related issues. Since floor leaders of political parties in both Houses of Parliament, have been involved, there is also a buzz whether the government would like to call in a short session to Parliament to take a unified political call on fighting the COVID-19 menace but there is no confirmation of this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-to-hold-video-interaction-with-political-leaders-on-april-8-on-covid-19-821348.html
04-04-2020||National Politics||Shining torches in sky won't solve problem: Rahul Gandhi on COVID-19||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday made light of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to people to light lamps and shine torches on April 5, saying it will not help India fight COVID-19. He claimed not enough tests are being conducted in the country to combat the spread of coronavirus. In a video message on Friday, Modi had urged people to switch off the lights in their homes and light lamps, candles or shine torches and mobile phone flashlights for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5 to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus. "India is simply not testing enough to fight the COVID-19 virus," Gandhi said on Twitter. "Making people clap & shining torches in the sky isn't going to solve the problem," he said. In his message, Modi had also said that once people everywhere light lamps or shine flashlights of their mobile phones at their doorsteps or balconies, it will emerge in this "superpower" of brightness that "we are all fighting with a collective resolve". It is required for the country's people to experience the "greatness, majesty and divinity" of this shared strength and resolve from time to time, he said. Last month, the prime minister had addressed the nation twice -- on March 19 and March 24. On March 19, Modi called for resolve and restraint to fight coronavirus. He had also announced a 'Janta Curfew' on March 22 and asked people to clap or ring bells within their homes for five minutes to show their gratitude towards those involved in essential services. On March 24, he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the deadly virus. As of Saturday, India has reported 2,902 COVID-19 cases with 68 deaths, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shining-torches-in-sky-wont-solve-problem-rahul-gandhi-on-covid-19-821361.html
04-04-2020||National Politics||TMC unlikely to attend PM's interaction with floor leaders of parties||The Trinamool Congress will not attend the interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled to be held on April 8, party sources said on Saturday. Modi will interact with floor leaders of various political parties via a video link. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said Modi will interact with floor leaders of all those parties who have more than five MPs in both houses of Parliament on April 8 at 11 AM. The COVID-19 crisis including the countrywide lockdown are likely to be discussed during the meeting. This will be the prime minister's first interaction with opposition leaders after the lockdown. He did have an interaction with chief ministers of all states including those ruled by non-NDA parties. TMC sources said that the party had been demanding a discussion in Parliament on the spread of coronavirus for days but it was never done. "TMC will not attend the meeting. We have been seeking a discussion in Parliament and an all-party meeting over COVID-19 since early March but it was never called. Now why (call a meeting)? (For) Photo op?” asked a senior leader of the Mamata Banerjee-led party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-unlikely-to-attend-pms-interaction-with-floor-leaders-of-parties-821433.html
04-04-2020||National Politics||J P Nadda asks to popularise use of mask through mass campaign||BJP president J P Nadda asked party leaders on Saturday to make the use of masks a "mass campaign" and promote cleanliness, saying there is a need to spread awareness about every aspect of prevention of coronavirus infection. Speaking to party leaders from various states, Nadda urged them to encourage people to follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to turn off lights on Sunday and light up candles and lamps or switch on their mobile flashlights for nine minutes at 9 pm to show our resolve and solidarity against the pandemic. Nadda also hailed the Modi government's decision to release Rs 17,287 crore to the states and the Home Ministry's move to grant Rs 11,092 crore from the State Disaster Hazard Management Fund (SDRMF), according to a statement. There is no need for panic in the fight against coronavirus as 1.52 lakh beds, 4,307 hospitals, 33,000 ICU beds and 16,000 ventilators are available for use and about 10,000 personal protection kits are being prepared every day, he said in the statement. "Adequate and fast testing is also being done, so there is no need to panic," he said. The BJP president also appealed for donations to the 'PM Cares Fund'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-nadda-asks-to-popularise-use-of-mask-through-mass-campaign-821437.html
04-04-2020||National Politics||Tablighi members moving like 'human bombs': Himachal BJP chief||"The Centre and state governments are leaving no stone unturned in the decisive fight against the COVID-19," Bindal said in a statement. "But some people, including Tablighi Jamaat, members are moving like human bombs to thwart their efforts." About 130-crore Indians are following lockdown instructions to contain the deadly COVID-19, but "some anti-human" people are trying to discourage their efforts ignoring the seriousness of the disease, the state BJP president claimed. A religious congregation at Nizamuddin West in south Delhi has become a major hotpot for the spread of COVID-19, with the Centre saying at least 1,023 of the nearly over 3,000 confirmed cases had been found to be linked to just "one place", a reference to the congregation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tablighi-members-moving-like-human-bombs-himachal-bjp-chief-821495.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Government reserves jobs in Jammu and Kashmir for domiciles; amends April 1 order after angry reactions||The government amended its two-day-old order on Friday night and reserved all jobs in Jammu and Kashmir for the domiciles of the Union territory -- people who have stayed there for at least 15 years. On Wednesday, while laying down the rules for domiciles, the government had reserved jobs up to group 4 only. However, following angry reactions from local political parties, an amended gazette notification, titled the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order-2020, was put out, reserving jobs for the domiciles of the UT, which was formed in October last year after the Centre withdrew the special status of the erstwhile state and announced its bifurcation. "Any person who fulfils the following conditions shall be a domicile of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for the purposes of appointment to any post under the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir," the revised notification said. "....no person shall be eligible for appointment to any post unless he is a domicile of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir," the amended Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act, which is a part of the notification, said. In the April 1 notification, the jobs were reserved only upto group 4 in the government, which is equivalent to the rank of constable in police parlance and multi-tasking staff in government offices. Under the domicile law, anyone who has resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir or has studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 and Class 12 examinations in an educational institution located in the Union territory is a domicile. Anyone who is registered as a migrant by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants) will also be deemed to be a domicile. The children of all-India services personnel, who have served there for 10 years, also come under the category. Others who can be deemed to be a domicile include the children of those central government officials, all-India services officers, officials of PSU and autonomous bodies of the central government, public sector banks, officials of statutory bodies, central university officials and those of recognised research institutes of the central government, who have served in Jammu and Kashmir for 10 years. The children of those who fulfil any of the conditions or the children of such residents of Jammu and Kashmir who reside outside the Union territory in connection with their employment or business or other professional or vocational reasons, but their parents fulfil any of the conditions provided in the sub-section, are also considered domiciles, the notification said. The move had evoked a sharp reaction from political parties, including the newly-formed Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, which had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah last month. The party had questioned the timing of the order, saying it was most unfortunate that such an important order was issued at a time when the country was battling for its survival and was under a strict lockdown to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus. "Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts and attention should be focused on the COVID outbreak the government slips in a new domicile law for JK. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised," National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah had said in a series of tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-reserves-jobs-in-jammu-and-kashmir-for-domiciles-amends-april-1-order-after-angry-reactions-821153.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Bhopal's 1st COVID-19 patient, her father discharged from hospital after testing negative||The daughter-father duo was discharged from the AIIMS, Bhopal on Friday night, the official said. "The woman as well as her journalist father were discharged as their repeat samples tested negative," director of AIIMS Bhopal, Dr Sarman Singh told PTI. The woman had tested coronavirus positive on March 21, while her 62-year-old father was found infected four days later. Both of them had been admitted to AIIMS, Bhopal for treatment. Days before testing positive, the journalist had attended the then chief minister Kamal Nath's press conference on March 20. His test results later triggered panic among those journalists, who were also present at Nath's briefing. The woman, who was pursuing a post-graduate course in law in London, had returned to Bhopal via Delhi on March 18. Bhopal divisional commissioner Kalpana Shrivastava confirmed that they have been discharged from the hospital after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhopals-1st-covid-19-patient-her-father-discharged-from-hospital-after-testing-negative-821177.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||3 Jamaat members test corona positive in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli, 2 are from Bangladesh||Three Tablighi Jamaat members, including two Bangladeshis, have tested positive for novel coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli where they had gone after attending the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in mid-March, officials said on Saturday. District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur said the three - the third is from Assam - were shifted to the isolation ward of a government hospital at Jhinjhana, Shamli, Friday evening after their test results returned positive. The DM said that 13 Tablighi Jamaat members -- 12 Bangladeshis and one Assamese -- had arrived at Bhesani village, under Bhawan Police Station limits in Shamli, on March 17 for religious activities after attending Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz, which came to limelight after several coronavirus-related deaths and cases were traced there. Kaur said that all of them were quarantined at a college premises and their samples were sent for testing. Three tests results have returned positive while other reports are awaited, she said. The three Jamaat members whose test results came positive have been moved to the isolation ward of the government primary health centre at Jhinjhana, which has been readied for COVID-19 patients, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-jamaat-members-test-corona-positive-in-uttar-pradesh-s-shamli-2-are-from-bangladesh-821187.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 12 Tablighi members from Bangladesh booked for Foreigners Act violation||An FIR has been registered against 12 Bangladesh citizens who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month and are now in administrative quarantine in UP's Shamli district, police said on Saturday. Two persons tested positive for COVID-19 Friday evening out of the dozen Bangladeshi nationals who have been quarantined in a college in Thana Bhawan town in Shamli district, they said. They have all been booked for violation of the Foreigners Act, 1946 by the Thana Bhawan police station in the district, officials said. Police said they have also booked two more persons who had sheltered them after the 12 people were found in a mosque at Bhasani village and were later shifted to the quarantine ward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-12-tablighi-members-from-bangladesh-booked-for-foreigners-act-violation-821190.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 patients responding well to treatment in Kashmir hospital, say doctors||All the COVID-19 patients admitted to the Chest Diseases hospital here were responding well to the treatment, the hospital said on Saturday. The total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir has gone up to 75, as per the UT authorities. While two patients have died, three patients have recovered from the disease, leaving 65 active cases. All the COVID-19 positive patients admitted at Chest Diseases hospital here were responding well to the treatment, Dr Naveed Nazir Shah, head of department and in-charge of COVID-19 pandemic at the hospital, said. He said there were 19 coronavirus positive patients admitted at the hospital and some of them will be discharged soon after following proper protocol. Dr Shah said the second consecutive test report of the first patient admitted in the hospital was also reported as negative. The renowned chest diseases specialist urged people to take all the necessary precautions, follow administrative and health advisories in letter and spirit and also appealed to them to reveal their travel history to ensure safety of all. "People should come clean on their travel history. Early detection helps us to put the person in isolation facilities and thus there won't be exponential spread of the virus," he said. Officials said the authorities have started an aggressive contact tracing campaign across the union territory to contain the spread of the disease. Nearly 2,000 contacts of positive patients have been identified, they said, adding that no known contact would be left untraced. Meanwhile, restrictions on the movement and assembly of people in Kashmir to contain the spread of coronavirus continued for the 17th consecutive day on Saturday. Main roads in the Valley have been sealed and barriers erected at several places by the security forces to check the unwanted movement of people and to enforce the lockdown, the authorities said.  Markets across the Valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and grocery stores allowed to open as essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions. Educational institutions across Kashmir have been closed while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants were shut down more than a week before the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While the Prime Minister announced the countrywide lock down on the evening of March 24, the union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till March 31 as part of its efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus. Restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the Valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the contagious infection. The measures were taken after a 67-year-old woman from Khanyar area of the city, who had returned on March 16 from Saudi Arabia after performing Umrah, tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patients-responding-well-to-treatment-in-kashmir-hospital-say-doctors-821197.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||One more dies of COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh, state death toll now nine||A 36-year-old government employee, who had tested positive for coronavirus in Chhindwara town of Madhya Pradesh two days back, died on Saturday morning, an official said. With his death, the number of persons who have so far died due to COVID-19 in the state has reached nine, the official said. This is the first death due to COVID-19 in Chhindwara district. His father has also tested coronavirus positive in Chhindwara. "The victim was a government employee and posted at Indore, which has emerged as one of the hotspots of COVID-19 spread in Madhya Pradesh," Additional District Magistrate (ADM) Rajesh Batham said. "His father, who has also tested coronavirus positive, has been admitted to the isolation ward of the district hospital," he said. Earlier, five persons had died of COVID-19 in Indore, two in Ujjain and one each in Khargone, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-dies-of-covid-19-in-madhya-pradesh-state-death-toll-now-nine-821198.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Amidst coronavirus chaos, Pakistan trying to push militants into Jammu and Kashmir||In recent days, several attempts were made by the infiltrators with Pakistani Army giving them covering fire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch and Rajouri districts of Jammu region. Sources said the Pakistan Army, anticipating that police and paramilitary personnel in the towns, as well as rural areas, are busy in enforcing lockdown, is trying to take advantage of the situation and push militants into J&K. However, they said, despite the prevailing crisis due to coronavirus pandemic, there has been no let-up in army operations along the LoC to deal with infiltration attempts by militants of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) aided and abetted by the Pakistani army. “Intelligence inputs reveal that militants want to infiltrate and carry out terror attacks on vital installations of security forces and the public. The militants have been camping on the launching pads, located close to the LoC on the Pakistan side with a view to sneak into this side taking advantage of the prevailing situation,” they added. A senior army officer told DH that troops along the LoC continue to maintain high-degree alert to ensure that the Pakistan Army doesn’t succeed in its nefarious designs. “Pakistan Army is resorting to heavy mortar shelling and firing along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts from the last one week in an attempt to divert the attention of Indian army,” he said. However, the officer said, the Indian Army has retaliated to all ceasefire violations aggressively and didn’t allow the Pakistani designs to succeed to push infiltrators into Jammu and Kashmir. “The inputs are very specific and credible. But we have put our strategy in place to counter any kind of infiltration attempt,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amidst-coronavirus-chaos-pakistan-trying-to-push-militants-into-jammu-and-kashmir-821204.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Six test positive in UP's Maharajganj||Six persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Saturday, officials said. All of them had gone to Delhi to attend the religious programme organised by the Tablighi Jamaat and returned to Maharajganj on March 21, they said. "Samples of 21 people who had returned from Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi's Nizamuddin were sent to Medical College, Gorakhpur for examination. Coronavirus has been confirmed in six of these," District Magistrate of Maharajganj Ujjwal Kumar said. "They are being treated at Mithoura community health centre," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-six-test-positive-in-ups-maharajganj-821207.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Three militants killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Three militants, believed to be involved in recent civilian killings in the area, were killed in an encounter with security forces in South Kashmir’s Kulgam District on Saturday morning. Reports said the gunfight erupted after a joint team of the Indian Army’s 34 Rashtriya Rifles and Jammu and Kashmir Police launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Khul Batpora area of Damhall Hanjipora in Kulgam, 85 Kms from Srinagar, in the wee hours of Saturday. A police spokesperson said as the search operation was intensified, hiding militants in the area fired upon the security party, and the retaliation triggered an encounter. During exchange of fire, three militants were killed, he said. Pertinently, two days ago, two civilians were killed by unknown gunmen in the area. Earlier, police said in a tweet that trapped militants were involved in recent civilian killings in Kulgam District. Though police didn’t reveal the identities of the slain militants till this report was filed, reports said they were locals. Notably, this was the first encounter in Kulgam District after a gap of around 11 months and first across Kashmir since the lockdown was imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-821208.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: With three more positive cases, Jammu and Kashmir’s tally rises to 78||“#COVID19 Status Updates Three more positive cases reported today from Narsoo, Udhampur. All contacts of a positive patient from Udhampur with travel history abroad (sic)," J&K government spokesperson Rohit Kansal tweeted. Out of the 78 cases, two have died while three have recovered so far. While Kashmir division has 54 active positive cases, the number is 19 in the Jammu region. Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir have identified nearly 2,000 contacts of COVID-19 positive cases until now, out of which 975 have been traced and tested. Kansal reassured that all the identified contacts will be traced and tested for COVID-19. “We plan to test every single one of the 2,000 contacts that we have identified,” he added. The government has identified 34 hotspots/red zones in Jammu and Kashmir of which 24 are in Kashmir and 10 in Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-with-three-more-positive-cases-jammu-and-kashmir-s-tally-rises-to-78-821213.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Tablighi Jamaat members 'misbehave' with hospital staff in Kanpur||The Tablighi Jamaat members admitted to a hospital here allegedly refused to take medicines and misbehaved with the medical staff, prompting authorities to remove female staffers from there, officials said on Saturday. They are among the thousands who attended a religious congregation at organisation’s New Delhi headquarter, now being seen as a coronavirus hotspot. The Jamaat members also spit on hands and then touch staircase railings, Aarti Lalchandani, a senior doctor at the hospital, said. "Our team is engaged in providing healthcare services to those admitted here. They were told not to spit in the hospital, but they refuse to accept our instructions. They also misbehaved with the doctors. It is sad that despite giving every possible help, they are behaving in this manner. However, with police intervention, the situation has now come under control," she said. Female staffers had to be removed from the hospital due to their behaviour, she said. "Despite giving them rice, daal and paneer in their meals, they demand good food. They also demand good clothes and better facilities," she said. The hospital administration has informed the authorities concerned regarding misbehavior of the Tablighi Jamaat members, the doctor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-tablighi-jamaat-members-misbehave-with-hospital-staff-in-kanpur-821226.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Sangh workers distributing 1.3 lakh food packets in national capital daily: RSS Delhi unit||From providing food to the needy to launching helpline for medical assistance, Sangh workers are doing everything to help people in the national capital during the coronavirus lockdown, RSS' Delhi unit general secretary Bharat Arora said on Saturday. RSS workers are distributing 1.3 lakh food packets every day, he said. The Sangh has so far distributed more than 47,000 kits of ration among daily wagers and poor, he said. RSS workers are also distributing ration packets among sex workers and will distribute the similar kits among transgenders on Saturday, Arora said, adding that 4,500 volunteers are working on the ground on daily basis after taking approval from the administration. Sangh volunteers are taking all necessary precautions while cooking and distributing food, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sangh-workers-distributing-13-lakh-food-packets-in-national-capital-daily-rss-delhi-unit-821233.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: After naxals, security forces now tackle coronavirus  ||Security forces in the insurgency-hit Bastar division of south Chhattisgarh are not just fighting naxals, but are also tackling the coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Saturday. Security personnel were asked to take extra precautions and follow protocols during their stay in camps and when they are out on operations, he said. "Although no confirmed case of COVID-19 has been detected in Bastar division so far, certain directives have been issued as a prudent measure to keep the forces safe," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. This was a new situation for security forces, who have been dealing with the Maoist menace in the region for more than three decades, he said. "At this time, we are battling against two menaces -- naxals and coronavirus," the senior official said. At least 80,000 security personnel, including different wings of the state police and paramilitary forces, are deployed in Bastar division, comprising Bastar, Kanker, Kondagaon, Narayanpur, Dantewada, Bijapur and Sukma districts. There are around 135 camps of security forces in the region, spread around 40,000 sq km, for counter-insurgency operations. Apart from maintaining personal hygiene, personnel reporting on duty after leave will be quarantined before resuming duties and those experiencing symptoms of coronavirus will be isolated, he said. Police and district administration officials have been visiting camps and sensitising personnel about steps they need to take to reduce the risk of infection, he said. Masks, hand sanitisers and hand washes were provided in all camps, he added. Several districts of Bastar division share borders with neighbouring states, including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra, where a large number of people from the region migrate for work.  Meanwhile, according to health officials, there has been an unprecedented movement of labourers returning to their villages from neighbouring states following the lockdown, triggering the chances of community transmission. "Taking note of the situation, we are coordinating with the police and civil authorities of neighbouring states and trying to curb inter-state movement as far as possible," the IG said. Makeshift camps have been set up on the inter-state borders to keep those returning from the neighbouring states in quarantine before they proceed to their homes. Villagers in Bastar were following the lockdown norms and all local markets, except for shops selling essential items, have been shut, he said. Last month, a CRPF jawan, posted in Sukma district, was screened for possible exposure to coronavirus, but later tested negative for the infection. Of the nine COVID-19 cases reported in the state so far, four patients were discharged following recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-after-naxals-security-forces-now-tackle-coronavirus-821236.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Four militants killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir||Four militants were killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. The security forces on Saturday morning launched a cordon and search operation based on intelligence inputs about the presence of militants in Hardmand Guri village in Kulgam, a police spokesperson said. "This operation based on a credible police input. Four terrorists have been killed," he said. He said weapons and war-like stores were seized from the scene of the encounter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmir-821243.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||16-yr-old Tablighi member tests COVID-19 positive in Chhattisgarh||A 16-year-old boy, who is a member of Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh's Korba district on Saturday, officials said. However, it is not clear whether he had attended last month's religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin, they said. This case has taken the number of COVID-19 patients in Chhattisgarh to 10. However, four of them have been discharged from hospitals following their recovery till Friday, the officials said. The sample of the boy, who had arrived in Katghora town of the district from neighbouring Maharashtra early last month, was sent for testing to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur on April 2, Korba Collector Kiran Kaushal said. He was among 16 people who were quarantined at a mosque in Purani Basti area of Katghora, where they were staying, she said. "After testing positive, he was shifted to AIIMS", she said. This group of 16 people, all members of Tablighi Jamaat, had arrived at Katghora from Nagpur (Maharashtra) early last month, and were staying at the mosque. Swab samples of all of them had been sent for COVID-19 testing to AIIMS on April 2, another official said. During their medical examination carried out on March 24 and 26, no symptoms of coronavirus had been found in them. "As of now it is not clear whether they had attended the religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin last month or came in contact with those who took part in the event. But as a precautionary measure, all of them were placed in isolation at the mosque and were under observation," he said. Meanwhile, the collector has instructed officials to quarantine for a month all those who have arrived in Korba from other states and staying in different mosques. She has also directed the health officials to conduct their medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-yr-old-tablighi-member-tests-covid-19-positive-in-chhattisgarh-821246.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: At least 200 people evacuated from Bareilly dargah, ordered home-quarantine||At least 200 people were evacuated from the Shahdana Wali Dargah here and sent homes after medical screening and instruction to remain in self-quarantine, officials said on Saturday. Dargah’s mutwalli (caretaker) Wajid Ali said that these people were from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and other places and were present in the Dargah for more than 10 days. "A day after the Janta Curfew was observed (on March 22), a letter was sent to the Baradari Police Station (from the Dargah) to make arrangement for these people to go home. However, no one took cognisance of it," he said. The police have denied having received any such communication. Late on Friday night, the police and the district administration got the Dargah evacuated. Additional Superintendent of Police Abhishek Varma said, "People used to come to the Dargah for medical treatment. Over 200 people were present there. They have been screened by the health department officials and sent to their homes. They have been told to stay in quarantine at their homes." Varma also dismissed Wajid Ali’s claim about a letter being sent by the Dargah administration to the police in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-at-least-200-people-evacuated-from-bareilly-dargah-ordered-home-quarantine-821249.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Two more COVID-19 deaths in MP; state death toll now 10||With two more persons dying due to COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh, the death toll in the state reached 10 on Saturday, officials said. While one of the men died in Chhindwara, another one succumbed to the infection in Indore, they said. "A 36-year-old government employee, who had tested positive for coronavirus in Chhindwara town of Madhya Pradesh two days back, died on Saturday morning," an official said. His father has also tested coronavirus positive in Chhindwara. Talking about the deceased from Indore, a health official said, "The man, 42, died due to COVID-19. A resident of North Hathipala area, he was undergoing treatment at government-run MRTB hospital. He breathed his last in the morning." "He was obese. Apart from breathing problems, he was also suffering from high BP and had a fever," the official added. Earlier, five persons had died due to the infection in Indore, which has emerged as one of the hotspots for the COVID-19 spread in the state. Two others had died in Ujjain and one each in Khargone, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-mp-state-death-toll-now-10-821252.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Doc stays at the door during rare visit home||His last meeting with the family was just a few minutes long -- the time it takes to have a cup of tea. And this was sipped outside the front door. Dr Gurpal Kataria is posted at Punjab government hospital in Nawanshahr, a coronavirus hotspot. The frontline doctor and his team are taking care of the 18 infected patients admitted at the isolation ward there. The doctor has little time now to visit his family in Jalandhar, 60 km away. He keeps in touch over the phone but the last, brief visit was two weeks back. “I did not enter the home as a precautionary measure, just saw them and then returned on duty,” he says. Kataria’s wife is a dentist at the Hoshiarpur civil hospital. “My daughter, who has given the class 10 exam, always tells me to take care. She also feels proud that her parents are serving people,” he says. Nawanshahr has reported 19 coronavirus cases so far, the highest number from any district in Punjab where the count was 53 on Saturday morning. A 70-year-old patient has died in Nawanshahr. Eighteen others, including a two-and-a-half-year-old child and three women, are in the isolation ward of the civil hospital, waiting for the day their tests results show negative. Kataraia says a major concern is the patients’ morale. They often ask doctors about the coronavirus count, worrying how many people have died each day. “For us this is like a place of worship, where we get a sense of satisfaction when we see happiness on the faces of our patients,” says the 54-year-old doctor. “We counsel our patients on a regular basis and tell them there is no need to be scared and they will be fine. We try to keep them in positive frame of mind and keep their morale high,” Kataria says. “We do not let them feel that they are stuck here.” “When they go back from here, they will certainly remember us,” he says. He says all arrangements are in place at the government hospital to deal with any coronavirus eventuality. Medical teams are on standby, in case there is a spike. Kataria’s own team -- which includes a microbiologist, a rural medical officer, a pharmacist and a lab technician – stays in houses within the hospital complex. “I and my team are available round the clock here,” he tells PTI over the phone. Kataria got his MD degree from the Amritsar government medical college. His experience at the time of swine flu outbreak in 2009 has helped him in dealing with the coronavirus cases, he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-doc-stays-at-the-door-during-rare-visit-home-821254.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Healthy baby born to COVID-19 positive woman at AIIMS; first such case in Delhi||A coronavirus positive woman has given birth to a baby at the AIIMS here, official sources said, adding that the baby is "healthy and doing well as of now". Dr Neerja Bhatla, professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at AIIMS who led the team which carried out the delivery said the baby boy was born on Friday evening, a week early, through C-section and is doing fine so far. When asked if the baby's sample would be tested for COVID-19, she said, "We are going to monitor his condition and look out for symptoms. So far the baby is doing fine."    According to doctors, this is the first baby to be born to a coronavirus infected woman in Delhi. The baby's mother who was nine-months pregnant had tested positive on Thursday after her husband, a senior resident doctor working in the department of physiology at AIIMS, was found to be infected with the virus. The doctor's brother has also tested positive for the respiratory infection.  The baby is with his mother since he will need breastfeeding. So far, there is no proof that suggests that the virus can be transmitted through breastfeeding, another doctor said. The doctor said the mother is also fine and though she has tested positive for COVID-19, she is asymptomatic at present.  The AIIMS has already prepared a protocol dedicated to the care of COVID-19 infected pregnant woman patients. According to WHO, women with COVID-19 can breastfeed if they wish to but should practice hygiene during the feeding, where a mask where available, wash hands before and after touching the baby and routinely clean and disinfect surfaces they have touched.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/healthy-baby-born-to-covid-19-positive-woman-at-aiims-first-such-case-in-delhi-821256.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Psychological strength is as important as clinical support, says Mumbai coronavirus survivor||A 34-year-old South Mumbai resident became a ray of hope for Mumbai people amidst current COVID-19 pandemic. The woman completely recovered from this disease and was discharged from Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital on Friday. “I had continuous cold but no cough or fever. I underwent testing on doctor’s advice and it came COVID-19 positive. The psychological impact of being tested positive was worse than my medical condition,” said the patient. Citing the state-wide lockdown and lack of travelling options, the patient contacted Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital.  A special ambulance, equipped with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit, was sent to her residence.  She was admitted to the dedicated isolation facility for COVID-19 patients on March 24. Dr. Abdul Samad Ansari, Director, Critical Care Services, said the patient was admitted in the hospital with coronavirus positive status. “Throughout the treatment, the patient faced no major respiratory distress and remained haemodynamically stable. All her throat swab samples have tested negative of COVID-19 and we are happy to discharge her,” said Dr. Ansari. The patient, as per the guidelines set forth by Public Health Department of Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM), will follow an institutionalised quarantine before she can return to her home. “Health-workers have a lion’s share in fighting the pandemic. Covered in a complete protective gear the staff strived dedicatedly for my recovery throughout the treatment. As a personal responsibility, I tried to do small things on my own and avoided calling them repeatedly,” said the patient. The patient felt that while some individuals are still not taking COVID-19 seriously, many are panicking.  “This disease is serious but if you follow all preventive measures, seek timely medical help, give an accurate clinical history and maintain a positive approach towards the treatment, you can defeat it. More than anything, psychological strength is as important as the clinical support,” the patient said.  “I especially thank Vandana Pakle, Director, Radiant Life Care, for being a strong support during this vulnerable period. I am truly touched by the warm gestures of the entire staff, including Dr. Manish Bhatija, Dr. Chirag Patel and all the nurses, ward boys and staff members whose names I can’t remember. They didn’t hesitate to perform their duties and treated me by risking their own lives,” she added. Manpreet Sohal, Director and Chief Operating Officer, Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital, said he is proud of the entire clinical team including the doctors, nurses, ward-boys and housekeeping staff who are working tirelessly in hospital’s specialised Covid-19 facility. “We have created an isolation facility including Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for patients diagnosed with COVID-19. Trained staff with Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to look after the patients in this facility||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/psychological-strength-is-as-important-as-clinical-support-says-mumbai-coronavirus-survivor-821261.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Madrasa management offers hostel building for quarantine facility in J&K's Doda||A well-known Islamic seminary in Doda district has offered its hostel building for setting up a 100-bed quarantine facility for coronavirus patients, its management said on Saturday. In a letter to the tehsil administration, Madrassa Gunyat-Uloom Akhyar Pura’s Principal Mufti Burhan-ul-Haq Ganipuri has said the hostel building of the religious institution can be utilized as a quarantine facility to combat the spread of coronavirus in the hill district. Madrasa Gunyat-Ul-Uloom is the largest seminary of Jammu province, located in Tehsil Chilli-Pingal in Bhalessa area of Doda. “We are ready to offer the hostel as a quarantine facility as the building is located in an area which has a large population and has no hospital or any other government building to be used as a quarantine centre,” Ganipuri said. He said the school would like to offer its services for helping the country in its fight against the novel coronavirus. “We have already kept 100 beds with washrooms and kitchen ready to be used as a quarantine facility. The building is three-storied and is a hostel for students,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madrasa-management-offers-hostel-building-for-quarantine-facility-in-jks-doda-821263.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Police to deliver FIRs at doorsteps of lockdown violators||In a drive against those who violate the nationwide lockdown in the district, police here will register cases against them and deliver copies of the FIRs at their homes, a senior official said on Saturday. SSP Abhishek Yadav told reporters here that the violators will not be arrested during the first instance but police will arrest those found to be violating the lockdown for the second time. Police has started the drive-in every street of the district under which cases will be lodged against those found violating the lockdown restrictions imposed across the country and the copies of the FIRs will be delivered at their doorsteps, he said. Meanwhile, two youths have been booked based on CCTV footage after they were found wandering in the streets and the FIRs were delivered to them at their houses, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-to-deliver-firs-at-doorsteps-of-lockdown-violators-821264.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Give more financial aid to states to help them deal with coronavirus outbreak: Congress to Centre||The Congress on Saturday appealed to the central government to empower states in their fight against coronavirus by providing them with more finances and resources. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the Centre should also take state governments on board while evolving strategies to fight the deadly disease. "We have talked about cooperative federalism. Time has come that we should walk the talk. The Centre should take the states together with it, empower them by providing them with more finances and resources. It is only when the states are capable and when the Centre has decentralised, that we can win this war against coronavirus," she said. Addressing a press conference via video, she said states are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus, while implementing and executing various policies on the ground. The Congress leader said the Centre should provide Rs one lakh crore to states to fight COVID-19, besides releasing pending GST dues of Rs 42,000 crore to state governments with immediate effect. "The states at this time are facing the biggest financial crisis in fighting the virus. The central government should provide a Rs 1 lakh crore package for states to fight COVID-19," she told reporters. Shrinate said despite assurances, the GST revenue that was to be compensated to states by the central government had not been done. She also raised the demand for providing loans to states at zero per cent interest and urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to enable such facilities in consultation with the central government. The Congress spokesperson said states, unlike the central government, do not have enough capital and financial resources at their disposal. A demand to allow trucks carrying essential commodities, stranded at state borders, was also made to help maintain the supply chain in the country which is giving rise to their shortage and consequent price rise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/give-more-financial-aid-to-states-to-help-them-deal-with-coronavirus-outbreak-congress-to-centre-821265.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||PIL in SC seeks full wages for MGNREGA workers for lockdown period||A fresh PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre and authorities to pay full wages to MGNREGA workers for the entire period of the nationwide lockdown. The 21-day lockdown from March 25 was announced by the government to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. The Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed by activists Aruna Roy and Nikhil Dey of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan. It said that over seven crore workers registered under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) Scheme be deemed to be on job during the lockdown period like other employees and they be paid full wages. The plea, filed through lawyer Prashant Bhushan, assailed the direction of the Ministry of Rural Development to state governments that MGNREGA workers may be allowed to work wherever possible during the lockdown. It has sought protection of fundamental rights to health and livelihood guaranteed under Article 14 and Article 21 of the Constitution for over 7.6 crore workers under the employment guarantee scheme. "By the order dated March 24, issued under... the National Disaster Management Act, and binding on all ministries/instrumentalities of the central government and state governments, the central government has placed the entire country under a 'National Lockdown' with requisite exceptions only for essential services/goods to protect lives/ health of all citizens of the country by ensuring social physical distancing," the plea said The guidelines of the Ministry of Rural Development saying that MGNREGA workers may be allowed to work is contrary to the lockdown order and it risked "health/lives of MGNREGA workers as it is not possible to ensure social/physical distancing in the nature of the works performed", it said. Being largely involved in construction work, workers pass material from one person to another and social distancing is not possible, it said. "Pertinently, COVID-19 is now present in almost all districts of the country which is a serious health hazard for these vulnerable citizens particularly because the number of persons seeking work is bound to increase as many persons otherwise employed in other sectors are desperate for wages (including migrants who have returned from various cities/places)," it said. The plea said asking MGNREGA workers to work is "arbitrary and violative" of their Article 14 (right to equality) rights as other non-essential workers have been allowed to protect their health by staying home and ensuring physical distancing. "The present petition ...prays that Respondents issue uniform guidelines to all states/union territories that for the entire duration of the lockdown at least all active and registered job card holders under the MGNREGA Act will be deemed to be at work and accordingly make full payment of their wages at the earliest," it said. Forcing over 12 crore workers to seek work daily during the lockdown when public transport is not available and police have clear directions to apprehend non-essential worker amounted to violation of right to life and livelihood of these vulnerable citizens, it said "As coronavirus cases have now spread to large parts of rural India, the arbitrary order exacerbates a public health emergency," the PIL said. The plea has also sought a direction to authorities to issue "individual temporary job cards within 15 days to all migrants who have returned from the cities to their native villages" . It also sought a direction to the Centre to "increase entitlement of households from 100 days of work to 200 days per household to support rural livelihoods during the emerging economic crisis".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-sc-seeks-full-wages-for-mgnrega-workers-for-lockdown-period-821271.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Ladakh shows how to deal with coronavirus pandemic||While the spread of coronavirus accelerates rapidly elsewhere around the world, the pandemic is slowing down across Ladakh Union Territory (UT). The Ladakh UT, which was one of the first few regions in the country to report positive coronavirus cases, has registered just one case in the last 15 days. The first two positive cases in the UT were reported on March 7 with both the patients having travel history to Iran. By March 18, the number of positive cases in the UT, which has 2.74 lakh population according to the 2011 census, jumped to 13. As of now total active positive cases in Ladakh are seven with seven patients having been recovered. A senior health official in Leh told DH that sample reports of about 49 people were received on Thursday and all of them tested negative. He attributed the success to stop the rise of the positive cases, to measures like, “strict lockdown, and mass contact tracing.” “We need to step up surveillance and find cases early; isolate them and treat them and trace their contacts to contain its spread,” the official said, adding that this was adopted by the health and other agencies in Ladakh. Divisional Commissioner Ladakh (UT) Swagat Biswas said the implementation of the complete lockdown at an earliest, contact tracing, self-declaration and testing has to a large extent helped in combating the COVID-19. “Lockdown is, of course, working and people are cooperating; as of now we have been able to contain the virus to some extent,” he said. Meanwhile, a Central Rapid Response Team (CRRT) of doctors of PGIMER, Chandigarh has appreciated the people of Ladakh for their sense of understanding, cooperation and thankfulness towards the health professionals and workers in observing the lockdown and combating COVID-19. The CRRT of doctors for COVID-19 confirmed that following a proactive and stringent policy of UT administration, the situation so far is under control in Ladakh. A senior doctor in Srinagar, who is at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19, said people in the Valley and other parts of the country were simply not ready to tackle the coronavirus with the speed and seriousness that Ladakh has. “This is the reason that COVID-19 cases in Kashmir and other parts of the country are rising rapidly. We need to replicate the Ladakh model to deal with the deadly virus,” he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-shows-how-to-deal-with-coronavirus-pandemic-821272.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||J&K Congress leader welcomes amended domicile recruitment rules, advocates restoration of statehood||A senior Congress leader from Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday welcomed the amendment in the J&K recruitment rules to reserve all government jobs in the Union Territory for the domiciles. J&K Congress vice-president and former minister G M Saroori, however, urged the central government to fulfill the “cherished demand” of the local residents for restoration of statehood. The Centre has amended its two-day-old order and reserved all jobs in Jammu and Kashmir for the domiciles of the Union territory -- people who have stayed there for at least 15 years. On Wednesday, while laying down the rules for domiciles, the government had reserved jobs only up to group 4, which is equivalent to the rank of constable in police parlance and multi-tasking staff in government offices. However, following angry reactions from local political parties, an amended gazette notification -- titled the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order-2020 -- was put out on Friday night, reserving jobs for the domiciles of the UT, which was formed in October last year after the Centre withdrew the special status of the erstwhile state and announced its bifurcation. Welcoming the amendment, Saroori congratulated the people of Jammu and Kashmir for remaining united and “forcing the centre to amend the order for the better future of Jammu and Kashmir”. “The backlash from everyone irrespective of caste, colour, creed, region and religion forced the BJP government to amend the order within 24 hours…,” he said. Besides, Saroori demanded constitutional guarantees over land rights for the people of the erstwhile state. Without identifying anyone, he said some elements are trying to divide the society and asked people to remain vigilant against them. The former minister urged the Central government to fulfil the cherished demand of the local residents for restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-congress-leader-welcomes-amended-domicile-recruitment-rules-advocates-restoration-of-statehood-821277.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Using 'red dot' signal, women seek help to escape domestic violence during lockdown||Social entrepreneur Iti Rawat recently received an email with a woman's picture with a red dot on her palm and a message "ma'am, I need your help". The woman was indicating that she was being subjected to domestic abuse, a crime which saw a sudden spike ever since the lockdown was imposed in India in view of the coronavirus outbreak that has claimed at least 68 lives and infected over 2,900 so far. The restricted movement due to the lockdown has specially hit the victims of domestic violence who suddenly found themselves trapped in their homes with their abusers. Several women are either unable or too afraid to call the police to get help to move out. To help such women reach out, WEFT (Women Entrepreneurs For Transformation) Foundation, a not for profit body working for women's empowerment, launched a new initiative called 'red dot' under which citizens can identify a domestic violence victim by seeing a red dot on her palm and inform NGOs or authorities. "The citizens who see the red dot on the palm can either get in touch with WEFT through social media or email weftinfo@gmail.com or they can also call 181 which is the toll free number to get support," Rawat told PTI. The initiative launched three days back has received over 20 complaints of domestic violence from across the country, said Rawat, founder of WEFT Women Entrepreneurs Foundation. Talking about the cases received by them, Rawat said one of the cases was from Kolkata where the victim was caught at home with her husband who was jobless since the lockdown. He was beating the wife, took away all her savings and was assaulting her in front of her son, Rawat said. "She contacted WEFT through the red dot initiative. We supported her with food and helped her," she said. Rawat said the red dot initiative is a citizen-led movement under which they plan to create videos and stories that can go viral so that people start identifying this symbol as indicative of domestic violence. "During the lockdown, victims are stuck now with the oppressors as if in a jail and inside the home has become more unsafe for them than outside the home. We want to make 'Red Dot on the Palm' a global symbol for domestic violence. This way many women will break silence and would be able to lead better lives," Rawat said. She said she has been in touch with the National Commission for Women and UN Women to take the initiative forward. The National Commission for Women has also flagged the issue of spike in cases of domestic violence since the enforcement of the lockdown. NCW chief Rekha Sharma had said the number of domestic violence cases must be much higher but the women are scared to complain due to constant presence of their abusers at home. She said from March 24 till April 1, the NCW has received 69 domestic violence complaints and they are increasing by the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/using-red-dot-signal-women-seek-help-to-escape-domestic-violence-during-lockdown-821281.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Make donation to PM fund voluntary, use money for buying protective gear: AIIMS RDA to admin||The AIIMS Resident Doctors' Association has written to the hospital administration, demanding that donations to PM-CARES fund be made a voluntary exercise and the money collected be used locally for procuring protective gear for them. The AIIMS administration has appealed to all resident doctors to contribute their one-day salary to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) fund to aid the government’s effort to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. While appreciating the AIIMS administration for stepping up to the challenge of handling the pandemic, the AIIMS RDA said the notice for donation without consulting them violates an individual's right to support the country in the way they prefer. "Considering the shortage of PPEs and other facilities for travel and sanitation inside the campus itself, AIIMS RDA after feedback from residents requests you to make this exercise voluntary (opt in only) and use the funds locally for the provision of PPEs and other facilities to equip the healthcare workers better handle the pandemic and support the country in the crisis. Kindly withdraw this notice with immediate effect," they said in their letter. In its notice, the administration has also said that any resident having objection to it may write through email, WhatsApp or SMS to their account officers latest by April 6. “If no objection is received by April 6, the deduction of amount equal to one-day salary will be made from the arrears to be accrued on account of the enhancement of DA towards the contribution to PM CARES fund,” the administration’s notice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/make-donation-to-pm-fund-voluntary-use-money-for-buying-protective-gear-aiims-rda-to-admin-821288.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||275 Kashmiri students struck in Rajasthan despite completing 14-day quarantine||At least 275 Kashmir students, including females, who were evacuated from Iran and quarantined at an army facility in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan almost a month ago, have not been allowed to go back to their homes raising concern among their families. The families of these students have threatened to hit the streets if the government continues its “dilly-dallying” approach to bring them back to Kashmir. These students were brought back in Air India flights from Iran March 10 to 16 and were quarantined at the Army Wellness Centre in Jaisalmer. Though they have completed a mandatory 14-day quarantine and tested negative for COVID-19, the authorities have been unable to bring them back to their homes. The parents of these students met Divisional Commissioner Kashmir P K Pole but were annoyed by his response. “The administration is using dilly-dally tactics. We are running out of patience. All the reports of our children have come as negative but despite passing almost a month, they continue to remain in the army's quarantine centre without any logic,” they complained. One of the parent Shabir Hussain, whose daughter is at Jaisalmer army facility, alleged that after taking up the issue with the divisional commissioner, they were annoyed to see the “cold response of the administration?” “If this dilly-dallying continues over our children, we will be left with no option other than to hit the streets. Our demand is that our children should be airlifted back to Srinagar without any further delay,” he demanded. Another parent said despite his daughter being in an army facility for a month, there is no word from the authorities neither in New Delhi nor in J&K, as to when she would be brought back. A senior official in Srinagar said they were trying their best to bring these students back. “But due to the nationwide lockdown, it is becoming almost impossible to do so. We have taken up the issue with higher authorities and hope that some solution arrives soon,” he said. It is pertinent to mention here that the demand for evacuation of Kashmiri students stranded in Iran had prompted Minister for External Affairs Minister S Jaishanker to fly to Srinagar to meet their parents on March 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/275-kashmiri-students-struck-in-rajasthan-despite-completing-14-day-quarantine-821292.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Safdarjung Hospital seeks contact details of staff WhatsApp group admins to check fake news||Safdarjung Hospital and Vardhman Mahavir Medical College have sought contact details of administrators of all staff WhatsApp groups to share them with the police to curb the spread of fake news. The Centre-run institute issued a circular in this regard on Friday. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had visited Safdarjung Hospital on Friday for a detailed review of the facilities available at the super specialty block which has been converted into a state-of-the-art COVID-19 isolation management centre with 400 isolation and 100 ICU beds. Doctors at Safdarjung Hospital have been treating COVID-19 patients since February. "I am directed by the competent authority that as a legal requirement names, mobile numbers, email of all admins of WhatsApp groups of hospital are required for onward transmission to police," Dr Prem Kumar, additional superintendent of Safdarjung Hospital, said in the circular. "This is required to prevent spreading of any fake news, rumours, or any other adverse comments/statements on social media and in the institution by any hospital/college staff. This is for urgent and strict compliance," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/safdarjung-hospital-seeks-contact-details-of-staff-whatsapp-group-admins-to-check-fake-news-821308.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Railways designs 'doctor's booth' for zero-contact check-ups||The West Central Railway's Coach Rehabilitation Workshop (CRWS) has designed a mobile "doctor's booth", using a toilet from one of its old coaches, to facilitate zero-contact check-ups in light of the coronavirus pandemic. The CRWS in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal city repurposed the toilet from an old bogey, by converting it into a cabin, which can be used by doctors to examine patients without directly coming into contact with them. "As medical staff, especially doctors, are facing threat to their lives due to shortage of PPE kits, engineers at the CRWS converted toilets of unused rail coaches into mobile booths, which can be placed anywhere," a senior CRWS official told PTI. The booth will have a back entrance and a glass exterior in front, while doctors can sit comfortably on a specially designed chair and examine patients from two openings covered with protective gears, he said. The cabin will also have a wall-mounted side table for doctors to write prescriptions, study x-rays and test reports, the official added. This booth will enable doctors to examine patients without any direct physical contact or interaction, thereby protecting them from dangers of viral exposure without any PPE kit, he said. Besides, it is also environment-friendly, as it reduces the disposal of single polypropylene PPEs, he added. A prototype of the booth will be ready in a day or two and subject to demand, the CRWS can supply the same to medical professionals, the official said, adding that the cost and other modalities of cabins will be decided once the design is approved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railways-designs-doctors-booth-for-zero-contact-check-ups-821320.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||1,023 COVID-19 positive cases with links to Tablighi Jamaat reported from 17 states: Health ministry||As many as 1,023 COVID-19 positive cases found in 17 states have been traced to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday, underlining that about 30 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country are linked to "one particular place". Joint Secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said in the daily media briefing that the rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases in India is pretty less as compared to other countries. He said a total of 2,902 COVID-19 cases have been reported so far and cases have risen by 601 since Friday. The joint secretary said as many as 68 deaths, including 12 since Friday, have been reported and added that 183 people have recovered or have been discharged. A total of 1,023 positive cases of COVID-19 with links to Tablighi Jamaat congregation have been reported across 17 states, Agarwal said. "Rigorous contact tracing is on across 17 states which have reported cases related to Tablighi Jamaat congregation," the health ministry official said. "Around 30 per cent of the total cases so far are linked to one particular place where we could not sort of understand it and manage it,” he said. The Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held earlier last month in Delhi's West Nizamuddin area, which has turned into a COVID-19 hotspot. India is increasing COVID-19 testing capacity progressively, the official said, adding that there is no need to panic but awareness is needed to fight the battle against COVID-19. "We are increasing our COVID-19 testing capacity progressively," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1023-covid-19-positive-cases-with-links-to-tablighi-jamaat-reported-from-17-states-health-ministry-821321.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat event attendee, student test COVID-19 positive in Madhya Pradesh||Two people, one of whom attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi's Nizamuddin area last month, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday in Khargone in Madhya Pradesh, health officials said. The number of COVID-19 patients in the district now stands at three, one of whom, a 65-year-old, had died in Indore last week, they said. "A 49-year-old man from here who had gone to South Africa and then flown to Delhi to attend the Tablighi Jamaat event has tested positive on Saturday. He is a resident of Sahkar Nagar here and had returned to Khargone on March 19," said Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Rajni Dabar. At least 9,000 people participated at a congregation at the organisation's Nizamuddin Markaz last month after which many travelled to various parts of the country for missionary works. "The second patient is a 34-year-old resident of Asangaon here. He had reached Delhi from France, where he studies medicine, and had even spent 14-days in isolation before reaching Khargone on March 15," Dabar said. Meanwhile, district authorities said a containment area of three kilometre radius had been formed around the houses of the two patients and people there have been home quarantined and health teams are carrying out surveys as per protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-event-attendee-student-test-covid-19-positive-in-madhya-pradesh-821341.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Four Hizbul militants killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Four local militants affiliated with the indigenous Hizbul Mujahideen outfit were killed, while three army personnel were injured in an encounter between security forces and ultras in south Kashmir's Kulgam district on Saturday morning. The gun battle began at 5.30 am in Hardmanguri village of Kulgam, 85 Km from Srinagar, where the militants were hiding in a house in the middle of an apple orchard. Sources said Army’s 34-Rashtriya Rifles (RR) and J&K police had cordoned off the village during the night after a ‘specific input’ about the presence of militants in the area. “Early in the morning, hiding militants fired upon the security forces party and in the retaliatory action four ultras were killed,” they said. However, sources said after the house was set on fire, militants ran out into the lawn of the house where three of them were killed and another one took refuge in a nearby house which belonged to one Abdul Aziz Lone. “The fourth militant was killed in that house while the house was also substantially damaged,” a local source said. The slain militants were identified as Ashraf Malik, Aijaz Naik, Shahid Malik and Waqar Ahmad, all locals affiliated with the Hizb-ul. There, however, were reports that another militant, the fifth one was trapped in the area. General Officer Commanding (GOC) Victor Force, A Sen Gupta told reporters that search was on for the fifth militant. “We have retrieved four bodies and search was on for the fifth one,” he said in a press briefing. According to the police, this was the same group of militants who were involved in the killings of four civilians in Kulgam and Anantnag in the past 12 days. The police said that the attacks on the civilians happened while authorities were preoccupied with abating the threat of coronavirus. Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said that this group of militants had been operating from the area for several years and confirmed that they were also the ones who killed the civilians. Notably, this was the first encounter in Kulgam district after a gap of around 11 months and first across Kashmir since lockdown was imposed to prevent spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-hizbul-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-821345.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 death toll nears 100-mark; Govt says no need to panic as 30% infections linked to Tablighi centre||The number of COVID-19 deaths inched towards 100 on Saturday along with a significant increase in the number of confirmed infections, but the government assured there was no need to panic as the rate of spread was less than in many other countries and just "one place" accounted for 30 per cent of detected cases. The Health Ministry said the testing capacity has been ramped up significantly to over 10,000 tests per day to detect the deadly coronavirus infection, as it emphasised on continuous compliance to lockdown and social distancing measures, along with personal and environmental hygiene, to win this "daily battle". Officials said at least 1,023 confirmed cases of infection have been found to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the national capital last month, but massive efforts by various authorities have led to nearly 22,000 people linked to the religious grouping and their primary contacts getting quarantined. The Tablighi-linked infections, found across 17 states, including Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, showed that almost 30 per cent of them are from "one particular place where we could not sort of understand it and manage it", Union Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said. The data shared by Agarwal and other government officials in their daily press briefing showed that an average of one in 25 people tested for the infection have found to be a positive case, while the mortality rate among those testing positive appeared even less at one in 30. Officials said about 75,000 tests have been conducted so far, with the number of daily tests doubling to more than 10,000 from about 5,000 a few days ago. While the number of government labs has increased to over 100, several private labs have also been roped in, Agarwal said. Globally, more than 11 lakh people have tested positive so far since the outbreak of this deadly virus in December last, which has left nearly 60,000 dead. The US alone has seen over 2.7 lakh confirmed cases while it recorded nearly 1,500 deaths within 24 hours between Thursday and Friday. Italy has recorded the maximum deaths at nearly 15,000. Agarwal said a total of 2,902 COVID-19 cases have been reported so far in India, with an increase of 601 in last 24 hours -- the highest for such a period -- with at least 58 of them in critical condition in Kerala, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh. In the same time span, 12 more have died taking the nationwide toll to 68, Agarwal said. However, according to a PTI tally of figures reported by states directly showed at least 94 deaths across the country while the number of confirmed cases of infection had crossed 3,250 as on Saturday late afternoon. Of them more than 200 have been cured and discharged. Maharashtra reported a sharp increase in the number of cases to 537, while Rajasthan, Assam, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat also reported rise in infections since Friday night, while more deaths were reported from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Karnataka. Agarwal said the rate of doubling of cases is still very low in India, compared to many other countries, but it must be kept in mind that the country is dealing with a communicable disease and fighting a daily battle. "We may be successful today, but may not be so tomorrow and to win this battle we need support of everyone including the public," he said, while emphasising the need for continuously following the lockdown and social distancing measures, as also personal and environmental hygiene. ] "We are as strong as the weakest link in this chain and we can win this battle only with support of everyone," he said. Sharing the age-group analysis of COVID-19 patients, Agarwal said the maximum 42 per cent are of 21-40 years, 33 per cent of 41-60 years, 17 per cent are above 60 years and 9 per cent are of 0-20 years. The elderly people and those with other medical complications are said to be at higher risk in this pandemic. In Delhi also, five of the six COVID-19 patients who have died were above 60. At the briefing, government officials said the lockdown is being effectively implemented across the country while supply of essential goods is also going on well, as they expressed confidence we all together will be "successful in breaking the COVID-19 chain". The officials also asked people to refrain from using alcohol-based hand sanitisers while lighting lamps on Sunday night, for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made an appeal to show solidarity in the fight against COVID-19. They also said that apprehensions about a possible grid collapse due to collecting switching off of lights at that time was misplaced. On the recent advisory about use of home-made face covers, the Health Ministry officials said it was only for conveying the message of personal hygiene measures. Among various states, Uttar Pradesh reported a significant increase in the number of coronavirus cases to 227, including 94 cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. Of these, 21 have fully recovered while others are undergoing treatment at hospitals, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. Two have died in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-nears-100-mark-govt-says-no-need-to-panic-as-30-infections-linked-to-tablighi-centre-821347.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||445 COVID-19 cases in Delhi, may rise further as people from Nizamuddin congregation being tested: Kejriwal||The number of coronavirus cases stood at 445 in Delhi but the situation was under control and there was no community transmission, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. There were 40 cases of local transmission while a majority of other patients either had foreign travel history or they were recently evacuated from Nizamuddin Markaz, he said. All of around 2,300 people evacuated from Markaz will be tested for the virus in next 2-3 days when the number of patients may spike, he said. He said among six persons who died in Delhi due to coronavirus, five were above 60 years of age and also had one or other serious ailment. Kejriwal said there was shortage of personal protective equipment for doctors and nurses. The Centre has yet to provide PPEs to Delhi, Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/445-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-may-rise-further-as-people-from-nizamuddin-congregation-being-tested-kejriwal-821350.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: EC postpones polls to 11 UP Legislative Council seats||The Election Commission has postponed the elections to 11 Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council seats which will fall vacant in May in view of the ongoing lockdown, a senior official said on Saturday. The EC, however, did not give a date for holding the elections in its order issued on Friday. "The tenure of 5 MLCs from graduates' constituency and 6 MLCs from teachers' constituency is coming to an end on May 6. Hence, elections should be held on these seats," Chief Electoral Officer of Uttar Pradesh Ajay Kumar Shukla said in a statement. To conduct elections on these seats, at least four weeks' time is needed, he said. "However, in wake of implementation of a three-week nationwide lockdown, the Election Commission of India has ordered that the process of elections to 11 seats of Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council shall be initiated at a later date after reviewing the situation," he added. A graduates' constituency is one in which only graduates from any recognised Indian university, or those with an equivalent qualification, can vote. In a teachers' constituency, only a full-time teacher in at least a secondary school or higher is eligible to vote. The Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council has 100 seats. At present, it has a strength of 99, while one seat is vacant. The lockdown, which came into force on March 25, was imposed by the Centre to control the spread of coronavirus in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-ec-postpones-polls-to-11-up-legislative-council-seats-821355.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Passport will be impounded on failing to declare travel history: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said those who fail to inform the authorities about their travel history will face strict action, including confiscation of their passports. “We will take away their passports too,” he warned. To strengthen the state government's efforts to check the spread of coronavirus, Singh also authorized extension for all retiring Health department employees by three months, an official spokesperson said. A detailed list will be submitted later to the chief minister for approval, he added. The state Council of Ministers passed three resolutions thanking various people for their exceptional contribution to the battle against COVID-19, the spokesperson said. The chief minister said his government was immensely grateful to all those who were extending support to the government in dealing with the pandemic and he would personally thank all of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/passport-will-be-impounded-on-failing-to-declare-travel-history-punjab-cm-821382.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||600 km to home: Daily wager reaches home just in time to see his baby’s birth||There was panic in the air with talk of a pandemic, his job was probably gone as was the roof over his head, but Mukesh Maurya did not let his spirits flag as he set off from Delhi for his village, more than 600 kilometres away, determined to be home to see his baby being born. There were no trains and few buses to get to Musafirkhana in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district all the way from Rajouri Garden where he worked as a daily wage labourer, but get there he did.  It was March 28, Saturday, when he set off for home, 650 km away. The nationwide lockdown to curtail the spread of COVID-19 had begun after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s March 24 announcement and all roads to home it seemed were blocked. But where there is a will there is a way, and 22-year-old Maurya, who reached home on Sunday evening, found it. It took many hours of walking, several more hours of waiting and three gruelling, very crowded bus rides, with social distancing a random, distant thought. “I reached just in time. My wife was having labour pains when I reached our village and we had to quickly arrange for an ambulance to take her to hospital,” Maurya, now a proud father of a baby boy, told PTI over the phone. “I could manage to be there with my wife when my son was born,” he added, the three days of stress and the arduous journey home seemingly already a distant memory. The young man, who earned about Rs 8,000 a month as a daily wage labourer in Rajouri Garden on west Delhi erecting tents and ‘pandals’ for weddings and other events, said he waited for three days from Wednesday to Friday for the situation to improve and to find some way to leave. When it didn’t, he just packed his belongings in a backpack and started walking, joining the exodus of many thousands of migrant workers trekking back to their homes with no food, no jobs and no savings. Several hours into the walk, he said, they were told the Uttar Pradesh government would run bus services on Saturday from Anand Vihar in east Delhi to ferry stranded migrant workers.   Notwithstanding the threat of coronavirus infection, he joined the throng of workers to find a spot in the bus on Saturday night. In what was the beginning of 20 hours of bus rides, with the passengers packed in like sardines, the Uttar Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) bus first took him to Sitapur. There, he waited for five hours for another bus to Lucknow. From Lucknow, he took a private bus to his village in Musafirkhana. It was expensive, costing him Rs 1,200, but worth every rupee, he said. He finally managed to reach his village on Sunday evening. Hours later, on Monday morning at around 11 am, his wife delivered a baby boy, who he said is yet to be named. Maurya, who has been working in Delhi for more than a decade, ever since he was a little boy, is safe with his family, which also includes his parents, three brothers who work as labourers in brick kilns and a younger sister. Life is difficult. His parents till their two ‘bighas’ (roughly an acre) of land and also work as labourers in neighbouring fields.   The challenges are many, he said. After the lockdown, he was told by his contractor there would be no work for at least the next few days and maybe longer. He was also receiving frantic phone calls from his family, their worries compounded by the coronavirus outbreak in the national capital. “There was so much stress. I had no work and I was getting constant calls from home to come back. Initially, there was no transport, so I decided to walk down like others. Then on Saturday, channels started flashing the news that the Uttar Pradesh government had started the bus services from Anand Vihar, making the journey easier,” he said. The stresses are over – but only for the moment. His wife is in hospital with the baby while he is under lockdown at home. But that’s a small worry. It’s the bigger questions that haunt– he has to start earning a living again and get back to Delhi but doesn’t know how or when. Asked when he would come back to the national capital, he replied, “As soon as this (coronavirus) crisis ends. But when will that be?” A question to which nobody has an answer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/600-km-to-home-daily-wager-reaches-home-just-in-time-to-see-his-baby-s-birth-821387.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Maharashtra lockdown may continue after April 14||The ongoing pan-India lockdown, meant to contain the spread of pandemic COVID-19, may continue in Maharashtra after April 14. There are several reasons that include the compounding number of cases in the Mumbai, the business and financial capital of India, the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region and urban grown centres like Pune and Nagpur.  "What to do next after April 14, we have to decide....it totally depends on the compliance by people to the directives and instructions of the government and the protocols," Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. "There is an increase in number of cases, particularly in the Mumbai-MMR area," Thackeray said. He reiterated the need to follow the norms of social distancing. "We have kept grocery shops open for 24 hours....it is for your convenience and not crowding," he said citing that during the lockdown some countries and states have restricted timings. "Shops are open for 2 hours, once in seven days or a fortnight....here we want to help everyone," he said, expressing displeasure on the crowding in bazaar and stores. Similar indications also came from the statements of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government has decided not to give any permission for religious events, community gathering and sports meets. Thackeray and Pawar minced no words.  "Till further orders, we will not give any permission for religious functions,  gatherings,  events and sports," Thackeray said in his webcast message.  "We have not given permission for Gudi Padwa and Ram Navami," he said, adding that irrespective of caste,  community, religion and region, no permission would be given till further notice. Pawar,  who holds the finance and planning portfolios, said: "On Monday,  there is Mahavir Jayanti,  on Wednesday,  there is Hanuman Jayanti,  followed by Shab-e-Baraat...please do not step out of your homes....this year,  please perform the rituals at home." Meanwhile, Tope said people should observe strict discipline so that the number of cases comes down. "This only will pave way for the lifting of lockdown," he said. According to him, whenever lockdown has to be lifted it has to be in phases. "Not all people can be allowed to come to the streets in one go," he said.The all-India 21-day-lockdown came in force from March 24.  Before that, there was a day-long Janta Curfew on March 22. In Mumbai-MMR and Maharashtra, the 144 CrPC was enforced even before that with a call to work-from-home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-lockdown-may-continue-after-april-14-821390.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Before his death, ex-Hazuri Raagi complained of not getting 'proper treatment'||A few hours before his death due to COVID-19, former 'Hazuri Raagi' at the Golden Temple Nirmal Singh had claimed he was not getting "proper treatment", his family claimed on Saturday. The family released an audio clip which purportedly was the last mobile phone conversation between Singh and his son when the Padma Shri awardee was at Guru Nanak Dev hospital here. "I am not getting proper treatment in an isolation ward. Doctors are not giving me the medicine. If this situation continues, I may die shortly," Singh is heard as saying in the clip. He even demanded that he be shifted to some other hospital, or he will "commit suicide". The family members alleged that Singh died because of doctors' negligence. They alleged Singh repeatedly asked the doctors to put him on ventilator support but none of the senior doctors went to the isolation ward to check on him. The 62-year-old ''Gurbani'' exponent died on Thursday. When contacted, the principal of the government college associated with the hospital, Sujata Sharma, rejected the allegations and claimed Singh was given proper treatment. "Raagi ji was shifted here when he was in an advanced stage of coronavirus. He was given proper treatment. He was scared and was not willing to stay in isolation ward and was also demanding to get him shifted to a private hospital,” she said. Meanwhile, paramedical staff and nurses on Saturday alleged that they were not given proper protective equipment, masks, gloves etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/before-his-death-ex-hazuri-raagi-complained-of-not-getting-proper-treatment-821409.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Will boycott Verka village for refusing cremation of Nirmal Singh, says Shiromani Ragi Sabha||A group of 'Hazoori Raagi' on Saturday announced that it will boycott Verka village in Punjab after its residents did not allow the cremation of Padma Shri awardee Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa. Khalsa (62), former Hazoori Raagi at the Golden Temple, died on April 2, a day after he tested positive of coronavirus. A group of residents of Verka village here had refused to allow the cremation of the Gurbani exponent, fearing spread of the disease. “The group of Hazoori Raagi known as 'Shiromnai Ragi Sabha' would never go to any of the houses of Verka village as they had willfully disrespected the departed soul who had dedicated his life for spiritual cause,” Shiromnai Ragi Sabha president Bhai Onkar Singh said. He said what the Verka villagers did was a sinful act. “In light of the act of villagers, the group of Hazoori Raagis in future will never visit Verka village for any cause or to perform 'Kirtan',” Singh said. Around 200 residents of Verka village led by local Congress leader Navdeep Singh had prevented the administration from conducting the cremation of Raagi Nirmal Singh. They had even locked the doors of the cremation ground to stop performing the last rites, an act which drew severe criticism from various quarters. The Verka village falls under the East assembly constituency led by Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu. Congress municipal councilor Navdeep Singh, however, put the blame on the district administration and said the incident happened because of their “mismanagement”. “The manner in which the officials of the district administration showed hurry to perform the last rites of Nirmal Singh caused suspicion in the minds of villagers,” he alleged. The Congress leader said the villagers feared that the cremation of the infected body could spread the infection. Thereafter, the mortal remains of Nirmal Singh were consigned to flames at Shukarchak village on the outskirts of the city on Thursday evening. Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal sought action against those who did not allow the cremation. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Gobind Singh Longowal also hit out at the incident, saying not allowing the cremation of Nirmal Singh was an act of disrespect to the departed soul who served the Sikh community throughout his life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-boycott-verka-village-for-refusing-cremation-of-nirmal-singh-says-shiromani-ragi-sabha-821421.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari gets threatening message||Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari has received a threat on his cell phone from an anonymous person. The accused also sent the link to a Facebook video in which a man can be purportedly heard warning Tiwari against his comments on quarantined Tablighi Jamaat members accused of misbehaving with the nursing staff at a Ghaziabad hospital. A police complaint has been made in connection with the threat, Tiwari said. "A person threatened me sending WhatsApp message on Friday evening. I have lodged complaint with the police and the culprit is expected to be caught soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-chief-manoj-tiwari-gets-threatening-message-821429.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||10,000 safety kits distributed among Mumbai cops||The police department in the state is under considerable pressure in light of the coronavirus pandemic. Yet the police are conducting their responsibilities in the best possible way. But while on duty, police personnel should take care of their health, the government is always in their support, assured Home Minister Anil Deshmukh today.  He was speaking at a function held to distribute safety kits and special plastic masks to police personnel at Mumbai Police Commissionerate today.  Mumbai CP Paramvir Singh, DCP (Law & Order) Vinay Chobe, Additional CP Naval Bajaj, DCP HQ Shrimati N Ambika, DCP (Excise) Pranay Ashok, DCP (Zone 1) Samgramsingh Nishandar, DCP (Zone 2) Rajiv Jan, DCP (SB 1) Ganesh Shinde and other officers and employees were present on this occasion. "Police personnel are risking their health and working for 16-18 hours. Therefore, it is imperative they take care of their health too. The Mumbai Police Commissionerate is distributing safety kits to police personnel and this is most important and they deserve compliments for this," Deshmukh said.  "The use of materials provided in these kits will surely save them from the health point of view," he added. The state government has recently announced ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the kin of police personnel if s/he succumbs to infection contracted while on duty during the  Coronavirus pandemic lockdown. The Government fully supports the police. Mumbai CP Paramvir Singh thanked the government and the Home Minister for this support. Mumbai Police Commissionerate distributed 10,000 safety kits and the Home Minister launched this project with today's ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10000-safety-kits-distributed-among-mumbai-cops-821466.html
04-04-2020||North and Central||Noida: Over 300 arrested for violating coronavirus lockdown so far, say police||Over 500 FIRs have been registered in Gautam Buddh Nagar district so far for violation of lockdown restrictions and more than 300 people arrested, police said here on Saturday. The nationwide lockdown imposed to combat the spread of coronavirus is being strictly enforced in the district, they added. Stern action is taken in case of any violation and till April 3, 33,426 vehicles have been screened, while challans have been issued against 4,740 vehicles, even as 373 were seized, Police Commissioner Alok Singh said. "As many as 507 FIRs have been registered against violators of lockdown and section 144 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 289 people have been arrested in this regard. So far, Rs 85,200 have been recovered as penalty. Three complaints have been registered under the Essential Commodities Act and three people have been arrested in this regard," Singh said. Separately, the police said they have registered six FIRs under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) on Saturday alone and arrested 15 people for violating the restrictions imposed under CrPC Section 144 (which bars assembly of four or more people). "Also, 482 vehicles were checked across 132 checking points in the district, of which challans were issued to 40 and another eight were seized over various violations," the police said in a statement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a 21-day lockdown across India on March 24 with an objective to combat the coronavirus pandemic, which has claimed thousands of lives worldwide. The police chief said only people who are related to essential services are allowed to move and made an appeal to the residents of the district to strictly follow the lockdown and not go out unless it was very important. "If it is necessary to go out, kindly follow social distancing," Singh said. He said continuous patrolling in being done through deployment of security forces. "In sensitive and densely populated habitats, drones have been deployed for monitoring and anybody who violates the order would be met with the strictest of action," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-over-300-arrested-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-so-far-say-police-821510.html
04-04-2020||Opinion||Parenting | Why reshaping our empathy matters ||Studies have shown that simply redefining which group we belong to, and thus widening our circles, has the capacity to reshape our empathy. Scientists found that when football fans were made to write about their love of football rather than their love of a particular team, they were far more likely to help a person wearing an opposing team's jersey. At least in this case, by just being reminded of their common love for soccer, the ‘soccer fan’ identity superseded the narrower ‘Team X fan’ identity in terms of in-group empathy.  Enlarging our circles The greater we make our imagined circles, the more diverse the set of people we can empathise with. All it possibly takes for us to become less parochial in our empathy is to see ourselves less as belonging to a narrow group (be it religious, or nationalistic, or racial), and more as belonging to the human tribe.  A number of ‘educated’ Indians took to Twitter to register their outrage against the migrant workers for being irresponsible enough to crowd bus stations. That the workers were out of jobs, had no savings to speak of and probably more likely to survive this phase in their hometowns, didn't even seem to cross the Twitteratis' minds. Why would anyone undertake a 500-km journey on foot if not in desperation?  Researchers at Stanford University developed a virtual reality simulation of what it must feel like to be homeless. People going through the simulation encounter a variety of circumstances that a homeless person might encounter during their lives – being evicted from their homes, or being forced to spend the night in a car or in public transport. People who had undergone the virtual reality simulation developed longer-lasting compassion for homeless people than control subjects, and were far less likely to dehumanise the homeless.  Exercising our ‘empathy muscles’  For those of us who do not have the access to virtual reality simulations, though, scientists have identified a few ways in which we can perhaps exercise our ‘empathy muscles’. There's a good deal of evidence to show that reading narrative fiction, which helps us see the world through the eyes of a person different from us, can enhance empathy. So can theatre and other performing arts that require a person to pretend to be someone else for a short period of time.  Of course, for all the literature and theatre to be successful at reshaping our empathy, we'd probably have to read/watch widely. Maybe the next time you have a chance, pick up a book or watch a Netflix series about an individual as different from yourself as possible. Reading about lives that have nothing in common to our own has the capability to transform the way we think about the world and the people in it.  It's a little hard, however, to believe that in a country like India, we'd have to read about other people's lives in order to empathise with them. India offers us the opportunity to widen our circles of empathy every single day – how can we believe that only our reality is the truth when we come across hundreds of people less fortunate every day? Isn't one conversation with our house maids all it takes to empathise with those facing different circumstances than us?  Children learn from their parents In a strange way, our reluctance to see people less fortunate than us as human beings with feelings could be a defensive mechanism. In an interview, Jamil Zaki, a psychologist at Stanford University, gives the example of people crossing the street to avoid an encounter with a homeless person because they'd rather not come face-to-face with their suffering and feel bad. Interestingly, he goes on to say, what happens at the level of individuals also shows itself at the level of groups or even nations.  This defensive dehumanisation happens especially if a person feels that the group they belong to is responsible for the suffering of others. When I’m in my car and I see a beggar asking for money, it’s easier for me to tell myself that they’re probably part of a big scam, or that they’re lazy, rather than admit to myself that the accident of birth has simply made one of us more fortunate than the other. Instead of letting my empathy turn into a sort of self-loathing or guilt, I protect myself by dehumanising the beggar.  Psychologists in the 1950s conducted a study in which they asked a group of people to repeatedly give a small electric shock to another set of people. The ones administering the shock, the study found, were likely to say that they did not like the people they were inflicting pain upon. It's almost as if they were convincing themselves that since the shock-receiving group were bad people, they deserved it.  For parents, all this is a delicate balance. We’d want our children to grow up and have empathy that is not defined by the narrow groups they belong to, while at the same time, wanting to protect them from feeling other people’s pain too much. And ideally of course, we’d like them to not have to resort to dehumanising people in a twisted attempt to make themselves feel better. In order for us parents to impart a healthy sense of justice to our children that is unadulterated by notions of groupism, perhaps expanding our own empathy is key.  If the realisation that children are not born within-group vs out-group notions is comforting for us parents, it is also humbling to realise that we have a responsibility to shape their empathy in a positive, humanistic manner.  (Perspectives on parenting from a neuroscientist mom who has discovered that her two-year-old is the ideal study subject) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/parenting-why-reshaping-our-empathy-matters-821188.html
04-04-2020||Opinion||Decoding PM’s corona messaging in four words: It’s all about Modi||A fellow professional, quicker with her sarcasm, messaged shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's fourth engagement with citizens (including the latest episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat’) on April 3: "Isn't Diwali being celebrated early this year?" Author and mythologist, Devdutt Pattanaik Tweeted on April 4: “Hinduism = Hindu Dharma = During war, king is commander-in-chief; Hinduness = Hindutva = During war, king is cheerleader-in-chief.” Late at night, on the day the prime minister made his 'at 9 pm for 9 minutes' speech, a message began circulating on social media, warning of grid collapse due to abrupt drop in electricity demand, followed by a corresponding increase in demand once the collective performance, which is to enable people to have a sense of oneness, is over. Any doubt of the message being a thesis produced by an honourable faculty member of WhatsApp University was dispelled by several reports in credible newspapers on April 4. There may not be a grid collapse eventually, but this would be courtesy officials and engineers of Power System Operation Corporation Ltd who will be working extra-time. In the time they additionally put in, preparations will have to be made to drastically scale down electricity supply during this 9 minute period and ramp it up once the clock tells us that early Diwali is over, and the base load demand returns in full strength. Any miscalculation or mishandling during this crucial period could trigger a high voltage surge, tripping the lines, causing damage to the national grid and an extended power outage. Sudden load change can cause serious oscillations and cause generators to pull out of the synchronism system. This was a risk best avoided amidst India's gravest medical, administrative and humanitarian challenge after Independence.  Keeping it spectacular It is not the first occasion that a grandiose plan has been put before people by Modi without weighing all pros and cons and assessing all implications. From the beginning, the prime minister has exhibited a weakness for the spectacular or the grandiose whether in policy, programme or act. Some of these programmes worked, while others either withered away, were non-starters or abject failures. The intention is not to list past events but merely to remind people that the Tughlaqian nature of the PM’s persona cannot be ignored. This time too, Modi's call for people to clap, ring bells, blow conch shells and bang eating plates on March 22, the day when the so-named ‘Janta Curfew’ was observed, ended up becoming a subject of ridicule because it eventually ended up as a public event in several places, risking further spread of the coronavirus. That a few nations followed him or he rehashed similar spectacles from elsewhere, does not justify the strategy of repeatedly giving tasks to people when their attention and energy could be better utilised. Modi is the message Despite this, little flak on him has never stuck and as it appears at the moment, it may not do even with his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. From the time Modi opened his line of communication with the people on the matter of the contagious virus on March 19, he has cleverly sidetracked public attention and concern on all matters – but one – that are essential to their safety, security and survival. The only matter where Modi has tried influencing mass sentiment is by raising fear among people. But, on other issues, pertaining to different immediate matters, he has spoken little. None of his speeches elaborated any plan that the government is working on. It almost appears as if the prime minister was of the view that there is little need to intimate citizens about what is being done for them; it is enough to raise faith in the prime minister – a recasting of the old slogan: Modi hai to mumkin hai (everything is possible if Modi is around).  Inevitably, after an as yet indeterminate period, India will return to normalcy and we will be back to the excitable world of party-politics. While a specially hand-picked team works insularly in meeting the COVID-19 challenge and its fallout on society and economy, Modi's messaging is aimed at consolidating his support. The objective is to ensure that every candle, diya, mobile or any other source of light translates into a BJP vote in coming elections – there is one looming ahead in Bihar within five months.  Return of the mai-baap culture Giving tasks to people keeps them engaged and guides them towards targets that are of least consequence to their lives in the long run. This thwarts discussions with others, the little that one is having over the phone, and thinking about a basic question: Is the government doing what it should have done? Is enough being done? Could the response have been better and earlier? What steps should the government take to revive economy?  The intention is for people to decide to outsource their thinking to the government. People must give no thought to matters that will determine their futures. It's the return of the mai-baap culture – the government (hopefully benevolent) does what it thinks is in the best interests of people. Because the task is posed as essential to fight the virus and forging a common front in society, anyone striking a discordant note faces social profiling. The past few weeks have already witnessed targeting of individuals in quarantine and those who tested positive – an impression has been created they were responsible for jeopardising others. Modi has always been aware of the power of his words and the way he delivers it – also how these can change the minds of people, even his detractors. He has used words to reduce his opponents to ciphers – the use of his naamdaar versus kaamdaar, is a prime example and was used with telling impact during the previous Lok Sabha election. The BJP currently has 37% of the vote share and not all of this is distributed evenly. Every crisis for him is an opportunity – Uri, Balakot was and so is coronavirus.  No choice but to side with Modi Leaders have in the past won wars but lost subsequent elections – the primary objective of all political leaders – because they were poor in messaging. Even before he has won this war, since March 19, Modi used words with precision, presented to people actions that will keep them engaged.  He has positioned himself as a schoolmaster who gives people tasks and even homework. But he knows that tough taskmasters are universally disliked. So he is always appreciative of people's 'performance'. No matter that people have bent thousands of plates by merciless beating and the woman who screamed "go corona go" (probably inspired by Union minister Ramdas Athawale) or those who risked the disease by taking to streets and community parks, Modi had nothing but words of praise. He has not been unkind to those who attacked doctors or been harsh to those who violate lockdown measures repeatedly. He is like the parent who knows that you cannot get the child to obey by sternness, you can get them to do only by reaching out, saying they are not foolish but still have a long way ahead. In Modi's latest messaging, India's oneness is a given and anyone staying away from the event, not switching off lights, would be recognised in the neighbourhood. It is a visible election where the vote is cast in the open. Modi's politics does not recognise the need to emphasise that despite the remarkable diversity of this country, Indians are now united by a common concern. In all his speeches, there is the subtle messaging of cultural nationalism – in which culture (read religion too) is the principal adhesive and not the law of the land or even the "only Holy Book" as he describes the Constitution. The crisis is still ongoing and this certainly is not the last that one has heard of Modi's messages. Despite the need to broaden the thrust of his speeches, he will possibly stick to the same refrain. In a few months after all, he will again fold his hands before people, only to seek something different: Their vote. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013))    The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/decoding-pm-s-corona-messaging-in-four-words-it-s-all-about-modi-821311.html
04-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Evergreen memories||We first met in the summer of 1994. Our parents had taken us to the Garden City of Bengaluru for our annual vacation. We were staying at a hotel in Majestic area. During the course of our stay, my little brother got acquainted with the room attendants. They had a pet parrot whom we promptly named Mitthu. That was how we met! Mitthu was a feisty little chap and we took to each other instantly. We loved to feed him chillies, peanuts and guavas. When it was time for us to leave, Mitthu’s caretakers generously handed him over to us as we had grown so fond of him. The journey we embarked on together was an unforgettable one. Back home, Mitthu settled in quite comfortably. Eventually, he got so spoilt that his demeanour totally changed. He was now royalty personified. Even his tastes had changed literally. Almonds and omelettes had become his favourite savouries. Mitthu’s favourite perch was atop a wooden seat propped up against our kitchen wall. It was as though his Royal Highness sat scrutinising the state of affairs of his court which just happened to comprise a rooster and a couple of hens. Somehow they always managed to sneak into the kitchen through the rear door.  It was so amusing to see Mitthu, wings outstretched, chasing away the bewildered trio and then coming back, satisfaction writ, large over his face. It was a David versus Goliath kind of feat. Our biggest challenge when we brought Mitthu home was to keep him safe from our cat. She had been looking for an opportunity to lay her paws on the unwelcome green-feathered, red-beaked avian and make a meal of him. My uncle came to the rescue with the most ingenious idea one could think of. Holding her by neck, he brought her face to face with Mitthu. And then came what she never expected-a smouldering incense stick planted purposefully on to her posterior. This modus operandi was repeatedly unit it had desired effect. Consequently, whenever our cat was confronted with Mitthu, she would stop dead in her tracks, fume with rage, then actually take a U-turn and leave the scene. She must have really despised him because he was the prey she could never prey upon! Mitthu’s previous caretakers used to clip her flight feathers so that he wouldn’t fly away. We didn’t have the heart to do so. Well, time flew away...and so did our friend. Adios amigo!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/evergreen-memories-821127.html
04-04-2020||Second Edit||Is Putin playing with the pandemic?||The Russian government’s sudden announcement of a lockdown in Moscow earlier this week, without giving people enough time to stock up on essential goods, has triggered a wave of apprehension and confusion among the country’s population. Implementation of the lockdown came within four hours of its announcement, just as it was done in India, although over the past fortnight, the Kremlin had been signalling that the situation wasn’t worrisome. President Vladimir Putin even issued a statement that his government had the situation “under control”. Then a week ago, he announced a “non-working week” for the country. They would be paid for staying home. If this was aimed at stopping people from coming out and mingling, it was an abysmal failure as thousands of people headed out to resorts, shopping malls and parks. They are not to blame. After all, the Kremlin had been telling them that the “de facto situation” in Russia” is fine. The Putin government has been making a concerted effort to downplay the magnitude of the coronavirus crisis confronting Russia. Figures have been fudged. This has been confirmed by Russian officials who are pointing out that official figures do not reflect the situation on the ground. Moscow’s Mayor Sergei Sobyanin says the real numbers of Covid-19 infected are “significantly higher” than the official numbers. He should know. He heads Russia’s coronavirus task force and is thus at the forefront of the country’s fight against the pandemic. Moscow, which is the worst hit by the virus in Russia, accounts for two-thirds of the over 3,500 confirmed cases reported so far – of them 440 on Wednesday and 771 new cases on Thursday. Kremlin officials continue to claim that the number of coronavirus infections in Russia is much smaller than that in other countries. This may be so. However, fudging statistics will not help the Russian government convince its people about the importance of isolation and social distancing. Putin has always sought to project himself as a tough leader, one who is always on top of any game, however challenging it might be. The Kremlin’s ‘all is well’ signalling is aimed at beefing up that public perception. Putin is reportedly determined to go ahead with a referendum in the third week of April that is aimed at a constitutional amendment to perpetuate his control over power. Projecting a calm strongman image is important for him to win that vote. It is a pity that at a time of grave crisis in an already demographically challenged country, Putin seems to be prioritizing consolidation of his power over the wellbeing of his people. He is not alone in this quest for self-aggrandisement. Many other leaders are doing the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/is-putin-playing-with-the-pandemic-821125.html
04-04-2020||South||16 coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally jumps to 180||Another 16 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh overnight, taking the total number of infected in the state to 180. The Medical and Health Department on Saturday said in its latest bulletin that four fresh cases were reported each in Kadapa and Krishna districts, three each in Guntur and Kurnool and one each in Chittoor and Prakasam districts. All these cases relate to the Tablighi Jamaat, though officially the government stopped mentioning it. Of the 180 cases reported since March 12 in the state, the first four patients had since recovered and been discharged from hospital. A 55-year-old man, father of a Jamaat participant who too tested positive, died, making his the first and only Corona- related death in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/16-coronavirus-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-jumps-to-180-821216.html
04-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records second COVID-19 death as 51-year-old passes away||A 51-year-old man, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi last month and tested positive for COVID-19, passed away in Villupuram on Saturday, taking the death toll due to coronavirus in Tamil Nadu to two. The patient, who was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Villupuram, 170 Km from Chennai, breathed his last at 7:44 am on Saturday.  “The patient developed breathlessness on Friday night and passed away Saturday morning,” a terse statement from the Health and Family Welfare Department said. Sources in the district administration said the body of the deceased was buried a little after noon with only a handful of people in attendance, according to the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. This takes the death toll in Tamil Nadu from COVID-19 to two – a 54-year-old man, who is understood to have come in contact with two Thai nationals and tested positive for COVID-19, died on March 25 due to comorbid conditions. The death of the 51-year-old man comes a day after Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said all COVID-19 patients in Tamil Nadu were stable and none of them were in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu has witnessed a sharp increase since March 30 – 364 out of the total 411 patients belong to the Nizamuddin cluster. Tamil Nadu, on Friday, reported 102 new patients with 100 of them having attended the Delhi conference, while one person had travel history to the US and the contact or travel history of another who tested positive is being traced. Tamil Nadu now has the second-largest number of COVID-19 patients after Maharashtra. Of the 411 patients, seven have been discharged from the hospital and two persons are now dead. TN has so far tested 3,684 samples and has placed 1,580 persons in isolation wards in hospitals, a chunk of them are from the Nizamuddin conference. The testing of 484 samples is under process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-second-covid-19-death-as-51-year-old-passes-away-821227.html
04-04-2020||South||France evacuates 112 stranded citizens from Kerala, Tamil Nadu||France on Saturday evacuated 112 French citizens stranded in Kerala and Tamil Nadu in a special Air India flight, official sources said here. The Embassy of France had made a request to the Kerala government to facilitate the journey of the French citizens stranded due to the lockdown announced by the central government to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. The French citizens, mostly tourists and those who came for Ayurvedic treatment, were brought here by the state tourism department 24 days ahead of their trip. They underwent a medical examination before boarding the flight for Paris from Cochin International Airport at 08.13 am on Saturday, officials said. The Air India flight was chartered by the French government for evacuating its citizens in various cities in India including Kochi, Bengaluru and Mumbai. On Friday, Gulf nation Oman had evacuated its 46 citizens stranded in Kochi in an Oman Air flight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/france-evacuates-112-stranded-citizens-from-kerala-tamil-nadu-821258.html
04-04-2020||South||Telangana govt official tests COVID-19 positive; booked for cover-up||A government official, who tested coronavirus positive, has been booked for not disclosing his attendance of a religious programme held recently in the national capital, police said on Saturday. The official is currently undergoing treatment in the Telangana government-run Gandhi Hospital, Jangoan police inspector D Mallesh said adding the case was booked on Friday. The official working in the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) of Jangoan, participated in the religious congregationin Delhi on March 15 without permission or leave, and returned to Jangaon on March 18. The state government recently announced that whoever attended the religious meeting at Delhi, need to inform the health department officials or police and undergo tests for coronavirus. The DRDA official did not take any precautionary measures and moved in public as well as attended duty as if everything is normal, the police official said. A case under sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life,) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC was booked against the DRDA official, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-official-tests-covid-19-positive-booked-for-cover-up-821296.html
04-04-2020||South||Kerala nurse who recovered from coronavirus wants to serve again in COVID-19 ward||A nurse in Kerala is becoming a role model as she expressed her willingness to work again in coronavirus care wards even as she just recovered from the infection she contracted while taking care of the COVID-19 infected elderly couple. Reshma Mohandas, a nurse at the Kottayam medical college hospital, was discharged after recovering on Saturday, along with the aged couple who also got a miraculous recovery. While being accorded a farewell by the hospital staff on getting discharged, Reshma told them that she wishes to rejoin duty in the coronavirus ward itself after her 14 day home observation was over. A native of Tripunithura in Kochi, Reshma was personally congratulated by many including actress Manju Warrier and Kerala Health Minister K K Sahilaja for her dedicated service. When the COVID-19 care ward started functioning at the hospital, Reshma was among those who came forward to work in the ward. She was among those who took personal care of the aged couple from Pathanamthitta district. Since the aged woman had hearing problems, nurses had to often work very close to her. Eventually, Reshma also became a patient in the same ward after being tested coronavirus positive on March 24. Reshma said that she was confident of coming out of the infection as she was very well aware of the quality treatment available at the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-nurse-who-recovered-from-coronavirus-wants-to-serve-again-in-covid-19-ward-821372.html
04-04-2020||South||Fake UPI Ids of PM CARES created, Hyderabad cops book case||The Cyber crime wing of the city police has registered a case against an unidentified person for allegedly creating fake UPI ids that resembles thePrime Minister'sCitizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency SituationsFund(PM CARES Fund), police said on Saturday. According to KVM Prasad, Assistant Commissioner of Police Cyber Crimes a suo motu case was registered after the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) alerted the police that several fake Ids similar to PM CARES (pmcares@sbi) were in circulation and people should note the difference. "We proactively booked the case and began the investigation," the police official told PTI. The CERT, in its note informed that they identified some fake Ids such as pmcares@pnb, pmcares@hdfcbank, pmcare@yesbank, pmcare@ybl, pmcare@upi, pmcare@sbi, pmcares@icici were in circulation and cautioned public to verify the Id before they make a donation. A case under relevant sections of the IT Act was registered, Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fake-upi-ids-of-pm-cares-created-hyderabad-cops-book-case-821379.html
04-04-2020||South||Morning walk ends in police station in Kochi||As many as 41 persons, including two women, who went on a morning walk in Kochi city on Saturday morning were booked by the police for flouting the lockdown directives. According to Kochi city police officials, the local people were warned in the previous days against morning walk. But many were found to be violating it. Hence, they were booked on Saturday morning. Cases under various sections of the IPC and Kerala Epidemic Disease ordinance was initiated against them and were released on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/morning-walk-ends-in-police-station-in-kochi-821435.html
04-04-2020||South||Woman found positive for coronavirus after death||The woman had complained of sore throat on March 31 and she consulted a Registered Medical Practitioner (RMP) locally, who was allegedly functioning from the premises of a dental clinic, official sources said on Saturday. The RMP administered saline and sent her away. She consulted a doctor at Mahabubnagar later who allegedly performed endoscopy though she was suffering from sore throat, they said. He had referred her to the state-run Osmania General Hospital in Hyderabad where she was admitted. She passed away while undergoing treatment. Suspecting her ill-health, doctors there sent her samples for a coronavirus test. Her test result, which was received on Friday, was found positive for coronavirus, according to Ranga Reddy district Collector Amoy Kumar. The woman, who reportedly did not go out of her village, is suspected to have contracted the infection from some workers from Bihar who were staying on her premises, the sources said. The Bihar workers had travelled by train in which some persons who participated in a religious congregation in Delhi had also reportedly travelled. The four Bihar workers have been sent to the state-run Gandhi hospital in the city for coronavirustest the results of which are awaited. Official sources said the administration has quarantined her family members and all those who handled her corpse. The village residents have been advised home quarantine and those having symptoms like cough and fever have been sent for COVID-19 testing. The sources added that cases have been booked against the RMP, the doctor at Mahabubnagar and the dentist (who allowed his clinic premises to be used by the RMP) for their alleged negligence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-found-positive-for-coronavirus-after-death-821441.html
04-04-2020||South||Kerala woman MLA in controversy for insulting remark on journalists||A woman MLA of CPM in Kerala has courted controversy with a statement asking journalists to better do flesh trade. U Prathibha, MLA of Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district, criticised journalists for reporting an internal feud between the MLA and some local DYFI workers, who accused her of not getting involved in work against COVID-19. The MLA's statement was condemned by the party district leadership and action is likely to be initiated against her. In a social media post on Saturday, the MLA said that journalists may better do flesh trade than reporting against her. "They should wash the legs of women who were involved in flesh trade for livelihood as it was a more decent job than what some journalists were doing," she said. With strong protest from journalists' forums, Prathibha tried to wriggle out by maintaining that she mentioned only a section of the journalist who were involved in organised gossiping against her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-mla-in-controversy-for-insulting-remark-on-journalists-821443.html
04-04-2020||State||Karnataka fishing community seeks compensation||Dakshina Kannada and Udupi District Cooperative Fish Marketing Federation President Yashpal Suvarna has urged the Karnataka and Union governments to come to the rescue of fishermen in the coast who are in distress following the lockdown. They have sought maximum amount of compensation for fishermen. Owing to inclement weather, fishing season had commenced two months late last year. The decline in fish catch has also affected the fishing sector. The lockdown has further aggravated the situation. There are 4350 trawl boats, 282 purse seine boats, 9652 mechanised traditional boats and 9254 traditional boats that engage in fishing in DK, Udupi and Uttara Kannada Districts. More than 1 lakh fishermen are engaged in fishing in the coastal districts. Owing to the lockdown, deep sea fishing has been suspended since March 20. Further, ban on fishing will be in force from June to August to facilitate breeding of fish. Therefore, the fisherman community is in distress. Further, he said tempo, auto drivers, ice plants, fishmeal industries, fish processing units, women fishermen who are dependent on the fisheries sector have come to the streets without employment. There are over 80,000 people who are indirectly dependent on the fishing sector. The government should instil confidence in fishermen by announcing maximum compensation, facilities given for farmers should be extended to fishermen and the interest on loans borrowed by fishermen should be waived for five months, the community sought.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-fishing-community-seeks-compensation-821196.html
04-04-2020||State||Fake messages of complete closure circulating on social media||Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli has called people not to believe the fake messages circulating on social media that complete closure has been ordered in the city up to Wednesday. In a statement issued here on Saturday, Bommanahalli informed that any orders regarding restrictions or closure are issued in writing by the District Administration and no oral orders have been issued. People should not pay heed to such fake messages and rumours spreading on social media, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fake-messages-of-complete-closure-circulating-on-social-media-821221.html
04-04-2020||State||Nine persons from Gujarat quarantined||The police have traced nine maulvis from Shura Tablighi Jamaat in Gujarat to a rented house in Virajpet taluk, Kodagu SP Suman D Pennekar said, adding that the police are monitoring them. Nine persons from Gujarat and the owner of the house have been admitted to a facility set up by the district administration to quarantine people, situated on the outskirts of Madikeri.  It is said that all the nine from Gujarat had attended a religious gathering held in Mumbai in the month of January. They had come to Virajpet in Kodagu on February 3 and were part of a religious programme held at a local masjid for 40 days. When they were about to return to their native place, the lockdown was announced and all modes of transportation were affected. She said that the nine had not travelled outside from the day they landed in the district. No symptoms of COVID-19 have been found in them. As a precautionary measure, they will be quarantined, explained the SP. Based on the direction of the government, an appeal was made to furnish details on those who had taken part in Jamaat religious gathering. The team in spite of staying in the district did not furnish details and claimed that they got a medical checkup done by a local doctor in Virajpet. “We will cross-check their statement on the health checkup. An FIR will be registered in case if they were found furnishing wrong information to the police,” said Suman D Pennekar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nine-persons-from-gujarat-quarantined-821300.html
04-04-2020||State||Karnataka rural self-help groups produce 1.56 lakh masks in 12 days||The union Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) engaged the SHGs in the villages across the country to produce the face-masks for use of not only the COVID-19 patients and healthcare professionals, but also for use of common people as precautionary measures to keep the virus at bay. The SHGs in Karnataka and 23 other States were engaged to make the face-masks under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) of the MoRD. The MoRD officials said that 65936 members of 14522 SHGs were engaged and they had so far made 1.32 crore face-masks in 399 districts across the country. Altogether 581 members of the 139 SHGs in 12 districts in Karnataka started producing face-masks on March 23 and they produced 156155 face-masks till Friday, according to the latest report available with the MoRD. The maximum face-masks were produced in Tamil Nadu, where 10,780 members of 1927 SHGs in 32 districts produced 26.01 lakh masks in 10 days. In Andhra Pradesh, 21,028 members of 4281 SHGs in five districts produced 25.41 lakh masks, said the MoRD officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-rural-self-help-groups-produce-156-lakh-masks-in-12-days-821393.html
04-04-2020||State||Vijayapura's measures hailed; 36K returnees identified||District Secretary J Ravishankar was all praise for the district administration's initiative to collect details of about 36,000 people who have returned from the coronavirus-affected states and the districts and keep a strict vigil on them. Impressed by the Vijayapura model, Ravishankar told reporters that the district administration has set a fine example for others to follow. "The Vijayapura district administration, acting swiftly, kept a vigil on the people movement on the borders, post-lockdown. The administration identified no less than 36,000 people, including those who returned from Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, and is strictly monitoring the health of returnees," the district secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vijayapuras-measures-hailed-36k-returnees-identified-821459.html
04-04-2020||State||Tablighi incident: Karandlaje suspects 'Corona Jihad'||Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje on Saturday alleged that people, who took part in the religious gathering at Tablighi Jamaat headquaters in Nizamuddin, were spreading COVID-19 across the country. Speaking to media, Shobha said that a few of those who took part in the gathering were missing. They might be involved in ‘Corona Jihad’, she suspected. “People who participated in Tablighi religious gathering should furnish their details voluntarily to the police and get themselves examined. In addition, they should remain in quarantine. The authorities should trace people who had failed to furnish details. They should be given life sentence” Shobha urged government. “When they fail to adhere to the law of the land, I feel there is a hidden agenda behind it,’’ she said. Shobha said there was a need to show them the power of the law so that everyone abides by it in the future. The MP, however, said the authorities were not able to trace those who had attended the gathering. When Asha workers went to collect details about a woman, who had tested positive to Covid-19 in Sadiq Layout in Bengaluru, they were assaulted. “It is proved that members of one community are not cooperating with the government to contain the spread of coronavirus,” she alleged. The district administration has started distributing rice, tur dal, edible oil and other essential commodities to migrant labourers and poor in the district. The grocery is supplied to those who do not possess ration card as well. The voluntary organisations, philanthropists and donors should extend support, Shobha said. She said that measures had been taken to supply ration to those living on hilly ranges. Santhosh, who died in a destitute home at Tarikere, was suffering from Tuberculosis, the MP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tablighi-incident-karandlaje-suspects-corona-jihad-821467.html
04-04-2020||State||Nine from Gujarat Jamaat quarantined in Virajpet||Kodagu SP Suman D Pennekar said on Saturday that the police had traced nine moulvis from Shura Tablighi Jamaat in Gujarat. They are staying in a rented house in Virajpet taluk. The police are keeping a vigil on them. The nine moulvis and the owner of the house have been quarantined at a facility on the outskirts of Madikeri. Their throat swab samples have been sent to Mysuru for testing, the SP told reporters.   The moulvis had attended a religious gathering in Mumbai in January. They had come to Virajpet on February 3 and were part of a religious programme held at a mosque for 40 days. When they were about to return home, the lockdown was announced. They had stayed indoors and had shown no symptoms of COVID-19 since their arrival, Suman said. They have been quarantined as a precautionary measure, she said. The team of moulvis claimed that they had got themselves checked by a doctor in Virajpet. “We will cross-check their claim. An FIR will be registered against them, in case their claim turns out to be wrong,” the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nine-from-gujarat-jamaat-quarantined-in-virajpet-821474.html
04-04-2020||State||CM B S Yediyurappa assures MLAs of measures to tackle COVID-19||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that he hoped the lockdown will be lifted in a staggered manner after April 14. In a meeting with all MLAs, MLCs and MPs from Bengaluru on Saturday, Yediyurappa said that the lockdown enforcement will be strengthened to curb unnecessary movement of the public. Responding to various issues raised by the legislators, Yediyurappa said even non-ration card holders will get foodgrains. That apart, the government will continue distributing free milk in slums until April 14, the CM said. Yediyurappa issued a strict warning to hospitals that are shut or not treating patients. The government would ensure that the hospitals function, Yediyurappa said. As for medical infrastructure, the government had ordered for 9.8 lakh PPE kits, of which 1.43 lakh had been delivered and 18.33 lakh N95 masks of which 4.13 lakh were delivered, he said. Listing out measures taken by the government, the CM said supply of vegetables was being ensured through 480 Hopcoms and mobile Hopcoms vans. Opposition MLAs, while appreciating the government, were critical for stopping free food distributed through Indira Canteens. “The government has changed its policy midway by stopping supply of food through Indira Canteens and the BBMP,” Congress’ Krishna Byre Gowdasaid. In his Bytarayanapura constituency alone, there were some 12,000 labourers “who aren’t in any formal network because they neither have ration card nor are registered with the labour welfare board,” he pointed out. Gowda said he was not convinced with the government’s argument that there was misuse of Indira Canteen food. “There may be 20-30% misuse, but deprive 70% genuine beneficiaries?” he sought to know. A similar sentiment was echoed by JD(S) MLC T A Saravana. “There is a huge demand for food,” he said, urging the government to restart Indira Canteen food distribution. Even though the government promised free gas, the BPL card holders are still paying for it, while the free milk is not reaching all the places as envisaged by the government,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-assures-mlas-of-measures-to-tackle-covid-19-821476.html
04-04-2020||State||IIT-Dharwad delivers home-made face shields to KIMS||The Indian Institute of Technology, Dharwad (IIT-Dh) has swung into action and prepared more than 500 face shields for the frontline healthcare workers, who are working in Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) here, where the COVID-19 patients are being treated. Prepared by students and professors of the IIT-Dh, these shields comply with the guidelines prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO). These masks protect doctors from getting infected with deadly viruses that might have come out of the patient's body through coughing or sneezing. The health personnel could wear them even on glasses or mouth mask while treating the COVID-19 patients. Speaking to DH, IIT-Dh Mechanical Engineering Department's M A Somashekhar said, the IIT-Dh came to know about the shortage of face shields that were very much essential for the doctors treating patients infected with highly dangerous diseases. Some prototype masks were prepared using the 3D technology and sent them to the doctors. They selected one of them and later 500 masks were prepared and sent to the KIMS. Prof Suryaprakash from the same department said, the easily available raw materials were used for making the masks. "We have received demand even from Belagavi and Kalaburgi districts. At present it may not be possible to meet the demand. We are able to produce only 500 masks now. Large-scale production of the shields is possible as all parts of the masks are designed and prepared separately. Interested local producers can learn the design and start preparing them," he said. In a press statement issued by IIT-Dh Public Relation Officer said, Anand, Prof Amar, Prof Sudhir, Prof Samarth, Prof Kedar, Prof Satish, Prof Ramachandran, Ramachandra, Dr Surdeep Das from IIT Guwahati and volunteers of Rashtrothan School also contributed their labour and knowledge in making the face shield. Those who are interested to know the know-how of the face shields could contact the IIT-Dh through email-- pro@iitdh.ac.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/iit-dharwad-delivers-home-made-face-shields-to-kims-821478.html
04-04-2020||State||Conditional nod for Bengaluru Karaga||The state government has given a conditional approval for the annual Bengaluru Karaga. The festival will be held "symbolically" with not more than five people taking part in it, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Saturday. This year, the Karaga was set to begin on March 31 and culminate with a procession from the Dharmarayaswamy Temple on April 8. The Karaga is celebrated by the Vahnikula Kshatriya (Thigala) community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/conditional-nod-for-bengaluru-karaga-821484.html
04-04-2020||State||Actor Sharmiela Mandre, friend injured in car accident||A leading Kannada actor and her friend sustained injuries following a car crash in the city in the early hours of Saturday following which both went missing, prompting police to launch a search.    Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B R Ravikanthe Gowda confirmed the initial reports that actor Sharmiela Mandre, 33, and her friend Lokesh Vasanth, 35, were in the car. However there was no clarity on who was behind the wheels. "We have taken up a case whoever is at the fault, action will be taken against them," he said. High Grounds Traffic police said the actor has suffered injuries on her face and hand while Lokesh sustained fracture in arm. Police were also investigating whether the duo was on a joy ride, violating the prohibitory order clamped to prevent spread of Covid-19. Police said they got information from control room around 3 am about the accident at the railway underbridge in Vasanth Nagar in the central business district. The police came to the spot to find only the car and its occupants missing. They got an alert from Fortis Hospital on Cunningham Road stating two persons identified as Sharmiela Mandre and Lokesh Vasanth have been admitted in their hospital with injuries sustained in an accident. But they have given statement saying they met with an accident at JP Nagar. "When we rushed to the hospital, the duo was undergoing treatment. But they managed to get discharged from the hospital by telling doctors that they want to get further treatment from their family doctor," police said.  According to police, the Jaguar car involved in the accident had hit the pillar of an underbridge in Vasangth Nagar. "We don't know how the car hit the pillar but they have given statement saying they met with accident at JP Nagar," said an investigating officer from High Grounds traffic police station. Misleading police  Police are suspecting the duo has given false statement to mislead their investigation. The Jaguar car bearing registration number KA-51 MJ-2481 has been seized. The car is registered in the name of a person identified as Thomas. "We then asked him to reveal their names, which he refused and asked us to leave them without registering any case. We explained to him that it was a serious offence and the railway underbridge pillar has been damaged along with the car. People in it are injured and we cannot let them go without case. When we told him that he will be detained for giving false statement, he left the spot," police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actor-sharmiela-mandre-friend-injured-in-car-accident-821485.html
04-04-2020||State||Cashew nut harvest disrupted due to coronavirus lockdown, farmers fear crop loss||In addition to this, the closure of processing units and retail markets has resulted in the price crash for raw nuts. Currently, the raw nut prices (ex-farmgate) have crashed up to 45% to touch Rs 70 per kg from Rs 125 per kg during the last year’s season. Fearing continuation of the lockdown, farmers have resorted to distress selling of their produce. Karnataka, the second largest producer of raw cashew nuts after Kerala, accounts for about 15% of the national output pegged at 5.5 lakh tonnes this year. The state produces around 75,000 tonnes annually. There are around 300 processing units engaging in excess of 50,000 workers, largely women, who are paid about Rs 400 per day. Rahul Kamath, partner, Bola Surendra Kamath & Sons told DH, "The trade is very badly affected in the last two weeks. This is the peak harvesting season for cashew nut industry and farmers are unable to carry out their operations due to shortage of farm labour. There is a greater danger for the fallen nuts as the unseasonal rain will damage them."  Usually, by April, about 50% of the total harvesting gets over. But this year, due to the lockdown, the farm operations have been severely impacted, he said. He said the farmers are unable to move their already harvested nuts to the processing units as the police have restricted movement of vehicles. “We have requested the agriculture secretary to issue an advisory to farmers not to resort to distress selling. Cashew nuts are not perishable and farmers need to dry them properly and store for up to one year without any problem,” Kamath said. As a result of the lockdown, the prices of cashew kernels (ready to eat) have declined by 10-15% to Rs 620 per kg (ex-factory). Apart from this, exports of cashew kernels are also held up due to the lockdown. About Rs 60 crore worth of kernels (60 containers) is held up at Mangalore for exports. “The Mangalore port is functioning. But we need to get the custom clearance and passing of shipping bills before exporting,” said Giridhar Prabhu, managing partner, Achal Cashew. For the year ended March 2020, India’s cashew kernel exports stood at 65,000 tonnes. India stands at second place in the world after Vietnam in the export market. He also urged the state government to arrange COVID-compatible special buses to ferry workers to the factories for at least three months once the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cashew-nut-harvest-disrupted-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-farmers-fear-crop-loss-821487.html
04-04-2020||State||Kolar: Rs 2.95 cr released for medical equipment||Deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said that the district administration had released Rs 2.95 crore to health department under Calamity Relief Fund to procure ventilators and other equipment needed to treat COVID-19 positive patients. She was speaking after launching vehicles for awareness drive against COVID-19 here on Saturday. The district administration had kept 10 ventilators ready at R L Jalappa hospital in case of emergency. People should take precautionary measures against the novel coronavirus till May end, she said. The DC said said that about 1,500 labourers from Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh were permitted to enter their state after they tested negative for the virus. The administration prevented the possible spread of the virus in the district as it took sufficient measures as regards these labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-rs-295-cr-released-for-medical-equipment-821492.html
04-04-2020||State||With no loved ones around, govt puts Bagalkot patient to rest||With no dear ones to bid him a final farewell, Karnataka’s fourth COVID-19 casualty, a 75-year-old man from Bagalkot, was buried on Friday night, Bagalkot Deputy Commissioner K Rajendra confirmed to DH. The burial happened just three hours after his death. The man was diagnosed with the virus only 24 hours before his death. The deep burial happened in solitude at 1 am in the absence of all his family members and relatives. District surgeon Dr Prakash Biradar said, “As his wife, son and daughter were isolated at the hospital, they were not allowed to come to the burial ground. Four doctors along with district officials were present. The last they saw of this man was in the hospital.” Rajendra said that though they suspect he contracted the virus after his son and daughter from Bengaluru visited him, they had no international travel history. “They came in contact with him on March 24. So far, five of his family members have been quarantined -- his wife, son and daughter aged 24 and 22, his brother and his brother’s wife,” he said. The district health officer of Bagalkot Dr Anant Desai told DH that he, along with the taluk health officer, district surgeon and resident medical officer of the district hospital where he passed away, were present during the burial. The protocol stipulates at least one medical officer is present for the burial. The body was sprayed with hypochlorite. The personnel had worn two-layers of personal protection equipment. “We have to take the medical history of people who came in contact with him before administering prophylaxis hydroxychloroquine. Twenty-one primary contacts and 51 secondary contacts are under observation. These include doctors who treated him, his house help and secondary contacts like those who worked in the doctors’ houses,” he said. “The patient had bilateral pneumonia and then his sample turned out to be positive for COVID-19 positive as well,” he added. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and COVID-19 spokesperson S Suresh Kumar said, “He went to a local ayurveda doctor first and then to a private hospital. An ECG was done at Amareshwara Hospital. He was at another private hospital for four days. When COVID-19 was suspected, he was sent to a designated public hospital. He already had a cardiac stent and uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension. One of his lungs was affected.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/with-no-loved-ones-around-govt-puts-bagalkot-patient-to-rest-821515.html
04-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown leaves state farmers in the lurch||Farmers say easing restrictions on transport of agricultural produce has done little to improve the situation. "Farmers are unable to harvest crops as there are no workers. Not just this, those who have managed to harvest whatever little they could, are unable to find minimum price to market their produce. If there are lorries for transport, there are no drivers. If there are drivers, there are no consumers," farmer leader Kuruburu Shanthkumar explained, saying this situation prevails across the state. The farmers have had no luck at APMCs as they are unable to get a reasonable price, with middlemen pocketing the profit. Further, with no bulk purchasers such as restaurants and wedding halls, even traders are hesitant to buy the stock, he pointed out. If one were to take the instance of Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts, thousands of tonnes of cabbage, capsicum, ridge gourd and tomato have gone waste, farmers here said. "I have 100 tamarind trees which were ready for harvest but I had to abandon it. A friend lost 3-4 tonnes of ridge gourd. The lockdown was needed but crop loss is its downside,” said K V Reddeppa, a farmer in Srinivasapura. He is also the president of Kolar and Chikkaballapur Federation of Organic Farmers’ Associations. There is no use in easing transport restrictions if there is no market for our produce, Kolar District Mango Growers Association president Neelaturu Chinnappa Reddy said. “We usually sell our produce in Chennai, Krishnagiri and Chittoor. Even if we were to go to these places, who will buy our produce during lockdown,” he asked. The government was using farmers only for slogans, he said. For a vegetable that is sold at Rs 20, the farmer gets only Rs 4, he added, underlining the disparity. The government should buy their produce and assure a minimum support price, Shanthkumar and Reddy said. Agriculture and Horticulture Secretary Rajender Kataria said problems existed in Kolar, Mysore, Chamarajanagar, Yadgir and Kalaburagi till last week. "However, things have improved over the last three days. To resolve the issue, we have activated the supply chain by setting up a task force and are interacting with wholesale dealers. Hopcoms are also buying produce from farmers. Green passes have been issued, vehicles are moving and the prices have improved for the produce. Things are under control now," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-leaves-state-farmers-in-the-lurch-821116.html
04-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sriramulu and I are like brothers working for people: Dr K Sudhakar||Karnataka’s Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday denied reports of a rift with Health Minister B Sriramulu. “There are no differences between Health Minister B Sriramulu and me. We’re putting up a determined fight against coronavirus and we’re talking to each other to find solutions to the problem. Me and Sriramulu are striving for the development of the people of the state like brothers,” Sudhakar said in a tweet.  In a separate statement, Sudhakar also ruled out one-upmanship between them. “We’re both elected representatives who are always in the midst of people serving them. The praise we get from the people is what protects us. So, where’s the question of seeking publicity?”  Sudhakar added that such reports will not affect his discharge of duty. “I’m a doctor. More than that, I’m someone who is involved in public service. Every criticism makes me stronger,” he said.  Sudhakar is a first-time minister who was earlier with the Congress, whereas Sriramulu is the BJP’s warhorse, who was seen sulking for not being made the deputy chief minister as he was projected before the May 2018 polls.  Technically, the COVID-19 crisis comes under the purview of the Health Department, but Sudhakar also got involved because teaching hospitals come under the medical education department. The two were seen crossing each other’s paths, leading to some bitterness.  The Opposition Congress took a dig at the ruling BJP on this issue. “Two ministers Sudhakar and Sriramulu not seeing eye to eye in this hour of crisis is disturbing,” the Congress tweeted Saturday, adding that the ministers were pursuing their agenda when the entire government is supposed to work in tandem. “Yediyurappa seems (to) have lost control. How will we fight corona?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sriramulu-and-i-are-like-brothers-working-for-people-dr-k-sudhakar-821211.html
04-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa requests employers not to cut salaries amid COVID-19 lockdown||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has appealed to employers not to cut salaries of their maids, servants and drivers who are unable to attend work due to lockdown that has been enforced to check the spread of COVID-19. He said compassionate gesture of employers will support the poor and needy.   In a tweet, the Chief Minister said, "I request all the employers not to cut salaries of their maids, servants, drivers etc., who are not able to work due to social distancing. Your compassionate gesture will support the poor and needy to overcome this hard time.#FightBackKarnataka #CoronavirusPandemic." State and central government's have announced several initiatives to help poor and needy whose daily life have been affected by the lockdown that include supply of food grains and essential items, advance payment of social security pension among other things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-requests-employers-not-to-cut-salaries-amid-covid-19-lockdown-821334.html
04-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New mysterious COVID-19 patient cluster from Delhi's Shahdara detected in Mysuru||Karnataka saw the largest spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in a single day on Saturday with 16 fresh cases reported. Four of these cases were of people who travelled to Delhi in January much before the Tablighi Jamaat happened. The state is looking at a new patient cluster being formed in Mysuru with these four testing positive for the virus as they are residents of Shahdara in Delhi who arrived in Bengaluru's Yeshwanthpur on January 27th. "They were a group of 11 who had arrived in the city and then travelled to Mysuru. When the Tablighi Jamaat congregation contact tracing happened, they too were traced and quarantined in Mysuru. When their samples were taken, they tested positive," said an IAS officer involved with contact tracing. Asked if they had possibly contracted the infection at the quarantined facility in Mysuru where they were housed with COVID-19 suspects, the official said he cannot jump to conclusions. "Somebody came to pick them up in Bengaluru. We are yet to trace that person," he said. There are two other patients in Mysuru that the department has no clue about. "Detailed investigation is underway," is all that the official said. Two new Tablighi Jamaat attendees turn positive Two new Tablighi Jamaat attendees tested positive on Saturday. With this, out of 144 COVID-19 cases in the state, 16 are those that got infected at the Jamaat, said S Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, and COVID-19 spokesperson in the state. Out of 380 samples collected, 16 have turned positive, 198 have turned out to be negative. 214 samples reports have been received.     Out of the eight other cases, P129 is a 21-year-old household from Bengaluru who worked for P58.  P130 is a 57-year-old from the city who is P58's father. P131 is the son of P101. "P101's daughter in law had gone abroad. But she has tested negative," Kumar said. P132 returned from Dubai on March 17th. P133 is from Kochi who had gone to Germany. With this, cases in Bengaluru Urban went up to 55, Mysuru to 28, Dakshina Kannada to 12 and Bidar to 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-mysterious-covid-19-patient-cluster-from-delhis-shahdara-detected-in-mysuru-821456.html
04-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Opening Karnataka's borders for Kerala will be embracing death: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday categorically refused to open Karnataka's borders for Kerala as doing so will be "embracing death."  Yediyurappa made the government's stand clear in a three-page response to former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, who has thrown his weight behind Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the issue.  "The decision to close the Karnataka-Kerala border was not sudden. It was a conscious decision that was based on a study and documentation of the health situation in the border areas," Yediyurappa stated. "The Indian Medical Association's data on the spread of COVID-19 in Kasargod and surrounding areas was alarming. Even the Kerala government has information on the spread of the virus in this region."  Yediyurappa pointed out that Kasargod had 106 COVID-19 positive cases. "This region has the highest density of cases across the country. If this restriction is removed, it puts the health of Kannadigas under risk. It'll create a situation of embracing death. Hence, we will not be able to open the border," Yediyurappa said, reiterating the government's decision. On March 31, Gowda had asked Yediyurappa to open the borders on "humanitarian grounds" so as to allow ambulances from Kerala to reach Mangaluru for treatment. Subsequently, the JD(S) supremo wrote to Vijayan lambasting the BJP government in Karnataka for the border blockade, saying the closure of the interstate highway between Mangaluru and Kasargod had brought him "pain and anguish". The JD(S) is a coalition partner in Kerala.  There is no political motivation behind the border blockage, Yediyurappa said. "I respect your views that the border should be opened on humanitarian grounds. But if we open up the border, it'll be impossible to identify who is infected and who is not," he said, adding that opening the border will open a Pandora's box that will be disastrous for the state. "It's worthy to mention here that the Opposition parties have been supportive of my government ever since the pandemic broke out. I hope the same cooperation will continue in the future to protect the people of this state," Yediyurappa concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/opening-karnatakas-borders-for-kerala-will-be-embracing-death-b-s-yediyurappa-821468.html
04-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||ESCOMS doubtful on uninterrupted power supply if consumers don't pay bills||The department said that if people fail to pay their monthly electricity bills, it may become ‘extremely difficult to provide uninterrupted power supply’ in the coming days. In its circular, a copy of which is with DH, the energy department said, “ESCOMS are working 24X7 to ensure uninterrupted power supply to you so that you can operate from home and have a comfortable lockdown stay. ESCOMS’ day-to-day expenses are met out of day-to-day revenue collection from consumers.” The department further cautioned, “If the payment from consumers is delayed, ESCOMS will find it difficult to pay the generators for power purchase and to manage the day-to-day activities. It may become extremely difficult to provide an uninterrupted power supply to the consumers. Hence, consumers are advised and requested to pay electricity bills using online and digital methods.” However, the department has also stated, “If any consumer has genuine, unavoidable difficulty in making the payment, they may represent to the local ESCOMS office who will consider the representation sympathetically.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/escoms-doubtful-on-uninterrupted-power-supply-if-consumers-dont-pay-bills-821488.html
04-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM COVID-19 Relief Fund sees a surge in number of donations in Karnataka||On Saturday, the Chief minister's COVID-19 Relief Fund received further donations with many government organisation employees donating their salaries. Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited employees donated to the Chief Minister's COVID-19 Relief Fund two days of their salary that amounted to Rs.18 crore. Rs. 50 lakh each was also donated by BBMP and Adichunchunagiri Mutt, Nagamangala. On Saturday alone, Rs.19.04 crore was donated taking the total to Rs.106.05 crore.  "Private clinics are being instructed strictly to treat patients without closing OPDs. The Chief Minister has already appealed for clinics to remain open. Clinics should start treating patients. We have received reports that private doctors are not opening clinics. It's not that one can't get stomach ache in the times of COVID-19," said S Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, and spokesperson for COVID-19 in Karnataka.  Rs. 2,000 is to be deposited to the accounts of farmers under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme, latest by April 10. Half litre free milk from Karnataka Milk Federation is to be supplied to all 7.5 lakh families in slums of Bengaluru free of cost till April 14. Gas cylinder subsidy amount under Ujjwala scheme is to be transferred to 15 lakh beneficiaries immediately. Under social security pension schemes, two months' pension is to be given within April 10," said Kumar. A work order for 18.33 lakh N95 masks was placed. 4.13 lakh masks have been received. "After April 14, a phase-wise lifting of the lockdown will be done after reviewing the situation. We will follow the Centre's instructions. A committee led by Union Minister Rajnath Singh will chart out steps of lifting the lockdown gradually," Kumar said.  In all 30 districts, fair price distribution shops have started functioning. "In Bengaluru South, a shop's licence was suspended after we received complaints of overcharging. Necessary investigation will be done," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-covid-19-relief-fund-sees-a-surge-in-number-of-donations-in-karnataka-821493.html
04-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Areas within 3-km radius of COVID-19 positive person's house closed in Belagavi||COVID-19 positive cases were found at Kasai Galli, Camp in the city and at Hirebagewadi and Belagundi villages in Belagavi taluk. Movement of people in three-km area has been banned and all offices barring government will remain closed. Residents of these areas will remain in home quarantine. They can come out to get essentials from 8 am to 10 am, vehicle barring service can enter and exit once a day.  Health Department officials will monitor health of the people in the buffer zone.  Local body officers will work as nodal officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/areas-within-3-km-radius-of-covid-19-positive-persons-house-closed-in-belagavi-821149.html
04-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Samples of primary contacts of COVID-19 patient to be sent for tests||One person from Kasai Galli Camp, one from Hirebagewadi and another from Belagundi had tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday and have been admitted to District Hospital, the designated hospital for treatment. An area of three-km around their homes has been identified as a containment area and buffer zone with people being prevented from coming out of their homes. Sources said based on the symptoms of primary contacts of the three COVID-19 positive persons, a decision will be taken to send their samples for test. Health Department officials will inspect the health of primary contacts and apprise the higher officials as sometimes, the symptoms are not seen on the second day but surface after 12 days. Accordingly, a decision will be taken, added sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/samples-of-primary-contacts-of-covid-19-patient-to-be-sent-for-tests-821241.html
04-04-2020||West||Rajasthan's Tonk city emerging another hotspot for coronavirus, reports 16 cases in 3 days||Tonk city in Rajasthan is emerging another hotspot for the coronavirus spread in the state as 16 people have tested positive for the deadly disease in the past three days. With 46 fresh cases including 12 in Tonk and 9 Iran evacuees reported positive on Friday, the state's cumulative number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 179. There were complaints from survey teams that people in some areas of Tonk are not cooperating and resisting screening. Officials have been asked to ensure that field teams face no difficulties while they perform their duties. The spread of the coronavirus in Tonk, which is a Muslim-dominated city, is mainly linked to four Tablighi Jamaat members who had tested positive on Wednesday, while 12 of their close contacts were tested positive on Friday. In the wake of the emerging situation, a team of the World Health Organisation (WHO) from Jaipur visited Tonk on Friday and held discussion with officials. "A two-member WHO team visited Tonk today and did their assessment on works being done here. They were satisfied on seeing that protocol and guidelines for the containment of spread of virus are being properly followed," Tonk district collector Kishore Kumar Sharma told PTI. He said curfew has already been imposed in Tonk and Todaraisingh town after positive cases were reported on Wednesday. "Intense contact tracing, door-to-door survey and screening is being done," Sharma said. The collector said people in some areas of Tonk were not cooperating with medical department teams and resisting screening and district administration and police officials have been asked to make sure that health workers face no difficulties. In Jaipur, Health Minister Raghu Sharma said that misbehavior with medical teams will not be tolerated.  He also called upon the people, who attended a religious congregation in Delhi, to come forward for testing for their own safety as well as the safety of their family members and others. The minister said situation in the state was under control but the number of cases was sharply increasing which was a matter of concern "The number of positive cases has sharply increased in the last 24 hours. This is a matter of concern. I held a video conferencing with CMHOs and other officers to review the situation and took feedback from them. Necessary directions were also given to them," he said. The new cases which were reported on Friday include 19 Tablighi Jamaat members. Of them, 13 alone are in Jaipur. They are from states like Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu and 12 of them are under isolation in Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) hospital in Jaipur and one in Ramganj. Two Tablighi Jamaat members confirmed positive are in Bikaner, as many as in Bharatpur and one in Dausa and one in Alwar. Nine persons who were evacuated from Iran and kept in Indian Army's isolation facilities have also tested positive for the virus. So far, twenty-one persons have been found negative after initially being reported positive and all of them have been discharged, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthans-tonk-city-emerging-another-hotspot-for-coronavirus-reports-16-cases-in-3-days-821141.html
04-04-2020||West||Nagpur: 33 persons connected to Nizamuddin event test negative of COVID-19||As many as 33 Nagpur residents who had either attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin area last month, or come in contact with others who attended it, tested negative for coronavirus on Friday, a health official said here. However, a person from nearby Washim district who had some connection with the gathering tested positive for infection, Deputy Medical Superintendent of government-run IGG Medical College and Hospital Dr Sagar Pandey said. A machine in the IGGMCH's lab, which is being used for testing samples arriving from Vidarbha and neighbouring Chhattisgarh too, broke down due to overload but testing continued with another machine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-33-persons-connected-to-nizamuddin-event-test-negative-of-covid-19-821145.html
04-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra death toll reaches 26||With six more COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, the death toll in Maharashtra has shot up to 26. The total number of progressive stands at 490. The progressive discharge now stands at 50. The new cases on Friday have gone by 67 which include 43 in Mumbai.  The 6 deaths include two patients from Mumbai, and one each from Jalgaon,  Pune,  Badlapur and Vasai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-death-toll-reaches-26-821154.html
04-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra govt launches helpline to address mental health concerns||Available at free of cost for people across cities of Maharashtra, the helpline comprises experienced and trained mental health counsellors, who are clinical psychologists and psychiatrists from Mpower – The Centre, Mpower – The Foundation and Mpower – The Cell to provide much needed mental healthcare counsel and support. The service is available in Marathi, Hindi and English to address any mental health concerns faced by citizens of Maharashtra during these trying times. The Maharashtra government and BMC will mobilise support by using its available infrastructure, communication channels and social media platforms to propagate the ‘BMC-Mpower 1on1’ helpline and appeal to people of Maharashtra to avail this free service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-govt-launches-helpline-to-address-mental-health-concerns-821161.html
04-04-2020||West||One more tests coronavirus positive in Goa, tally now seven||The man from St Estevam village, 20 kms from Panaji, had recently returned from abroad, he said. "After he showed symptoms of COVID-19, he approached the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and a test was conducted on him. His reports, which came late Friday night, confirmed that he is coronavirus positive," Rane said. The patient has been admitted to a specially- designated COVID-19 hospital in South Goa, he added. "This is the seventh case in the state," the minister said. Five of the earlier six patients had worked on a ship abroad before returning to the state.    ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-more-tests-coronavirus-positive-in-goa-tally-now-seven-821178.html
04-04-2020||West||COVID-19: 70 train coaches to serve as isolation wards in Gujarat||Seventy coaches of trains are being converted into isolation wards for suspected COVID-19 patients in Ahmedabad Railway Division, an official said. First such coach with all the necessary medical equipment has been readied and parked at Maninagar railway depot. Ahmedabad has been identified as one of the hotspots in terms of the spread of COVID-19. "Seventy train coaches are being converted into isolation wards for suspected patients of coronavirus. These coaches will be stationed at five depots. At the Maninagar depot, 25 coaches will be set up as isolation wards," Ahmedabad Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Deepak Kumar Jha said on Friday. Eight patients can be accommodated in every coach, he said. "The coaches have been changed accordingly and all the necessary medical facilities have been added," he said. Of the four toilets in each coach, one has been converted into a bathroom. A cabin for health workers has also been created in each coach, Jha said. "People who require special medical care will have to be taken to hospitals, but those with mild symptoms who require isolation will be kept in these coaches," he added.  He claimed that 5,000 train coaches will be converted into isolation wards with quarantine facilities across the country. Apart from Maninagar, these coaches will be stationed at the railway depots in Ahmedabad and Sabarmati. Other two depots, which will have these facilities are Bhuj and Gandhidham in Kutch district. So far, 38 persons have tested coronavirus positive in Ahmedabad, of whom four have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-70-train-coaches-to-serve-as-isolation-wards-in-gujarat-821182.html
04-04-2020||West||COVID-19 lockdown: Mumbai red-light area faces problems||The commercial sex workers (CSWs) in the Kamathipura area of Mumbai are facing problems because of the ongoing India lockdown. However, Congress MLA from Mumbadevi,  Amin Patel, had come to their rescue. "In fact, as soon as the lockdown started, we gave them rations comprising atta, rice, grams, pulses, oils, potato and onion," said Patel. On a normal day, Kamathipura, though dotted with old dilapidated buildings, is always hustling-bustling.  But, now it wears a deserted look. The CSWs have been informed about COVID-19 and the importance of social distancing. "COVID-19 has affected their livelihood," said an activist, who lives in the vicinity.Kamathipura is divided into roughly 14 lanes and divided according to regional and linguistic backgrounds of the sex workers. Most of the sex workers come from other Indian states and from neighbouring countries like Nepal and Bangladesh. Initially known as Lal Bazaar, it got its name from the Kamathis (workers) of Telangana region. Kamathipura is sandwiched between the posh areas of Malabar Hill, Colaba, Worli and Mazgaon, however, this area, because of its background, has not undergone development. In fact, Patel is one of those who has initiated development in the area. A busy road in Kamathipura was known as 'Safed Gully' (White Lane) owing to the European prostitutes housed here during the British Raj. The lane is now known as Cursetji Shuklaji Street. The most well-known brothel in the area, Pila House, is the hybridisation of its original word: Playhouse.  The first venereal disease clinic of Bombay was opened in 1916. It was taken over by BMC in 1925. The Bachchuseth ki Wadi on Foras Road, which is nearby was famous for its kothewalis or tawaifs and mujras.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-mumbai-red-light-area-faces-problems-821191.html
04-04-2020||West||COVID-19 positive cases cross 500-mark in Maharashtra||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Maharashtra has crossed the 500-mark on Saturday.  As of now the total number of progressive cases stand at 537, rising above the 490 cases of Friday evening. The progressive discharge of patients stands at 50. So far about 10,000 samples (approximately) have been tested in government and private labs. The fresh cases include 28 from Mumbai, 15 from rest of Mumbai Metropolitan Region, three from Pune and one from Amravati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-positive-cases-cross-500-mark-in-maharashtra-821210.html
04-04-2020||West||Woman dies of COVID-19 in Ahmedabad; Gujarat death toll reaches 10||A 67-year-old coronavirus positive woman died at a hospital in Ahmedabad on Saturday, taking the death toll in the state to 10, an official said. The woman, who was admitted to SVP Hospital in the city, died due to COVID-19, Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanthi Ravi said. With this, the death toll in the state has increased to 10. Five of them died in Ahmedabad alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-ahmedabad-gujarat-death-toll-reaches-10-821217.html
04-04-2020||West||First coronavirus cases in 5 Rajasthan districts linked to Nizamuddin Markaz||As many as 41 people who returned to the state after attending the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz, or their contacts, have tested positive for the virus. The state has so far reported a total of 198 coronavirus positive cases, according to officials. The cases related to Tablighi Jamaat were first reported in Tonk where four people, who had attended the event in mid-March, tested positive on Wednesday. Coronavirus has now spread to 18 of the state’s 33 districts. The first cases in five districts -- Tonk, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa and Bikaner - were related to Jamaat returnees, the officials said. “We have been able to trace 703 people related to the Jamaat so far. This includes both, who attended Delhi event or came in their contacts. The work to identify and trace more such people is continuously going on,” Umesh Mishra, ADG-Intelligence, Rajasthan Police, told PTI Saturday. They have been home-quarantined or isolated in hospitals and the work of contact-tracing is underway, he added. He said that 381 out of 703 were from other states and 10 were from Nepal. The presence and movement of Jamaat people is high in the Shekhawati region (which comprises Churu, Jhunjhunu, Sikar and nearby areas), Alwar, Bharatpur and nearby areas which are dominated by the Meo community, and in Tonk, which has a sizeable Muslim population. Apart from these areas, people from Jamaat have been traced in Hanumangarh, Ganganagar, Karauli, Jodhpur, Barmer, Jaipur and Dausa districts also. As many as 166 of the 703 are those who came to Rajasthan after March 15. Those who came to the state from Delhi after attending the congregation moved across places while preaching Islam. They came in contact with men, women as well as children. “The initial challenge for us was Bhilwara. After that, cases from Ramganj in Jaipur suddenly increased. Now cases related to Tablighi Jamaat have become another challenge. Such cases started from Tonk where a curfew was already in place and intense screening and contact tracing was started” Chief Secretary DB Gupta said. He said that survey and screening at other places, where positive cases are being reported, are being done by medical teams. In Rajasthan, the maximum of positive cases (55) are from Jaipur, out of which13 are Tablighi Jamaat attendees. Most of the remaining cases are from Ramganj. After the state capital, Bhilwara (27) and Jhunjhunu (15) reported the highest number of cases. In Jhunjhunu, seven out of 15 were related to the Jamaat event.    ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/first-coronavirus-cases-in-5-rajasthan-districts-linked-to-nizamuddin-markaz-821229.html
04-04-2020||West||Khalasis show the way in self-quarantining, social distancing in Maharashtra's fishing industry||At the time of the compounding COVID-19 crisis and ongoing India lockdown, khalasis associated with the fishing industry in Maharashtra are showing the way when it comes to self-quarantine and social distancing. Fishermen associations say that so far, according to the reports that they have received, most of those who left had reached their hometowns. Those who are back are following self-quarantine rules. By conservative estimates, around 8,000 to 10,000 khalasis, who are associated with boats along the coastal districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, are stranded. The khalasis are migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Nepal. Maharashtra has around 20,000 fishing boats, including both mechanised and non-mechanised. Besides, there are trawlers that are into the illegal fishing using LED lights and purse seine net fishing. In fact, in mid-March, the problems begun to compound and boats started returning. "We have to understand the issue in totality. Fishermen and the fishing industry workers are the worst sufferers," said Damodar Tandel, President, Akhil Maharashtra Macchimar Kruti Samiti. "This is a humanitarian issue. The boat owners gave them the option of staying back or leaving for their hometown. Many of them left but many stayed back," said Rajhans Tapke, General Secretary, Koli Mahasangh. The 8,000 khalasis who stayed back are following the rules to their best. "Many of them are staying in the boats itself. They rarely come out and rations are being given to them by their employers. Some of them are staying in the small houses given by owners," said a boat owner. "They stay there, cook there and eat there," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/khalasis-show-the-way-in-self-quarantining-social-distancing-in-maharashtras-fishing-industry-821235.html
04-04-2020||West||Lifting of lockdown depends on compliance to norms: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that lifting of lockdown in the state after April 14 will depend upon the compliance by people to the government directives, two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi hinted at a "staggered exit" from the curbs. In a webcast, the CM also warned of strict action against those who spread communally divisive messages on social media amidst rising cases of COVID-19 in various states. He reiterated that no permission will be granted to religious or sporting events in the state till further notice to avoid mingling of people amid coronavirus outbreak. Thackeray said the only solution to tackle the coronavirus crisis lies in staying indoors and maintaining social distance. "Coronavirus is playing a game of patience with us. There is no dearth of courage, discipline and confidence among people of the state. Self confidence is important (in this crisis). I have it and I know you have it too. If you have self confidence then nobody can stop us from emerging victorious (in the battle against coronavirus)," he said. "I humbly request citizens to follow discipline and social distancing norms during the lockdown period. This is because I want to save you. Please stay indoors. Don't take undue advantage," he said. The CM attributed the rising number of COVID 19 patients in Maharashtra to reports coming from private labs which are allowed to do sample testing. He said 51 patients have recovered from COVID-19 and discharged in the state. As on Friday, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state stood at 490 with 26 deaths. In an apparent reference to hateful messages being spread on social media against a minority community in the wake of spike in COVID-19 cases post Nizamuddin gathering, the CM warned of strict action against such hate-mongers. "There is another virus of divisiveness apart from the coronavirus. I warn such people that I will ensure that no law will save you (for indulging in such acts)," he said. The CM reiterated that no permission will be granted to any political, religious or sporting events. "We celebrated Gudhipadwa and Ramnavmi by staying indoors. I am confident tht other communities would do the same," he said. The CM said religious leaders, including maulvis, have been in touch with him, and that they have asked members of their communities to not venture out. Thackeray said that as per a list received from Delhi on the members of Tablighi Jamaat from the state who attended the Nizamuddin congregation last month, all have been quarantined. "If anyone is left out, they should come forward on their own," he said. Thackeray further said that people who have to step out for essential work should cover their face with a clean cloth. He said even Singapore announced a lockdown and has taken steps just like we did. "Countries and religions may be different but the virus is one. The only solution is to stay at home," he said. Thackeray, who heads a Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, said he was in regular touch with various leaders. "Sharad Pawar is in touch. Even Sonia Gandhi spoke to me today," he said. In his address, Thackeray also thanked one Aradhya from Solapur who donated to the CM's Relief Fund on her seventh birthday and Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan for making available his personal premises for a quarantine facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lifting-of-lockdown-depends-on-compliance-to-norms-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-821260.html
04-04-2020||West||Gujarat: Five killed, one hurt in highway accident||Five persons, including three members of a family, were killed and one injured, when a car rammed into a truck on Limbdi-Ahmedabad Highway in Gujarat's Surendranagar district, police said Saturday. The incident took place near Kanpara village on Friday night when a car travelling towards Gandhinagar rammed into a truck, an official from Limbdi police said. While four persons died on the spot, another succumbed to his injuries at a hospital, he said, adding that an injured victim was undergoing treatment. The deceased include three members of a family from Jamkhambhaliya and drivers of both the vehicles, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-five-killed-one-hurt-in-highway-accident-821262.html
04-04-2020||West||No permission for gatherings till further orders, says Maharashtra government||Amid mounting cases of COVID-19, the Maharashtra government, on Saturday, made things crisp and clear: No permission for religious gatherings, community events and sports meetings. In separate messages, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar, minced no words. "Till further orders, we will not give any permission for religious functions, gatherings, events and sports," Thackeray said in his webcast message. "We have not given permission for Gudi Padwa and Ram Navami," he said, adding that irrespective of caste, community, religion and region, no permission would be given till further notice. Pawar, who holds the finance and planning portfolios, said: "On Monday, there is Mahavir Jayanti, on Wednesday, there is Hanuman Jayanti, followed by Shab-e-Baraat. Please do not step out of your homes. This year, please perform the rituals at home."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-permission-for-gatherings-till-further-orders-says-maharashtra-government-821268.html
04-04-2020||West||'Unruly' Tablighis be killed with bullets: MNS chief Raj Thackeray||MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Saturday said that the Tablighi Jamaat members who reportedly misbehaved with women medical staff during quarantine and are engaged in "some conspiracy" be killedby firing bullets. He also questionned the need for giving medical treatment to such people. The MNS chief demanded that videos of such people being thrashed be made viral on social media, to instill sense of "trust" among people. He also said the people would have felt satisfied had Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about the current scenario and where the country is heading at in its fight against coronavirus than the latter just speaking about lighting up lamps and candles. In his message to the nation, Modi on Friday asked people to switch off lights in their homes and light lamps, candles and switch on mobile phone flash lights at 9 PM on April 5 to display collective spirit to defeat the coronavirus. Speaking about harassment being faced by police and medical personnel, Thackeray said, "We can see the police being attacked and abused when they try to control the situation". "The meeting (of Tablighis had taken place) at Markaz in Delhi. Such people be killed by firing bullets at them. Why give them treatment? A separate section be created and their treatment be stopped," Thackeray told reporters here. "If they think that their religion is bigger than the country and want to engage in some conspiracy...they are spitting at people, on vegetables, roaming nude before the nurses," he said. Thackeray further said that videos of such people being thrashed should become viral, which will instill a feeling of trust among people. "The prime minister should have talked about it (in his video message on Friday," he said. Reports have emerged that Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined at a hospital in Ghaziabad misbehaved with the nurses, making lewd remarks and dropping their pants, provoking the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to invoke the stringent National Security Act against them. They are among the thousands who had attended a religious congregation at the organisation's New Delhi headquarter, now being seen as a coronavirus hotspot. Similar reports of the Jamaat members admitted to a hospital in Kanpur refusing to take medicines and misbehaving with the medical staff emerged on Saturday, prompting authorities to remove female staffers from there Meanwhile, the MNS chief congratulated the Maharashtra Police for refusing permission to a Nizamuddin-like congregation in Vasai last month, thus averting the potential spread of coronavirus. He said the Delhi Police did not realise the possible spread of coronavirus when the Nizamuddin congregation was allowed last month. He further added that it was not the time to play the blame game.  "It is also not the time to talk about religion too, but the kind of things some sections among Muslims are doing, they be thrashed now. "They should remember the lockdown is for some days, we are there then (after the lockdown is over), he added. Thackeray asked "whereabouts" of Maulvis (clerics), who he said otherwise ask community members about whom to vote for in elections have disappeared now and why they are not asking people to observe discipline. He said said the lockdown period may be extended if people do not observe discipline, which will badly affect industries and functioning of government, further leading to economic crisis. Thackeray praised doctors, police and other government staffers providing water, electricity and food grains for risking their lives to serve the people. He also said the peace being experienced in Mumbai at present was not witnessed even after the 1992-93 riots in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unruly-tablighis-be-killed-with-bullets-mns-chief-raj-thackeray-821270.html
04-04-2020||West||Gujarat: Tally of COVID-19 patients now 105, toll at 10||With 10 more persons testing coronavirus positive in Gujarat on Saturday, the number of such patients in the state rose to 105, while the death toll reached 10 as one more person succumbed to the infection, officials said. Four more COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery, one of them in Vadodara and three others in Gandhinagar, including an 80-year-old woman who also suffered from diabetes and other diseases, Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi, said. With this, 14 patients have been discharged in the state so far, she said. "Ten more cases, five from Ahmedabad, two each from Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar, and one from Patan, took the total of COVID-19 patients in the state to 105," Ravi said. While nine of them are cases of local transmission, one patient from Patan has a travel history to Mumbai. This is the first case in Patan district. With the death of a 67-year-old woman at Ahmedabad hospital, the number of such deaths in the state has gone up to 10 so far, she said. "The woman, who was admitted to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital in Ahmedabad on March 28 passed died on Saturday. She was on ventilator support," Ravi said. Her husband is also a COVID-19 patient with a travel history to Indore, she said. On Friday, a 78-year-old man had died at a government hospital in Vadodara, while a 67-year-old man from Ahmedabad succumbed to the infection at the Sola civil hospital. The number of persons dying due to COVID-19 in Ahmedabad has risen to five. Ahmedabad has been identified as one of hotspot in terms of the spread of coronavirus. The city has so far reported 43 positive cases. "Out of a total 105 patients, condition of 81 active cases is stable," Ravi said. Of these patients, 62 are cases of local transmission, while 33 have a history of travel abroad. Ten others have inter-state travel history, the state health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-tally-of-covid-19-patients-now-105-toll-at-10-821273.html
04-04-2020||West||Cops stop 70 migrant workers from going to Karnataka||As many as 70 migrant construction workers were stopped by the police here from going to Karnataka in a truck amid the lockdown, an official said on Saturday. The workers, currently living in Bibwewadi area of the city, were planning to return to their native places in the neighbouring state, he said. "We got a tip-off about it and stopped them from going," a ssenior official of Bibwewadi police station said. A case has been registered against the contractor and the construction workers under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-stop-70-migrant-workers-from-going-to-karnataka-821287.html
04-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Bhujbal apprises Pawar of food reserve plans||Maharashtra Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Saturday met NCP chief Sharad Pawar to apprise him about the steps his department had taken in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The senior NCP leader met Pawar at the latter's residence 'Silver Oak' here, a statement said. According to the statement, Bhujbal informed Pawar that care is being taken to ensure that the government's decisions in the interest of ration-card holders were implemented at the grassroot level. The minister on Friday had announced that around 6.94 lakh quintals of food grains had been distributed to 28.61 lakh ration card holders through the public distribution system since Wednesday. This amount, distributed during the lockdown imposed for the coronavirus outbreak, was said to be a record.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bhujbal-apprises-pawar-of-food-reserve-plans-821294.html
04-04-2020||West||Maharashtra man held for indecent reply to scribe's coronavirus tweet||A 44-year-old man who claimed to be a BJP functionary was arrested for using objectionable language while replying to a tweet by a journalist on lighting diyas to combat the novel coronavirus outbreak, Nashik police in Maharashtra said on Saturday. A Nashik Rural police official identified the accused as Vijayraj Jadhav, a resident of Ozar, some 190 kilometres from here, and an employee of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). "The woman journalist had tweeted about the appeal to light diyas and lamps on April 5 in connection with novel coronavirus outbreak. The accused replied to the tweet using objectionable and indecent language after which the journalist approached police," he said. "Jadhav was arrested on Friday night. His Twitter handle says he is district chief of BJP Nashik social media. But we did not find anything that showed this is true," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-held-for-indecent-reply-to-scribes-coronavirus-tweet-821307.html
04-04-2020||West||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh distributes masks, sanitizers to police||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday distributed face masks and hand sanitizers to police personnel who are on the streets enforcing the lockdown for coronavirus. Deshmukh shared a video which showed him handing out masks and sanitizers to policemen in Mumbai on Twitter. "Police personnel working tirelessly to help prevent the spread of the #CoronaPandemic come in direct contact with so many. As a preventive safety measure, I distributed special masks & sanitizers to them," he tweeted. In another tweet he said, "The government distributed personal protection equipment to police personnel who were setting out to catch those fleeing home quarantine." Maharashtra has so far reported 537 coronavirus cases, a majority of them in Mumbai. The Union government on Saturday issued an advisory asking people to wear "homemade face covers", especially when stepping out of home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-distributes-masks-sanitizers-to-police-821310.html
04-04-2020||West||Maharashtra man who died of pneumonia found COVID-19 positive||Samples of a 45-year-old man, who died of pneumonia on April 2 in Maharashtra's Amravati district, tested positive to novel coronavirus on Saturday, an official said. The deceased and his family members had not travelled outside Amravati in the recent past, officials said. "His throat swab was sent for a laboratory test, which tested positive to coronavirus," he said. Officials are now trying to identify people who came into contact with the deceased. According to officials, this is the first COVID-19 case in Amravati. They said that four members from the family of the deceased, including two women, have been quarantined for 14 dys and his area of residence being sanitised. District Collector Shailesh Naval said that all shops in the area are shuttered to avoid crowding of people for at least two days. Another official said that neither the deceased nor his family members travelled outside the city in the last six months. The doctor who initially treated the deceased after he developed symptoms of cough and cold has also been isolated. Meanwhile, a person who tested positive to novel coronavirus in Washim district on April 2 was found to have come into contact with eight persons from Badnera in Amravati district, Naval said. "Swabs of all the eight have been sent for testing and they have been home quarantined," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-who-died-of-pneumonia-found-covid-19-positive-821317.html
04-04-2020||West||Lockdown may be lifted in phases: Maharashtra Health Minister||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said the government was considering relaxation of the ongoing lockdown for containment of coronavirus in phases. Earlier in the day he had said the state government may not lift lockdown on April 14 if people did not observe discipline and the number of COVID-19 cases kept rising. "Discussion is on about whether the lockdown can be relaxed in phases. Strict rules will have to be followed in the containment zones," Tope said in a live webcast later. The minister also urged people to take steps to boost immunity. "Eat well and exercise indoors," he said. "Many ayurveda practitioners want to recommend treatment for coronavirus. They should post whatever information they have about alternative medicine onthe AYUSH portal," Tope added. Earlier in the day, Tope had told PTI that "people must strictly observe discipline", otherwise "there will be no other alternative left and the lockdown will have to be extended." In any case, lockdown will have to be lifted in phases as "not all the people can be allowed to come on to the streets at one go", the health minister had stated. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 21-day lockdown in the country to combat the spread of the coronavirus on March 24. The number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra rose by 47 on Saturday, taking the tally to 537. Twenty-six people have died due to the disease in the state till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-may-be-lifted-in-phases-maharashtra-health-minister-821338.html
04-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Man freed to reduce jail crowding kills woman||A history-sheeter who was recently released from jail as part of measures to decrease crowding in view of the coronavirus outbreak allegedly killed the wife of a police constable on Saturday, an official said in Nagpur in Maharashtra. Navin Gotafode slit the throat of Sushila, wife of Crime Branch head constable Ashok Muley, at around 10am on Saturday in Nandanvan area of the city, he said. "Gotafode was released after a recent order to reduce crowding in jails to avoid an outbreak of coronavirus among inmates. He wanted to meet Sushila's son as the two were friends from school. Sushila objected to the friendship which angered Gotafode," the official said. "On Friday night, he came to meet Sushila's son but could not. So he sneaked into their house on Saturday and slit the woman's throat. Gotafode also attacked the woman's son when he tried to stop him from fleeing," he added. A murder case has been registered and a hunt was on to nab Gotafode, said zone IV Deputy Commissioner of Police Nirmala Devi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-man-freed-to-reduce-jail-crowding-kills-woman-821386.html
04-04-2020||West||Identifying activities for Maharashtra economic revival: Official||The Maharashtra government is identifying basic economic activities that need to be supported to revive the state's financial condition amid the downturn due to the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak, a senior official said on Saturday. Priority will be given to supporting the supply chain of essential goods and services needed to sustain people, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) Manoj Saunik told PTI. "Activities which provide essential services and goods, right from farmers to manufacturers to the consumer, like raw materials, packaging, transportation, storage need to be looked into. There will be need to reallocate resources (post the coronavirus fight)," he said. He said the Centre had already given a fiscal push and the state government was talking to stakeholders on the way forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/identifying-activities-for-maharashtra-economic-revival-official-821395.html
04-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Don't celebrate festivals now, says Jayant Patil||People should not come together to celebrate religious festivals at this time because government orders will have to be followed completely to overcome the coronavirus outbreak, Maharashtra minister and senior NCP leader Jayant Patil said on Saturday. In a Facebook address, he said the virus could infect anybody irrespective of religion and hence rules need to be followed by all. "There is no need to panic if the number of COVID-19 patients increases. We will definitely be successful in combating it. But no matter which community you belong to, you should not come together to celebrate festivals," Patil said, though he did not specify any community or festival. While Ram Navami was a few days ago, Mahavir Jayanti and Hanuman Jayanti are round the corner, though the state and country are under a lockdown, which prohibits movement and assembly of people, for the coronavirus outbreak. Patil said the lockdown has been "90 per cent successful". He expressed concern over the rise in the number of COVID-19 patients in cities like Mumbai and Pune. In Sangli, the 25 individuals who tested positive are stable as they got treatment in time, he said. A coronavirus testing laboratory has been set up in Miraj in Sangli and it will benefit people from Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Solapur districts as well as the neighbouring state of Goa, Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-dont-celebrate-festivals-now-says-jayant-patil-821401.html
04-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Headmaster arrested for raping daughters||A middle-aged man has been arrested from Beed district in Maharashtra for allegedly raping his two daughters and attempting to sexually assault another, police said on Saturday. Police also arrested four others, including family members of the accused, for allegedly not reporting the matter. The accused is working as a headmaster of a school in Kej. He has been allegedly raping his daughters for the last eight years, police inspector Pradeep Tribhuvan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-headmaster-arrested-for-raping-daughters-821416.html
04-04-2020||West||Gujarat's three worst hit cities create containment zones to stop spread of COVID-19||The Surat civic body has already quarantined almost 1.25 sq km of area covering nearly 4000 houses in Rander that is dominated by Sunni Bohra Muslims. The step was taken after a 67-year-old male, who runs a laundry shop, was found infected with the virus on March 30. This was the second case reported from the area after a businessman was found infected earlier. Surat has till Saturday reported 12 positive cases. Similarly, in Ahmedabad, one of the hotspots of the virus spread in the country with 43 positive cases including five deaths, the civic authority has put five residential societies-two in Jamalpur, one each in Dariapur, Rakhial and Danilimbda-under cluster containment. These societies, majority of them in Muslim dominated areas, have about 150 houses with a population of nearly 800 Officials said that from these societies over 20 cases have been detected and in most of the the case source of infection is not known. These societies have been put under surveillance and being manned by the police and health officials. "The cluster containment protocol says that all entry and exit gates shall be closed except one. The health officers will be surveying every household and give necessary treatment. It is merely to contain the spread since these are the societies densely populated," said a senior officer with Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. He added, "We are providing each household all essential commodity required on daily basis." A number of persons in these localities are upset with the authorities and believe that government should be more sympathetic in dealing with them. On Friday, the civic authority had to take help from the local police to isolate several members of a COVID-19 patients and put them into quarantine facilities. Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra didn't respond to call made by DH. Nehra had tweeted on this development as saying that "The entire exercise was well planned and happened smoothly & peacefully." While announcing cluster containment of five housing societies, he tweeted, "Extraordinary times calls for extraordinary steps. Our teams will ensure supply of essential commodities to all the families in these areas." Meanwhile, Ahmedabad police commissioner Ashish Bhatia on Saturday told reporters that these societies are manned by a police sub inspector and four police constables to impose restricted movement. Besides, there are local policemen and Rapid Action Force (RAF) teams have also been deployed in the areas surrounding the societies. On the other hand in Bhavnagar town, the local administration has also imposed cluster containment in the locality, home to nearly 2000 persons, from where seven cases of lethal virus have been detected. The city has reported a total of nine cases including one linked to controversial Tablighi Jamaat's religious congregation attendee.   With detection of 13 new positive cases of coronavirus in the state till Saturday evening, the number of affected persons reached 108. The state also reported a fresh death of 56-year-old woman in Ahmedabad that took the death toll to 10, out of which five have died Ahmedabad. Health department’s data reveals number of positive cases with foreign travel history has remained 33 for the past four days, while local transmission cases have increased to 62. There are ten cases in which patients had history of traveling to other state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-three-worst-hit-cities-create-containment-zones-to-stop-spread-of-covid-19-821424.html
04-04-2020||West||Nine new coronavirus cases found in Pune district||Eight cases were found in Pune city while one was reported in neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad, said Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer. "The number of COVID-19 cases has reached 83," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nine-new-coronavirus-cases-found-in-pune-district-821449.html
04-04-2020||West||Cyber frauds trying to dupe people with fake 'PM-CARES' links||Fraudsters are using fake links to dupe people in the name of online coronavirus donations to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund, also known as PM-CARES Fund, Maharashtra Cyber police officials said on Saturday. They said several such links have been traced and disabled. Officials asked people to use the authentic link which is pmcares@sbi to donate funds to fight the virus outbreak. Officials said Maharashtra Cyber has registered 78 cases during the lockdown for online misinformation on the coronavirus outbreak. These include eight in Mumbai, six each in Pune Rural and Satara district, five each in Beed and Nashik Rural, four each in Nagpur,, Nashik city, Thane and Kolhapur, an official said. In one case in Malegaon in Nashik, an offence was registered and three people arrested for making a Tiktok video with a communal angle to the outbreak. In Mumbai, two persons were booked for a communal post on Facebook, while in Dongri in the south of the metropolis, some people gathered in violation of lockdown orders after a fake news was circulated through WhatsApp, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyber-frauds-trying-to-dupe-people-with-fake-pm-cares-links-821477.html
