05-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Release Hemavathi water on priority: T B Jayachandra||Former minister T B Jayachandra urged the state government to release Hemavathi river water for drinking water projects on priority. In a press release, the former minister said that the administration has released the share of water till December in 2019. The district administration should make arrangements for the drinking water for the coming four months, he said. Nearly, 24.83 TMC of water was shared for the drinking and the agriculture schemes. In 2019-20, only 18 TMC of water was released to the district. As agreed, the remaining 6.83 TMC of water should be released in the second week of April, he demanded.  As of now, nearly 15 to 16 TMC of water is being stored in the Hemavathi reservoir. Rainfall was very less in the year 2019-20. People in Chikkanayakanahalli, Gubbi, Sira, Madhugiri, Pavagada are facing a severe water crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/release-hemavathi-water-on-priority-t-b-jayachandra-821683.html
05-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sale of fish and poultry banned in Srirangapatna||With the coronavirus on the rise in the nearby Mysuru city, Tahsildar M V Roopa has issued orders, banning sale of poultry and fish in Srirangapatna until further notice. The people of Mysuru visit Srirangapatna for fish, which is freshly available here. With the COVID-19 on the rise in Mysuru, the tahsildar has banned sale of fish, mutton and chicken in the taluk. Besides, the salons should also be closed, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sale-of-fish-and-poultry-banned-in-srirangapatna-821685.html
05-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Ensure food, essentials for nomads, migrant workers on war footing'||Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar directed officials to supply food, shelter and other necessities to migrant labourers and people living in nomadic settlements in the district on a war footing. He noted that there are 953 migrant workers and 3,377 other labourers working for contractors and factory owners in the district as of now. "These numbers may increase with time," he observed.  Chairing a meeting with officials on Sunday in Tumakuru he said, other than district-level officers working in departments that are delivering essential services, others have been assigned to each taluk as nodal officers. There are as many as two to five nodal officers for each taluk, he added.  He instructed these nodal officers to visit camps for nomads and migrant workers set up by the government and review the situation daily.  He asked them to submit daily reports to the HQ with pictures of the facilities like food, shelter and medical assistance being provided by contractors and industry owners.  The DC asked them to ensure that basic amenities like toilets and safe drinking water are being provided in shelters, along with medical screening for women, expecting mothers, children and senior citizens.   The DC cautioned that social distance has to be maintained at all costs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ensure-food-essentials-for-nomads-migrant-workers-on-war-footing-821734.html
05-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: No need to panic, DC tells people||Deputy Commissioner R Latha said that people should not be panic about the spread of COVID-19. Chairing the District Disaster Management Authority committee meeting held at the DC office, DC said,” Those under home quarantine and isolation haven’t shown any symptoms of COVID-19. However, people should take precautionary measures to contain the spread of the virus.” "Funds under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, compensation for drought and crop insurance scheme will be directly deposited to accounts of the farmers. The officials should ensure that the grants reach the farmers. They should ensure that farmers withdraw funds from their accounts by maintaining social distancing in banks,” she said. There is no time restriction for outlets selling groceries, fertilizers and seeds, she added. Zilla Panchayat M B Chikkanarasimhaiah said that the officials should ensure regular drinking water supply. Awareness should be created about social distancing and means to contain COVID-19. Additional Deputy Commissioner Arathi said," Basic facilities like food and accommodation facilities are being provided at check posts at interstate locations.” Superintendent of Police G k Mithun Kumar, Assistant Commissioner Raghunandhan, District Surveillance Officer Dr Yella Ramesh Babu and other district level officers were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-no-need-to-panic-dc-tells-people-821750.html
05-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Meat stalls, salons remain closed in Mandya||The Mandya district administration has ordered closure of meat stalls and salons in Nagamangala, Malavalli and K R Pet taluk, after a group of clerics, who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin, Delhi were said to have travelled in parts of Mandya and Mysuru districts. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh has issued orders. Five persons, who have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru, residents of Delhi, have travelled across Mandya and Mysuru districts for 40 days. Besides, seven persons of Malavalli have taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, from February 5 to 8. As many as 24 persons of Nagamangala had come in direct contact with the clerics from Delhi and the seven persons of Malavalli had been to Delhi. In Mysuru, the district administration has ordered closure of all the non-essential services. The police are tracking the details of the people who have travel history of Delhi.   In Mysuru, the authorities are tracking the people who have history of travelling to Delhi. The police and the district administration have taken measures to identify them. With the lockdown, only essential services are allowed. Except medical shops, hospitals and home delivery kitchen, no other shops are allowed to open after 6 pm in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/meat-stalls-salons-remain-closed-in-mandya-821757.html
05-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dharwad is now zero coronavirus positive case district||The second test report of the Hosayellapur person, with a travel history to Australia and the Middle East, has turned negative. The second report arrived on Sunday. He was the only positive case reported in the district, and after treatment, he has been tested negative. He was discharged from Hubballi’s Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), where he was being treated since March 22, on Sunday evening. However, the district administration in its media bulletin has mentioned that the district still has one COVID-19 positive case. Sources said, as a precautionary measure, the district administration has decided to house him at an ‘undisclosed’ government facility for a few more days. Doctors treating the person said, he had extended all support to the medical staff during his treatment. Medical experts, not attached to KIMS said, the district administration has taken a right decision by keeping him at an isolated place for a few more days as he could show symptoms again in future, and also to ensure that he does not face social backlash from his neighbours||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dharwad-is-now-zero-coronavirus-positive-case-district-821799.html
05-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||2 elephants found dead in Chamarajanagar district||Two female elephants, one of them pregnant, were found dead at Dabbaguli beat, Koudalli Wildlife range and Uganiya beat, Kongamadahalla forest area in the taluk recently. While the pregnant jumbo died after slipping from a hillock, another slipped and fell into the Cauvery river and died. Forest personnel on patrol found the fully pregnant female jumbo lying dead near Dabbaguli beat on March 30. It had slipped from the hillock, sustained serious injuries to its abdomen and died. The jumbo might have died on March 28 or 29, according to veterinarians who conducted the post mortem. The carcass of another female jumbo was found in River Cauvery at Kongamadahalla forest area on March 30. It is suspected that the jumbo might have slipped while walking on the boulders and died. Both the jumbos were cremated after post mortem. Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary Assistant Conservator of Forests Ankaraju said the two jumbos had died in a gap of just three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-elephants-found-dead-in-chamarajanagar-district-821808.html
05-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Has PM slyly asked nation to observe candlelight vigil on eve of BJP foundation day? asks H D Kumaraswamy||Criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi has converted a national crisis into an event of 'self-aggrandizement', JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy sought a credible scientific and rational explanation for the candlelight vigil on Sunday, April 5 evening. In a tweet thread, the former chief minister lashed out at the PM for pushing the "hidden agenda of the party in the face of global calamity" and giving meaningless tasks to an already exhausted population. "Has the PM slyly asked the nation to observe a candle light vigil on the eve of foundation day of BJP? April 6 being its foundation day, what else can explain the choice of date & time for this event? I challenge the PM to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation. Has the PM slyly asked the nation to observe a candle light vigil on the eve of foundation day of BJP? April 6 being its foundation day, what else can explain the choice of date & time for this event? I challenge the PM to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation.1/3 "The government is yet to provide PPEs for doctors and make test kits affordable for the common man. Without telling the nation what concrete steps are being taken to combat COVID-19 menace, the prime minister is giving meaningless tasks to an already exhausted population. The government is yet to provide PPEs for doctors and make test kits affordable for the common man. Without telling the nation what concrete steps are being taken to combat COVID-19 menace, the prime minister is giving meaningless tasks to an already exhausted population.2/3 "It is shameful to convert the national crisis into an event of self-aggrandizement & it is beyond shameful to push the hidden agenda of his party in the face of global calamity. May sense prevail upon the PM," he wrote. Tweeting in Kannada, he questioned whether the BJP - which is not ready to celebrate its foundation day owing to the lockdown - was indirectly using the people of the country for the purpose by making them light lamps. "Did the PM misuse the corona crisis to observe BJP foundation day?" he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-has-pm-slyly-asked-nation-to-observe-candlelight-vigil-on-eve-of-bjp-foundation-day-asks-h-d-kumaraswamy-821621.html
05-04-2020||Mysuru||COVID-19: 1284 under home quarantine in Mysuru; 28 isolated||As per the communication released by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, a total of 2,833 persons were observed till date. Out of them, 1,521 persons have successfully completed 14 days of home quarantine. The authorities have tested a total of 200 samples. While 28 tested positive, the others were negative. With many completing their quarantine period, the number of people under quarantine is on the decline from Saturday. As many as 1,705 people were under observation on Friday and the number reduced to 1,626 on Saturday. As on Sunday, 1,284 are under observation. The DC appealed to the people, who have returned from Covid-19 affected countries or who have been in personal contact with such persons to remain in home isolation for 14 days. He urged to maintain personal hygiene, to frequent wash hands with soap and water or hand sanitiser and has suggested to avoid social gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-19-1284-under-home-quarantine-in-mysuru-28-isolated-821706.html
05-04-2020||Mysuru||3 million kg tobacco unsold, says Vishwanath||Former minister and BJP leader A H Vishwanath demanded compensation for tobacco farmers and said, "Nearly, three million kilogram of tobacco remains unsold in Mysuru and Hassan districts." Addressing the press after distributing ration kits to the needy in the town, on Sunday, he said, "The tobacco growers are in crisis due to the lockdown. The state government should explain the tobacco growers problem to the Centre and seek compensation. It should also take measures to sell the unsold tobacco." The farmers are under stress as the price of tobacco has crashed. The banks are harassing the farmers to repay loan. The government must fix scientific prices and support the  farmers, he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/3-million-kg-tobacco-unsold-says-vishwanath-821764.html
05-04-2020||Mysuru||Private, retired doctors ready to join hands against COVID-19||Private and retired medical professionals have volunteered to serve during the crisis, extending their support to fight COVID-19. Several doctors have approached the district health office and the district administration in this regard. Around 36 doctors, including 15 women medical professionals, have volunteered and enrolled their names. District vector-borne diseases control officer Dr S Chidambar said that all have registered their names with the district health office and are willing to serve. The department is prepared to impart training to them on managing Covid-19 and handling the situation, he said. As many as 2,500 volunteers, including pharmacists, yoga professionals, and others too, have enrolled their names, and are ready to serve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/private-retired-doctors-ready-to-join-hands-against-covid-19-821796.html
05-04-2020||National||1,506 held for violating lockdown norms in 2 days in WB||Altogether 1,506 people have been arrested and 261 vehicles seized across West Bengal since Friday for violating the lockdown norms, police said on Saturday. Those arrested will be prosecuted under IPC sections dealing with disobedience of order duly promulgated, a senior police officer said. Police arrested 800 people and seized 148 vehicles on Friday, while the figures were 706 and 113 respectively till 8 pm on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1506-held-for-violating-lockdown-norms-in-2-days-in-wb-821519.html
05-04-2020||National||No decision on resuming train services yet: Railways||Amidst the railway zones making preparation to resume passenger trains after the lockdown ends on April 14, top railway officials on Saturday said that the government has not taken any decision on restoration of services. The Railway Board, the highest decision-making body of the national transporter, will decide on it in a few days. “Train services will have to be resumed only on specific approval of each train from Railway Board. It will be a phase-wise resumption of services,” said a railways official. This decision was taken in a video conference of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal with the Chairman, Railway Board on Friday, the official said. Trains, however, will begin operations only after receiving a green signal from the government which has formed a Group of Ministers (GoM) on the issue. Though railways will allow the booking of advance reservation tickets of trains after April 15, the decision on resumption of the services is yet to be taken, said the officials. The Railway Board willsend a complete action plan to zones on the resumption of operations soon, the official added. However, all the zonal railways are preparing time tables to resume the train operation. Some of the zones asked the staff to resume the duty on April 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-decision-on-resuming-train-services-yet-railways-821534.html
05-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 5, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-5-2020-edition-821535.html
05-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 5||While the impact of the novel coronavirus has been the most in China and Italy, India also is within its grasp. After making its presence in Kerala first, the novel coronavirus reached other cities/regions including Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Jaipur, Agra, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir among others. We, at Deccan Herald, bring to you the list of total positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the epidemic, according to the Union Ministry of Health and sources (the list will be updated regularly). The total number of positive cases (including deaths) in India: 4,220 as of April 5. Total deaths in India: 128 Andhra Pradesh: 1 Haryana: 2 Rajasthan: 6 Uttar Pradesh: 3 Telangana: 11 Madhya Pradesh: 12 Karnataka: 4 Delhi: 7 Maharashtra: 45 Punjab: 7 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 11 West Bengal: 7 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Tamil Nadu: 5 Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Kerala: 3 States/UT with confirmed positive cases: (State-wise details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 295Punjab: 68Delhi: 503Jammu and Kashmir: 106Ladakh: 13Rajasthan: 266Uttar Pradesh: 276Maharashtra: 748Karnataka: 151Tamil Nadu: 571Telangana: 378Haryana: 76Andhra Pradesh: 226Himachal Pradesh: 15Gujarat: 128Uttarakhand: 22Odisha: 21West Bengal: 54Chandigarh: 16Chhattisgarh: 19Madhya Pradesh: 193Bihar: 32Puducherry: 6Manipur: 2Mizoram: 1Goa: 7Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 10Jharkhand: 3Assam: 25Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 267 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the epidemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-5-821540.html
05-04-2020||National||Two dead in France stabbing rampage||A man went on a knife rampage in a town in southeastern France on Saturday, killing two people in what is being treated as a terrorist attack. The attack in broad daylight, which President Emmanuel Macron called "an odious act", took place with the country on lockdown in a bid to stem the spread of the deadly coronavirus. The reasons behind the stabbing spree remain unclear although Interior Minister Christophe Castaner spoke of the suspect's "terrorist journey" and counter-terrorism prosecutors are now leading the investigation. The assailant, understood to be a refugee from Sudan in his 30s, was arrested after his rampage in a string of shops in Romans-sur-Isere, a riverside town with a population of about 35,000. According to witnesses cited by local radio station France Bleu Drome Ardeche, he shouted "Allah Akbar!"(God is Greatest) as he attacked his victims. David Olivier Reverdy, assistant national secretary of the National Police Alliance union, said the assailant had called on police to kill him when they came to arrest him. "All the ingredients of a terrorist act are there," he told BFMTV. The suspect first went into a tobacco shop where he attacked the owner, town mayor Marie-Helene Thoraval told AFP. "His wife got involved and she was wounded as well," she said. The assailant then went into a butcher's shop where he seized another knife before heading to the town centre where he entered another store. "He took a knife, jumped over the counter, and stabbed a customer, then ran away," the shop owner Ludovic Breyton told AFP. "My wife tried to help the victim but in vain." Castaner, who visited the scene, said two people were killed and five others injured. "This morning, a man embarked on a terrorist journey," he said. The initial investigation has "brought to light a determined murderous course likely to seriously disturb public order through intimidation or terror", according to the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office (PNAT). It said that during a search of the suspect's home, "handwritten documents with religious connotations were found in which the author complains in particular that he lives in a country of non-believers". Macron was quick to denounce the attack in a statement on Twitter. "All the light will be shed on this odious act which casts a shadow over our country which has already been hit hard in recent weeks," he said. France is in its third week of a national lockdown over COVID-19, with all but essential businesses ordered to shut and people told to stay at home. The country has been on alert for terrorist attacks since a wave of deadly jihadist bombings and shootings in Paris in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-dead-in-france-stabbing-rampage-821543.html
05-04-2020||National||ICMR issues advisory on setting up new COVID-19 testing labs in districts||Currently, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved COVID-19 testing in more than 200 laboratories across the country.  Based on new requests from several districts for initiation of COVID-19 testing, the ICMR has come up with an advisory for setting up new laboratories. According to the advisory, a testing laboratory can be made operational in a district in case the nearest one is at the above-mentioned distance and the existing laboratories are testing at least 100 samples each per day. If the nearest testing laboratory is at the above-mentioned distance, not testing 100 samples per day and does not agree to test samples from the affected district, then it will be closed down and permission will be given to set up a new laboratory, it said. To have a testing facility, the district should also have a BSL-2-level government laboratory, including a molecular biology setup for virological diagnosis and availability of staff with a good understanding of laboratory biosafety and biosecurity, and trained to handle respiratory samples for viral diagnosis among others. "If a district has no government laboratory, but has a private laboratory which can apply for COVID-19 testing, the laboratory should have NABL accreditation and the scope of accreditation must include real-time PCR for respiratory viruses," the ICMR advisory stated. Proofs of the mentioned requirements need to be submitted to the ICMR while applying for a new testing laboratory, including documents and photographs of the laboratory, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-issues-advisory-on-setting-up-new-covid-19-testing-labs-in-districts-821546.html
05-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Three IAF personnel under quarantine as one of them visited Nizamuddin area in mid-March||Three personnel of the Indian Air Force (IAF) are under a precautionary quarantine presently as one of them had visited the Nizamuddin area around the same time the Tablighi Jamaat meeting was happening there last month, an IAF spokesperson said. A number of people who attended the Jamaat congregation, which took place mid-March in Delhi, were found to be having the coronavirus infection. "This person had gone to the Nizamuddin area around the same time this Jamaat meeting was taking place. Whether he attended this Jamaat meeting or not is under investigation by the Indian Air Force," the spokesperson said. "He has come in contact with two other Air Force personnel. All three of them are asymptomatic. All three under quarantine right now," he added. Nearly 22,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their primary contacts have been quarantined across the country so far, said a Union home ministry official on Saturday. Thousands of Tablighi Jamaat members had gathered at its headquarters in Nizamuddin, ignoring warnings by the government against large gatherings. Hundreds of them were evicted from there during the last few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-three-iaf-personnel-under-quarantine-as-one-of-them-visited-nizamuddin-area-in-mid-march-821552.html
05-04-2020||National||It's everyone's collective duty to help, protect health workers: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday that it is everyone's collective duty to help and protect health workers who are in the frontline in the fight against COVID-19. In a tweet using hashtag 'WeAreProudOfYou' she urged people to send their message to these "brave warriors". "In this war against coronavirus, our doctors, nursing staff, technicians and sanitation workers are the warriors who are staking their lives to manage the disease. It is everyone's duty to help them, keep them and their families safe and to support them. Send your message to these brave warriors," the Congress general secretary said in the tweet in Hindi. Her message comes in the wake of reports of some attacks on doctors and paramedic staff in some parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-everyones-collective-duty-to-help-protect-health-workers-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-821576.html
05-04-2020||National||Old video falsely viral as Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi flouting coronavirus lockdown||A 90-second video of Delhi police performing a security check of a car has gone viral. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi can be spotted sitting in the rear seat. The police can be heard saying that Section 144 is implemented in the area. According to social media claims, “Rahul Gandhi & Priyanka Gandhi Vadra defying the law of the land during the lockdown and Section 144″ imposed in light of the coronavirus pandemic.  Rahul Gandhi & Priyanka Gandhi Vadra defying the law of the land during lockdown and Section 144. saying we are not in a group. Driver tried to over run the CO on duty on Meerut Road, near Mohoddin pur, before Muradnagar Nahar. Pramod Tiwari has the cheek to say 'Chalo Jaane Do'. pic.twitter.com/n16pWz8D3s — Eagle Eye (@SortedEagle) April 4, 2020 (Tweet now unavailable) Several Facebook and Twitter users have shared the viral video. Alt News has also received several fact-check requests on WhatsApp (+91 76000 11160) and on our official Android application.    Old video Alt News performed a keyword search on Google and found that several media organisations had reported the incident in December 2019. According to the reports, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi were prevented from entering Meerut on December 24, 2019. Superintendent of Police (Meerut city) Akhilesh Narain has been quoted in the report stating that Section 144 was implemented in the area. According to the police, “Rahul and Priyanka were served a notice which said that section 144 of the CrPC has been imposed and the situation in Meerut was sensitive.” However, the report also quoted Rahul Gandhi defence: “We asked the police to show us the order, but they did not show any order for stopping us and told us to return.” News18 had tweeted a 17-second video of the incident on December 24. The viral video was therefore shot in December 2019 during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act when Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were stopped from entering Meerut. The first confirmed coronavirus case in India was reported on January 30, 2019. The clip is unrelated to the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/old-video-falsely-viral-as-rahul-and-priyanka-gandhi-flouting-coronavirus-lockdown-821583.html
05-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi tweets to remind people to light up diyas on Sunday night||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reminded people to light up lamps on Sunday night to show the country's collective resolve to fight coronavirus. "#9pm9minute", the prime minister tweeted to remind people of the exercise. Modi had on Friday urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5 to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-tweets-to-remind-people-to-light-up-diyas-on-sunday-night-821589.html
05-04-2020||National||Have restricted my movement to break COVID-19 chain: CRPF DG after doc tests positive||Maheshwari (59), the chief of the country's largest paramilitary force with a strength of about 3.25 lakh personnel, his predecessor and senior security advisor in the Union Home Ministry K Vijay Kumar (67), and about two dozen officials in this chain have gone into self-quarantine after the doctor was found infected on April 2. Both Maheshwari and Kumar has last week traveled to Chhattisgarh on a special BSF aircraft to review anti-Naxal operations in the state. "As a precautionary measure I have completely restricted my movement being part of my responsibility to break the chain, and working from home, till a clarity on health check up of officials concerned emerges," the CRPF chief said on personal Twitter account on Sunday. Maheshwari, a 1984-batch IPS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, had a contact with an officer who was in touch with the doctor found COVID-19 positive, now isolated at the the AIIMS in Haryana's Jhajjar. Kumar, a 1975-batch IPS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre, headed CRPF between October, 2010 to September, 2012. He has also served as the advisor to the governor of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. "A CRPF officer had tested positive for COVID-19. All personnel in contact with the officer have been quarantined. The DG (Maheshwari) had an indirect contact with the officer and according to protocol, he is observing quarantine," CRPF spokesperson DIG Moses Dhinakaran had said on Saturday.  Except the chief medical officer of the CRPF who tested positive and undergoing treatment, DIG Dhinakaran had said, none in the chain ahead have shown any positive sign so far. "However, the DG, as a precautionary measure, has advised all concerned to restrict their movements and strictly work from home to break the chain, if any."  "The DG has also set an example by following the same protocols," he said on Sunday.  The CRPF has directed its units across the country to help the distressed and needy amid the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown and has launched a helpline through its Kashmir-based platform 'Madadgaar' to aid those affected by the virus and related issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-restricted-my-movement-to-break-covid-19-chain-crpf-dg-after-doc-tests-positive-821596.html
05-04-2020||National||Central government amends mining law, exempts several activities from green clearance||Removal of sand deposits from agricultural fields after floods will not require green clearance now, with the Centre amending the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. In its notification, the Ministry of Environment has said that extraction of ordinary clay or sand by manual mining, by the 'kumhars' (potter) to prepare earthen pots, extraction of clay or sand by manual mining by earthen tile makers shall be exempted from the condition of acquiring environmental clearance. "The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change is in the receipt of representations for waiver of the requirement of prior environmental clearance for the borrowing of ordinary earth for roads; and manual extraction of lime shells (dead shell) etc., within inter tidal zone by the traditional community," the ministry said while making amendments in mineral laws. It said exemption from the requirement of environmental clearance shall also be given to "Removal of sand deposits on agricultural fields after the flood by farmers. Customary extraction of sand and ordinary earth from sources situated in Gram Panchayat for personal use or community work in villages.  "Community works, like, de-silting of village ponds or tanks, construction of village roads, ponds or bunds undertaken in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment and Guarantee Schemes, other Government-sponsored schemes and community efforts. Extraction or sourcing or borrowing of ordinary earth for linear projects such as roads, pipelines, etc. Dredging and de-silting of dams, reservoirs, weirs, barrages, river and canals for the purpose of their maintenance, upkeep and disaster management." Digging of wells for irrigation or drinking water purposes and digging of foundation for buildings and excavation of ordinary earth or clay for plugging of any breach caused in canal, nallah, drain, waterbody, etc., to deal with any disaster or flood-like situation upon orders of the District Collector or District Magistrate or any other competent authority as well as activities declared by the State Government under legislation or rules as non-mining activity shall not require prior green nod.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-government-amends-mining-law-exempts-several-activities-from-green-clearance-821603.html
05-04-2020||National||Man suspected to have contracted coronavirus attempts suicide at Delhi hospital||The 37-year-old man was admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital on March 31, they said. Around 11.30 pm on Saturday, he jumped from the third floor of the hospital. He first hit a tin roof before hitting the ground, fracturing his leg, police said. According to doctors, his condition is stable and the result for his coronavirus test is still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-suspected-to-have-contracted-coronavirus-attempts-suicide-at-delhi-hospital-821608.html
05-04-2020||National||Chidambaram advocates aggressive testing for coronavirus||He also welcomed the ICMR's advice to the government for starting antibody tests in hotspots, as it was overdue.   I welcome ICMR’s new advice to government to do ‘rapid antibody tests” starting in hotspots. According to many doctors, this advice was overdue. "CWC in its resolution pointed out that limited testing was a flawed strategy. Epidemiologists have demanded extensive and aggressive testing. Let government start aggressive testing today. "A lockdown will be effective only if we TEST, TEST, DETECT, ISOLATE and TREAT. That is the lesson from Japan, South Korea and Singapore," he said on Twitter. The Congress leader also said, "I welcome ICMR's new advice to government to do 'rapid antibody tests” starting in hotspots. According to many doctors, this advice was overdue."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-advocates-aggressive-testing-for-coronavirus-821611.html
05-04-2020||National||About 40,000 Indian seafarers stranded across the globe on account of coronavirus lockdown: Maritime bodies||There are about 15,000 seafarers onboard about 500 cargo vessels across the globe, and another 25,000 on cruise ships. Maritime bodies like NUSI, MUI and MASSA told PTI they have raised the issue with the Shipping Ministry, which has assured to extend all possible help for return of these seafarers after the lockdown is lifted. "It is estimated that around 40,000 Indian seafarers are stranded on cargo and cruise vessels across the globe and are waiting to come back home since their job contracts have expired," said Capt Shiv Halbe, CEO of Maritime Association of Shipowners, Shipmanagers and Agents (MASSA). He said the issue was raised before Shipping Minister Mansukh Lal Manadaviya, who assured their safe passage back home once the lockdown is lifted. "However, the minister said that the seafarers will need to be tested and then quarantined or isolated," he added. The maritime bodies and other stakeholders from port sector held a meeting with Mandaviya, through video conferencing, to discuss the plight of Indian seafarers, who are outside India currently, and various issues faced by the Indian maritime industry due to COVID-19 pandemic. Halbe called the meeting "extremely fruitful" and said he expects the government to take steps after the lockdown is over. Maritime Union of India (MUI) General Secretary Amar Singh Thakur said, "The minister agreed that there is a need to treat seafarers as 'essential workers' and to provide smooth relief facilities in ports. Their welfare should be looked after whilst they are onboard and in transit." National Union of Seafarers of India (NUSI) General Secretary Abdulgani Serang said, "I assured the minister that NUSI will certainly do the needful to financially support Indian seafarers in the current scenario when Indian economy is passing through a rough phase due to pandemic across the globe." He said NUSI has earmarked a corpus of Rs 10 crore to support retired Indian seafarers, disabled seafarers, widows of seafarers and jobless seafarers who have been out of job for the past nine months. "This novel move is aimed at alleviating their economic hardships in the current pandemic scenario," he added. Mandaviya on Friday had exhorted port officials and other stakeholders to convert the present crisis into an opportunity by ensuring smooth cargo operations so that supplies are not hit during the lockdown. The representatives from ports sector had raised concerns on high port operation cost, port congestion, shortage of labourers, movement of workers and truck drivers, among others, due to the lockdown. India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Mormugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V.O. Chidambaranar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-40000-indian-seafarers-stranded-across-the-globe-on-account-of-coronavirus-lockdown-maritime-bodies-821614.html
05-04-2020||National||Indian Bank employees donate one day's salary towards PM-CARES Fund||"The bank's 43,000 employees have shown their commitment to the nation by voluntarily contributing one day's salary totalling to Rs 8.10 crore to the PM-CARES Fund towards control of COVID-19 in the country," according to a statement. Separately, LIC-owned IDBI Bank said it has donated Rs 3.9 crore towards the fund. "IDBI Bank cares about the health and wellbeing of our fellow citizens, and through this contribution, we support the efforts of the government in fighting the coronavirus pandemic," the bank's Managing Director and CEO Rakesh Sharma said in a release. The Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES Fund) was set up on March 28 to raise money for combating the coronavirus crisis and to provide relief to the affected. Political leaders, corporates, defence personnel, employees of public sector undertakings such as railways, and Bollywood personalities are among a cross-section of organisations and people who have announced their contribution to the PM-CARES Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-bank-employees-donate-one-days-salary-towards-pm-cares-fund-821615.html
05-04-2020||National||Surprising if despite Rs 65,000-cr budget, AAP govt unable to buy PPEs for COVID-19: Delhi BJP||A day after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia sought Central funds to fight coronavirus, the Delhi BJP on Sunday hit out at the AAP government expressing surprise that despite passing a Rs 65,000-crore budget it was "unable" to buy personal protective equipment (PPE). The BJP's East Delhi MP and former cricketer Gautam Gambhir accused the Arvind Kejriwal government of "shedding crocodile tears" and "playing the victim card" over the issue. "Delhi government on March 23 passed a budget of Rs 65,000 crore, in a day instead of a five-day session due to coronavirus... Surprisingly, despite that Delhi government is unable to buy PPE kits worth Rs 1-2 crore. God knows what Arvind Kejriwal's intention is behind this," Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari tweeted. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday claimed that his government has asked for PPE kits from the Centre but none were received. East Delhi BJP MP Gautam Gambhir said that he had offered to donate Rs 50 lakh to the Delhi government for buying PPE kits and masks, but did not receive any feedback. "People would have benefited if the crores spent on TV advertisements aired from morning till evening were instead used on PPE kits. I had pledged Rs 50 lakh for PPE kits and masks but there is no feedback so far. Now they are asking the Centre. Shedding crocodile tears and playing victim card are two weapons of Arvind Kejriwal," he tweeted in hindi. Sisodia on Saturday demanded a disaster fund from the Centre to fight the coronavirus outbreak in Delhi, saying it was third most affected state in the country. In a letter to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the Delhi deputy chief minister said the Centre released over Rs 17,000 crore to the states from the Disaster fund but not a single rupee was given to Delhi. Delhi has the third highest number of COVID-19 cases in country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surprising-if-despite-rs-65000-cr-budget-aap-govt-unable-to-buy-ppes-for-covid-19-delhi-bjp-821620.html
05-04-2020||National||Lack of coronavirus testing kits a real challenge: Akhilesh Yadav||"Not enough testing kits for people. Not enough personal protective equipment for healthcare workers. Not enough meals to feed the poor. These are the real challenges today," he said in a tweet. Yadav also said in Hindi, "Think, how anyone will get external brightness by extinguishing their inner light ('Socho andar ki roshni bujhaakar kaun paa sakaa hai baahar ke ujaale')." His remark comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a call to people of the country to light candles on April 5 evening and display India's collective resolve to defeat coronavirus. Modi urged people to turn off lights at their homes and light candles, lamps or turn on mobile phone torches at 9 pm on Sunday for nine minutes to "end the darkness of coronavirus".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lack-of-coronavirus-testing-kits-a-real-challenge-akhilesh-yadav-821625.html
05-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll in India rises to 77, number of cases to 3,374: Health ministry data||The number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 3,374 on Sunday while the death toll rose to 77, according to Union Health Ministry data. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 3,030, as many as 266 people were either cured of the disease and discharged, and one had migrated, it said. In its updated data around 9 am, the health ministry reported two new fatalities -- one each from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. According to the ministry, Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 24, followed by Gujarat 10, Telengana seven, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi six each and Punjab five. Karnataka has reported four deaths, while West Bengal and Tamil Nadu each have recorded three fatalities. Two deaths each have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala. Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh each have reported one fatality, according to the data. The highest number of confirmed cases was reported from Maharashtra at 490, followed by Tamil Nadu at 485 and Delhi 445. Kerala has 306 positive cases so far, while the number of cases has gone up to 269 in Telangana and 227 in Uttar Pradesh. There are 200 cases in Rajasthan and 161 cases in Andhra Pradesh. COVID-19 cases have risen to 144 in Karnataka, followed by 105 in Gujarat and 104 in Madhya Pradesh. Jammu and Kashmir has 92 cases so far and West Bengal has 69. Punjab has reported 57 infections so far, followed by Haryana at 49. Thirty people are afflicted with COVID-19 in Bihar, while Assam has 24 cases. Uttarakhand has 22 cases, followed by Odisha at 20 cases, Chandigarh at 18 infections, and Ladakh with 14. Ten cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands while Chhattisgarh has nine infections. Goa has reported seven COVID-19 cases, followed by Himachal Pradesh with six and Puducherry with five cases. Jharkhand and Manipur have reported two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradeh have reported one infection each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the Union health ministry said on its website. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by states directly showed at least 106 deaths across the country while the number of confirmed cases of infection had reached 3,624 as on Sunday morning. Of them, 284 have been cured and discharged. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the aggregate of numbers announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-in-india-rises-to-77-number-of-cases-to-3374-health-ministry-data-821629.html
05-04-2020||National||Disseminate advisory on rapid antibody tests: ICMR DG to Health Secretary||The ICMR Director General has written to the Health Secretary, asking her to disseminate in states and Union territories the advisory to start rapid antibody based blood tests for COVID-19. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday issued the advisory to start rapid antibody-based blood tests for COVID-19 in areas reporting clusters and in large migration gatherings or evacuee centres.  "Overall testing for COVID-19 using real-time RT PCR is increasing and we will be approaching full capacity in near future. At the same time, we are expecting delivery of Rapid Test kits (blood based) for use in response to COVID-19 situation," ICMR DG Balram Bhargava said in his letter to health secretary Preeti Sudan. The National Task Force deliberated with experts for ascertaining use of these rapid test kits and the draft of the suggested algorithm was also discussed in detail with technical experts from the Health Ministry and inputs were included in the final version which is feasible for implementation in the field conditions, he said. The advisory to start rapid antibody based blood test for COVID-19, in clusters (with containment zones), and in large migration gatherings or evacuees centres is now available at ICMR website, he said. "The same may please be further disseminated to all States/UTs along with operational guidelines for implementation and roles and responsibilities for implementation," Bhargava said. Reports of the tests may be entered by the respective facilities on the ICMR portal similar to results of real-time RT PCR tests for COVID-19, he said. The results of antibody tests similar to blood tests are available in 15-30 minutes.  "Cases of influenza-like illness to be monitored in health facilities. Any surge in cases to be monitored and brought to the notice of surveillance officer/CMO for additional investigation," the advisory had said. As a matter of abundant precautions, all symptomatic persons with influenza-like illness should be advised home quarantine for 14 days. At facility level, symptomatic individuals with influenza-like illness to be tested using rapid antibody tests, the apex health research body had said in its advisory. If antibody test comes out negative, then if warranted, it can be confirmed by real-time RT-PCR using throat/nasal swab. At present, the government uses the RT-PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests to detect the coronavirus from samples of throat or nasal swab of people with symptoms or high-risk individuals who might have come in contact with a positive patient. RT-PCR negative indicates the likelihood of a non-COVID-19 influenza-like illness while RT-PCR positive means it is a confirmed case and action as per protocol should be initiated for isolation, treatment and contact tracing, the advisory stated. If the antibody test comes out to be positive, there has to be a clinical assessment and treatment in hospital or isolation as per protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disseminate-advisory-on-rapid-antibody-tests-icmr-dg-to-health-secretary-821637.html
05-04-2020||National||Study abroad dreams shattered or delayed due to COVID-19, students look for plan B||With an acceptance letter from Australia's Deakin University, 21-year-old Triptha Luthra was on cloud nine a month back but is now glued to TV following news updates from across the globe about the coronavirus pandemic as uncertainty surrounds her study abroad dream. For Anoushka Ray, who had plans to go to New York for the session beginning in September, the development is demotivating but not a factor to change her entire life plan. However, Tara Osan, who had acceptance letters from multiple colleges in Canada and Italy, believes its time to look for a plan B and apply for colleges in India. The three are among, several students whose study abroad plans have either been shattered or delayed due to lockdown restrictions imposed in various countries across the globe leading to suspension of classes and visa processes. Equally hard pressed are those students who are already enrolled in courses abroad and are in final year with no clarity on jobs and their visa deadlines racing against lockdown timelines besides education loans adding financial strain. "I had plans to study Masters in Architecture at Deakin University in Australia. I was supposed to go there soon and was waiting for my exams for undergraduate degree to be over. But now it feels like time has frozen," she told PTI. "I had not applied for further studies in any college in India and the option of taking up a job or internship also looks a distant dream here with the economic slowdown on the doorstep once the lockdown is lifted," she added. Tara Osan, a Shri Ram School student, who wanted to study Advertising either in Italy or in Canada, believes that for students who opted for IB curriculum, studying abroad was a plan in mind since long. "Two months back, I was elated to be counting the number of options I had but now it is a very demotivating phase. Our class 12 exams are also suspended and will be evaluated on basis of internal assessments. So its a feeling that lot needs to be done to get future plans in order but everything is on hold. "Studying abroad does not look like a possible thing this year so I will now look for a plan B and start applying for colleges here," she said. However, for Anoushka Ray, who wanted to study Liberal Arts in New York, the plan is only deferred but not cancelled. "Planning to study abroad is a long process, I have invested way too much both financially as well as mentally in the process so altering an entire life plan because of the situation at the moment, does not seem to be wise decision. I will go for next session but I will go. I am reaching out to my university in New York to see if my admission can be considered for next fall," she said. According to Study Abroad counsellors, the situation looks grim and might affect long term plans for many. "There are many students who have already got admission but are now reconsidering because the classes have moved online and there is no clarity by when situation will improve. So for students who actually want to live abroad, paying a heft fees just to attended classes online does not seem to be a lucrative option," Anupam Singha, who runs a Study Abroad consultancy firm in Delhi, told PTI. Similar, concerns are being faced by Rahsi Makhija, a University of Liverpool student. " I am pursuing a masters degree and it is just a year-long programme. While the tutorials which have been moved online, digital learning kills the purpose of studying in a foreign university and paying such a hefty fee for which I had taken an education loan. It is undue financial pressure now with no clarity on when I will be able to land a job," Makhija said. Providing some respite, Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had earlier this week asked US Secretary of State Michael R Pompeo to extend visas of Indian students and skilled professionals stranded in the US following the COVID-19 pandemic. Interviews and announcements for several fellowship opportunities are also on hold in view of the uncertainty, putting plans on hold for many, who depend on funding help for studying abroad. However, "Chevening" which is a prestigious international awards programme run by the UK government and has helped over 50,000 professionals to study in the country since 1983, is working to ensure plans are not affected. "At this current time, we are liaising closely with local British embassies and High Commissions, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and host institutions to make arrangements for Chevening Fellowships due to commence soon. "For applications in process, we are aware that many countries are currently in various stages of lockdown or have in place other restrictions due to coronavirus. We are working to reduce disruption to interviews as much as possible. This may mean your interview will be conducted online or by telephone. We will make every effort to ensure your interview can still take place," the Chevening Secretriat said, in a message posted on its website. More than 11 lakh cases of infection, including 60,457 deaths, have been reported in 190 countries and territories around the world since the virus first emerged in China in December, 2019.Italy has the highest official death toll with 14,681 fatalities. Spain follows with 11,744, the United States with 7,159, France with 6,507 and Britain with 4,313. In India, the number of COVID-19 deaths inched towards 100 on Saturday and the count of confirmed infections rose by a new single-day record of over 600 to cross 3,600.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-abroad-dreams-shattered-or-delayed-due-to-covid-19-students-look-for-plan-b-821639.html
05-04-2020||National||18 Malaysian nationals linked to Tablighi Jamaat intercepted at Delhi, Chennai airports||Eighteen Malaysian nationals who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation that is linked with 30 per cent of the COVID-19 cases in the country at present were on Sunday intercepted at Chennai and Delhi airports, just before they were to fly out of the country.  Ten of them were prevented by Immigration officials from flying out of Chennai in a chartered flight arranged to ferry stranded Malaysian nationals, while eight were intercepted at Delhi airport and taken to a quarantine facility. The action came days after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) revoked the visas and blacklisted 960 foreigners belonging to Tablighi Jamaat on charges of violating tourist visa norms by indulging in missionary activities. It had also directed state police forces to register cases against these foreigners for violating Foreigners Act and laws related to epidemics as well as relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. Ten Malaysian nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month and came to Tamil Nadu violating their tourist visa conditions, were not allowed to leave the country from Chennai airport. The immigration authorities, who intercepted them, handed over all Malaysian nationals to the Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials.  Hiding their travel history, these 10 were among 127 Malaysian nationals who had come to the airport to board the aircraft scheduled to leave for to Kuala Lumpur at 10.40 am. Sources in Chennai told DH that the Malaysian nationals were in Tamil Nadu travelling to several places, including the lockdown period, after arriving in the state on March 13. “They had travelled to several places in Tenkasi district and were trying to leave the country by hiding their travel history,” a source said, adding that they are being taken to the Stanley Medical College Hospital for testing. They are likely to be lodged at a quarantine facility after due process. In Delhi, eight Malaysians were among a group of people, who were to board the flight OD203 of Malindo Airways. However, the immigration officials identified these eight persons as those linked to Tablighi Jamaat, whose members had spread out in the country after attending a religious gathering in south Delhi's Nizamuddin in mid-March. At least 17 deaths are linked to Tablighi Jamaat followers or those came in contact with them. Officials said they were de-boarded from the Delhi-Mumbai-Kuala Lumpur flight, which was to depart at 12:40 PM, and sent to a government quarantine facility after immigration officials handed them over to Delhi Police. The flight later departed with the rest of the 22 people who were to be evacuated. Out of the 485 positive cases in Tamil Nadu, 422 belong to the Nizamuddin cluster while Delhi has 301 out of 445 cases in the same cluster. Meanwhile, police in various states are going ahead with registering cases against foreigners with Tablighi Jamaat, whose visas were revoked. In Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad, ten Indonesians, including five women, who attended the religious gathering, have been booked Sections 188 (disobeying a public servant's directions), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and those of Epidemic Diseases Act and Foreigners Act, 1897. They have been placed under quarantine while a local guide and four persons who provided them accommodation were also booked. In a similar action in Navi Mumbai, ten Philippines nationals were booked under similar sections. According to the government, 30% of the COVID-19 cases in the country is linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation and around 21,000 people who either attended the gathering or those who came in contact with them have been quarantined across the country. As of now, COVID-19 cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat from 17 states have been detected in 17 states, including Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Jharkhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-malaysian-nationals-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-intercepted-at-delhi-chennai-airports-821642.html
05-04-2020||National||India curbs diagnostic testing kit exports as coronavirus spreads||India is restricting the export of most diagnostic testing kits, as coronavirus cases in the South Asian nation topped 3,350 on Sunday despite a three-week nationwide lockdown to slow the spread of the respiratory disease. India, which in recent weeks already banned the export of certain drugs, along with ventilators, masks and other protective gear needed by both patients and medical staff, issued the latest directive on Saturday. The move comes even as U.S. President Donald Trump urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a phone call on Saturday, to release supplies of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, which is being tested as a possible treatment for patients with COVID-19 - the disease caused by the coronavirus. "The two leaders agreed to remain in touch on the issue of global supply chains for critical pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and to ensure they continue to function as smoothly as possible during the global health crisis," White House spokesman Judd Deere, said in a tweet on Saturday. In a briefing note on the conversation, India said the two leaders "agreed to deploy the full strength of the India – US partnership to resolutely and effectively combat COVID-19."   Bangladesh Stimulus Plan  The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in South Asia, home to roughly 1.9 billion people, climbed close to 7,000 on Sunday, even as the death toll from the respiratory disease in the Indian subcontinent rose to 143. While the figures are relatively low in comparison with the United States, China, Italy and Spain, health experts fear that the spread of the pandemic in South Asia would overwhelm already weak public health systems in the region. Bangladesh's Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Sunday unveiled a 727.50 billion taka ($8.56 billion) stimulus package to help the economy overcome the impact of the coronavirus outbreak. "The amount is equivalent to 2.52 percent of gross domestic product," Hasina said in a televised address. Reuters earlier this month reported that Bangladesh, the second-largest apparel producer after China, is set to lose roughly $6 billion in export revenue this financial year amid order cancellations from some of the world's largest brands and retailers. Bangladesh has so far recorded 88 cases of the disease that has so far claimed nine lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-curbs-diagnostic-testing-kit-exports-as-coronavirus-spreads-821647.html
05-04-2020||National||COVID-19: UK plans 7 special flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Goa for stranded Britons||The UK government on Sunday announced the first seven chartered flights next week to bring home British nationals stranded in India amidst the international travel lockdown over the coronavirus pandemic. An estimated 35,000 British nationals are currently in India, out of whom over 20,000 have contacted the British High Commission to say they wish to return to the UK as soon as possible. A set of 113 of the "most vulnerable" Britons were flown out of Goa on an Irish flight on Saturday. The special flights to London include three scheduled from Goa for next Wednesday, Friday and Sunday and two each from Mumbai and Delhi on Thursday and Saturday, with further flights planned later. The British High Commission told its citizens to check the government travel advisory and visit the booking portal for respective cities to reserve seats. "We know how worrying the past few weeks have been for British nationals in India. I hope this announcement will bring relief, especially to those in greatest need," said Jan Thompson, Acting High Commissioner to India. "Due to the large numbers of British travellers involved, the scale of this operation is huge. The UK government continues to work hard with our Indian counterparts in New Delhi and London to arrange a safe journey back for as many people as possible," she said. The High Commission in New Delhi had earlier issued authority letters for Britons to be able to produce as proof for the local authorities in India to allow them access to the rescue flights from different parts of India. "The UK is working around the clock to support the large numbers of British travellers who wish to return to the UK from India and around the world," said Lord Tariq Ahmad, UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) minister. "In the absence of commercial flights, these first charter flights from India should provide relief to some of our British travellers who are desperate to return home, especially for the most vulnerable and those in greatest need," he said. The first set of chartered flights are for the UK travellers who normally reside in the UK and their direct dependents. A number of seats will be reserved for those deemed vulnerable, with individuals in this group to be contacted directly. Details regarding luggage allowance, flight costs and carriers will be available on the booking portal. The UK government has said that information on further flights from other cities locations in India will follow shortly. The FCO said that it is ramping up efforts to bring home thousands of travellers stranded overseas by coronavirus with a new package of extra flights and 10 additional airlines joining its scheme to keep commercial routes open and get British people back to the UK in line with its 75-million pounds rescue plan announced earlier. UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said: "Travellers are facing an unprecedented challenge on a global scale, and I know people are understandably desperate to get back to their homes and loved ones. "We are committed to supporting Britons getting home either through commercial routes we have helped keep open or through specially chartered flights. With more airlines signing up it should mean more flights available but also a fairer deal for travellers by providing more flexibility over tickets and costs". Besides India, flights have been laid on from countries including Peru, Ghana, Tunisia and Algeria this week, with thousands more due to fly back from Ecuador, Bolivia, Ghana and the Philippines over the coming days. The number of airlines signed up to the government's scheme to get Britons home now stands at 14 after 10 new airlines, including British Airways, Norwegian, TUI and Ryanair, joined Virgin Atlantic, Titan, easyJet, and Jet2 which signed up earlier this week. ] The FCO is also working closely with the cruise company Holland America to ensure flights are available over the weekend to return passengers currently on the Zaandam and Rotterdam cruise ships. Earlier this week TUI, with FCO support, flew around 40 passengers from the Marella Explorer cruise ship back to the UK from Mexico. "We continue to work with airlines round the clock to reunite British citizens with their families and loved ones. With more airlines pledging support, this huge operation becomes a little easier, speeding up the process and helping ensure a greater number of people return home quickly and safely," said Grant Shapps, UK Transport Secretary. The FCO also confirmed on Sunday that its advice against all but essential travel will continue indefinitely amid the coronavirus pandemic. Where it is possible to get back to the UK on commercial routes by any carrier, the FCO says it continues to encourage all British nationals to take such opportunities. The UK Department for Transport said it is working closely with airlines to bring those with pre-booked tickets home, either with the airline they booked with or on alternative routes where available. This includes airlines allowing passengers to change tickets between carriers, where permissible, and offering them the latest information and advice as the situation changes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-uk-plans-7-special-flights-from-delhi-mumbai-goa-for-stranded-britons-821651.html
05-04-2020||National||Centre must consider number of COVID-19 cases to allocate funds to states: Ahmed Patel||Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Sunday urged Home Minister Amit Shah to allocate funds to states from the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF) in proportion to the number of coronavirus cases they have reported. Patel pointed out that some Union Territories and states like Delhi, Kerala and Punjab have a large number of COVID-19 cases but "they have received very little funds". Central Govt must consider number of Covid19 cases & hotspots to decide allocation of State Disaster Risk Management Fund to states Under the current scheme states like Delhi, Kerala & Punjab have a large number of positive cases but are receiving very little funds from SDRMF "I request the Home Minister Amit Shah to include Covid19 as a criterion apart from the Finance Commission criteria for disbursement to states," he said on Twitter. "Central Government must consider number of Covid19 cases and hotspots to decide allocation of State Disaster Risk Management Fund to states," he added. The Union home minister on Friday approved release of ₹11,092 crore to all states under the SDRMF for setting up quarantine facilities and arranging other facilities for checking the spread of coronavirus. The number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 3,374 on Sunday while the death toll rose to 77, according to Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-must-consider-number-of-covid-19-cases-to-allocate-funds-to-states-ahmed-patel-821665.html
05-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Experts suggest Ayurveda helps boost immunity against COVID-19||As the world scrambles to find a cure for COVID-19, health experts have suggested boosting the body's immune system may help minimize the affects and hasten the recovery from the disease. They say ayurvedic herbs such as tulsi, cinnamon, black pepper, shunthi (dry ginger) and raisins and regular yoga are potent aids to increase the body's immunity against harmful viruses. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, recently highlighted the benefits of ayurveda and urged people to "have a look" at Ayush Ministry's protocol to stay fit, saying "good health is the harbinger of happiness". The ministry's protocol outlined measures to build a strong immune system and it included: consuming warm water, practising yogasana, pranayama and meditation for 30 minutes every day. It also advised usage of turmeric, cumin, coriander and garlic in cooking, besides taking 10 gm of chyavanprash in the morning. Jaggery, fresh lemon juice too can be helpful in the fight against COVID-19. Sanchit Sharma, executive director of herbal products-manufacturer AIMIL Pharma, welcomed the prime minister's suggestion, saying immunity will be "our saviour" against the virus. Also, a health immune system will help in recovery from the coronavirus infection, Sharma added. The firm offers immunity enhancer herbal drug Fifatrol, a multi-drug combination of ayurvedic classical medicines and herbs like mrityunjay rasa, sanjeevani vati, tulsi and giloe, he said. These herbs also help increase the production of interferons (proteins) and antibodies to generate immune response against viruses and increases the rate of phagocytosis to destroy microorganisms, thus, increasing immunity from containing viral infections, said former CSIR scientist A K S Rawat. "The idea is that if you don't have a potent weapon to combat the enemy, a strong and effective shield is the best bet to protect yourself." Ayush Ministry has also recommended 150 ml hot milk with half teaspoon of turmeric powder once or twice a day, application of sesame oil/coconut oil or ghee in both the nostrils in the morning and evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-experts-suggest-ayurveda-helps-boost-immunity-against-covid-19-821669.html
05-04-2020||National||Medical team sent to Kasargod to deal with COVID-19 situation||TIn order to strengthen the COVID-19 care in Kasargod district, which has the highest number of coronavirus-infected in Kerala, a 26 member medical team from Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital has been deputed to Kasargod. With the number of COVID-19 patients in the district reaching 123 and 195 hosptialised with symptoms and over 10,000 under home observation, the district with poor medical infrastructure is struggling to face the situation. Hence a medical team comprising senior doctors was deputed from Thiruvananthapuram where the number of COVID infected is only 9. The Kerala government has initiated steps on a  war footing to make the administrative block of the upcoming medical college hospital at Kasargod a COVID-19 hospital with 200 isolation beds and 20 intensive care beds. The medical team from Thiruvananthapuram would be initiating treatment at the hospital. The Central University campus in Kasargod is also being converted as a COVID-19 care facility. At present, the COVID patients in the district are kept at the government hospitals there which have limited facilities and infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-team-sent-to-kasargod-to-deal-with-covid-19-situation-821676.html
05-04-2020||National||Nurses body in SC to address risk faced by health workers in COVID-19 fight||The 'United Nurses Association' has approached the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre to formulate a 'National COVID-19 Management Protocol' to address the serious concern relating to imminent and extreme risks faced by healthcare workers in the country. In a PIL, the Kerala-based body sought an order to expand the scope of personal accident cover provided under the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Health Workers Fighting COVID-19' to include all healthcare workers across sectors, including those recruited on ad-hoc basis. "So far, seven doctors working in different hospitals and clinics in the National capital have tested positive for COVID-19. A large number of healthcare workers including nurses, doctors, and other staffers are infected in various states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi etc. At least 50 nurses are under quarantine or isolation throughout the country and many of them have tested positive for COVID-19," it contended. Maintaining that protecting healthcare workers should be of paramount importance, the petitioner said it is the duty of the governments to give them every possible help and assistance. Among others, the petitioner also sought a direction to the Centre to ensure that COVID-19 protection kits were made available to every single healthcare professional working in the corona isolation wards, or in close proximity of patients suspected to be infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nurses-body-in-sc-to-address-risk-faced-by-health-workers-in-covid-19-fight-821679.html
05-04-2020||National||CJI asked to make video hearing compulsory for certain matters||Former president of Supreme Court Bar Association Vikas Singh on Sunday asked the Chief Justice of India to introduce compulsory video conferencing for hearing certain matters including bail, matrimonial and single employee's service matters, in order to decongest the courts. Concerned over the problems faced by the top court after COVID-19 pandemic, he said this would be beneficial for the functioning of the top court in the long run especially relating to overcrowding in courts. In a letter to CJI S A Bobde, senior advocate Singh suggested the SC Rules should be amended to provide for compulsory and voluntary video conferencing in certain types of matters. Voluntary video conferencing hearing can be conducted on demand by a party, he said. "Till the time Supreme Court rules are not amended, this can be implemented by an administrative order in view of the grave situation prevailing in the country due to COVID-19 pandemic," he said. Implementing it on a regular basis would help in reducing person-to-person contact in the Supreme Court and also reduce the rush of advocates in the courtrooms, he added. Besides, Singh suggested that the courts should rise for 15 minutes after finishing the first half of matters on miscellaneous days so that lawyers appearing in the second half need not crowd the court till the first half of matters are being heard. Before the 21-day lockdown from March 25, the top court has decided to conduct hearing in extremely urgent matters through video conferencing. It has allowed the filing of petitions online and the use of app 'Vidyo', allowing lawyers to advance arguments from home or chambers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-asked-to-make-video-hearing-compulsory-for-certain-matters-821681.html
05-04-2020||National||Islamic seminary decries media for communalising Tablighi incident, seeks ban||Prestigious Deoband-based Islamic seminary Darul Uloom, on Sunday, decried the media for what it alleged was 'communalising' the Tablighi Jamaat incident in Delhi and sought a ban on it. In a statement, the vice-chancellor of the seminary, which is based at Deoband in Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur district, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow, Mufti Abul Quasim Nomani appealed to all those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi, to come forward and get themselves tested immediately. ''Some narrow-minded elements are trying to give communal colour to the incident even in this hour of crisis. We demand the Centre to ban such elements (especially media),'' Nomani said. He also urged the government to provide all possible medical care to Tablighi Jamaat members who had tested positive for coronavirus. The Deoband seminary remarks came shortly before Saharanpur police refuted reports published in a section of the media that quarantined Tablighi Jamaat members had demanded non-veg food and defecated in the open. ''We had conducted a probe into the reports and found they were incorrect. We categorically reject such reports,'' the district police said in a message on the Twitter handle on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/islamic-seminary-decries-media-for-communalising-tablighi-incident-seeks-ban-821691.html
05-04-2020||National||Amitabh Bachchan to provide monthly ration to 1 lakh daily wage workers||The initiative will be supported by Sony Pictures Networks India and Kalyan Jewellers. "Given the unprecedented nature of the situation we are in, an initiative undertaken by Mr Bachchan, ‘WE ARE ONE’ has been supported by Sony Pictures Networks India and Kalyan Jewellers, through which the monthly ration of 1,00,000 households across the country will be funded," a statement released by Sony Pictures Networks on Sunday read. "Through a commercial tie-up with a leading chain of hypermarkets and grocery stores in India, digitally barcoded coupons have been distributed to a verified list of workers from the All India Film Employees Confederation. Furthermore, monetary help has also been extended to those in need," it added. However, there was no information till when these daily wage workers will receive monthly ration from the donators. NP Singh, managing director and CEO, Sony Pictures Networks India, said as part of its CSR outreach, SPN took the initiative of working alongside Bachchan to support the households of daily wage earners of the Indian film and television industry. Bachchan, 77, has been hosting the reality game show "Kaun Banega Crorepati" for Sony since 2010. "SPN’s support will ensure that at least 50,000 workers and their families have their home supplies for a month," he added. Along with this, Bachchan will also feature in a short film "Family", which has been conceptualised and virtually directed by Prasoon Pandey. "Family", which talks about the importance of staying at home, maintaining hygiene and social distancing, also features Rajinikanth, Ranbir Kapoor, Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Alia Bhatt, Chiranjeevi, Mohanlal, Mammootty, Sonali Kulkarni, Shiv Raj Kumar, Prosenjit Chatterjee, and Diljit Dosanjh. The short film will telecast across Sony Network on April 6. "Family" aims to capture the resilience of human spirit amid tough times, Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-bachchan-to-provide-monthly-ration-to-1-lakh-daily-wage-workers-821693.html
05-04-2020||National||Decision on reopening schools, colleges on Apr 14 after reviewing COVID-19 situation: HRD Minister||The government will take a decision on reopening of schools and colleges on April 14 after reviewing the coronavirus situation in the country, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Sunday. In an interview to PTI, he said the safety of students and teachers is of utmost importance to the government and that his ministry is prepared to ensure there is no academic loss to students if educational institutions needed to remain shut beyond April 14, when the ongoing 21-day lockdown is slated to end. "It is difficult to take a decision at the moment. We will review the situation on April 14 and depending upon the circumstances, a decision will be taken on whether schools and colleges can be reopened now or have to be closed for some more time," Pokhriyal said when asked about his Ministry's post-lockdown plan. "There are 34 crore students in the country, more than America's population. They are our biggest treasure. Safety of students and teachers is of utmost importance to the government," he added. The 21-day nationwide lockdown ends on April 14. There have been indications from the government that the lockdown may not be extended. Classes in schools and colleges were suspended and exams postponed even before the lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect from the next day. There are over 800 universities, 40,000 colleges and 12,000 standalone Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs), besides 1.5 lakh schools in the country. "The classes are already being conducted online using various government platforms like Swayam and Diksha. The platforms are being widely accessed by students. We are prepared to ensure there is no academic loss to students if need arises to keep schools, colleges closed beyond April 14. I am regularly reviewing the plan of action being followed by schools and colleges during the lockdown," the minister said. Earlier this week, he interacted with directors of 23 IITs and Vice Chancellors of Central universities in separate video conferences "I interacted with directors of IITs and appreciated them for the kind of COVID-19 related research that is being conducted at different institutes. I also directed them to ensure that placements of students who are in the final year are not affected due to the situation. In the coming weeks, I will interact with directors of NITs as well," Nishank said. The government also announced earlier this week that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will conduct pending exams for class 10 and 12 only in those 29 subjects which are crucial for promotion and admission to higher educational instituions. The board has also announced that it will not conduct pending class 10 and 12 examinations in foreign countries due to the coronavirus pandemic. "All students upto class 8 have been promoted. For class 9 and 11 students, schools have been asked to grade them as per their performance in internal assessment. For 29 crucial subjects, the board will conduct the exams. A plan is also ready for conducting pending exams and evaluation as soon as the situation improves and the lockdown is lifted. Students will be given at least a ten-day notice before the exams are conducted," the Minister said. Several states of the country have ben affected by the coronavirus outbreak. According to the Health Ministry, the number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 3,374 on Sunday while the death toll rose to 77. Of them, the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 3,030 and as many as 266 people have been either cured of the disease and discharged, and one had migrated, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-on-reopening-schools-colleges-on-apr-14-after-reviewing-covid-19-situation-hrd-minister-821694.html
05-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Harbhajan Singh, wife Geeta to feed 5,000 families in Jalandhar||The contagion has already killed more than 70 people with 3,000 plus being tested positive in India. "By Blessings of Almighty, Geeta and I pledge to distribute ration to 5,000 families residing in Jalandhar, who are struggling to feed their families during these difficult times. We will continue to help and support our fellow citizens in whichever way we can lessen the burden of struggle," Harbhajan said. Asked how is he co-ordinating from Mumbai, the star spinner said: "I used to live in Daulatpuri earlier. My close friends today completed distribution of dry ration to 500 families in that area. I have personally spoken to DC (Punjab Police) Jalandhar. My team of friends will be following his instructions and accordingly food packets will be distributed." The 39-year-old said that he will continue to feed the people who are homeless and jobless until normalcy returns. "We are distributing 5kg of rice, flour, oil and other essential cooking ingredients. This endeavour will continue for the time being," Harbhajan said. "I am still very attached to Jalandhar as I divide my time between Mumbai and Jalandhar. A part of me resides there and I can't see my own people suffer. Cricket has given me a lot and this is the least I could do. "I wanted to ensure that if I am able to help, it should reach people directly and thanks to Punjab Police and my childhood friends, we have started off well. But a lot of work still needs to be done," the 'Turbanator' added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-harbhajan-singh-wife-geeta-to-feed-5000-families-in-jalandhar-821695.html
05-04-2020||National||Yogi hints at lifting coronavirus lockdown in Uttar Pradesh from April 15||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday hinted at lifting the 21-day lockdown in the state from April 15 though with certain restrictions. At a meeting with the MPs from the state and MLAs through video conferencing, Adityanath said that the government would not allow large gatherings under any circumstances after the lockdown was lifted. ''It is going to be a challenge to control the crowds, that may come on to the streets once the lockdown is lifted....we can not allow that to happen,'' he said.  Hinting that the lifting of the lockdown would be done in a staggered manner, Adityanath asked the MPs and MLAs to give their suggestions to the government in this regard. According to the sources, in the first phase the state government was likely to lift the lockdown in those districts, where there was no case of Coronavirus positive. In the districts affected by the COVID 19, some restrictions would remain in force. The chief minister also directed the officials to chalk out a detailed plan for the lifting of the lockdown in a phased manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-hints-at-lifting-coronavirus-lockdown-in-uttar-pradesh-from-april-15-821710.html
05-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll in India rises to 79, total number of cases to 3,374: Health Ministry||As many as 472 new COVID-19 cases have been confirmed and 11 more deaths reported, taking the total number of cases in the country to 3,374 and the death toll to 79, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by states directly showed at least 106 deaths across the country, while the confirmed cases reached 3,624. Of them, 284 have been cured and discharged. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the numbers announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. Addressing a media briefing, Joint Secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said 472 new COVID-19 cases and 11 deaths have been reported since Saturday. The total coronavirus cases stand at 3,374 and the death toll now stands at 79. He said 267 people have recovered. In its morning update, the health ministry had reported 77 deaths in all, and at the 4PM briefing, Agarwal said the death toll had gone up to 79. However, he did not specify in which state the two fatalities had taken place. According to the ministry, Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 24, followed by Gujarat 10, Telangana 7, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi 6 each and Punjab 5. Karnataka has reported 4 deaths, while West Bengal and Tamil Nadu each have recorded 3 fatalities. Two deaths each have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala. Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh each have reported 1 fatality, according to the data. The highest number of confirmed cases was reported from Maharashtra at 490, followed by Tamil Nadu (485) and Delhi (445). Kerala has 306 positive cases, while the number of cases has gone up to 269 in Telangana and 227 in Uttar Pradesh. There are 200 cases in Rajasthan and 161 cases in Andhra Pradesh. COVID-19 cases have risen to 144 in Karnataka, followed by 105 in Gujarat and 104 in Madhya Pradesh. Jammu and Kashmir has 92 cases and West Bengal has 69. Punjab has reported 57 infections, followed by Haryana at 49. Thirty people are afflicted with COVID-19 in Bihar, while Assam has 24 cases. Uttarakhand has 22 cases, followed by Odisha at 20 cases, Chandigarh at 18 infections, and Ladakh with 14. Ten cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands while Chhattisgarh has 9 infections. Goa has reported 7 COVID-19 cases, followed by Himachal Pradesh with 6 and Puducherry with 5 cases. Jharkhand and Manipur have reported 2 cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported 1 infection each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the Union health ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-in-india-rises-to-79-total-number-of-cases-to-3374-health-ministry-821711.html
05-04-2020||National||Ex-SCBA president asks CJI to introduce compulsory video conferencing in certain matters||Former President of the Supreme Court Bar Association Vikas Singh, on Sunday, asked the Chief Justice of India to introduce compulsory video conferencing for hearing certain types of matters including bail, matrimonial and single employee's service matters, in order to decongest the courts. Concerned over the problems faced by the top court with the COVID-19 pandemic, he said this would have beneficial effect on the functioning of the top court in the long run, especially relating to overcrowding in courts. In a letter to CJI S A Bobde, senior advocate Singh suggested the SC Rules should be amended to provide for compulsory and voluntary video conferencing in certain types of matters. Voluntary video conferencing hearing can be conducted on a demand by a party, he said. "Till the Supreme Court Rules are not amended, this can be implemented by an administrative order in view of the grave situation prevailing in the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic," he said. Implementing it on regular basis would help in reducing person to person contact in the Supreme Court and also reduce rush of advocates in the courtrooms, he added. Besides, Singh also suggested that the courts should rise for 15 minutes after finishing the first half of matters on miscellaneous days so that lawyers appearing in the second half need not crowd the court till the first half of matters are being heard. Before the 21-day lockdown from March 25, the top court had decided to conduct hearing in extremely urgent matters through video conferencing. It has allowed filing of petitions online and use of app 'Vidyo', allowing lawyers to advance arguments from home or chambers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-scba-president-asks-cji-to-introduce-compulsory-video-conferencing-in-certain-matters-821714.html
05-04-2020||National||FCI, NAFED selling food items at higher rate than market price, alleges CAIT||The government-owned Food Corporation of India and NAFED have been selling wheat, gram and other pulses at much higher rates than the prevailing market price, the country’s apex traders’ body on Sunday alleged, a development that could upset all efforts to provide relief to poor amid COVID-19 crisis. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) drew the government’s attention to the issue in a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah. “It is highly regretted that both FCI and NAFED have started selling goods at a much higher price than the market price,” it said. “The FCI is selling Wheat at Rs 2,450-00 per Quintal and the market rate is Rs. 2050 per Quintal. Likewise, NAFED has ample stock of Chana, Moong Daal and Sarson, which they are selling at a higher price than the market rate," the letter said. Both these Institutions should be advised to sell below the market price and send the same to millers for ensuring speedy production, it said. CAIT has also sought to streamline of curfew passes for traders and transporters, failing which, the country could face an acute shortage of essential commodities in the next few days. “The traders across the country particularly dealing with essential commodities are highly disturbed that necessary passes are not being available to traders and their employees as also the transporters and their workers, as a result, the movement of essential goods from wholesalers to retailers is being restricted,” the letter said.  “We would like to inform you that the wholesalers and distributors across the country do have substantial stocks of essential commodities at least for next 15-20 days but the retailers of essential goods may go out of stock in next few days as the stocks of retailers have not been refilled,” it said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fci-nafed-selling-food-items-at-higher-rate-than-market-price-alleges-cait-821715.html
05-04-2020||National||Data consumption on Common Service Centre nearly doubled in rural areas: Govt||The consumption of data in rural India on the network of Common Service Centre (CSC), a special purpose vehicle of the government, jumped nearly 100% within a month - especially during the lockdown period, a top government official said here on Sunday. "Major increase in data consumption witnessed ever since country-wide lockdown announced by the government," CSC SPV Chief Executive Officer Dinesh Tyagi said. CSC e-Governance Services India, which holds the licence for providing internet services, recorded an increase in data consumption to 4.7 terabyte (TB) as on March 30 from 2.7 TB on March 10. As per the growth trend, data consumption on the CSC SPV network is estimated to have increased by close to 100% till date, Tyagi said. CSC is a special purpose vehicle set up by the Ministry of Electronics and IT, to monitor implement common service centres which deliver various government services. The government also roped CSC to manage and support BharatNet programme aimed to provide broadband facility to rural India. CSC also provides wifi hotspot in around 25,000 gram panchayats in the name of CSC Wi-fi Choupal services. "Besides, the surge of data consumption in rural areas, there has been a high demand of FTTH (Fiber to Home). In the month of March 20, more than 3 lakh subscribers registered across 50,000 Gram Panchayats for FTTH," Tyagi said. According to the CSC data, Wi-Fi Choupal has more than 12 lakh registered subscribers who use this as a supplement to their mobile connection. "This clearly indicates the high appetite of internet data in rural areas, which in future can be pivotal in bridging Digital Divide and If nurtured with regular organic feed of educational and informational content rural India can be Digitally Empowered and Transformed," Tyagi noted. There are more than 60 crore internet users in India and out of this about 29 crore are in rural areas. The government is implementing BharatNet project with a view to provide broadband facility to every rural household.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-consumption-on-common-service-centre-nearly-doubled-in-rural-areas-govt-821717.html
05-04-2020||National||Govt made 'grave mistake' by not taking states into confidence on lockdown: Moily||The Centre made a "grave mistake" by announcing the lockdown without taking the states into confidence and it should now spell out its plan after the 21-day period ends to avoid "chaos", Congress leader M Veerappa Moily said on Sunday. Asserting that access to testing should be "universal", Moily, a member of Congress task force to deal with COVID-19 pandemic in party-ruled states, said the key to fighting the pandemic was large scale testing and the Congress-ruled states were focusing on that aspect despite constraints. "We (Congress-ruled states) have given high priority to testing. Until the testing is carried out on a massive scale, I don't think we can tackle this issue," he told PTI in an interview. The former Union minister is part of the Congress task force set up last month to intensify efforts to deal with the COVID-19 situation in party-ruled states. Besides Moily, the task force also includes P Chidambaram, Jairam Ramesh, and Tamradhwaj Sahu -- all chairmen of respective manifesto implementation committees in the Congress ruled-states of Puducherry, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. Moily asserted that the states should have been taken into confidence before the lockdown was ordered. "This is a grave mistake made by Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and the Government of India. Absolutely no notice was given, states could have made more preparation. This was just imposed like a shock," he said. "There is so much chaos. In fact, the lockdown should be consequent to declaring both an economic emergency and health emergency which they have not done. In countries like the UK and Canada, they have treated it as a war-like situation which we haven't done," Moily said. He said businesses have suffered because of the international shutdown and the internal lockdown, and alleged that the government did not take care of these aspects as "proper policy thrust" was not there. The government should come out with clarity on the way forward, he said. "Suppose they lift the lockdown after April 14. Then what next? What are the measures that will be taken? They should not suddenly announce it. They should announce it right now as to what measures, what modifications, could be made with respect to lockdown, otherwise there will be chaos," he said. "They should not make it a mystery as 130 crore people have to prepare themselves. The prime minister keeps on repeating that 130 crore people are cooperating, it is not enough. All these 130 crore people will have to be prepared for which a big support measure is necessary from the Centre and states," the senior Congress leader said. Moily also said that the National Disaster Management Act should have been invoked earlier and migration of labourers taking place contained. "People should have been contained in their respective states. A lot of anarchy has been created because of migration due to the sudden lockdown," he said. Moily said there have been a number of conflicting signals from the BJP governments in states where some have said lockdown may be extended, while the prime minister's statements indicate that the lockdown may not continue in the same manner, and asserted that these contradictions make the people confused. He said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had warned about the situation arising out of the pandemic very early and many Congress-ruled states started taking preparatory steps. "That is why the preparatory steps taken by Congress-ruled states are much better compared to other states," he said. On the BJP's allegation that the Congress is playing politics over the pandemic, Moily claimed that Prime Minister Modi was not following democratic practices and not taking the opposition into confidence on any issue. Dismissing the financial assistance plan announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as "cosmetic", Moily said the government has not spelt out a strategy to face the situation arising out of the lockdown. Asked about his views on whether the lockdown should continue or not, he said, "I don't think it should be continued in the same measure, but at the same time, we should not let loose and particularly social distancing measures should be strictly implemented." He also asserted that healthcare workers need to be given personal protective equipment (PPE) which they are not getting properly||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-made-grave-mistake-by-not-taking-states-into-confidence-on-lockdown-moily-821718.html
05-04-2020||National||Yuvraj Singh pledges to donate Rs 50 lakh in fight against coronavirus pandemic||The flamboyant all-rounder also appealed to the people to stay united in the fight against the pandemic that has so far claimed more than 70 lives while infecting over 3,000 across the the country. "We are stronger when we stand united. I will be lighting a candle tonight at 9 pm for 9 minutes. Are you with me?" he asked referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to light candles, diyas or torchlights for nine minutes. "On this great day of solidarity, I pledge Rs. 50 Lakhs to the PMCaresFunds. Please do your bit too!," Yuvraj wrote on his twitter handle. Since Modi's appeal, many sportspersons have come forward and urged the country's people to switch off lights for nine minutes and light candles on the balconies of their houses. The PM also urged people to donate generously as the country battles the unprecedented global health crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yuvraj-singh-pledges-to-donate-rs-50-lakh-in-fight-against-coronavirus-pandemic-821719.html
05-04-2020||National||Rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases 4.1 days; without Jamaat incident it would have been 7.4: Govt||The rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases in India is 4.1 days presently but if the cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation would not have happened, it would have been 7.4 days, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. Joint Secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said there had been 472 new COVID-19 cases and 11 deaths since Saturday. The total coronavirus cases stand at 3,374 and the death toll now stands at 79. He said 267 people have recovered. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by states directly showed at least 106 deaths, while the number of confirmed cases had reached 3,624. Of the total, 284 have been cured and discharged. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the numbers announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. Asserting that there was no evidence that COVID-19 was airborne, an ICMR official said, "We need to understand that in science whoever does experiments some will have a 'for opinion and some against' but we need to take a balanced, evidence-based approach.” "For example, if it was an air-borne infection then in a family whoever has a contact they all should come positive because they are living in same surrounding as the patient and the family is breathing the same air. When someone is admitted in hospital, other patient would have got exposure (if it was air borne) but that is not the case,” the official said. Talking about the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, Agarwal said, "If the Tablighi Jamaat incident had not taken place and we compare the rate of doubling — that is in how many days the cases have doubled, we will see that currently it is 4.1 days (including Jamaat cases) and if the incident had not taken place and additional cases had not come then the doubling rate would have been 7.4 days." Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday held a meeting on COVID-19 with district magistrates, superintendent of police, chief medical officers, state and district surveillance officers, state health secretaries and district health secretaries and chief secretaries, Agarwal said. District officials shared the strategies adopted by them to combat the pandemic like how they delineated containment and buffer zone, how they carried out door-to-door survey through special teams, how through telemedicine and call centres the passengers who had come were monitored. The districts from where many cases were reported like Agra, Bhilwada, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Pathan Mitha, East Delhi also shared their experiences and strategies adopted by them. The main points that came from the experience shared by districts were proactive and ruthless containment implementation at field level and second is preparedness to the extent of being over prepared so that cases can be handled at any stage, Agarwal said. All DMs were instructed pharma units making devices and medicines must run seamlessly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rate-of-doubling-of-covid-19-cases-41-days-without-jamaat-incident-it-would-have-been-74-govt-821727.html
05-04-2020||National||NITI Aayog reaches out to 92,000 NGOs for joint COVID-19 fight||The initiative has been undertaken by the empowered group (EG-6) chaired by Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, to coordinate with NGOs, private sector and international organisations for COVID-19 response related activities. “CEO Niti Aayog has written to over 92000 NGOs/ CSOs registered on the Darpan portal of Niti Aayog, appealing them to assist the government in identifying hotspots and deputing volunteers and care givers to deliver services to the elderly, persons with disabilities, children, transgender persons, and other vulnerable groups,” an official statement said. The letter also highlighted the need to create awareness about prevention, social distancing, isolation, and combating stigma; to provide shelter to homeless, daily wage workers, and urban poor families; set up community kitchens for migrants. Between March 30 and April 3, the EG-6 has reached out to United Nations agencies, World Bank, Asian Development Bank, civil society organisations, and industry associations to enlist their support in the fight against COVID-19. It has also reached out to startups including AgVa, Biodesign Innovation Lab, Qure AIDrona Maps, mFine, MicroGo, Staqu, who are working on innovative ventilator designs, testing tools, and tracking solutions to understand their scale and possible contributions. NGOs are expected to play an important role in creating awareness about prevention, hygiene, social distancing, isolation and combating social stigma especially in vernacular languages. Each NGO and civil society organisation will have to provide it FCRA details along with the type of support they are offering and the location. They would also have to submit the details of the amount spent, duration of support activities and the details of problems faced along with their suggestions. Industry representatives have also shared with the empowered group the details of activities undertaken in public advocacy, philanthropy, CSR by way of running factory kitchens for preparing, distributing free food in coordination with local administration, making available factory hospitals, premises, guest houses as quarantine and shelter facilities. The members of the committee include Vijayaraghavan, PSA, Kamal Kishore, Member, NDMA, Sandeep Mohan Bhatnagar, Member, CBIC, along with officials from home and external affairs ministries and the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-reaches-out-to-92000-ngos-for-joint-covid-19-fight-821728.html
05-04-2020||National||'Indian Railways mulling post-lockdown precautions for passengers'||From making passengers wear masks to using the Arogya Setu app to check their health status before allowing them to travel and encouraging social distancing on board are a few proposals that Indian Railways is mulling as it prepares to gear for the end of the 21-day lockdown on April 14. While no decision has yet been taken on when the passenger services, which were suspended in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown, will be resumed, officials said it is likely to be done in a phased manner after the green signal from the government. A decision, officials said, is likely to be taken in the coming week on how to restore services. The railways, officials said, has discussed the option of resuming services only on specific approval of each train from the Railway Board. Suggestions for phase-wise planning have to be provided by the zone to the board. "These are sensitive times and we are not looking in terms of revenue generation for now. The focus is on passenger safety and to ensure that the disease does not spread. Trains will run in due course, once the government gives us the green signal. However as of now, we have not taken any decision yet,” said a senior officer. In the zones, officials are also identifying trains and routes which can be resumed with the approval of the board. The focus, say officials, is to see if routes catering to migrant workers can be resumed initially and also those that are not travelling or has halts at COVID-19 hotspots. Officials added the railways will also have to factor in how the lockdown is eventually opened. If it is selective, then trains will only run in areas where lockdown is lifted, officials said. Railways is also unlikely to rescind a March 19 order suspending all concessions for passengers except those offered to patients, students and people with disabilities in a hurry, even after the lockdown period to discourage unnecessary travel. Railways, officials said, are also discussing protocols that need to be followed once services begin to ensure safety of passengers. They are mulling options like thermal screening and other methods to screen passengers boarding trains. "Once the services are resumed, we are thinking of requesting passengers to wear masks as per the health ministry advisory. We are also thinking of using the Arogya app to check the health and wellness of patients and allow only healthy passengers to board trains,” an official said. As part of its preparedness, the Indian Railways has also asked zones to ensure the security of coaches parked in depots. Officials say once the services resume full throttle, they expect overcrowding at stations and measures have to be chalked out on how to deal with them. The focus now for railways, the officials said, is to ensure that the rakes of passenger trains which were suspended due to the lockdown had returned to their respective bases, received proper maintenance like charging of batteries, cleaning of bio-toilets, and were ready to return on the tracks once the resumption of services is announced. Officials also said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal is keen that the railways concentrate on ensuring that the different railway zones continue their efforts towards contributing towards the larger fight against coronavirus. Railway PSUs have already committed to converting around 5000 coaches as isolation wards initially which are likely to be sent in rural areas which does not have hospitals, has offered its hospitals for infected patients and are also producing essential medical goods like masks, sanitisers, PPEs. The minister has given instructions that proper planning should be done of cleaning of linens, sanitation and proper disposal of biomedical waste that is expected to be generated at hospitals and isolation coaches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-mulling-post-lockdown-precautions-for-passengers-821731.html
05-04-2020||National||When lock-down is lifted, we have to be highly disciplined: DRDO Chief V K Saraswat||Indias society needs to be highly disciplined and follow guidelines strictly when the lock-down imposed to halt the spread of Coronavirus is lifted,NITI Aayog member and former DRDO chief V K Saraswat said here on Sunday. He said when the curbs are removed in a regulated fashion, participation of the community is very important in terms of following the rules of the game such as social distancing and avoiding large gatherings,to prevent a fresh surge in COVID-19 cases. "Highly disciplined society is expected at that time", Saraswat, a former Scientific Advisor to the Defence Minister, told PTI. Right now, the focus should be on keeping the medical infrastructure in right shape and ensuring continuous supply of needed appliances and equipment for patients, doctors and paramedics, he said. "So there is a need for us keep the continuity of raw materials, supply chain for manufacturing and distributing these systems to all, Saraswat said.   We may need some extensive manufacturing capability to make up for gaps what we have. Raw materials for manufacturing should be made available. Given the number of COVID-19 cases, there is now no distinction between private and government hospitals as their attention is required on a war-footing, he said. India, Saraswat said, should fill up all the gaps it has in the healthcare system by making more investments, adding, right now the country has to come out with as many make-shift facilities as possible to make sure that the surging number of cases are taken care of.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-lock-down-is-lifted-we-have-to-be-highly-disciplined-drdo-chief-v-k-saraswat-821736.html
05-04-2020||National||Delhi govt provides food to around 6.5 lakh people in one day: Statement||The Delhi government provided lunch and dinner to around 6.5 lakh people at 1,500 food distribution centres across the city on Saturday, an official statement said. The government also received 1,040 calls requesting for supply of food, it said. On March 31, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the Delhi government will arrange facilities to feed 10 to 12 lakh people daily from April 1 in view of the coronavirus lockdown. "We are feeding 3.5 lakh-4 lakh people daily until now, and we will start feeding 10-12 lakh people from tomorrow. Upon further deliberations on this, we found out that people were crowding at the food centres. So we decided to create more centres," Kejriwal had said. "The government provided lunch to 6,48,469 people and dinner to 6,50,667 people at around 1,500 centres on April 4," the statement said. Nearly 2,500 schools and 250-night shelters have started distributing food to 500 people a day, bringing the total number of distribution centres to nearly 2,800. To ensure that the free meal scheme is equitably accessible to the needy so that they do not have to walk for miles looking for food, the Delhi government has made the schools and night shelters as key food distribution points.  At the time of food distribution, the government is also ensuring social distancing, safety and sanitation for the people, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-provides-food-to-around-65-lakh-people-in-one-day-statement-821740.html
05-04-2020||National||COVID-19: 28 institutions, departments under HRD Ministry donate over Rs 38 cr to PM-CARES fund||Earlier, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' had donated his one month salary and Rs one crore from the MPLADS fund. "Twenty-eight different institutions, autonomous organisations and departments of the Ministry of HRD have contributed more than Rs 38.91 crore to PM CARES Fund to fight against COVID-19," the ministry said in an official statement. The teaching and non-teaching staff of Kendriya Vidyalayas have contributed over Rs 10 crore and navodaya schools donated Rs 7.5 crore. According to the Health Ministry, the number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 3,374 on Sunday, while the death toll rose to 79.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-28-institutions-departments-under-hrd-ministry-donate-over-rs-38-cr-to-pm-cares-fund-821742.html
05-04-2020||National||Virtual tours to online sessions; bringing cultural sites to people's doorstep during lockdown||Museums and art galleries may be physically closed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, but the virtual doors of many cultural sites in the country are wide open for visitors, thanks to technology. From using 360-degree panoramic views for virtual tours to holding online thematic sessions, among other activities, art and heritage is being 'brought to the doorsteps' of people who are confined in their homes due to a 21-day nationwide lockdown since March 25. Those offering virtual tours include the iconic 19th century landmark Dr Bhau Daji Lad (BDL) Museum (earlier Victoria and Albert Museum) in Mumbai; National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi; and other cultural sites, all of which have been temporarily shut. "While the Museum's doors are temporarily shut to visitors, you can still access the highlights of our collections & 11 virtual exhibits via the BDL Museum's page on @googleartsandculture!" said a post on the Facebook page of the museum, with hashtags "#BDLMuseum #BDLOnline #cultureinquarantine". "Do follow us on our Instagram and Twitter handles for weekly trivia and themed virtual  tours of the collection! Handle: @bdlmuseum," it said. The post also carried a virtual tour of the main gallery of the museum showcasing the beautiful ironwork and embellished walls and ceilings in the room. Dating back to second half of the 19th century, the museum located in Byculla area of Mumbai is a treasure trove and one of the most visited museums in the country. In Amritsar, the Partition Museum housed in the colonial-era Town Hall Building is urging people online to enjoy "MuseumsFromHome" while the country remains under lockdown to fight the COVID-19 outbreak through social distancing. "Explore our exhibition 'The Railways and Partition' on Google Arts & Culture! This exhibition delves into the vital role the railways had to play during the Partition. Trains were one of the most common modes of transport, and it is estimated that at the time of Partition close to 700,000 refugees travelled by train between 15 August 1947 and 8 September 1947 alone," the museum authorities said in a note posted on Facebook. They also shared a link for virtual visitors to access this "exclusively designed exhibition" which highlights first-hand accounts of migration via train, documents related to the railways, and newspaper articles. The Partition Museum, the one-of-its-kind in the country, is also holding thematic sessions to encourage people to remain connected to it throught digital medium. Authorities at several of these cultural sites said technology can help bring museums and galleries virtually to people if they cannot come, and idea is to make them stay connected to their cultural sites and heritage in this difficult time. The National Gallery of Modern Art last month published a notice on its Facebook page, saying due to the threat posed by the novel coronavirus (COVID-2019) which has been declared a pandemic by the WHO and following the advice of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Museum and Library is closed for public access till further order. "On the eve of 66th Foundation Day (29.03.2020), NGMA presents Virtual Tour of its permanent collection for the visitors to enjoy without even physically coming down to the location these days. NGMA wishes to all a healthy and prosperous life ahead," it said. Vietnam Tourism, shut due to lockdown in that country, too wooed travellers to "virtually visit" the iconic sites of the country through high-quality interactive digital images. ] Nguyen Dynasty Kings, who once ruled all of Vietnam from the former capital of Hue. Today it's a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and an amazing place to visit," Vietnam Timeless "Transport yourself through your screen to the Hue Citadel, one of Vietnam's most impressive heritage attractions, in this 360-degree panorama. The citadel was the home of the Charm, the official page of Vietnam Tourism, said in a Facebook post. National Museum in Delhi is also conducting sessions online. "Join us for a LIVE session of storytelling with @ushachhabra. We will go live tomorrow (Monday) & day after (Tuesday) at 4:00 pm. NM's 'Stories from home' sessions can be enjoyed by all ages and these stores are inspired by our collection! We would live streaming on  both Instagram and Facebook," it said in a social media post. UNESCO and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sanghralaya (CSMVS), Mumbai, are also using culture-themed memes to encourage people to get the message of staying home, with a sense of humour. The UNESCO Twitter handle recently posted two images, first of the iconic Mona Lisa, and the other juxtaposed with just a frame without her, with a tagline "The Mona Lisa is staying at home, and you?" CSMVS Facebook page has put up two old paintings to depict contrasting images of friendship before and after the social distancing norms were announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virtual-tours-to-online-sessions-bringing-cultural-sites-to-peoples-doorstep-during-lockdown-821745.html
05-04-2020||National||Bhopal sees sudden surge in coronavirus cases, lockdown made more stringent||Of the eight cases detected in the 24 hours in the state capital five are in the health department including principle secretary, joint director and three doctors. One IAS officer in the health department had been quarantined on Saturday after testing positive. Till Sunday evening, 26 patients in Bhopal are undergoing treatment in the AIIMS. Overall, number of cases in Madhya Pradesh has gone up to 194 of whom 13 have died. Indore tops in the state with 128 cases. Bhopal collector Tarun Pithode said many areas in the city have been converted into cantonment with imposition of strict prohibitions. In Indore, 10 cases of coronavirus were detected in the area where doctors’ team was assaulted four days ago. Four accused of the attack have been interned under the NSA and other six have been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhopal-sees-sudden-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-lockdown-made-more-stringent-821746.html
05-04-2020||National||Cab aggregator helps 4 Australians, stranded in Jaipur, reach Delhi||Four Australians stranded in Jaipur due to the COVID-19-triggered lockdown in the country, were helped by cab aggregator Ola to reach Delhi, said a company spokesperson. The four, including two women, were stranded in Jaipur since lockdown started on March 24, he said, adding they reached Delhi on Saturday afternoon. "The group reached out to Australian high commission in Delhi, which put them in touch with Ola, and together we collaborated with authorities to get permissions and passes to bring them from Jaipur to Delhi," said spokesperson. A trained driver along with a sanitised cab was arranged by cab aggregator after clearance and permissions from authorities for the group to reach Delhi safely.  All the nationals were tested negative for COVID-19 in Jaipur before they were transferred to Delhi, he added. Delhi government has authorised district magistrates to issue transit passes to foreigners seeking to leave the country during lockdown. A standard operating procedure, including provisions for tests and quarantine, has been laid down for such departures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cab-aggregator-helps-4-australians-stranded-in-jaipur-reach-delhi-821748.html
05-04-2020||National||Appeal people not to visit places of worship during lockdown: Islamic Centre to religious leaders||The India Islamic Cultural Centre on Sunday urged all religious scholars and leaders to appeal to citizens not to visit places of worship during the lockdown period, saying the situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic is "unprecedented" and tough times call for tough measures.  In a statement issued by the organisation’s vice president, S M Khan, all stakeholders were asked to show "complete discipline" and refrain from activities which can cause damage to the dedicated efforts of the government. The statement from the office-bearer of the four-decade-old organisation, which was set up to promote mutual understanding and amity amongst the people of the country, came after reports of some patients taken for quarantine from Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin allegedly misbehaving with the medical staff. Khan, an Indian Information Services officer who had served as the press secretary to the then President A P J Abdul Kalam and was also the face of the country's premier probe agency CBI for over a decade, said the current situation is "unprecedented". "Tough times call for tough measures and this is exactly what our Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has done by ensuring a complete lockdown which was imperative to tackle this pandemic," he said, calling everyone to fight the "common enemy together". Khan thanked all essential service providers who are ensuring continuity of supplies and especially saluted the medical professionals who are taking care of those affected and also the police/administrative personnel and media for doing a remarkable job. "I take this opportunity to request all religious scholars and leaders to appeal to citizens not to visit places of worship during the lockdown period...stay safe and take care!" Khan said. Natural disasters such as these do not discriminate between people in terms of religion, caste, creed, region among others, he said, adding "this phase should be a learning experience for all of us, that how we can support each other for humanitarian causes."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/appeal-people-not-to-visit-places-of-worship-during-lockdown-islamic-centre-to-religious-leaders-821754.html
05-04-2020||National||75 lakh people provided food at special camps set up across country: MHA||Over 75 lakh needy people, including migrant labourers, have been provided with food at 19,460 special food camps set up across the country in the wake of the lockdown imposed to counter coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Sunday. These special food camps are in addition to 27,661 shelters set up for migrant workers and needy people. A total of 12.5 lakh people have been given shelter in these arrangements, they said. Soon after the lockdown was imposed across the country, a large number of migrant workers started leaving for their native states on foot in the absence of transport facilities and employment opportunities. Addressing a press conference, MHA Joint Seceretary Punya Salila Srivastava said 23,924 shelter camps have been set up by the state and Union Territory governments, while 3,737 shelters have been set by non-governmental organizations (NGOs). A total of 9,951 food camps have been set by the state/UT governments and 9,509 camps by NGOs, she said. Srivastava said 13.5 lakh workers are being provided with shelter and food by their employers. She said the ‘MHA lockdown guidelines’ include drugs and pharmaceuticals, medical devices, raw materials and their packaging materials in essential services. In order to ensure smooth functioning of the supply chain of essential goods, interstate movement of employees of such units has been permitted in the guidelines, she said. Meanwhile, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to chief secretaries to support manufacturing units of pharmaceuticals after the industry reported problems in some pockets. The home secretary has asked the state governments to develop standard operating procedures for the interstate movement of workers in conformity with social distancing norms and health protocols. On reports of increased prices of essential commodities, Srivastava said interstate cargo movement has been allowed and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) along with state governments, Union territories and Union ministries concerned are monitoring the situation. Area officers have been appointed to resolve concerns of all stake holders and Railways has transported 7,630 rakes and 3.92 lakh wagons of essential items between March 25 and April 4, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75-lakh-people-provided-food-at-special-camps-set-up-across-country-mha-821758.html
05-04-2020||National||India to balance domestic need, relations with US to decide on Trump's request for Hydroxychloroquine||India will strike a balance between its priority on meeting domestic requirement and its relations with the United States while deciding on American President Donald Trump’s request to relax the ban it imposed on export of Hydroxychloroquine – a drug, which has been recommended for treatment of the COVID-19 patients. Trump requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a phone call on Saturday to relax the ban on export of Hydroxychloroquine, so that the US could import the drug from India to meet its growing demand to treat people infected by the virus. “Our decision will be guided by national interests. Our priority will always remain on ensuring the availability of the medicines and all the medical equipment like ventilators, coveralls, masks and gloves in adequate numbers for the patients and the healthcare providers,” a senior official in New Delhi told the DH, adding: “We will of course factor in India’s friendly relations with the US. Trump and Modi discussed the COVID-19 pandemic over the phone. They agreed to “deploy full strength” of India-US partnership to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, which wreaked havoc not only in the two countries, but also around the world. The COVID-19 infected over 1.13 million people around the world and killed over 62700 of them so far. Over 8,000 died out of more than 300,000 people infected by the virus in the US. In India, at least 3,300 people have fallen sick after being infected by the virus and 79 of them died so far. No specific cure has been developed for the COVID-19 so far, while researchers are still working on developing a vaccine that could keep the virus at bay. But the US Centre for Disease Control (CDC) recommended the anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine for treatment of the patients infected by the virus. So did Indian Council of Medical Research. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had first imposed restrictions on export of Hydroxychloroquine and formulation made from Hydroxychloroquine from India on March 25 – allowing export only from Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and Export Oriented Units (EOUs), or in the cases of payments being already made or if the irrevocable Letter of Credit has been issued. The DGFT had also allowed export of the drug only with clearance from the Union Government on humanitarian considerations. The DGFT, however, imposed a blanket ban on export of Hydroxychloroquine from India, “without any exception”, on Saturday – just a few hours before the Prime Minister and the US President spoke to each other over phone and discussed the pandemic. “After call today with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is giving serious consideration to releasing the hold it put on a US order for Hydroxychloroquine,” Trump later said at the White House Coronavirus task force briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-balance-domestic-need-relations-with-us-to-decide-on-trumps-request-for-hydroxychloroquine-821760.html
05-04-2020||National||Hundreds still flout coronavirus lockdown norms, despite Tablighi alarm||According to the Health Ministry, there were 3,577 confirmed COVID-19 cases across the country, with the total number doubling every four days as of Sunday. But still, there have been instances from across the country of people turning out in hoards to celebrate Ram Navami or Palm Sunday, ignoring the lockdown to arrest the spread of COVID-19, that has infected 1.2 million people and killed 66,503 world wide. In Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district, police arrested a pastor for congregating 150 persons at a church for Palm Sunday prayers ahead of Easter Sunday. In Rajasthan’s Bundi and Ramnagar districts, nearly 1000 people had gathered for a religious ritual ‘Neja ki Savari’ on Friday, catching the state police off guard. People were perched atop the terraces of homes and gathered on the streets as a procession passed by. Police swung into action after the celebrations were over, registered an FIR and arrested five persons for violating the lockdown. About 120 km from Bundi lies Bhilwara, a district that has been under strict curfew after the outbreak of COVID-19, that forced the administration to launch massive contact tracing exercise covering 28 lakh people across the district. In Morena, located in the fabled ravines of Chambal region in Madhya Pradesh, attending a feast after a funeral proved to be costly for at least 10 persons who tested positive for COVID-19. A waiter who had returned from Dubai reportedly ignored the COVID-19 symptoms and went about visiting his near and dear ones to invite them for the feast in the memory of his mother who passed away last month. More than 1000 people attended the feast on March 20, much before the lockdown was announced. The district administration swung into action after the waiter and his wife tested positive for COVID-19 on April 2. According to a PTI report from Morena, 26,000 persons have been placed under quarantine in the district after contact tracing of those who attended the funeral feast. In Chandigarh, a renowned Gurbani exponent and Padmashri awardee Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa passed away on April 2, while undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Singh had attended a pre-wedding ceremony in Chandigarh on March 19, and 84 persons who were present there were placed under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hundreds-still-flout-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-despite-tablighi-alarm-821762.html
05-04-2020||National||Huge quantity of lifesaving drugs airlifted for Kashmir, stocks to suffice for two months||A consignment of drugs, weighing over 630 kilograms, has been airlifted from New Delhi for Kashmir valley to ensure an adequate supply of life-saving medicines, especially anti-cancer, anti-hypertensive and anti-diabetic ones in the Valley amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, an official spokesman said on Sunday. The airlifted stock, requiring special storage conditions, would be suffice for two months, the spokesman said. He said the drugs have been airlifted from the national capital to Srinagar by Drug and Food Control Organisation (DFCO) under a well-knit contingency plan amid the pan-India lockdown to manage and contain the spread of Coronavirus. “The services of the Air Force, Red Cross and top functionaries of the J&K government have been utilised to arrange supplies of anticancer drugs, Insulin preparations, drugs used in cardiology from the national capital,” the spokesman said. Besides, he said sufficient stock of all categories of medical products including pharmaceutical preparations, medical devices and other supportive materials, have also been dispatched to Kashmir from 38 C&F locations belonging to reputed pharma houses located in Jammu. “These dispatches have reached their destinations and are sufficient to meet the requirement for pharma trade and end users,” he said. Health & Medical Education Department's Financial Commissioner Atal Dulloo has appreciated the efforts of all the agencies which made it possible in the given situation. He expressed satisfaction and issued instruction to concerned authorities to ensure that availability of these drugs and equipment is ensured in pharmacies located in the private and public sector. He appealed to the stakeholders to maintain close coordination during these difficult times and ensure that the public at large is not denied access to essential drugs due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/huge-quantity-of-lifesaving-drugs-airlifted-for-kashmir-stocks-to-suffice-for-two-months-821763.html
05-04-2020||National||Govt considering another package to minimize lockdown impact: Sources||The government has started working out the possible post-lockdown scenarios and is considering another booster shot to minimize the impact of coronavirus and revive the economy but nothing has been finalised yet, senior officials said on Sunday. The focus is on issues that may come up after the lockdown is lifted on April 15, an official said. There have been discussions about a package but nothing has been finalised yet, the official said, adding that the idea is to revive consumption, "so some measures might be needed." If a package is announced, it would be the third major initiative by the government to tackle the challenges thrown up by the rapid spread of coronavirus. On March 24, hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a countrywide lockdown, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of relief measures for taxpayers and businesses. Two days later, Sitharaman announced a Rs 1.7-lakh-crore relief package for those hit hardest. On Sunday, the officials said they are also looking at the possibility of redesigning some welfare and other government schemes to suit the post-lockdown situation. Various options are on the table — such as scholarships and fellowships given by ministries, harvesting of rabi crops and the government has started to address them one by one, they said. Out of the 10 empowered groups of senior bureaucrats constituted by the prime minister to prepare India's response to COVID-19, one group is tasked to suggest economic measures. An informal group of ministers, chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, is also looking into various aspects of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-considering-another-package-to-minimize-lockdown-impact-sources-821766.html
05-04-2020||National||Railways to the rescue while country reels with coronavirus crisis||During the lockdown period, staff deployed at various good sheds, stations and control offices continued to work with full strength to ensure seamless supply of essential items, said a senior Railway Ministry official. From March 23 to April 4, trains loaded and carried 1,342 wagons of sugar, 958 wagons of salt and 378 wagons/tanks of edible oil (one wagon contains 58-60 tonnes of consignment). Besides, a large quantity of petroleum products and coal was also transported during this period. The railway freight movement is being monitored at the freight control room at Rail Bhavan by top railway officials. In coordination with state officials and the Ministry of Home Affairs, the railway officials are moving essential commodities in different parts of the country, said the official. The railways has solved the loading and unloading issues in coordination with the states, said the official. IRCTC, catering wing of railways, is operating its kitchens to prepare meals to be distributed to the needy in various parts of the country. Besides producing hospital material including masks and hand sanitiser, the railways is also busy converting its coaches to isolation wards to supplement existing hospital wards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-the-rescue-while-country-reels-with-coronavirus-crisis-821767.html
05-04-2020||National||14-month-old, son of daily wager, among 20 new coronavirus cases detected in Gujarat||"We haven't been able to trace the source of infection. The boy was admitted to pediatric ward where he was attended by two doctors. He was discharged but later his condition again deteriorated and was brought back. His test result came today which confirmed he had covornavirus. His parents, who are originally from UP, and other who were in touch with the boy have not shown any symptoms. We are going to quarantine all the doctors, ward boys, his chawl," Jamnagar district collector Ravi Shankar told DH. He said that entire health department with the help of police are trying to find out everyone who came in contact with boy. The parents have no travel history. His father works a daily wager in factories. As a matter of fact, in nearly a dozen positive cases source of infection is not known while the state is also witnessing spread of infection only through local transmission. In the past five days, 78 cases were found to have been spread through local and 17 cases have intrastate travel history. Officials said that out of 17, eight cases are linked to Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin in Delhi. The health department is also worried over rising cases linked to this congregation. Earlier in the day, principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi told media persons "Yesterday, we found three cases linked to Tablighi congregation. Apart from that, Ahmedabad has reported ten positive cases which were detected in the hotspot zones or those areas where Muslim brothers and sisters live in majority. There is a big possibility that these cases are directly or indirectly connected to Nizamuddin event." Later in the day, Director General of Police, Shivanand Jha, said in his media briefing in Gandhinagar that till Sunday afternoon, police have traced 126 persons who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation at its headquarters in Nizamuddin, Delhi, out of which six were detected with the coronavirus by Sunday afternoon. Jha said that all of them have been isolated and being treated as per the protocol. Out of six cases, five were detected in Ahmedabad and one case was found in Chotaudaipur district in central Gujarat which recorded its first case. Earlier, two persons had been found infected with the virus who had attended the event in Delhi. In Bhavnagar city limits, ten cases have been detected out of which nine are said to be result of local transmission suspected to have spread through the 70 year-old businessman who had attended the congregation, and passed away from the virus last week. In the close proximity of his house, nine cases have been found in his close relatives and people who came in touch with him. "We have already isolated the whole locality that has over 4000 households that house more than 20,000 population," Bhavnagar municipal commissioner MA Gandhi told DH. He said that also detected another positive case today whose source in not traced as yet, he added. Similarly, a whole area housing over 20,000 people have been quarantined. Meanwhile, state also recorded a fresh death on Sunday in Surat where a 61-year-old woman died, taking the death toll to 11. So far,  21 patients have been cured and discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-month-old-son-of-daily-wager-among-20-new-coronavirus-cases-detected-in-gujarat-821769.html
05-04-2020||National||Next few days very important, formulate plan to avoid community transmission: Cabinet Secy to states||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday asked all district magistrates to prepare crisis management plans for their respective regions even as COVID-19 expanded its footprint to cover 274 districts across the country. Chairing ‘virtual’ meeting of district magistrates and senior officials, Gauba also asked the top officials from COVID-19 hotspots such as Bhilwara, Pathanamthitta, Noida, Mumbai to share their experiences of aggressive surveillance and contact tracing to arrest the spread of the outbreak in their regions. Proactive and ruthless implementation of containment plan and preparedness to manage a sudden spike in cases were the two key points that emerged from the presentations of the district magistrates of Bhilwara, Pathanamthitta, Noida, Mumbai, East Delhi and Agra which had emerged as hotspots. As on Sunday, the Health Ministry said there were a total of 3,577 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and the death toll had climbed up to 83. On the brighter side, 275 persons had recovered from the infection. District officials shared the strategies adopted by them to combat the pandemic like how they delineated containment and buffer zone, how they carried outdoor-to-door survey through special teams, how through telemedicine and call centres the passengers who had come were monitored. On Saturday, the Health Ministry had released an aggressive containment plan for large outbreaks of COVID-19 that included creating buffer zones and sealing off areas for nearly a month. It states that the plan can be scaled down only if no new cases are reported from the hotspots for 28 days after the last confirmed case. In Bhilwara, the district officials had cordoned off the entire strict and carried out surveys of almost the entire 28 lakh population for flu-like illnesses. In Pathanamthitta, officials had moved quickly to isolate all primary and secondary contacts of persons who had tested positive for COVID-19. District officials published flow charts of the travel history of those infected with the virus and ensuring their isolation as the district is home to the famous Sabarimala shrine which attract huge number of devotees. Officials from Mumbai shared their experiences about ring-fencing the high-risk persons, particularly the elderly who were more susceptible to infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-few-days-very-important-formulate-plan-to-avoid-community-transmission-cabinet-secy-to-states-821770.html
05-04-2020||National||Kerala govt facilitates travel of child to Hyderabad for cancer treatment||Even as the nationwide lockdown came in the way of the cancer care of a 1.5-year-old child, the Kerala government chipped in to arrange for her travel to Hyderabad for the treatment. Vineeth and Gopika, hailing from Alappuzha district, left for Hyderabad with their child Anvitha on Sunday morning in an ambulance arranged by the Kerala Government's Social Security Mission. Anvitha has been undergoing treatment for eye cancer at a hospital in Hyderabad. Her next treatment was due, but she could not travel owing to the lockdown. The family's plight came to the notice of Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja. She took it up with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Subsequently, the Social Security Mission was entrusted with the task of facilitating the travel. They arranged the ambulance and agreed to meet the travel expense. The Kerala Police coordinated with police forces of all neighbouring districts and states to ensure a hassle-free movement of the ambulance. The ambulance would stay back in Hyderabad to bring back the family, said the health minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-govt-facilitates-travel-of-child-to-hyderabad-for-cancer-treatment-821772.html
05-04-2020||National||6 Kashmir villages declared 'red zones' after 6 people test positive for coronavirus||The villages are Konan, Gund Qaiser, Gund-Dachina, Hakbara, Madwan and Pethkote, all in the north Kashmir district, an official spokesperson said. "Six more villages were declared red zones and their surrounding villages as buffer zones in the Bandipora district to prevent spread of coronavirus after six persons from these villages were declared COVID-19 positive in past two days," he said. District Magistrate, Bandipora, Shahbaz Ahmad Mirza has said that in view of the six positive cases reported from these villages, it became imperative to initiate restrictive measures under section 144 of CrPC for prevention of danger to the human life, health and safety. Under the order issued by the DM, there should be no outward or inward movement of any individual for any reason in these villages, the spokesman said. The DM has also directed law enforcing agencies to implement the prohibitory orders in letter and spirit to save lives and warned of strict action against violators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-kashmir-villages-declared-red-zones-after-6-people-test-positive-for-coronavirus-821781.html
05-04-2020||National||Millions respond to PM's appeal; light candles, diyas, turn on torches in solidarity against COVID-19||Millions of Indians across the country switched off lights at their homes and lit candles, diyas or turned on mobile phone torches on Sunday night, responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to show the nation's "collective resolve and solidarity" in its fight against coronavirus. As the clock struck 9, lights went out in most houses and people gathered in balconies and at doors, flashing mobile lights while many lit candles and diyas. Fireworks, thalis, whistles and police sirens were heard. At some places, Hindu devotional songs, mantras and national anthem were also played. Modi had on Friday urged people to turn off lights at their homes for nine minutes at 9pm to display the country's collective resolve and solidarity to defeat the virus. This is the second time Prime Minister Modi has sought to rally people amid the ongoing lockdown to combat the pandemic, which has claimed more than 65,600 lives globally and inflicted over 12 lakh people. You may be alone at home but 130 crore people are with you, he had said while making the appeal to fuse a sense of unity and purpose among people during the ongoing lockdown. The Prime Minister had earlier asked them to clap or beat utensils on March 22 for five minutes at 5pm while observing 'janta curfew' from 7am to 9pm to thank those working in essentials services. The overall death toll in the country due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 83 and the cases climbed to 3,577 on Sunday after 505 new infections were reported in the past 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. India has been on a 21-day lockdown from March 25 to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over 65,000 lives globally while more that 12,00,000 declared cases have been registered in 190 countries and territories since the epidemic first emerged in China in December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/millions-respond-to-pms-appeal-light-candles-diyas-turn-on-torches-in-solidarity-against-covid-19-821783.html
05-04-2020||National||India curbs diagnostic testing kit exports as coronavirus spreads||India, which in recent weeks already banned the export of certain drugs, along with ventilators, masks and other protective gear needed by both patients and medical staff, issued the latest directive on Saturday. The move comes even as U.S. President Donald Trump urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a phone call on Saturday, to release supplies of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, which is being tested as a possible treatment for patients with COVID-19 - the disease caused by the coronavirus. "The two leaders agreed to remain in touch on the issue of global supply chains for critical pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and to ensure they continue to function as smoothly as possible during the global health crisis," White House spokesman Judd Deere, said in a tweet on Saturday. In a briefing note on the conversation, India said the two leaders "agreed to deploy the full strength of the India – U.S. partnership to resolutely and effectively combat COVID-19."   BANGLADESH STIMULUS PLAN The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in South Asia, home to roughly 1.9 billion people, climbed close to 7,000 on Sunday, even as the death toll from the respiratory disease in the Indian subcontinent rose to 143. While the figures are relatively low in comparison with the United States, China, Italy and Spain, health experts fear that the spread of the pandemic in South Asia would overwhelm already weak public health systems in the region. Bangladesh's Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Sunday unveiled a 727.50 billion taka ($8.56 billion) stimulus package to help the economy overcome the impact of the coronavirus outbreak. "The amount is equivalent to 2.52 percent of gross domestic product," Hasina said in a televised address. Reuters earlier this month reported that Bangladesh, the second-largest apparel producer after China, is set to lose roughly $6 billion in export revenue this financial year amid order cancellations from some of the world's largest brands and retailers. Bangladesh has so far recorded 88 cases of the disease that has so far claimed nine lives.   Following are government figures on the spread of the coronavirus in South Asia:   - India has 3,374 cases, including 77 deaths - Pakistan has 2,880 cases, including 45 deaths - Afghanistan has 337 cases, including 7 deaths - Sri Lanka has 166 cases, including 5 deaths - Bangladesh has 88 cases, including 9 deaths - Maldives has 19 cases and no deaths - Nepal has nine cases and no deaths - Bhutan has five cases and no deaths||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-curbs-diagnostic-testing-kit-exports-as-coronavirus-spreads-821790.html
05-04-2020||National||Masks, screening health status, social distancing: Indian Railways prepares for post-lockdown services||From encouraging social-distancing on board to asking passengers to wear face masks and using the Arogya Setu app to check their health status before letting them in, the Railways is mulling over several proposals for its post-lockdown operations. While no decision has yet been taken on when the passenger services, which were suspended in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown from March 25, will be resumed, officials said it is likely to be done in a phased manner after a green signal from the government. A decision, officials said, is likely to be taken in the coming week on how to restore services. They said the railways has discussed the option of resuming services only on specific approval of each train from the Railway Board. Suggestions on phase-wise resumption have to be provided by the zone to the board. "These are sensitive times and we are not looking in terms of revenue generation for now. The focus is on passenger safety and to ensure that the disease does not spread. Trains will run in due course, once the government gives us the green signal. However as of now, we have not taken any decision,” said a senior officer. In the zones, officials are also identifying trains and routes which can be resumed with the approval of the board. The focus, say officials, is to see if routes catering to migrant workers can be resumed initially and also those that are not travelling or has halts at COVID-19 hotspots. Officials added that the railways will also have to factor in how the lockdown is eventually opened. If it is selective, then trains will only run in areas where lockdown is lifted, officials said. The Railways is also unlikely to rescind a March 19 order suspending all concessions for passengers except those offered to patients, students and people with disabilities in a hurry, even after the lockdown period to discourage unnecessary travel. The Railways, officials said, are also discussing protocols that need to be followed once services begin to ensure safety of passengers. They are mulling options like thermal screening and other methods to scan passengers boarding trains. "Once the services are resumed, we are thinking of requesting passengers to wear masks as per the health ministry advisory. We are also thinking of using the Arogya app to check the health and wellness of patients and allow only healthy passengers to board trains,” an official said. As part of its preparedness, the Railways has also asked zones to ensure the security of coaches parked in depots. Officials said once the services resume full throttle, they expect overcrowding at stations and measures have to be chalked out on how to deal with them. The focus now for Railways, the officials said, is to ensure that the rakes of passenger trains, which were suspended due to the lockdown, had returned to their respective bases, received proper maintenance like charging of batteries, cleaning of bio-toilets, and were ready to return on the tracks once the resumption is announced. Officials also said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal is keen that the railways concentrate on ensuring that the different zones continue their efforts towards contributing in the larger fight against coronavirus. Railway PSUs have already committed to converting around 5000 coaches as isolation wards initially which are likely to be sent in rural areas that do not have hospitals. The Railways has also offered its hospitals for infected patients and are producing essential medical goods like masks, sanitisers, PPEs. The minister has given instructions that proper planning should be done for cleaning of linens, sanitation and proper disposal of biomedical waste that is expected to be generated at hospitals and isolation coaches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/masks-screening-health-status-social-distancing-indian-railways-prepares-for-post-lockdown-services-821792.html
05-04-2020||National||PM's 9-minute lights-out call goes well without disrupting electricity grid||The Government on Sunday claimed that the nine-minute lights off event went off well without any disruption in the electricity grid. The event went off smoothly. There was no complaints of grid failure. Officials of all the load dispatching units and generating units handled the situation very well, Union Power Minister R K Singh said after the event. Singh and Union Power Secretary S N Sahai personally monitor the situation at National Power Monitoring Centre in the Ministry of Power office at Shrama Shakthi Bhavan. The Minister also thanked National grid operator POSOCO &the national, regional&state load despatch centres and power generating stations for handling the situation well. The power consumption went down from 117GW at 8.49 pm to 85.30GW till 9.09 pm a reduction of 32 GW. Then it started increasing, the Minister said. Earlier it was anticipated that the fall due to switch of lights will be around 12 GW to 15 GW. However, the fall was much more than expected, said an official in the Power Ministry. The ramp up was very smooth at around 110 GW after the dip in demand during light-out, the Minister said. The Power Ministry had earlier dismissed the apprehension of failure of grid due to fluctuation in power flow following switch of residence hights entire country. The government said all system is robust and ready and handle any situation. The government also requested public to switch off only residence lights and not home appliances like fridge and AC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-9-minute-lights-out-call-goes-well-without-disrupting-electricity-grid-821793.html
05-04-2020||National||Delhi authorities yet to ascertain contact history of 71 coronavirus patients||Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases and strong emphasis that Delhi is still in a stage of local transmission, latest health bulletin on Sunday showed that authorities are yet to ascertain how 71 people contracted the virus infection even as cases crossed the 500-mark on Sunday. One more person died taking the toll to seven, while 58 new cases were reported in the city, as the total rose to 503 and 477 are still in hospital under treatment. Of the total, 320 or 63.61 per cent were linked to Tablighi Jamaat's religious gathering in south Delhi's Nizamuddin in mid-March. Across India, around 30 per cent cases have links to Tablighi Jamaat followers or those who came in contact with them after they returned to their states. At a time the focus is on Tablighi Jamaat, the number of cases unrelated to the Islamic missionary movement is also on the rise. On Sunday for the first time after testing of Tablighi Jamaat followers started, the number of those not linked to the event surpassed that of the Islamic movement's numbers. Of the 58 cases, 39 did not have any links to the movement. An area of concern for health officials is the rising number of cases in which the authorities are yet to ascertain the contact history of the person. Among the total cases, 61 have foreign travel history, while 51 have contacts with those who had contracted COVID-19, besides the 320 linked to Tablighi Jamaat. As on March 31, there were 18 such cases "under investigation" where the authorities could not ascertain how the person contracted the infection. This number has been steadily rising and five days later, this number now stands at 71. An analysis of the health bulletins issued by the Delhi government showed that the number of such cases is on the rise since April 3. Also since April 2, the authorities were not able to ascertain facts about patients who were already on the list. While on March 31, there were eight fresh cases where authorities were not able to track down the contact, taking the total to 18, the next day had nine new cases. However, on April 1, the total unknown cases were 19, according to the bulletin, as it appeared that authorities managed to track down the contact history of some of them. On April 2, six new similar cases came, taking the total to 25. The next day, it was again six cases. On April 4, there were 15 such cases and on Sunday, there is no credible source for the patient getting COVID-19 in 25 cases. Citing the Tablighi Jamaat case, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that Delhi has not yet reached the stage of community spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-authorities-yet-to-ascertain-contact-history-of-71-coronavirus-patients-821795.html
05-04-2020||National||'Corona-positive Karnal man dies in PGIEMR as six more tested positive in Haryana'||Haryana's second COVID-19-related death occurred on a day when six more persons were tested positive for coronavirus in the state with the number of cases rising to 76 on Sunday. The patient, who died in PGIMR, Chandigarh, tested positive for coronavirus infection on April 2 and was also having underlying health conditions including diabetes and asthma, karnal CMO told PTI over phone. He said some of the Karnal villager's family members too have been kept under isolation at Kalpana Chawla Medical College, Karnal. “The report of three of his family members has come, which is negative while the report of nine others is awaited,” he said. Haryana had recorded its first COVID-19 death on Wednesday when a 67-year-old man from Ambala district, who, according to doctors, had underlying health conditions, had also passed away at PGIMER here. Haryana has so far reported 76 positive cases and the patient who passed away was the only positive case from Karnal district so far.  Out of total positive cases in the state, 15 have been discharged. The fresh cases reported on Sunday included five from Nuh and one from Gurugram.  Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said 29 of the total positive cases are of the Tablighi Jamaat members. Amid reports that there could be a few more Jamaat members in the state who were yet to be tracked down, Vij said, “While we believe we have tracked all of them, but if a few of them could still be hiding, they should themselves report to the concerned district administration so that they could be quarantined. “However, if they fail to do so over the next couple of days, then strict action as per law will be taken against them,” he said. Haryana has so far reported one death due to COVID-19 after a 67-year-old man from Ambala district passed away at PGIMER earlier. Of the total 76 cases, four are Sri Lankan nationals and one is from Nepal while 20 are from other states of India, the bulletin said. Vij said earlier as many as 652 of the 1,300 Tablighi members had been traced from Nuh district alone. Over 1,300 Tablighi Jamaat members, including 107 foreigners, came to Haryana before the lockdown came into force on March 25, Director General of Police Manoj Yadava had said on Friday. All of them have been quarantined, DGP had said, adding five FIRs have been registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Foreigner's Act against the foreigners among the Tablighi Jamaat members for various violations. Vij, meanwhile, said tenders had recently been floated and now four firms will be supplying 1,000 each Personal Protection Equipment needed by doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff at the frontline of battle against COVID-19. Officials said that intensive testing will be done in districts including Nuh, Palwal, Gurugram, Panipat and Faridabad, which have seen maximum cases. Micro plan/containment plan are being prepared for district of Faridabad, Gurugram and Ambala. On the lockdown in the state, he said while it took couple of days initially to persuade people to stay indoors, but now they were complying with the government orders. “People are showing great restraint and cooperating with the authorities,” said Vij. Meanwhile, supervisory officer would be appointed at five private labs to monitor the updation of data related to COVID-19 testing. Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Sunday directed the district Deputy Commissioners of the state to prepare and implement plans at the micro-level in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in their respective districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/corona-positive-karnal-man-dies-in-pgiemr-as-six-more-tested-positive-in-haryana-821797.html
05-04-2020||National||People of Gujarat respond to PM's call by switching off lights||After turning off the lights, people came out in the balconies or terraces of their houses, and lit earthen lamps, candles and waved mobile flashlights. Some people created patterns with diyas on the ground. Some shouted slogans like 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' and 'Vande Mataram', while some others even burst firecrackers. Modi had on Friday urged people to turn off lights at their homes for nine minutes at 9 pm to display the country's collective resolve and solidarity to defeat the virus. Modi's call for a blackout had also raised concerns about power grid failure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-of-gujarat-respond-to-pms-call-by-switching-off-lights-821798.html
05-04-2020||National||Maharashtra: Enthusiastic response to PM's call from people, Bollywood||People from across Maharashtra responded enthusiastically to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to defeat coronavirus by switching off lights in their premises for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday amid the national lockdown. People lit landles, diyas and flashed lights of their mobile phones by standing in balconies of their houses. Prominent personalities such as NCP chief Sharad Pawar, family of renowned singer Lata Mangeshkar, actor Amitabh Bachchan as well asseveral oher actors and celebrities too responded to the PM's call. Meanwhile, some youths took out bike rallies in localities like Bandra, Juhu and Andheri flashing their headlights. Major cities such as Pune, which is the major IT hub in the state, as well as Aurangabad, Nashik, Nagpur also saw enthusiastic response from people. The Prime Minister on Friday urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5 to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-enthusiastic-response-to-pms-call-from-people-bollywood-821803.html
05-04-2020||National||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, his wife light lamps in solidarity against COVID-19||"Through their overwhelming response to the prime minister's call, the people of India have once again reasserted the country's steely resolve to overcome the crisis caused by the pandemic," an official statement quoted Naidu as saying. While appealing to the people to stay at home during the lockdown period, the Vice President said it was everybody's duty to stop the transmission of the virus. In a Facebook post, the Vice President expressed concern over the spread of misinformation, especially on social media, and said it is a virus that needs to be checked immediately. Millions of Indians across the country switched off lights at their homes and lit candles, diyas or turned on mobile phone torches on Sunday night, responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to show the nation's "collective resolve and solidarity" in its fight against coronavirus. Modi had on Friday urged people to turn off lights at their homes for nine minutes at 9 pm to display the country's collective resolve and solidarity to defeat the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-his-wife-light-lamps-in-solidarity-against-covid-19-821809.html
05-04-2020||National||TTD decides to offer Rs 19 crore to AP govt for COVID-19 relief||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that governs the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala near here, has decided to offer Rs 19 crore to the Andhra Pradesh's government relief coronavirus fund, a top TTD official said on Sunday. TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singal said that TTD had already given Rs eight crore to the government officials of Chittoor district and the remaining Rs 11 crore would soon be handed over to them to fight killer virus. He said there was no lapse in the conduct of daily rituals at the Lord Venkateswara temple on the Tirumala hills since the complete lockdown of the nation was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ttd-decides-to-offer-rs-19-crore-to-ap-govt-for-covid-19-relief-821814.html
05-04-2020||National||Lawyers' body to provide financial aid to members affected due to lockdown||The Delhi High Court Bar Association (DHCBA) has decided to implement the COVID-19 (Grant of Ex Gratia Relief) Scheme 2020 to provide immediate and effective financial aid to its members who have been adversely impacted by the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown. According to a statement issued by the DHCBA, the ex-gratia amount will be provided to the deserving members falling in certain categories. Under the scheme, a member is not entitled to an aggregate ex-gratia amount of more than Rs 10,000. The lawyers' body said the amount would be given to the members with zero to seven years' standing as advocates and who are not more than 32 years of age or whose family or household income was equivalent to or less than Rs 6 lakh per annum in the preceding 12 months. Another category is of advocate members in need of money to defray urgent and unavoidable medical expenses for themselves or their dependent family members. It also includes the members who are in dire need of funds to meet exceptional hardships. The statement said the members falling in these categories can apply to the bar association at dhcbar@gmail.com with details such as name, year of enrolment, the aggregate family income etc. It said the information given by the members will be sufficient and they need not attach any affidavit or proof in support of the claim. The DHCBA has urged the senior members of the bar, designated seniors, law firms, members with established practices and those generally desirous of contributing to generously donate towards the creation of a corpus. The statement said the DHCBA would additionally be earmarking a special budgetary allocation for this corpus from its existing funds. It also made it clear that the scheme has no nexus with any similar scheme of the Bar Council of Delhi or any other lawyers' association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-body-to-provide-financial-aid-to-members-affected-due-to-lockdown-821821.html
05-04-2020||National||Coronavirus scare: Air India appeals to passengers of 4 flights operated in March to quarantine themselves||Air India has asked passengers who travelled in four of its flights in March to follow necessary isolation or quarantine after three passengers on those flights tested positive for coronavirus. Two of these flights were from Goa to Mumbai, one from Mumbai to Delhi and another from Delhi to Patna. In an appeal to passengers who were onboard these flights, the airline said it has got the information that three passengers who travelled with the fights have been found infected with coronavirus. "As informed by Disaster Management Department of Bihar, one passenger who travelled from Mumbai to Delhi by AI-101 of March 22 and from Delhi-to Patna on AI-415 on March 23 has been found COVID-9 positive on March 31," the airline said in a tweet. As appealed by the department, passengers who were on this flight are required to follow necessary isolation/quarantine process. The national carrier also made similar appeals to the passengers of its Mumbai-Goa flights, AI 883 and AI 661, on March 22 and March 19, respectively. "As informed by Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Directorate of Health Services, Goa, one passenger who travelled from Mumbai to Panjim in Goa on Air India flight AI 661 on March 19 has been found COVID-9 positive. As appealed by integrated disease surveillance programme, Goa, passengers for this flight are required to follow for necessary isolation quarantine," Air India said in a tweet on Saturday. In another tweet, the carrier said one passenger on its Mumbai-Panaji flight AI-883 of March 22 has also been tested positive for coronavirus. On Sunday, the number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the country increased to 3,374 and the death toll to 77, as per Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-scare-air-india-appeals-to-passengers-of-4-flights-operated-in-march-to-quarantine-themselves-821827.html
05-04-2020||National||82-yr-old man dies of COVID-19 in Rajasthan; state records 60 new cases, tally climbs to 266||Out of the 60 new cases reported on Sunday, 39 are from Jaipur alone. The deadly virus has so far claimed five lives in the state. However, officials maintain that deaths occurred due to co-morbidity -- more than one illness or disease occurring in one person at the same time. "An 82-year-old man died at SMS Hospital in Jaipur today. He was admitted yesterday. Further details are awaited. 59 new cases have come up, including the patient who died," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 265. Among the other 21 positive cases reported on Sunday, five are evacuees from Iran that had arrived in Jodhpur airport last month, six from Bikaner, three from Jodhpur, two from Dausa, one each from Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Pali, Tonk, and Jhunjhunu district. In Jaipur, a worker at a canteen of SMS Medical College was found positive for the virus on Saturday, triggering panic among the staff there. "A worker at SMS Medical College canteen has been tested positive for coronavirus. A total of 34 COVID-19 patients are admitted to the hospital," SMS Hospital Superintendent Dr D S Meena said.  A total of 36 patients have turned negative after treatment and 25 have been discharged, Singh said. Jaipur has the maximum number of coronavirus cases in the state at 92, followed by Bhilwara (27), Jhunjhunu and Tonk (18 each), Jodhpur (20), Churu (10), Bikaner (10), Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur (5 each), Udaipur (4), Dungarpur and Dausa (3 each), Pratapgarh, Pali, Banswara (2 each) and one each in Jaisalmer, Sikar, Dholpur, Nagaur and Karauli. The entire state has been in a lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to trace possible infected people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/82-yr-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-state-records-60-new-cases-tally-climbs-to-266-821851.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: Row kicks in over PM's light a candle campaign||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for switching of lights and lighting up a ‘diya’ or candle on Sunday has triggered a row with the Opposition saying this would cause the electrical grid to crash and slamming the plan as a decision taken without proper thinking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-row-kicks-in-over-pms-light-a-candle-campaign-821538.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||AAP govt slams Centre for not allocating money for Delhi, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia writes to FM Nirmala Sitharaman||AAP-led Delhi government has accused the Narendra Modi government of "playing politics" for not allocating any assistance from the Rs 17,287 crore it released to different states to "enhance their financial resources" to deal with the challenges in the fight against coronavirus. The Ministry of Finance on April 3 has released Rs 11,092 crore under State Disaster Response Mitigation Fund to 27 states and Rs 6,195.08 crore on account of revenue deficit grant under the 15th Finance Commission recommendation to 14 states. In a letter to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said it has been "unfortunate" that they have not been "not given a single rupee" by the Centre, which has come as a "huge shock and a disappointment" to the Delhi government at a time is fighting shoulder to shoulder with the Centre in the fight against the pandemic. This happened despite an assurance from the Centre that states will be provided relief from the Disaster Fund, Sisodia, also the Delhi Finance Minister, said adding it was "sad" that Delhi, being the national capital of India, has been "forsaken" and its needs "ignored". "The Centre is not expected to play politics in such a situation, neither in a federal structure nor in these times of a calamity that has arisen before us. Delhi is the national capital of the country, and the Central and the state government are working together in Delhi to contain COVID-19. Not providing any kind of assistance to Delhi just shows that the Central government is playing politics even in the times of a calamity like corona(virus)," he said. He said the state has been asking the Centre to provide more Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and testing kits for COVID-19 but it has not been provided despite the state is experiencing a shortage of these critical needs. Pointing out that Delhi is the third-worst affected region in the country, Sisodia said the Delhi government is providing food to more than 6.5 lakh people twice a day across the state and has the capacity to provide food to around 10 lakh people. It has also initiated a provision of 7.5 kg ration to 71 lakh beneficiaries in Delhi and is launching a scheme to provide ration to non-ration cardholders. "In such a situation, Delhi being kept out of the ambit of the relief fund is unfair treatment towards the people of Delhi," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-govt-slams-centre-for-not-allocating-money-for-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-writes-to-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-821553.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||PM pays tribute to Jagjivan Ram on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to freedom fighter and former deputy prime minister Jagjivan Ram on his 112th birth anniversary "Humble tributes to freedom fighter Babu Jagjivan Ram, who struggled for the rights of the poor, the underprivileged, on his birth anniversary," Modi wrote on Twitter.   गरीबों, वंचितों और पीड़ितों के अधिकारों के लिए संघर्ष करने वाले स्वतंत्रता सेनानी बाबू जगजीवन राम की जयंती पर उन्हें विनम्र श्रद्धांजलि। Popularly called Babuji, Jagjivan Ram fought for the rights of the underprivileged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-pays-tribute-to-jagjivan-ram-on-birth-anniversary-821573.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||Omar Abdullah showers praise on Uddhav Thackeray||Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah on Sunday showered praise on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, apparently for the way the latter is handling the COVID-19 situation in his state. "UddhavThackeray has been a revelation," Omar tweeted. The Maharashtra chief minister, the first Thackeray to rule the state, has been lauded on various social media platforms for the way he is handling the COVID-19 situation despite the state having high number of positive cases. Maharashtra has recorded 32 coronavirus deaths so far and 661 cases of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/omar-abdullah-showers-praise-on-uddhav-thackeray-821613.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||PM Modi seeks Opposition including Sonia Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee's views on coronavirus||As the COVID-19 challenge is getting bigger with each passing day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday widened the ambit of political discussions three days before he is slated to interact with floor leaders of political parties in Parliament. Besides Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi, who had written to the Prime Minister on the COVID-19 challenge, Modi called two former Presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil and two former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda to discuss the menace. In the backdrop of COVID-19 having spread its tentacles now across India, the Prime Minister also spoke to a number of leaders of different political parties from states in North and South. They include at least three former Chief Ministers Mulayam Singh Yadav and his son Akhilesh Yadav (Uttar Pradesh) and Parkash Singh Badal (Punjab), three Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal) Naveen Patnaik (Odisha) K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana) and DMK leader M K Stalin. There has been criticism that the government has not taken the Opposition parties into confidence in drafting the strategy to counter COVID-19 disease.  On Saturday, when the government announced that the Prime Minister will interact with floor leaders of political parties having at least five MPs in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha combined, Trinamool Congress raised the red flag saying that its demands to discuss the issue in Parliament was not accepted and hence, it will not participate in the interaction.  Modi's move to rope in senior leaders of political parties is expected to smoothen the rough edges and help evolve a political consensus on fighting COVID-19.  The main Opposition party, Congress has in the last few weeks repeatedly trained guns on Modi dispensation over the spread COVID-19 and the government's strategy to counter it and particularly, its handling of migrants on move after the announcement of 21-day lockdown to check the disease spread.  The lockdown came into effect from the midnight of March 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-seeks-opposition-including-sonia-gandhi-mamata-banerjees-views-on-coronavirus-821649.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||Exclusion of AIMIM from PM's meeting on COVID-19 an insult: Asaduddin Owaisi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi has said his party being "denied" participation in the proposed interaction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on COVID-19 was an insult to the people of Hyderabad and Aurgangabad, the two Lok Sabha constituencies represented by it. In a tweet, tagging PMO India's official handle, he questioned whether the people of Aurangabad and Hyderabad were lesser humans because they chose the AIMIM. Reaching out to the Opposition amid the ongoing country- wide lockdown due to coronavirus, Modi will interact with floor leaders of various parties via a video conference on April 8. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday said floor leaders of parties which have a combined strength of more than five MPs in both houses of parliament will be part of the discussion with the PM on Wednesday at 11 AM. The Hyderabad MP sought to know from the Prime Minister why the partys representatives were not worthy of your attention. @PMOIndia this is tauheen (insult) of the proud people of Aurangabad &Hyderabad. Are they lesser humans because they chose @aimim_national ? Pls explain why they're not worthy of your kind attention? As MPs it's our job to represent to you the economic & humanitarian misery of our people. Owaisi said he wanted to give suggestions on the fight against COVID-19. In another tweet Owaisi said People of Hyd & Aurangabad elected me & @imtiaz_jaleel so that we'll raise THEIR issues. Now, we're being denied an audience with His Highness. Hyd has 93 active #COVID19 cases, I want to put forth our ideas on how we can fight this pandemic & identify areas where we're lacking. AIMIM has two MPs in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/exclusion-of-aimim-from-pms-meeting-on-covid-19-an-insult-asaduddin-owaisi-821680.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: VHP demands complete ban on Nizamuddin Markaz, Tablighi Jamaat||A day after BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje suspected ‘Corona Jihad’ motive behind religious gathering at Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin, Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Sunday pitched for a complete ban on Nizamuddin Markaz and Tablighi Jamaat. Alluding to the nationwide spurt in COVID-19 positive cases, a large number of which were linked to those who attended the Jamaat event, VHP went hammer and tongs saying the whole of India is in serious crisis today due to the country-wide criminal misdeeds of the Tablighi Jamaat and its Nizamuddin Markaz. Calling it a “nursery and nourisher of Islamic radicalism and terror”, the VHP’s Central Joint Secretary Surendra Jain not only called for a complete ban on them but also freezing the bank accounts of Tablighi Jamaat after finding out their financial sources and closing down their offices and activities. Alleging that more than 9 thousand Tablighis are spreading the coronavirus (COVID-19) throughout the country, the VHP alleged that the possibilities of community transmission of the fatal virus increased. The VHP claimed that an Ijtema Tablighis in Mumbai that was supposed to happen on March 14 was stopped on VHP’s opposition but did not explain how the Jamaat event in Delhi could take place on March 30. VHP also alleged that radical Islamists, with a view to shielding and hiding the corona-bomb clerics, chased and beat up the policemen and health workers in many cities, towns and settlements in the country.   “The doctors, who went to save the lives of the corona-clerics, were attacked. The quarantined Tablighis started doing obscene acts before the nurses and spitting on the doctors. In the Quarantine Center at Narela, even army doctors and soldiers had to be called in. Not only in Nizamuddin, but the clerics across the country delivered speeches to inflame the Muslim community,” the VHP rued. It went on to allege that most of the founders of the world's terrorist organizations have also been associated with the Tabligh and demanded that the Tablighis and their Ijtema should be completely banned in India and the Nizamuddin Markaz buildings and its bank accounts be sealed forthwith, their financial sources be discovered and closed. Asking why the clerics were promoting Jihadi indoctrination and radical Islam on tourist visas not monitored, the VHP demanded that departmental proceedings should also be initiated against the guilty officers concerned.   The all out attack on Nizamuddin Markaz has also invited charges of Islamophobia and many do not share the extreme views like banning the organisation but they also disapproved of the gathering. Former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan said a few days back “Bigots won't spare a chance to blame the entire community. It's the responsibility of the people of this community to talk practically & pressurise these radical minds to understand what lies ahead. Corona is not religion proof.” He advocated “People of the same community who understand that both science and spirituality have different spaces, must convey to them that God will only save us if we are willing to save ourselves! Few will make life miserable for the rest of their community.” He said people due to their illiteracy or blind faiths without any logic defies science. “Excusing their superstitions by saying this is an act of God to punish who did wrong to their community in certain areas of the world. They let down their own community & people,” Rajan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-vhp-demands-complete-ban-on-nizamuddin-markaz-tablighi-jamaat-821721.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||Ban Tablighi Jamaat and its Markaz: Vishwa Hindu Parishad||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) called for a complete ban on the Tablighi Jamaat and its Nizamuddin Markaz on Sunday, after it emerged as a COVID-19 hotspot in the country. The Tablighi Jamaat's Markaz (headquarters) in Delhi's Nizamuddin West emerged as a coronavirus hotspot as hundreds of people, who attended a religious congregation there in the second week of March, tested positive for COVID-19. Several others spread across the country, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat, are suspected to be carriers of the deadly virus. Stating that because of the Tablighi Jamaat and its Markaz, the entire country was facing a COVID-19 crisis, VHP's joint general secretary Surendra Jain said it should be banned and all its bank accounts sealed, while alleging that the organisation was a nursery and nourisher of Islamic radicalism and terror. After the hard work and achievements of the pan-India lockdown, the whole country was taking a sigh of relief, but due to the Tablighi Jamaat, the possibilities of community transmission of the fatal virus had increased, VHP spokesperson Vinod Bansal said in a statement. At least 1,023 COVID-19 cases in the country have been found to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, but massive efforts by various authorities have led to nearly 22,000 people associated with the religious grouping and their primary contacts being quarantined, a Union Health Ministry official said here on Saturday. The government has also launched a nationwide search for participants to the huge religious gathering amid fears that thousands present there could have carried the infection across the length and breadth of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ban-tablighi-jamaat-and-its-markaz-vishwa-hindu-parishad-821771.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||Short of protective gears, health, sanitation workers forced to risk their lives daily: Rahul||The comments came on a day a sanitation worker at NDMC's Charak Palika Hospital in south Delhi tested positive for COVID-19 and another 30 staffers who came in contact with him were placed under quarantine. Gandhi said people should not forget that many doctors, nurses and sanitation workers have not got protective gears. "While expressing gratitude to doctors, nurses and sanitation workers engaged in the fight against COVID-19, let us also remember that all of them have not received adequate protective equipment. In the absence of such equipment, many dedicated health workers are constrained to risk their lives daily," he said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/short-of-protective-gears-health-sanitation-workers-forced-to-risk-their-lives-daily-rahul-821774.html
05-04-2020||National Politics||Entire country lit lamps on PM's call, shows Indians united in battle against COVID-19: Nadda||Nadda, who lit the lamps with his family members at his official residence here, said the gesture will strengthen the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. People across the country lighted lamps following the clarion call made by Modi, Nadda said, adding it will boost the morale of the society at large in its battle against COVID-19. Millions of Indians across the country switched off lights at their homes and lit candles, diyas or turned on mobile phone torches on Sunday night, responding to Prime Minister Modi's appeal to show the nation's "collective resolve and solidarity" in its fight against coronavirus. Modi had on Friday urged people to turn off lights at their homes for nine minutes at 9pm to display the country's collective resolve and solidarity to defeat the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/entire-country-lit-lamps-on-pms-call-shows-indians-united-in-battle-against-covid-19-nadda-821819.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||100-yr-old man dies in quarantine in J&K's Udhampur, COVID-19 test report negative||A 100-year-old man has died in a quarantine centre in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir but his COVID-19 test report has come negative, a senior government official said on Sunday. The man and his brother were shifted to a quarantine facility a few days ago as a precautionary measure after it came to light that they had come in contact with a person in Magheni village who had tested positive for coronavirus, District Development Commissioner of Udhampur Piyush Singla said. "He breathed his last on Saturday night and his body was subsequently shifted to the district hospital according to protocol since his test report was awaited. The report was received on Sunday morning and it came negative," he told PTI. Jammu and Kashmir has so far recorded two coronavirus deaths, while 90 people -- 69 in Kashmir and 21 in Jammu -- have tested positive. Three patients have recovered and discharged from hospital. "The man was asymptomatic and was shifted to one of the best available quarantine facilities given his age and close contact with the positive case. He did not have any major health problem except old-age related issues," Singla said. Three persons from Narsoo village in Udhampur tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Following this, the district magistrate declared Narsoo and Chunti villages as red zones and their surrounding villages as buffer zones.  "There shall be no inward or outward movement of any person from these villages and people shall stay at their homes. There shall be complete lockdown. That there shall be no vehicular movement on internal lanes or roads connecting these villages," Singla said in an order and warned of stern action against violators. He also directed the officers concerned to ensure supply of essential commodities to the villages in accordance to the protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/100-yr-old-man-dies-in-quarantine-in-jks-udhampur-covid-19-test-report-negative-821570.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||2-year-old coronavirus patient gets 'surprise gift' on birthday at Punjab hospital||A coronavirus positive child, who turned two on Saturday, got a "surprise gift" from the staff of Punjab's Nawanshahr civil hospital where he is admitted, officials said here. The two-year-old boy and his mother, who has also tested positive for the infection, are undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of the hospital, they added. On learning that it was his birthday on Saturday, the staff at the hospital bought him candies, chocolates and a baby suit as a gift, senior medical officer Harwinder Singh said. Staff members wanted to get him a birthday cake but could not arrange one because of curfew restrictions in place, Singh said. The child is the grandson of a 70-year-old Nawanshahr resident, who died after testing positive for coronavirus. At least, 14 family members of the septuagenarian have contracted the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-year-old-coronavirus-patient-gets-surprise-gift-on-birthday-at-punjab-hospital-821571.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Picture of banner barring Muslims' entry in Madhya Pradesh village goes viral||A picture of a banner with message saying 'entry of Muslims for business is not allowed' in Madhya Pradesh's Borud village went viral on social media on Sunday, prompting authorities to clarify it was put up last month before the lockdown and immediately removed by locals. "Vyapar ke liye is gaon me Musalmano ka aana pratibandhit hai" (the entry of Muslims for business purpose is not allowed in this village), reads the message with the name of the village written below on the banner put up on a road signboard. When contacted, Dhar Superintendent of Police Aditya Pratap Singh told PTI that it is an "old issue". "The banner was put up on March 17 and immediately removed by villagers after they came to know about it. Now, there is no such banner," he said. Borud resident Narendra Choyal said "someone" put up the banner in their village, but they removed it as soon as they got to know about it. "This is an old case before the announcement of lockdown," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/picture-of-banner-barring-muslims-entry-in-madhya-pradesh-village-goes-viral-821587.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||6 pockets in Kanpur visited by COVID-19 positive Tablighi members declared 'red zones'||Six pockets in Kanpur district have been declared 'red zones' after six Tablighi Jamaat members, including two foreign nationals, who attended a congregation in Delhi and visited a number of places here, tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. District Magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari said Halim Primary Masjid in Chamanganj, Humayun Masjid in Colonelganj, Suffa Masjid in Babupurwa, Badi Masjid in Baripal village in Sajeti, Naubasta and Ghatampur visited by Tablighi Jamaat members, including the six who have tested COVID-19 positive, have been declared as 'red zone'. Police have deployed drones in the 'red zone' areas to monitor people's movement and unlawful assembly amid the lockdown. "The decision to barricade the area of around one kilometre of each hotspot was taken on Saturday night after six Tablighi Jamaat members, including two foreign nationals, were found coronavirus positive in a single day," Tiwari said. He said, "Red zone is marked in a radius of one kilometre from the spot visited by the Tablighi Jamaat members. Instructions have been issued to sanitize the area properly and restrict the movement of people." Kanpur Chief Medical Officer Dr Ashok Shukla said 31 people had returned from the religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin. "Twenty-two are admitted in Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital. Of these, six have tested positive for coronavirus. Nine are admitted in Ursula Hospital," he said. Those who have come in contact with any Tablighi Jamaat member or was present at the religious congregation in Delhi have been requested to self-identify themselves. "We are also making efforts to zero in on those who came in contact with the COVID-19 positive positive people. Once traced, they all will undergo a medical checkup and quarantined for the stipulated time period," the Kanpur district magistrate said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-pockets-in-kanpur-visited-by-covid-19-positive-tablighi-members-declared-red-zones-821594.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Restrictions in Kashmir Valley tightened||Security forces sealed off the main roads in the valley and erected barriers at several places to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown, the officials said. The markets across the valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, they added. Educational institutions across Kashmir have been closed, while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants have been shut down more than a week before the nationwide lock down announced by the Prime Minister. While the Prime Minister announced the country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till 31 March as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The administration said essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions. Restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the virus infection. The measures were taken after a 67-year-old woman from Khanyar area of the city, who had returned on 16 March from Saudi Arabia after performing Umrah, tested positive for COVID-19 infection.   ]   Nearly 2000 contacts of positive cases have been identified, they said, adding no known contact would be left untraced. A total of 17 new cases of COVID-19 positive were detected in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday which included three from Jammu region. With the spike, the total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir has gone up to 92. Two patients have died, while three others have recovered from the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-restrictions-in-kashmir-valley-tightened-821597.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Five militants, five soldiers killed as Army foils infiltration bid in J&K||Five unidentified militants and an equal number of soldiers were killed as the Army foiled an infiltration bid by ultras along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Sunday. Défense spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia while confirming the killings, said, “A group of terrorists made an infiltration attempt in the Keran sector. Alert troops braving the inclement weather and hostile terrain killed five militants.” He said three soldiers were killed in the operation and few others wounded. “The evacuation of the injured was hampered due to heavy snow and rough terrain conditions,” Col Kalia said and added the operation was underway. However, late in the evening, sources said, two more soldiers succumbed to their injuries taking the total of slain army men to five. The operation was called off with the killing of five infiltrated militants, who four days back made an attempt to sneak in, they said. “The operation is over and the security forces have started to move down along with the bodies,” sources added. On Saturday evening, the army had rushed elite paratroopers to Rangdoori, Guguldara and Teen Behak area of Jumgund in Kupwara. Sources said that firing continued throughout the night, reaching at peak wee hours of Sunday. The operation was launched initially by army’s 8 JAT after intercepting a group of militants on Wednesday. Besides, they said, the searches continued along Awaoora, Kumkadi, Zurhuma, Safawali, Batpora, Haihama areas by the joint team of army’s 41 and 57 Rastriya Rifles, 160 Territorial Army and J&K police. With cornavirus pandemic spreading chaos everywhere, the Pakistan army is trying to take advantage of the crisis and push militants into Jammu and Kashmir. In the recent days several attempts were made by the infiltrators with Pakistani army giving them covering fire along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-militants-five-soldiers-killed-as-army-foils-infiltration-bid-in-jk-821598.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Six new COVID-19 patients in Kashmir traced to Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin||With six coronavirus positive cases in the Valley reported on Saturday traced to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, authorities in Jammu and Kashmir have gone on contact tracing of these patients on war footing. The six, including three males and three females, who had been quarantined for several days, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. Sources said all of them had a history of stay at Markaz Nizamuddin, the Delhi headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat. They said that the contact tracing of the patients is being carried out on a war footing basis in various areas of north Kashmir’s frontier Kupwara district, where they belong. Four of them were quarantined at ITI Handwara while one was quarantined at Tangdhar and the sixth in Bandipora. Nodal officer for COVID-19 in Kupwara, Nazir Ahmad said that the positive patients had not visited their native places after their return from Delhi as they had been quarantined. However, he said, the administration will have a look into the quarantine centers and take proper measures to contain the transmission. Defying all COVID-19 precautions, thousands had gathered for an event at the Markaz from March 8-10. They included members from several countries, including Malaysia and Indonesia, who had tourist visas. The first death due to COVID-19 in Kashmir was linked to the Markaz event as a renowned businessman, who had travelled to Delhi to attend Tablighi congregation, died on March 26 in a Srinagar hospital. After his death, at least a dozen persons, who had come in contact with him after his return, tested positive for COVID-19 in J&K. A total of 1023 positive cases of COVID-19 with links to Tablighi Jamaat congregation have been reported across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-new-covid-19-patients-in-kashmir-traced-to-tablighi-jamaat-event-at-nizamuddin-821610.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Migrant workers in Delhi struggle to make ends meet as salaries seem out of bounds amid COVID-19 lockdown||Mamata, a housemaid, regrets not leaving the city for her village in Bihar when the government imposed a lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Bhim Singh, a gardener, rues that he is unable to collect his salary amid the restrictions and make ends meet. This is the story of thousands of migrant workers who stayed back in the national capital to earn their livelihood. With the lockdown imposed across the country, they complain that they are being shooed away from the high-profile societies they work. Surviving on a frugal meal since March 24 , the day the lockdown was enforced by the government, Mamata (57) thought she would soon be able to continue her work as housemaid in Noida and decided against leaving for her village in Darbanga with her neighbours. But Mamta's hope soon faded as whenever she stepped out to go to work, she was stopped by the police and sent back. "I was scolded and showed danda (stick) and told I was risking my life and other's lives too," she said. "I was waiting for April 1 thinking at least I would be able to collect my salary, but that did not happen. I was sent back," Mamta said. "We are unable to reach our employers, nor are they coming to our locality to give us our salaries. I do not have a bank account either,” she added. When asked, a police constable on duty said they are just following orders and housemaids are not in the list of ‘essential services’. "How can we let them pass? If they are found roaming on the roads, we will be hauled up," he said. Megha, another house maid, says that she was asked to return when she went to collect her monthly salary. "We are all at risk from the disease, but it is poor people like us who are treated as untouchables even at this time," she said. Megha also says that she regrets not leaving Delhi for her village in West Bengal's Durgapur. "At least in my village, we had our relatives to lend us money. Here no one has money in my locality, so who would lend us help?" she rued. India is under a three-week lockdown since March 24 with its 1.3 billion people instructed to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed 56 lives and infected over 2,800 people in the country. Soon after the announcement of the lockdown was made, many migrant workers, including women and children, walked many miles to reach their native places in the absence of any transport. Bhim Singh says he often thinks that the hardships would have ended if he would have reached his village. "But right now it is an everyday struggle," he said. Activists believe that the government must look for means to deliver salary to the migrant workers and not force them to collect the same on their own. All India Progressive Women's Association secretary and rights activist Kavita Krishnan said the government has to recognise and ensure that rations and funds reach people wherever they are and not expect them to come and get it. "The government can take over for this period of time and ensure that everybody is taken care of. It is not just that they do not have money. The problem is compounded by the fact that markets are overpricing stuff so the prices of food are through the roof and they will get higher," she said. Ranjana Kumari, director of Centre for Social Research, said these things should have been planned in advance. "The support staff does not have so much savings that they can manage," she said. According to Vani Subramanian, member of the women's group Saheli Trust, the government needs to think that people need to collect their salaries. "If we can get the salaries transferred to our accounts, then these people who have done legitimate work should not be treated like criminals for coming to take their own hard earned money," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-workers-in-delhi-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-as-salaries-seem-out-of-bounds-amid-covid-19-lockdown-821627.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown to be lifted on April 15, need mechanism to ensure no crowding: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday the lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of novel coronavirus will be lifted on April 15 and asserted that a mechanism should be evolved to ensure crowding doesn't take place, else all efforts will go in vain. Holding discussion with Members of Parliament from the state through video-conferencing, the chief minister sought their suggestion for smooth movement of people and services after the lockdown period. "Lockdown will be lifted on April 15. We have to ensure that crowding doesn't take place. Your help and cooperation is needed in this regard. The reason is that after the lockdown is lifted and if crowding takes place, then all of our efforts will go in vain," Adityanath told the MPs. "So, I want that we evolve a mechanism, and for this, I would invite your suggestions," he said. Union Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey, who attended in the video conferencing, told PTI, "We spoke with the UP chief minister and he told us about the work done and steps taken by the state government during the lockdown. The video conferencing continued for nearly an hour." He said the MPs praised the chief minister for the good work done by the state government. "We are doing all our work, while adhering to the lockdown," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-to-be-lifted-on-april-15-need-mechanism-to-ensure-no-crowding-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-821633.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Pregnant woman loses child as docs refuse treatment over religion||A 32-year-old woman in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district lost her baby after doctors at a government hospital allegedly turned her away on learning that she was a Muslim. The woman’s husband, Irfan Khan, alleged that his wife had to deliver their child in an ambulance after the doctors refused to treat her. Meanwhile, a probe has been ordered into the incident by Rajasthan Health Minister and Bharatpur MLA Subhash Garg. Khan told reporters that he took her wife to a healthcare centre in Sikri area on Friday night due to intense labor pain from where they were referred to RBM Zenana Hospital citing that the case was complicated. “I reached the district hospital on Saturday morning where a lady doctor asked me about my details. She said that you are a Muslim and you cannot be treated here. She asked another doctor to refer us to Jaipur,” he said. “I moved out of the hospital with my wife. My wife delivered in an ambulance and my baby died due to negligence of doctors,” Khan said. He also alleged that he was being pressured to deny the discrimination charges to the panel probing the incident. Health Minister Subhash Garg said the matter is being investigated by a team of the district administration. “I have asked the district collector to get the matter inquired. Action will be taken against whosoever is guilty. It is a painful incident,” he said. Without divulging much information about the case, Bharatpur’s principal medical officer Navdeep Singh Saini said the matter is being investigated by a panel. Meanwhile, Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh in a series of tweets blamed his own Congress government for suppressing the truth. “It is clear from the videos that the government is trying to suppress the truth. I am cabinet minister and do not speak without proof. Please do not cover up,” he said in a tweet tagging former state-cadre IAS officer Arvind Mayaram. In another tweet, Singh said, “The Jamaat was/is a national disaster and hazard. But innocent muslims suffering like this is painful. It does not mean that citizens of Islamic faith are treated the way a pregnant lady was handled by doctors in Bharatpur.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-pregnant-woman-loses-child-as-docs-refuse-treatment-over-religion-821640.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||About 7% tested for coronavirus in Jammu & Kashmir turn out positive||Nearly seven per cent people, who have been tested for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir, turned out to be positive, a percentage higher than the national average. Till Saturday evening, out of 1,342 tests conducted and reported in J&K, 92 had tested positive. This makes a positive percentage of COVID-19 tests in the Union Territory at 6.8 per cent. The percentage, as per the data maintained by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, is higher than many states in the country. The data also reveals that J&K has been conducting a higher number of tests in relation to the population, standing at exactly 100 tests per million. Most states in the country have a lower per million test rate. States and UTs that have more testing centres, and are testing more samples, are reporting higher numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases. As the disease spreads, experts say, the percentage of tests coming out positive may also increase. States that fare better in terms of tests per million population are Kerala, leading with over 260 tests for the reference number. States like Goa, Delhi, Sikkim, and UTs of Chandigarh and Ladakh also have a better per million tests. J&K nodal officer for COVID19, Bhupinder Kumar says the data was a reflection of “aggressive contact tracing” taking place in the UT. “Our teams are locating people who could have been exposed to COVID-19 in some way and testing them,” he said and added that J&K was not going for random testing. While some doctors termed the higher percentage of positives “alarming,” Kumar warned against such inference from data. “The more COVID-19 infected people we are able to locate, the better it would be for us as it will help in containing further spread,” Kumar said. Currently, in addition to people who have travelled internationally, contacts of confirmed cases, and symptomatic healthcare workers, patients with severe acute respiratory illness (who have fever and cough and/or shortness of breath) and people who have no symptoms but are in direct and high-risk contact with confirmed cases, can get tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/about-7-tested-for-coronavirus-in-jammu-kashmir-turn-out-positive-821641.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||26,000 quarantined after 10 funeral feast attendees contract COVID-19||Days after 10 people tested positive for coronavirus after attending a funeral feast organised by a man on his return here in Madhya Pradesh from Dubai, over 26,000 of their contacts and family members have been placed under home quarantine, officials said on Sunday. The man, who worked as a waiter at a hotel in Dubai, returned to Morena from Dubai on March 17 after getting information about his mother's death, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) R S Bakna said. "He organised a customary feast on March 20 to mark the 13th day of mourning after his mother's death," he said. The man initially hid his travel history, but revealed it after he and his wife tested positive for coronavirus on April 2, Chief Medical and Health Officer R C Bandil said. The couple came to a hospital on March 27 after their condition deteriorated. Since doctors suspected coronavirus, the couple was immediately sent to an isolation ward and their samples were taken which came out positive following which the man revealed his travel history, he said. On April 3, 10 more people who came in contact with the couple tested positive for the deadly viral infection, alarming the district administration. The authorities later came to know that 1,000 to 1,200 people attended the feast organised at the man's residence. "This caused the spread of infection. The administration has sealed the entire ward no.47, where the man resides," Bakna said. According to Bandil, total 27,881 people have been home quarantined in the district so far. "Nearly 26,000 of these people are those who attended the feast, their family members and contacts," he said. As many as 24 people have been admitted to the district hospital after their screening during contact tracing of these patients, he said. People from other areas who attended the feast have also been identified and home quarantined and their health is being monitored by doctors, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/26000-quarantined-after-10-funeral-feast-attendees-contract-covid-19-821643.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||WhatsApp chatbot MyGov Corona Helpdesk sees over 2 crore users||The government's dedicated WhatsApp chatbot MyGov Corona Helpdesk, which aims to provide timely updates and help citizens clear their queries on Covid-19, has been used by over 2 crore users. Artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot company Haptik Infotech Pvt Ltd, which is 87 per cent owned by Reliance Jio, developed the MyGov Corona Helpdesk chatbot. According to Haptik, more than 55 million messages have been sent by over 20 million users since the chatbot was launched by the government on March 20. "Misinformation & rumours are the primary outlets of panic. The @reliancejio & @haptik powered official @mygovindia coronavirus chatbot has helped eliminate these outlets for millions. Whatsapp +919013151515 for your queries," Haptik tweeted. In two weeks since its launch, the coronavirus helpdesk chatbot has been used by over 2 crore users in India. "The 'MyGov Corona helpdesk’ has already processed over 28 million conversations on WhatsApp from users across the country while more than 20 million users have taken their queries to the chatbot within the 13 days since its launch," Haptik co-founder and CEO Aakrit Vaish told PTI. Within the first week of its launch, the chatbot registered over crore users and processed over 1.4 crore conversations. The service was initially launched in English, and Hindi language was added later to assist the millions of Hindi-speaking users in the country, Vaish said. "Language is no barrier when it comes to the official coronavirus chatbot. The ''MyGov Corona Helpdesk'' is equipped to resolve your virus related questions in Hindi. Send a Whatsapp message to the number +91 9013151515 to prevent misinformation," Haptik tweeted. The MyGov Corona Helpdesk can be used by all WhatsApp users for free. Users just need to save the number -- 9013151515 -- in their contacts list and send a message to get a response. The coronavirus has killed 77 persons and infected over 3,300 in India. The chatbot reportedly had over 17 lakh daily active users on March 25 -- the day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned its availability. The following day, the number of active users grew exponentially to 35 lakh, and the number has been growing since then. Vaish explained that the bot caters to a set of pre-defined questions. If the chatbot receives a query that is not within the scope of the mentioned questions, it sends an automated response stating that it does not have that information. "...if a certain query is being asked by users frequently, then the Haptik team analyses those queries and adds them to the scope of the chatbot. Thus, catering to a wider set of questions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/whatsapp-chatbot-mygov-corona-helpdesk-sees-over-2-crore-users-821652.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Yamuna water turning transparent sans human activity||Nature activists and enthusiasts are thrilled to find that the water of River Yamuna is gradually turning transparent in the wake of the national lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of coronavirus. Rakesh Tewari, vice president, Mathur Chaturved Parishad, said after 42 years, we could see clear Yamuna waters on ‘Yamuna Chhath’ on March 30. The pollution control board officers, social organisations and other nature lovers have credited the lockdown for the clean waters of Yamuna. Normally, Yamuna river gets polluted due to bathing by floating population, throwing flowers, garlands and other worship material as well as the industrial affluent, District Pollution Control Board officer Arvind Kumar said. Social activist Gopeshwar Nath Chaturvedi, who had filed a PIL in Allahabad High Court in 1998 for cleaning Yamuna, said the major game changer has been reduced discharge of industrial affluent into the river. “Since factories are not discharging their affluent in Yamuna, owing to their closure during the lockout, the river water is gradually turning clean,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamuna-water-turning-transparent-sans-human-activity-821655.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Two more nurses test positive for COVID-19; total 17 healthcare professionals in Delhi infected||Two more nurses at the Delhi State Cancer Institute have tested positive for COVID-19 after they came in touch with a doctor there who had contracted the virus infection earlier. With this, seven healthcare professionals, including the doctor, at the Cancer Institute have tested positive for COVID-19. The Out Patient Department (OPD) at the hospital has been shut to ensure that the virus infection does not spread further, amid plans to shift 48 patients there to private hospitals after conducting COVID-19 tests. The doctor had contracted the infection after a visit to a relative who had returned from the United Kingdom. However, the relative has not tested positive for the virus infection yet, making it unclear from where the doctor contracted the infection. At least 17 healthcare professions, including two doctor couples, have tested positive for COVID-19 in the National capital. In Sir Gangaram Hospital, at least 108 healthcare professions have been put under quarantine after two patients who were admitted to the facility tested positive for COVID-19. Of this, 23 are quarantined in the hospital itself while the rest are in home quarantine. The two patients when they were admitted in the hospital had not shown any symptoms for COVID-19 but were tested later as they showed complications. One of them was even shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Earlier, three doctors, including a couple, working with the Delhi government's 'mohalla clinics' (community clinics) were tested positive for COVID-19. An AIIMS doctor and his pregnant wife, also a doctor, too are presently in hospital due to the virus infection. The woman doctor delivered a baby last week in AIIMS. The rise in number of positive cases among healthcare professionals came amid the Delhi government making it public that it was running out of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, which include face mask, surgical suit and gloves and other things, and urged the Centre to immediately rush stock to it. The Delhi government had said that it is left with 5,000 to 8,000 PPEs for the next two days and it would immediately need replenishment. The World Health Organisation (WHO) mandates that healthcare professionals use PPE kits while engaged in COVID-19 related treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-nurses-test-positive-for-covid-19-total-17-healthcare-professionals-in-delhi-infected-821660.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||78 Tablighi Jamaat members shifted to quarantine centre in Muzaffarnagar||As many as 78 Tablighi Jamaat members were shifted to a central quarantine centre here after they were screened while their samples were sent for testing on Sunday. District authorities have screened 410 members of the organisation across 32 mosques in the district and quarantined them at the respective mosques. During screening, 78 of them were suspected to have some symptoms and were shifted to a private medical college, which has been converted into a quarantine centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/78-tablighi-jamaat-members-shifted-to-quarantine-centre-in-muzaffarnagar-821663.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||14 more test positive for coronavirus in Jammu & Kashmir; tally reaches 106||For the second consecutive day, Jammu and Kashmir saw a steep rise in COVID-19 positive cases with 14 persons tested positive on Sunday, taking the tally in the Union Territory (UT) to 106. J&K government spokesman Rohit Kansal in a tweet said: “#COVID19 #JammuAndKashmir 14 new cases in Kashmir Division. Total number of positive cases in J&K now 106. Active cases in Kashmir-82 and Jammu -18 (sic).” On Saturday J&K saw the highest number of single-day coronavirus cases with 17 persons testing positive for COVID-19. Those tested positive on Saturday included a 66-year-old man from northern Kupwara district, his 56-year-old wife and 27-year-old son and two women from the same district. All of them had returned from Bangladesh and stayed at Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi before returning to the Valley recently. There have been two deaths due to the disease so far in J&K, while three patients have recovered. Meanwhile, with coronavirus spreading fast in Kashmir, authorities further tightened restrictions on the movement and assembly of people. Police and paramilitary CRPF personnel have sealed off the main roads in the valley and erected barriers at several places to check unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown. While the Prime Minister announced the country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the Union Territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till March 31 as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-jammu-kashmir-tally-reaches-106-821664.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||J&K: Anti-terror mechanism used to track people escaping coronavirus quarantine||Human Intelligence, a weapon used for busting terror groups in Jammu and Kashmir, has come in handy to trace people who concealed their travel history, besides in retracing the steps of coronavirus positive patients, in an operation that led to tracking of over 1,000 people who have since been quarantined in various parts of the union territory.  Fighting this new battle, officials said the authorities roped in the state intelligence machinery who were tasked to track, identify and bring such people to quarantine facilities. The intelligence personnel along with the regular police, which remain at the forefront in the fight against terror groups in the union territory, were now complementing the district administration in its efforts to ensure the success of the lockdown, besides tracking people who hid their travel history from the authorities. According to a report submitted to the Centre, over 1,000 people who had either traveled out of the state or abroad were brought to quarantine centres between March 15 and 31 and their identification and verification was going on, the officials said. Also, more than 28,000 people are under surveillance which included 10,600 who have been either quarantined at government facilities or in home-isolation, the officials said. There have been 92 positive cases so far in the union territory out of which two have died. A total of 34 hotspots have been identified in Jammu and Kashmir which include: seven in Pulwama, five in Srinagar, and four each in Bandipora and Budgam; two in Shopian, one each in Ganderbal and Baramulla in Kashmir division; and five in Rajouri, four in Jammu and one in Udhampur district of Jammu division. The process was intensified after the death of a COVID-19 positive Kashmiri businessman on March 26. The immediate need was to track people whom he had met since his arrival in Jammu from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh during which he had attended the Tablighi Jamaat function at Nizamuddin, the officials said. Upon his arrival in the Union Territory, the businessman held a congregation at Samba in Jammu before returning to Sopore in North Kashmir where he participated in a religious function. "We knew that it’s a chain reaction. He would have met one and the chain continues. So it was necessary to immediately break the chain," said an official of the JK administration, spoking on condition of anonymity. During all this, intelligence officials had to move in their resources of human intelligence to track people he had met and the result was that some coronavirus positive cases were located in parts of Jammu as well as Kashmir, the official said. The information shared by the intelligence also helped in tracking people who had travelled in trains and flight, the official said. All field units were geared up to meet this new kind of challenge unlike an anti-terror operations where a militant was tracked and a crack team carried out an encounter, the official said. From early March, there were inputs that some people, who had gone on religious pilgrimages, started breaking their journeys upon their arrival in India and preferred to travel by train or road to various districts of Jammu and the valley, said an official on condition of anonymity. An immediate plan was drawn up and passports issued to residents of Jammu and Kashmir were scanned through immigration office in the national capital and ascertain who all have traveled abroad and did not go for health check-up which had become mandatory by the middle of March, the officials said. Police teams were fanned to homes of those who had traveled abroad and the persons were taken to quarantine centres, they said, adding at some places altercation took place while and others there was no resistance. The operation has also been able to identify and sent to quarantine as many as 139 people, who were either at Tablighi Jamaat headquarters at Nizamuddin in Delhi or had come in contact with its members who had traveled to Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-anti-terror-mechanism-used-to-track-people-escaping-coronavirus-quarantine-821670.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Man shot dead in Uttar Pradesh for criticising Tablighi Jamaat||A 30-year-old man was shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj district, about 200 kilometres from here, on Sunday allegedly for criticising the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) for 'spreading' coronavirus infection in the country. According to the police sources here, the man, identified as Lautan Nishad was shot dead after a heated debate with a member of the other community at Modha village over spread of COVID-19 infection in the country. The alleged culprit, identified as Mohammed Sona, also a resident of the same village, tried to escape after perpetrating the crime but was caught by the locals and handed over to the police. Sources said that the National Security Act (NSA) was slapped on the culprit in addition to other relevant sections of the IPC. UP government announced a financial compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of the deceased. Sources said that tension prevailed in the village and security personnel in strength have been deployed to maintain law and order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-shot-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-for-criticising-tablighi-jamaat-821678.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Facing 'social boycott', man hangs self to death in Himachal's Una||A 37-year-old man hanged self to death in Himachal Pradesh's Una district on Sunday morning after allegedly facing "social boycott" by some villagers, who suspected him to be suffering from COVID-19 despite testing negative for it. Mohammad Dilshad committed suicide under a shed at his residence in Una's Bangarh village, a day after health officials dropped him at his village following his negative report, an official said. He was taken to a quarantine facility a few days ago where he tested negative for the disease. Una Sadar SHO Darshan Singh said Dilshad was one of the contacts of a Tablighi Jamaat member who had returned from New Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Commenting on it, DGP Sita Ram Mardi said, "Some villagers pointed out that this man was a suspected COVID-19 patient. He was quarantined and tested negative for the infection. When he returned to his village, he was discriminated against and socially boycotted by villagers. At this, he committed suicide." However, the SHO told PTI that the matter was being investigated whether he was discriminated against or socially boycotted by villagers. "I have sent an ASI on the spot. So far, no issue of social boycott or discrimination has come to the fore. I will be able to say anything in detail about this at around 5 pm after the ASI's return," He added. Meanwhile, the DGP urged people to maintain social distancing (to check the spread of COVID-19), which "does not mean social discrimination". Urging the people to maintain harmony, the DGP said"such behaviour is not good"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-facing-social-boycott-man-hangs-self-to-death-in-himachals-una-821687.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports third coronavirus death; tally mounts to 276||Uttar Pradesh reported third death from coronavirus on Sunday, while the total number of COVID-19 cases jumped to 276 in the state. According to the official sources here, a 55-year-old man, who had tested positive for the virus infection two days back, died at a hospital in Varanasi on Sunday. The man had some underlying health conditions. Meanwhile, the surge in the coronavirus positive cases continued for the third consecutive day in the state with as many as 48 people testing positive for the infection. Additional chief secretary, home, Avaneesh Awasthi told reporters here that 1499 Tablighi Jamaat members, many of whom had taken part in the recent religious event in Delhi, had so far been identified in the state. ''1,205 Jamaat members have been quarantined....138 of them have so far been found to be coronavirus positive,'' he said adding that FIRs had been registered against 295 Jamaat members, who were from foreign countries. Awasthi said that over 5.50 lakh people had been put under home quarantine in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-third-coronavirus-death-tally-mounts-to-276-821690.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi LG tells health department to identify private hospitals that can be taken over to treat COVID-19 cases||With a rise in number of coronavirus cases in the national capital, Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has directed the health department to identify private hospitals which can be taken over by the government, official sources said on Sunday. They said the government has limited resources and hence ICU wards, beds and other facilities of private hospitals can be used to deal with the increasing numbers of coronavirus cases. "In government hospitals, medical treatment to other disease-related patients can not be stopped. In view of this, private hospitals can be engaged for the same," a source said. Officials have been asked to prepare a list of private hospitals that can be taken over if needed. "In a recent meeting, the LG directed officials to prepare a list of private hospitals which can be taken over by government in case a need arises and their infrastructure can be used to treat COVID-19 patients. The government will provide treatment to coronavirus patients admitted at these hospitals," a source said. Of the 3,374 COVID-19 cases reported in the country till Sunday morning, Delhi accounted for the third-highest number of cases at 445, after Maharashtra (490) and Tamil Nadu (485). More than 300 people infected with coronavirus in Delhi are linked to the Nizamuddin markaz gathering — the biggest hotspot in the country. The government has removed about 2,300 people from the markaz, according to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Kejriwal has said as the testing increases, there will be an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lg-tells-health-department-to-identify-private-hospitals-that-can-be-taken-over-to-treat-covid-19-cases-821698.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Come forward for testing by 5 pm or face action: HP CM to Tablighi Jamaat members||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday asked all Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the group's congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin, a COVID-19 hotspot, to come forward for testing by 5 pm, failing which action will be taken against them. Three of the seven persons who tested positive for coronavirus in the state on Saturday were Tablighi Jamaat members, he said. Earlier in the day, Director General of Police, Himachal Pradesh, Sita Ram Mardi had issued a similar warning to district heads of Tablighi Jamaat. He asked them to disclose details of all those who came to the state after attending the congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin West area last month. Thakur claimed Tablighi Jamaat members are not cooperating with the authorities. He asked all Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the Delhi congregation to come forward for medical check-up by 5 pm on Sunday and warned of strict action against those who do not comply with the order. The chief minister said the three members of the group who tested positive on Saturday were hiding in a mosque in Solan district's Nalagarh and their samples were collected from there. The three were admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College here at 6.30 am on Sunday, Senior Medical Superintendent, IGMC, Dr. Janak Raj said. They are residents of Uttar Pradesh and had come to Himachal Pradesh's Nalagarh area from Nizamuddin on March 18. Their contacts are being traced so that they can be quarantined, he said. With the seven fresh infections, the number of coronavirus cases in Himachal Pradesh has risen to 14, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said on Saturday. These include two patients who have recovered and as many deaths. There are 10 active cases in the state, he said. Of these, six are Tablighi Jamaat members, according to officials. The remaining three are being treated at Dr. Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Kangra district's Tanda, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/come-forward-for-testing-by-5-pm-or-face-action-hp-cm-to-tablighi-jamaat-members-821703.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||69-yr-old COVID-19 patient with co-morbidity dies in Punjab; death toll reaches 6||A 69-year-old COVID-19 positive woman, with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure, died at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Sunday, bringing the number of coronavirus-related deaths in Punjab to six, a health official said. Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Rajesh Kumar also said the woman had no recent foreign travel history. "She was a heart patient and had high blood pressure and sugar. She had earlier tested positive for novel coronavirus," Kumar told PTI over the phone. The official said she was admitted to a private hospital in Ludhiana in a serious condition on March 31. A resident of Shimlapuri area in Ludhiana, the woman had earlier gone to Mohali to meet her relatives, he said. Punjab has so far reported 68 coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/69-yr-old-covid-19-patient-with-co-morbidity-dies-in-punjab-death-toll-reaches-6-821712.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Out on road with car and fake I-Card, driver lands in police net||The problem is that the identity card that Bisht, which used to help him cross toll plazas without paying, was forged and he could not pull it off once again, thanks to a Delhi Police personnel at a picket enforcing the lockdown. On April 3 evening, Bisht was on the wheels when police stopped him at a a picket in Anand Vihar to check whether he had curfew pass. Bisht flashed his identity card of "Assistant Commissioner" to Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Bijender, who was unimpressed with the scanned copy. The police officer asked him to provide another identity card and unhesitantly Bisht handed over his driving licence. In any normal time, Bisht could have just got away but one thing struck the eyes of the ASI. The date of birth recorded in both the identity cards were different and Bisht was caught, police said on Sunday. During questioning, they claimed, he told interrogators that he got it prepared by scanning the original identity card of some other person. "Bisht also said that he got this forged identity card prepared to cross the toll plazas and now he was using this forged identity card to roam freely on the roads during the lockdown," police said. He was attached with a government official as his private driver. Among other things, police seized the car Bisht was driving as well as uniform of ‘Assistant Commissioner’ in the name of Suraj Singh Bisht. A case has been registered for cheating, forgery and disobeying the instructions of public servant. Since the lockdown that started on March 25, Delhi Police has registered 176 cases under Section 188 (disobeying the instructions of a public servant). It has detained 3,531 people and seized 388 vehicles for violating the lockdown and moving around without authorised passes for movement. It also conducted physical verification at 517 addresses where people were put on home quarantine so far n Shahdara district and of this 11 people were found to be absent. In this connection, nine cases have been registered so far in Shahdara district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-out-on-road-with-car-and-fake-i-card-driver-lands-in-police-net-821716.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Congress MLA extends support to PM Narendra Modi's appeal to switch off lights||A Congress MLA from Madhya Pradesh has supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to the people to switch off the lights at 9 pm on Sunday to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus. Congress MLA from Gwalior (South) Praveen Pathak, in a video message uploaded on social media on Sunday, urged people to light up lamps for nine minutes by rising above party politics and in honour of the prime minister. When asked about it, Pathak told PTI that it is a matter of country's unity and not everything should be looked from a political angle. "I only supported the appeal made by the PM, who is the head of the country, and it should not be misunderstood. I support whenever someone talks about the nation...whichever political party that person might belong to," he said. Modi had on Friday urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5 to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus. Last month, 22 Congress MLAs had resigned as legislators leading to the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mla-extends-support-to-pm-narendra-modis-appeal-to-switch-off-lights-821730.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Eight coronavirus deaths recorded in Mumbai in 24 hours||In one of the worst days for Mumbai over COVID-19 pandemic, eight persons died on Sunday taking Maharashtra's toll to 40. n the Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region, eight persons died on Sunday- the highest recorded in 24-hours-span since the outbreak.  The total coronavirus positive cases in the state are around 700 now. A total of 56 persons have been discharged so far.  As the problems compounded, around 300 containment zones have been created in the Mumbai-MMR to restrict the movement of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-coronavirus-deaths-recorded-in-mumbai-in-24-hours-821733.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||UP: Youth held for posting audio clip to 'defame' PM on social media||A youth was arrested in UP's Shahjahanpur on Sunday for allegedly posting an indecent audio on social media to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi, police said. Superintendent of Police S Chinnappa said, "A youth was arrested for posting an indecent audio on social media to defame Prime Minister. After the audio went viral, police took cognisance of it and arrested the youth, identified as Farhan."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-youth-held-for-posting-audio-clip-to-defame-pm-on-social-media-821751.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Personal Protective Equipments made by Northern Railways get DRDO nod||Two samples of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) made at a Northern Railways workshop have been cleared by the DRDO for its ability to block blood or body fluid, paving the way for its production at railway units. “The test was conducted to check the resistance of the bio-protective covering material (fabric/garment) to penetration of blood or body fluid. Now these coveralls will be manufactured by Indian Railways and will be worn by doctors in railway hospitals while treating COVID-19 patients,” the Northern Railways said on Sunday. There is an acute shortage of PPEs for medical professionals in the country who are treating coronavirus patients. ¨We are now making 20 per day, but in a week’s time we will be able to make 100 per day,” Northern Railways spokesperson Deepak Kumar told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/personal-protective-equipments-made-by-northern-railways-get-drdo-nod-821755.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Amid lockdown, over 1,000 attend annual tribal procession in Rajasthan's Bundi||More than 1,000 people belonging to the Kanjar tribal community assembled for an annual procession in Ramnagar village of Bundi district in violation of the ongoing nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. Police said five people, who allegedly organised the event, were arrested and sent to judicial custody for violation of the lockdown and Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) by inviting a congregation of around 1,500 people and holding a community event on Friday, a day after Ram Navami. One person involved in the matter is at large. Meanwhile, action was initiated against three officials and two police personnel stationed in the area for not reporting the event to the district administration. Kanjars are a denotified nomadic tribal group in the region that have historically been known for committing dacoity and other illegal acts. As part of their community customs, the procession of Neja, known in local parlance as Neja ki savari, is taken out every year with community oracles to mark the conclusion of nine days of Navratras either on the day of Ram Navami or a day after the festival. Around 1,500 people of the community gathered in Ramnagar village on Friday, a day after Ram Navami, to watch and offer prayers to the Neja procession taken through the main areas of the village. Bundi Superintendent of Police Shivraj Meena said a large number of people of the Kanjar community in Ramnagar village assembled at the place despite imposition of Section 144 of CrPC and the ongoing lockdown. On being tipped off about the large gathering, police rushed to the spot and dispersed the people even as most participants fled the spot upon noticing police personnel, the SP said. He added that six people, who had allegedly organised the event, were booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and five of them were arrested. The six people were identified as Himmat, Ranjeet, Netram, Hukumchand, Ramkishore and Bakishan and five of them were arrested on Saturday evening while Hukumchand is absconding, Circle In-charge Bundi Sadar police station Mukesh Kumar Meena said. The five arrested accused were produced before a local court on Sunday and remanded to judicial custody till April 13, he said, adding that further investigation into the matter is underway. Disciplinary action has also been initiated against two police personnel, who were posted at Ramnagar police check post, for negligence on duty by not reporting the matter to senior officials and notices have been served to them, SP Meena said. The event was organised by the locals and no outsider had reached there to participate in the event, the SP claimed. "No permission was sought for the event in Ramnagar village on Friday. However, the gathering was dispersed within 20-25 minutes and the police have initiated action in the matter," Bundi District Collector Antar Singh Nehra said. "The panchayat elementary education officer (PEEO) of the gram panchayat, the village development officer and the patwari of the area were on duty on the day of the event in Ramnagar but they neither informed me nor the district control room," Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Bundi, Kamal Kumar Meena pointed out. Disciplinary action against the three officials has been initiated and a charge sheet has been handed over to the patwari while senior officials have ordered for the same to be issued to the PEEO and village development officer, the SDM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-lockdown-over-1000-attend-annual-tribal-procession-in-rajasthans-bundi-821782.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Maharashtra records 13 coronavirus deaths in 24 hours||In what seems to be a deteriorating situation vis-a-vis pandemic COVID-19, Maharashtra on Sunday recorded the biggest jump with casualties reaching 45 and progressive positive cases to 745. On Saturday, the figures for deaths and infections were 32 and 635 respectively.  On Sunday, a total of 13 deaths and 113 positive cases were recorded in the state. A total of 56 persons have been treated and discharged.  The worst affected place is Mumbai, the financial capital of India and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region.  In Mumbai, there have been 30 deaths and 485 progressive cases.  While in rest of MMR which comprises large parts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts, there has been six deaths and 82 cases.  After Mumbai-MMR,  Pune had recorded five deaths and 100 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-records-13-coronavirus-deaths-in-24-hours-821784.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Man sets out on 2100-km cycle journey to meet ailing father, CRPF lends him help||With the country in a lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, 30-year-old Arif had only way to meet his ailing father: cycle 2100 km from Mumbai to Jammu's Rajouri district, where the 60-year-old lives in a remote village along the Line of Control. Arif, a watchman, set out on the daunting journey hoping some miracle would happen and he would be able to see his father, who had suffered a “massive stroke” and was in critical condition. And miracle did happen, when the CRPF came to his help. The paramilitary force gave him and his father 'wings', quite literally. Arif's father Wazir Hussain was on Sunday airlifted from the Panjgrain village on a special chopper after the CRPF’s Kashmir-based 'madadgaar' helpline came into action. On April 1, a week after the 21-day lockdown began, Arif came to know that his father had suffered the "massive stroke". The man, who is employed as a watchman in the financial capital of the country, found that there was no mode of transport that could take him to his village along the India-Pakistan LoC. The next day, he decided to cover the huge distance on his bicycle. "The madadgaar was informed by a media outlet about Arif's journey. The helpline immediately got into action, called up Arif and got logistics arranged through CRPF establishments spread across five states. On Sunday, he was provided with lunch, Rs 2,000 cash, sanitiser, masks and some dry fruits at Vadodara in Gujarat." "We asked him to stay out at our base due to the lockdown restrictions with an assurance that we will take care of his father," CRPF Special Director General (JK zone) Zulfiquar Hasan told PTI. Arif, however, insisted he wanted to meet his father. “So, we then arranged him to travel in a truck, with the help of the Gujarat Police, carrying essential items,” Hasan said. "The truck will drop him near Jodhpur in Rajasthan by Monday noon and we will further arrange his travel," he said. In the meantime, the IPS officer said, a special chopper was sent to Rajouri from where his father was airlifted and admitted to a government medical college in Jammu. The 'madagaar, another official said, had initially got Arif's father admitted to the Rajouri district hospital with the help of its troops posted about 15 km from his village, but as he required better medical care, it was decided to shift him quickly to Jammu.   "The madadgaar will do whatever it takes to help more such Arif's in the future too," Hasan said. The helpline also posted the endeavour on its official Twitter handle saying "for any assistance 24X7 call @CRPFmadadgaar on 14411."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-sets-out-on-2100-km-cycle-journey-to-meet-ailing-father-crpf-lends-him-help-821786.html
05-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus survivor nurse gives 3 'mantras' to recover from COVID-19||20-year-old Pinky Kumari, a nurse at a private hospital in Patna, is the first junior health staff in Bihar who got infected while treating a coronavirus positive patient but has now recovered fully. She won the battle after staying for around a week in the designated hospital - Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) here in the State capital, earmarked for COVID-19 patients. Now cured, she says there are three ‘prescriptions’ for coronavirus patients to recover. “Trust your doctors. Be positive. And above all, avoid social media. You will be a winner,” said the nurse after being discharged from the hospital. Working at a private hospital in Patna, the nurse was unaware that the patient she was attending to at the ICU (on March 20) was a coronavirus positive. The patient had come all over from Munger and earlier worked at Qatar. Before shifting to AIIMS, Patna, this patient was admitted to the private hospital where Pinky attended him. “I was in the ICU with him for five minutes as I had to check his BP (Blood Pressure),” said the nurse, who, two days later, was told that the patient died at AIIMS, Patna, on March 22 and was tested positive. Pinky and his family members were eventually asked to undergo a medical test on March 24. Her first report on March 26 was negative. But two days later, another test showed she was positive, while her mother, two brothers and her sister tested negative. Pinky was admitted to NMCH on March 28. After staying in the hospital for around a week, her two successive test reports were found negative. “I was kept in the isolation ward of NMCH. However, I recovered fully within a week,” said Pinky. “Have complete faith in your doctors. Be positive. And shun social media. These three ‘mantras’ will help the affected persons recover fast,” she signs off before leaving for her residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-survivor-nurse-gives-3-mantras-to-recover-from-covid-19-821816.html
05-04-2020||Opinion||Life and times of a foreigner during lockdown||The “guest is god”, it is famously said. Except when there’s a coronavirus pandemic and niceties go out the window.  If you don’t look “Indian”, you’re likely to be viewed with suspicion as a conduit of contamination. Myself included. The escalating horrors of the world seemed far off when I boarded a domestic flight from Mumbai to Gujarat for a work trip in early March. There weren’t any reported cases of coronavirus infection in Mumbai. Regional Gujarat felt even further removed from the advancement of it. Such calm contrasted sharply with the surreal scenes of savagery taking place in Australian supermarkets, where people fought each other for toilet paper to hoard. It took less than a week for the situation to about-face, though. Indians began to die from the virus and many states started reporting infections. The government responded swiftly and proactively, by suspending the visas of travellers coming to India. Negativity towards outsiders grew. It hit me all at once when I arrived at a hotel in Gujarat, only to discover that the hotel had been officially instructed not to accommodate foreigners. The police and local health officials turned up to examine me. One of the health officials, surprisingly, disregarded protocol and attempted to shake my hand (to which I duly responded with a namaste). I answered questions about my health and had my blood pressure taken. I also explained that I live in Mumbai and had not been out of the country recently. Nevertheless, despite being deemed fit, the “foreigner” had to go. The hotel owner was helpless. The authorities pestered him until I finally vacated the premises the next day. As it turned out, my experience wasn’t unique. Foreigners were facing hostility across India and were being evicted from hotels even if they had health certificates. Many ended up with nowhere to stay and no food. The guest had, apparently, transformed from “god” into the devil.   Evidently, lack of logic spreads faster than the coronavirus. Fear is known to bring out the worst in people, but so much so that even government authorities can’t act rationally? What’s the sense in forcing tourists to roam around looking for accommodations, thereby causing them to potentially be exposed to the virus or infect others in the process? Isn’t it more practical to contain them where they are? Meanwhile, on the flight back to Mumbai, it was business as usual as passengers forewent social distancing and leaped into the aisle as soon as the flight landed. Safely at home in “Maximum City” during ‘janata curfew’, I found the prevailing unity reassuring. Everyone was indoors separately, yet together. Could some good possibly come from this virus? Within days, it appeared unlikely, as the lockdown was enforced, and political and communal tensions rebounded. States grappled with the provision of essential services, the police delivered beatings in the streets, masses of migrant workers tried to return to their villages, religious gatherings violated lockdown regulations, and people chased away medical professionals. As I pass the time ensconced in my comfortable flat, in a city where locals are least bothered by my presence and I have plenty to eat, I’m uncomfortably conscious of how well-off I really am. It’s not the virus I find confronting, it’s the hardships being faced and the disturbing incidents that are unfolding in the world. Yes, compassionate people are acting with greater compassion. However, fools are also acting more foolishly. The divisions in society are more obvious than ever and have the potential to widen even further. It’s troubling because a pandemic can’t be conquered alone. Isolation isn’t difficult for me. Being an introvert, I excel at it. Staying at home in Mumbai, where I feel secure, actually keeps me sane because I really don’t want to be a part of what’s going on outside right now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/life-and-times-of-a-foreigner-during-lockdown-821529.html
05-04-2020||Opinion||Plague lessons — and warnings||From disaster springs opportunity” -- so we would like to imagine. Are we, in this unprecedented crisis, at a unique moment that will allow us to reset social relations, rather than reassert old hierarchies? Our history – particularly the history of the devastating plague of 1898 in Bengaluru/Mysuru and its afterlife – offers far more proof of the latter, of a missed opportunity for rethinking ideas of the public good. Historians have shown that it was not just the illness and deaths that assumed significance between 1896 (when the plague first hit Bombay Presidency) and the early 20th century. As JM Stephens, Municipal Engineer to the Bangalore Municipality 1898-1912, (the period of the plague in Bangalore) admitted “Plague regulations…added greatly to the miseries of the poor and afflicted people…the people dreaded the plague regulations more than the disease itself.” There was flight from the city, by those who feared isolation, physical examination with no concern for privacy, caste taboos or gosha, inoculation, and generally by those who feared an administration that investigated illness as if it were a crime. But there was also open revolt, as among municipal workers who struck work. Scavengers left town ‘without permission’ at a time when there was no water-borne conservancy and night soil was removed by hand, leading to a massive urban crisis of its own. Other weapons wielded by the weak included throwing bodies into European compounds, or propping them up against European doors.  Revolutionary ideas of public health followed the efforts of Edwin Chadwick during the time of cholera in 1842 England. The late 19th century plague was India’s Chadwickian moment which foregrounded the possible virtues of town planning: Bombay was the first to get a City Improvement Trust (1898). This was followed by the unusual choice of Mysore city (1903). Mysore already had a Building Committee in place since 1881 to clear the ‘insanitary’ Fort complex, the abode of the princely Wodeyar family. But clearly, Mysore was no match to the industrial squalor of Bombay.    What the records of the Mysore City Improvement Trust Board reveal is the extraordinary anxiety of upper caste bureaucrats to preserve the caste order in the extensions that were built to rehouse those displaced from within the Fort. To begin with, sites chosen for the extensions had to be cleared of the holageris and holeyas and others pushed out to sites from where they posed no pollution threat. But more important, new plans were made ‘castewar’ (the word that was used in official files) not only to assure large plots to a predominantly brahmin bureaucracy, but also to ensure that there would be no sale or rental transaction that would upset the carefully recreated social hierarchy. The new extensions in Bangalore were similarly apportioned, so it was not the dishoused poor who relocated in Basavanagudi and Malleswaram. “Hardly any really poor have gone to live in the extensions,” said Resident Lt Col Robertson in 1906, since they could not afford the new extensions. In other words, town planning, which elsewhere held out the promise of a general public good, in ensuring an answer to the intractable problems of the industrial city, and minimum amenities to the city’s population as a whole, was at its foundational moment in India enmeshed in the hierarchies of caste. That Mysore got its broad avenues, its parks and other public spaces resulted from another logic, a new aesthetic associated with making Mysore the royal capital. A much more humane approach was followed in rehousing the poor of Blackpally (below Miller’s tank) and Knoxpet (below Ulsoor tank) in ‘plague proof’ Fraser Town. It successfully involved local cantonment elites in provisioning for the poor. Stephens wrote: “It meant laying aside the official conventionality and joining the stricken people in a fellowship of sorrow…for the good of poor.” Fraser Town, with its small cottages surrounded by open spaces, stone foundations and floors and ‘Mangalore tile’ roofs fulfilled a different vision. It staved off infection, no doubt, but it also kindled the small hope of a virtuous city, as many took advantage of rent-free accommodation for six months, or low prices to lay claim to their right to the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/plague-lessons-and-warnings-821530.html
05-04-2020||Opinion||Islands in an ocean of suffering||Ironically, despite the origin of the virus in China, it is from countries closest to it that we seem to have the most to learn. Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore -- these places are doing something that is working very differently from elsewhere. They’ve had only modest shutdowns so far (Singapore’s situation is changing) compared to the large brakes applied by others. And yet, they have kept the number of coronavirus infections low. Japan is more populous than any European country, has numerous proximate links to China, and the world’s oldest population -- all stiff odds against the virus. And for Taiwan, its management of the virus is a real feather in its cap. While mainland China used the full force of its police state to contain the disease after the initial outbreak, Taiwan has shown it can do as well or better without that force. Why have these places succeeded where so many others have not? To my mind, they have a balance of state, market and society that is helping at this crucial moment. An educated and informed society, a legitimate, competent and trusted government, and industry that can perform at world-leading standards -- this is the combo that is holding the fort. Japan has an abundance of it. The education system is among the best in the world. There is a widespread and vociferous media. Its government departments are chosen by free and fair elections. They hire specialists rather than generalists, and promotions in the public sector are within fields of expertise, unlike the general administration of our IAS. Successive governments have delivered a very high quality of life. Add to this, certain habits and practices of the Japanese that naturally protect them from infections. They greet each other without much contact (although this is changing among the younger generation), their public places are more sanitised than anywhere else in the world, and washing hands and using wipes are common habits. These things provide a natural defence against all contagions. The state and society are complemented powerfully by a globally competitive industry. Tokyo is far and different from every other major city and yet a world leader in many fields. Even in this pandemic, one of the first options on the table to contain the virus is from a drug produced by a Japanese conglomerate. Taiwan is a little behind in building this three-pronged strength. Its victories in society and governance are more recent than Japan’s, but in some ways, they are more robust, given the sharp contrast with China across the sea. And like Japan, it too has tremendous capacity to manufacture the right meds as and when they are found. Hong Kong is a bit like Taiwan; its tenuous separate-ness from the mainland gives it the room it needs to not get caught up in the harm that China is enduring. Singapore’s government has been as competent as those in Tokyo and Taipei. Plus, it is acutely conscious that it is sustained by trade, and must do its utmost to protect that. But why are America and Europe faring so differently? They too have a fair amount of the balance between state, market and society. They too have legitimate and competent governments, a free society and press, and a range of innovations in industry. By all accounts, they should have been able to do what Japan did. Why didn’t they? In the US, part of the answer is Trump; he has eroded the balance of power along many axes, privileging the market against both society and the state. In response to the pandemic, he has reposed faith in swift and magically innovative solutions from industry, while the virus has raged. The Europeans were caught late-footed in responding, and are paying a huge price. One can only hope that their public health systems will withstand the tremendous pressures they face. The northern nations have shown more resilience, perhaps because their state capacities are greater than those of Italy and Spain, whose governments still seem like patchworks from post-war choices made decades ago. No explanation of the differences between countries may be complete in itself, and there are nuances in each case. That said, it is a time to observe and learn from the range of efforts. Japan, Taiwan and a few other places -- islands in an ocean of suffering -- provide a part of the answer. We must pay heed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/islands-in-an-ocean-of-suffering-821531.html
05-04-2020||Opinion||Beware the despot||There are decades where nothing happens; and there are weeks where decades happen” -- Vladimir Ilyich Lenin. The locked-down, the sheltered-in-place, the out-of-a-job, facing-starvation-and-economic-collapse, anxious masses of the world are certainly living through a time where every week feels like a decade and seems to never end. To say these are extraordinary times is an understatement. The COVID-19 outbreak may make one think that constitutional principles and the rule of law are distant concepts with no application, and necessity is the only thing that matters.  Not so. The Constitution is not only meant for ‘normal’ times, it also prescribes what the State must do to preserve the constitutional order when that order is itself under threat, and it cannot be a “whatever works” approach. This is why the Constitution has a whole part on ‘Emergency Provisions’, which provides emergency powers to be invoked by the Union government. An emergency power is one that is invoked to defend the political order itself from an existential threat and dates back to the Roman republic, which invoked it in times of war or famine to hand over powers from the Senate to a Dictator. The Constitution provides for three different kinds of emergency powers and when they may be invoked. One has been used and misused most frequently (Article 356, allowing the imposition of President’s Rule in states); one has been invoked only three times in the past, misused just once and never invoked again (Article 352, allowing the imposition of an Emergency to combat an external threat or internal rebellion) and one has never been invoked yet (Article 360, allowing imposition of a ‘financial emergency’). They are all different from each other and should be seen as species of the larger genus of ‘emergency powers.’ Whereas the Union government has the power to suspend the enforcement of certain fundamental rights when it imposes an emergency under Article 352, it has no such power when it imposes President’s Rule or a Financial Emergency. In no instance is the emergency power unlimited in time or exercised on the pure whim of the Union government. The proclamations in each case have to be for specific reasons and for specific time limits as prescribed in the respective articles. A declaration of Emergency is not the suspension of the rule of law or the Constitution itself -- a point that the Supreme Court regrettably failed to appreciate in its controversial judgement in ADM Jabalpur vs Shiv Kant Shukla (1976) during the 1975-77 Emergency. But the Constitution itself is not exhaustive on the types of emergency powers that governments can exercise. The Disaster Management Act, 2005, in fact, gives the Union government emergency powers in the context of a ‘disaster’ -- defined in the law as a mishap which causes losses of life and property in a manner that is beyond the capability of the community in that area to cope with. The colonial era Epidemics Act, 1897, also gives state governments the powers to make regulations at a time when “ordinary laws” are insufficient for the purposes of tackling a dangerous disease. Both these laws have been used to put in place the present lockdown across the country. Does that mean the powers of the Union and state governments under these laws are unlimited? Absolutely not. The exercise of emergency powers are not meant to introduce despotism in the name of “protecting the people.” Unfortunately, not all would-be despots, from the local policeman to Adolf Hitler, get the memo. Even as the COVID-19 crisis unfolds, wannabe despots across the world from Viktor Orban to Rodrigo Duterte are seeing an opportunity to grab more power for themselves in the name of “dealing with the crisis.” These are warning signals against placing too much trust in our governments and why the rule of law and constitutional government cannot be traded for safety. In as much as an emergency may require the temporary suspension of regular laws and systems, it cannot be the excuse to slide into tyranny. Not even when the nation is under threat. In times like these, remember the words of Justice HR Khanna, the sole dissenting judge in ADM Jabalpur:  “If it could be the boast of a great English Judge...that the air of England is too pure for a slave to breathe, cannot we also say with justifiable pride that this sacred land shall not suffer eclipse of the rule of law and that the Constitution and the laws of India do not permit life and liberty to be at the mercy of absolute power of the Executive...”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/beware-the-despot-821532.html
05-04-2020||Opinion||News in the time of coronavirus, and beyond||Last year, when this column started, I made a reference to a Chinese saying: “May you live in interesting times.” This exhortation, as then noted, was not so much a blessing as a curse, i.e., may your life be torn apart by events beyond your control. Well, those interesting times -- that started, appropriately enough, in China -- have been upon the world for four months now: Covid-19 has changed everything around us, including, crucially for the news industry, every aspect of the news cycle.  For a start, public discourse in India has changed dramatically post-corona, and for the better. So much so that our cartoonists have no politicians to lampoon, and we have given our SpeakOut crew a break from taking a swing at the powerful. For a change, there’s very little of the usual Right-wing hatred and secular contempt on view. Getting onto social media is less draining than usual. The bhakts, whose days were spent happily wishing smallpox or rape on anyone who stepped out of line, are unusually quiet, as are those professional purveyors of fake news that inform a feeding frenzy on television prime time. The good thing is that there is unity in fear: At least, we are together in this fight against a deadly enemy. There may be audio-visual extravaganzas like banging on pots and pans and lighting candles, but there are also substantive tales of heroism on the part of medical staff and administrators. It used to be said in the old Congress-yukt days that only two things unified India: cricket and war. The nation would huddle before TV sets at 5 am as its cricketing heroes fought with their backs to the wall in Australia. War, with its attendant jingoism, half-truths and lies, always brought our country together. Otherwise, we were a motley bunch, a nation of various nationalities that appeared to have no common purpose, but which was strangely happy in its skin, looking the other way when corruption scandals hit, and vote banks were lovingly cradled.  All this has changed over the past six years, with polarisation seeping into national consciousness, drop by irreversible drop. It has ‘unified’ a big chunk of India. That earlier animal -- tolerant to a fault, assimilative of everything around it and resolutely live-and-let-live -- has given way to an efficient but perennially angry one. In the ultimate irony, the first was the cow, that most Hindu of beasts; its replacement, a big cat that thrills the senses of some but has a limited inner life. For a newsperson with a bullshit detector, it is tiresome. Now, fear is the new unifier. Watch TV or read the papers, and the only thing you can see is how the country is coping with a vicious virus. This has crowded out CAA, NRC, mandir, uniform civil code, and even the antics of a BJP perennially in election mode. State governments have vied with each other to keep the unwelcome intruder out, the Centre has done its bit, and hopes for a weaker mutation or a hot summer to scotch transmission have gained ground. What has all this meant for the news industry? First, newspapers had to deal with the canard that the virus hitched a ride on the surface of their pages. All it took was WhatsApp University (plus some ‘advisories’ on a Kannada television channel) for some residential areas and some hawkers to swallow this. Luckily, the papers have been able to hit back, with telling visuals of their plants being fumigated, and quotes from the better-informed, confirming that they are safe. A second problem was a lack of public events to cover: everything was Covid-ed. And third, and most worrying, a drying up of advertising as companies went into retrenchment mode. So, many of you have had e-papers WhatsApped to you by journalists keen to stay engaged with their readers, the physical newspaper has thinned considerably, and supplements have been suspended. Unprecedentedly, we have been producing DH at our homes for the past week, and firing pages to our printing presses from sitting rooms. Our daily 6 pm Page One meeting is on Google Hangout; some colleagues position phone cameras to show only their top halves and spare us a glimpse of their bermudas. There’s no doubt the financial year that just began is going to be challenging for media companies, but then, it is going to be so for a lot of other sectors. Media will duck and weave, forced to innovate and streamline and find new ways of doing things. A natural process -- of change, not necessarily deterioration -- has just been mercilessly accelerated by a microscopic virus. Many companies -- not just in India, but across the world, and not just in media but across industries -- are entering uncharted territory. Publishers who nobly took down digital paywalls during the virus’ reign will be forced to bring them up again, and everyone will be looking at new ways to make money. Readers will have to decide how much their favourite newspaper or website means to them. Are they willing to pay more? Are they willing to accept thinner but more thoughtful products? Will they shell out the cost of a vada-sambar for a month’s subscription of a website or e-paper?  When the virus is hopefully beaten and life returns to normal, public discourse will go back to its egregious lows, our cartoonist and SpeakOut team will be back in business, and edit meetings will be more real and less virtual. But for politicians, administrators, company executives and journalists alike, life will be irrevocably different.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/news-in-the-time-of-coronavirus-and-beyond-821533.html
05-04-2020||Opinion||Has Narendra Modi lost the plot in tackling the coronavirus pandemic?||Modi came out once more to speak to the nation on April 3 and thankfully in the morning.  Given the widespread criticism of what has come to be known as a #lockdownwithoutplan, the expectation this time was that he would delve into the details of preparedness essential in dealing with this difficult period. This is what leaders of other pandemic affected countries have been doing, spelling out the details and with great sensitivity too.  Modi’s speech once again was without any details; as before he asked people to perform yet another public demonstration of their support for ongoing efforts to tackle the pandemic – shine a diya, or candle, or a torchlight from their darkened homes and balconies. There appears to have been very little thought paid to the fact that this nation-wide darkening of homes could result in a grid collapse, and a possible blackout, and that this could potentially jeopardise lives of thousands relying on continuous electricity supply, especially those in critical care. Pandemic, not politics But such complexities have hardly been of concern to Modi. His way is to be sparing with the truth but high on hyperbole. His solutions for resolving complex problems are simple and sometimes even simplistic. But his ability to communicate in ways that is accessible to a majority of the population, relying on entreaties of sacrifice for the greater common good proclaimed as fundamentally transformative, is what Modi has done in all his speeches. He did this with demonetisation and in introducing GST, both reforms undertaken without any planning or preparation. Expectedly they have had devastating consequences on the Indian economy and on millions of lives and livelihoods.  To his advantage has been the weak and fragmented Opposition, a largely compromised media and uncritical corporates -- factors that have enabled him to carry on with a form of governance that is didactic and unapologetically explicit in promotion of majoritarian politics based on divisiveness. Such political methods have worked wonders in normative politics, indicated by the thumping majority he gained in the last general elections. Employing which he abrogated Article 370 and then enacted the highly divisive and sectarian Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019 disregarding nation-wide protests. The question is, can such methods work in tackling the pandemic? For dealing with a virus demands a rational approach, which is at once nuanced and scalable.  With the exception of Kerala, which prepared well in advance and graded its lockdown, thus arresting the spread of the disease, the rest of the country has been caught rather unprepared. Reliance was heavy on guidance from the Centre, which has largely been reactive, down to writing manuals on how to make masks well after the lockdown was in place.  A number of circulars issued by the Ministry of Health and Home Affairs, clarifying various normative aspects of lockdowns on public health grounds, is most revealing of the utter state of disaster unpreparedness. Swallowing pride and comfort at the sudden erosion of fundamental freedoms and dignity, and dealing with a variety of police excesses, even brutality, people are still faithfully following Modi’s ways in dealing with the pandemic. While one hopes steps taken thus far will pay off, and that the lockdown will end as scheduled, given the woefully underprepared state of India’s health sector and extension of relief measures, the next two weeks are promising to be exceedingly long and excruciating.  Every State would do their people a lot of good if they would develop a range of scenarios and be prepared in every manner necessary to deal with the worst-case scenario, i.e., massive spread in infection, high rates of morbidity and also high death rates.  It is of utmost necessity that preventive, curative and relief operations are organised ground up so none is left to suffer without care, and due to lack of food, shelter and security. This situation, in many ways, is the direct outcome of Modi’s style of functioning -- centralised, didactic and disempowering. While such methods may have been useful in dealing with the usual adversarial political situations, it is highly unlikely to be of any use in dealing with a viral pandemic.  There is no Opposition to bait here, no legacy to attack.  If mishandled, people will suffer, and millions will die.  The political comfort one can draw from the fact that this is a global pandemic and so one must grin and bear, or that it has not impacted India as much as it has the rest of the world, are positions unlikely to weigh in Modi’s favour. Already, news of frontline sanitary, health and police personnel getting infected due to inadequate provisioning of Personal Protective Equipment is filtering in.  This is a very disturbing indicator, and does not help build public confidence in the response strategy. Instead of focusing on such crises, the narrative appears to have been deliberately shifted to communalising and criminalising victims of a disease outbreak.  Such methods will only spread more fear of the disease and force massive suppression of infections, a nightmarish situation that must be avoided in dealing with a pandemic.  It is high time, therefore, that those in the Centre and state governments who really care about getting India on the right track in dealing with the pandemic, immediately focus attention on drawing from deep and extensive experiences of public health and environmental health experts in the country, and step up efforts to win the trust and build public confidence in the governments’ efforts. It is that collective spirit that can and will help India survive this pandemic, in bringing down the extent of suffering and much-feared socio-economic collapse. (Leo F Saldanha works on environmental and social justice, and governance concerns through the non-profit, Environment Support Group)  The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/has-narendra-modi-lost-the-plot-in-tackling-the-coronavirus-pandemic-821568.html
05-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus scar to haunt economy for long||In a span of less than a week, there have been three sets of official announcements enumerating the measures to alleviate the problems faced by industries, businesses and workers due to the economic disruption caused by COVID-19. The first two were made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 24 and 26 and the third by the RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on March 27. On March, the FM announced reliefs for industries and businesses which are largely ‘procedural’. These include extending the date for filing returns [income-tax, GST, customs, excise and statutory filings under Companies Act], reducing interest chargeable on delayed payments, exemption from penalty, increasing threshold of filing under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code [IBC] etc. The firms have been given leeway for three months up to June 30 to complete various filings and submissions etc. On March 26, Sitharaman announced the PM Gareeb Kalyan Scheme [PMGKS] aimed at providing immediate assistance to millions of poor. The scheme entails total expenditure commitment of Rs 1,70,000 crore. It proclaims relief in about a dozen areas. The payment of first instalment of Rs 2,000 to farmers under PM KISAN in first week of April is merely a rehash of what is already being done. The relief from welfare fund for building and construction labourers [it has around Rs 31,000 crore] is not quantified. The increase in collateral-free loan limit for women self-help groups [SHGs] under Deen Dayal National Livelihood Mission [DDNLM] is not a cash transfer or grant.  The 24% contribution by the Union government to the employees’ provident fund (EPF) for three months is hamstrung by a rider that says ‘entity should have 90% of its employees earning less than Rs 15,000 per month’. Even if the number is 89%, it won’t be eligible. The amendment to EPFO regulation [enabling workers draw up to 75% for their contingency expenditure as non-refundable advance or three months of wages in advance whichever is less] merely allows them to withdraw their own money! The areas promising tangible benefit include giving five kg of rice or wheat per person per month for ‘free’ to around 80 crore people through the public distribution system [PDS] plus one kg of preferred and region-specific choice of pulse per household; ex-gratia of Rs 500 per month to Women Jan Dhan account holders; free gas cylinders to Women Ujjawala scheme beneficiaries and increase of Rs 20 in wage rate of workers under MNREGA. For a family of five headed by a woman Jan Dhan account holder, these will add up to benefit of about Rs 2,500 per month or Rs 7,500 in three months.  This is nearly half of the income loss Rs 4,550 per month [national minimum wage of an informal worker at Rs 175 per day and 26 working days in a month] if she doesn’t get to work – a scenario in the current lockdown. Besides, the scheme leaves out tens of millions workers, vendors, hawkers etc, and those who have taken loans under the much-trumpeted MUDRA Yojana.    India’s working population is about 40 crore. Of this, 94% or 37.6 crore are in the informal sector. The compensation to them at Rs 4550 [call it direct income support] will require about Rs 1,70,000 crore per month or Rs 5,10,000 crore for three months. Clearly, what the FM has offered - Rs 1,70,000 crore - is just about 1/3rd. Even this limited package will severely impact the government’s fiscal position. Fiscal deficit In the budget for 2020-21, FM had pegged fiscal deficit [FD] at 3.5%. This was based on tax revenue of Rs 15,75,000 crore - an increase of 31% over the likely actual for 2019-20 [Rs 12,00,000 crore] and proceeds of disinvestment in PSUs at Rs 2,10,000 crore.  Already, these targets were inflated; post - Corona crisis, these look like a daydream. Moreover, 3.5% does not capture deferred subsidy payments [DSPs] and extra-budgetary resources [EBRs]. Making adjustment for all these factors, FD will be at least 7%. Add to this, expenditure commitments under PMGKS, it will be close to 8%. In this backdrop, a suggestion by some experts to relax FD target say by 1% is amusing. Another idea to increase central excise duty [CED] on petrol and diesel [already, the government has taken parliament’s nod for increase in duty by up to Rs 8 per litre each] may look attractive when seen in the backdrop of crude oil plummeting to below $30 per barrel.  The measures announced by RBI governor on March 27, 2020 include a reduction in policy rate [interest rate charged by the apex bank on loans given to banks] by 75 basis points to 4.4%; three-month moratorium on payment of instalments in respect of all term loans outstanding on March 31, 2020; relaxation in the norms for cash credit and working capital limits; reduction in cash reserve ratio [CRR] [portion of deposits, banks are required to keep with RBI] by 100 basis points to 3%; auction of targeted long term repo operations of 3-year tenor for total amount Rs 1,00,000 crore at floating rate; accommodation under Marginal Standing Facility [MSF] to be increased from 2% of SLR [statutory liquidity ratio] to 3% with immediate effect till June 30, 2020.   While the last three measures will inject a total of Rs 3,74,000 crore in the country’s financial system, others seek to reduce the cost of capital and ease the stress of loan repayments. However, in a situation of demand destruction, economic activity coming to grinding halt and weak sentiment, it is anybody’s guess whether this massive dose of liquidity and rate reduction will help arrest the slide. To sum up, while we may defeat Corona, the scar it leaves will continue to haunt the economy for a couple of years.     (The writer is a Delhi-based policy expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-scar-to-haunt-economy-for-long-821850.html
05-04-2020||Second Edit||Telemedicine guidelines a step forward||The telemedicine guidelines issued by the government last week are timely and constitute a step forward. They are a major break from past practices of medical consultation and treatment. The guidelines allow online medical consultation, enabling patients to reach registered medical practitioners through WhatsApp, Skype or phone calls and get prescriptions for ailments. The prescriptions, by e-mail or WhatsApp, will be accepted by pharmacies except in the case of classified drugs and narcotic substances. Doctors will have to protect the privacy and personal medical data of the patients. A limited use of artificial intelligence and machine learning has also been allowed. The guidelines also cover radiology, pathology and ophthalmology. They were issued now probably because of the crisis in the healthcare system created by the coronavirus pandemic. Crisis situations usually lead to changes in policy. There have been persistent demands for a positive policy on telemedicine but the government was unsure of it. There was a lack of legal clarity also on the matter. It has, however, taken a decision now, and that should be welcomed.  The decision will hopefully make a difference because many patients who are unable to personally consult doctors will now be able to do so by virtual contact. Though the WHO has recommended that there should be one doctor for every 1,000 people, India has only one for every 1,445 people, and there is only one primary health centre for every 64,800 persons. Medical services are poor in many rural areas, especially in many backward states. This situation might change with the telemedicine system. The problem of doctors refusing to work in villages may also be addressed to some extent. It will take some time for the system to stabilise and for people to become familiar with it. Even then not all the people who need essential medical services may be able to access it. It is also possible that the system may expand its scope and services when technology and its processes improve. Improvement in the educational and awareness levels of people will also help.  A McKinsey report has estimated that India could save up to $10 billion if 30-40% of direct in-person consultation by patients with doctors can be replaced with telemedicine. It also projected that more than 50% of outpatient consultations could be done by telemedicine by 2025 if the system is implemented efficiently. The most important lesson from the present Covid-19 crisis is that the public healthcare system needs vast improvement in many ways. The telemedicine system can be part of that improvement, and that should receive attention and encouragement even after the crisis passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/telemedicine-guidelines-a-step-forward-821852.html
05-04-2020||South||Amid Karnataka-Kerala border standoff, Vijayan and Palaniswami express bond of love||At a time when Kerala and Karnataka are at loggerheads over the closure of border roads, gestures of unity and brotherhood were seen from the chief ministers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu on Saturday. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Friday debunked the fake news that the state had closed its border with Tamil Nadu after it witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases. Vijayan had said there are some difficulties to travel due to nationwide lockdown, but "that doesn't mean that we will close our borders. We will never do that. They (Tamil Nadu) are our brothers". His approach was reciprocated by his Tamil Nadu counterpart E K Palaniswami, who on Saturday expressed hope that the friendship and brotherhood between the two states would grow. "Happy that Kerala is showing love and treating TN people as brothers and sisters. I wish to state that TN will be an able aid to the brothers and sisters of Kerala in all their joy and sorrow. Let this friendship and brotherhood grow forever," Palaniswami tweeted. Vijayan responded and said both the states will overcome the challenges of the pandemic together. "The relationship between Kerala and Tamil Nadu is bonded in love, brotherhood, history, language and culture. People who make fake news can't fathom the depth of the relationship between the two States. Together we will overcome the challenges. Love & Respect," he tweeted. Tamil Nadu has till now reported 485 positive cases, whereas Kerala has 254 cases. Karnataka had closed its borders with Kerala after Kasaragod became a hotspot of coronavirus with at least 123 positive cases till now. The Kerala High Court had directed Karnataka to open the borders for the transport of essential vehicles like ambulances and food trucks but it refused. Karnataka later approached the Supreme Court to put a stay on the HC order. The Supreme Court has sought responses from the Centre and the Kerala government on the plea of Karnataka. It orally asked the Kerala government to not to precipitate the issue of opening of borders till further hearing of the matter on April 7. The northern part of Kasaragod district in Kerala depends on Mangaluru for medical facilities, especially for dialysis patients. The nationwide lockdown and closure of border roads has resulted in the loss of seven lives inside the Kerala border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-karnataka-kerala-border-standoff-vijayan-and-palaniswami-express-bond-of-love-821556.html
05-04-2020||South||PM Modi's appeal on lighting lamps is BJP's hidden agenda : H D Kumaraswamy||Former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy alleged on Sunday Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal for lighting lamps in the context of the fight against the coronavirus was a "hidden agenda" of the BJP and challenged him to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation for his call. Has the PM slyly asked the nation to observe a candlelight vigil on the eve of foundation day of BJP? April 6 being its foundation day, what else can explain the choice of date & time for this event? I challenge the PM to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation, the Janata Dal (Secular) leader tweeted. It is shameful to convert the national crisis into an event of self-aggrandisement & it is beyond shameful to push the hidden agenda of his party in the face of global calamity. May sense prevail upon the PM, Kumaraswamy said. The government, he alleged, is yet to provide personal protective equipment (PPEs) for doctors and make test kits affordable for the common man. Without telling the nation what concrete steps are being taken to combat COVID-19 menace, the Prime Minister is giving meaningless tasks to an already exhausted population, the son of former Prime Minister and JDS supremo H D Deve Gowda claimed.  The Prime Minister on Friday urged people to switch off lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles and hold mobile phone torches for nine minutes from 9 pm on Sunday to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modis-appeal-on-lighting-lamps-is-bjps-hidden-agenda-h-d-kumaraswamy-821584.html
05-04-2020||South||Coronavirus death toll in Tamil Nadu mounts to five; Tally at 485 in state||The two deaths take the toll due to COVID-19 in the state to 5, while the number of positive cases to 485, including the dead and eight persons who have been discharged from various hospitals in the state. The Health Department said the 71-year-old man, who hailed from Ramanathapuram district, passed away within two hours of his admission at the Stanley Medical College Hospital here on April 2. However, the blood samples collected from him have rendered positive for COVID-19. It added that the 60-year-old man, who was admitted to the aforesaid hospital on April 1, breathed his last at 1.45 am on Sunday. However, the government did not cite any reason for a sudden collapse in the health of the patient. The developments comes a day after two deaths from reported from Tamil Nadu. Out of the 485 positive cases, 422 belong to the Nizamuddin cluster. The government has identified 1,200 persons who attended the Tabliqi Jamaat conference in Delhi and have tested all of them, but not all results are out. On Saturday, the Greater Chennai Corporation asked Passengers who travelled on the Delhi-Chennai flights (Indigo 6E-2403, Air Asia I5-765) on March 24 to home quarantine themselves for 28 days and seek medical care if they develop any symptom. The state has so far tested 4,248 samples out of which 485 tested positive and has placed 1,681 persons in isolations wards in hospitals, an update from the Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-death-toll-in-tamil-nadu-mounts-to-five-tally-at-485-in-state-821602.html
05-04-2020||South||Kerala, Tamil Nadu highlight unity at time of crisis - a subtle message for Karnataka||Chief Ministers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu have come together to send across the message of “unity and brotherhood” in times of COVID-19, which seems a subtle message from the former to Karnataka over the closure of border roads. It all started on Friday when Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan junked all rumours pertaining to the state mulling closing of its borders with Tamil Nadu, which has witnessed a sudden spurt in COVID-19 numbers. Vijayan said the people of Kerala view their counterparts from Tamil Nadu as “their brothers” and not just as neighbours. A short clip cropping this particular portion of Vijayan’s speech went viral on the social media highlighting the amicable relationship between Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami posted the video with Tamil subtitles on his Twitter page and thanked Kerala for treating Tamils as their brothers. “Tamil Nadu will remain with Kerala in all its joys and sorrows. Let this friendship and brotherhood grow,” Palaniswami wrote tagging his Kerala counterpart. Retweeting Palaniswami’s tweet, the official Twitter handle of Kerala Chief Minister’s office utilised the opportunity to highlight that both states were fighting the same battle – eliminating COVID-19 cases. “The relationship between Kerala and Tamil Nadu is bonded in love, brotherhood, history, language and culture. People who make fake news can't fathom the depth of the relationship between the two States. Together we will overcome the challenges. Love & Respect,” the Kerala CMO Twitter handle wrote. Ever since Karnataka authorities blocked roads to Kasargod and denied entry even to patients from Kasargod to hospitals at Mangaluru, Vijayan used to recollect the historical relationship between Kasargod and Mangalore and bonding between the people across the borders. He has been also stressing the need for states to stand united at times of crisis.  The Kerala CM was all in praise for Tamil Nadu when a major crisis faced by dairy farmers of North Kerala with Tamil Nadu stopping milk procurement from Kerala was sorted out with Tamil Nadu agreeing to convert surplus milk to milk powder. Kerala gets most of its essential supplies from Tamil Nadu through its border districts of Coimbatore, Tenkasi, Theni and Kanyakumari. Though both the states have enough water disputes on their hands, they have not let the disagreements come in the way of handling a health emergency. Even when Tamil Nadu decided to close its border with neighbouring states on March 21 when the state had reported just a handful of COVID-19 cases, it had exempted all goods vehicles carrying essential and non-essential items. A similar bonhomie between the two states was witnessed when Kerala was swamped with water during the 2018 floods – Tamil Nadu not just donated money, but sent tonnes of relief materials and essential food items to the neighbouring state. The bonhomie between the two states come amid a major standoff between Karnataka and Kerala over border roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tamil-nadu-highlight-unity-at-time-of-crisis-a-subtle-message-for-karnataka-821657.html
05-04-2020||South||47 international travellers in Bengaluru discharged after testing negative for COVID-19||As many as 47 international travellers quarantined at Sapthagiri Institute of Medical Sciences for 16 days were discharged on Sunday, after they tested negative for COVID-19. A release from the hospital said the "47 suspected COVID-19 patients" were international travellers returning from six countries and one of them was of Australian domicile. "The (suspected) patients were admitted on March 15. All the patients initially had very mild symptoms of cold and fever but after testing have been found to be COVID-19 negative," the release said. The hospital said an isolation ward was set up and a dedicated team of in-house doctors, nurses and supervisors were provided to those quarantined for the past 16 days. To a question, a spokesperson from the hospital agreed that the 16-day quarantine was not enough. "They will be placed under home quarantine for the next 14 days," he said, adding that they were quarantined on account of their travel history and not due to "suspicion of being infected with the coronavirus". "Twelve of them are from different states, including Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Maharashtra. They will be accommodated at a hotel in Sadashivanagar. The remaining will stay at home," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/47-international-travellers-in-bengaluru-discharged-after-testing-negative-for-covid-19-821666.html
05-04-2020||South||Eight more COVID-19 cases in Kerala; Six recover as total infections reaches 256||Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that of the 314 persons infected in the state so far, 56 have recovered, while two died. 256 persons were now under treatment. Ten persons who came down from the Nizamuddin were infected in Kerala. Among the eight found infected on Sunday, five were in Kozhikode district in North Kerala taking the total number of infected persons in the district now to 11. Among the five fresh cases in the district, four were those who returned from Nizamuddin. One fresh case of infection through local contact was reported from Kasargod, taking the total infected persons in the district to 119. This apart, 18 persons from Kasargod were under treatment at nearby Kannur district and one at Kozhikode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eight-more-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-six-recover-as-total-infections-reaches-256-821713.html
05-04-2020||South||Two more die in Kerala due to inaccessibility to expert treatment||In separate incidents, two more persons at Kasargod died on Sunday allegedly owing to inaccessibility to expert treatment at Mangaluru. Hosangadi native Rudrappa and Kunjathur native Yusuf died after suffering heart attack. Rudrappa was said to have under gone a heart surgery in Mangaluru earlier. According to local sources, owing to the road block towards Mangaluru both the persons could not be taken to specialty hospitals there. Though they were taken to local hospitals in Kasargod, their relatives alleged that their lives could not be saved owing to unavailability of expert treatment. Over five persons were so far died allegedly owing to inaccessibility to expert treatment at nearby Mangaluru due to the road block.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-die-in-kerala-due-to-inaccessibility-to-expert-treatment-821722.html
05-04-2020||South||Eye doctor in quarantine after attending preparatory meeting for Tablighi Jamaat event||An ophthalmologist at a state-run medical institute has been placed under hospital quarantine in Telagana after he attended the preparatory meeting for the Tablighi Jamat congregation in Delhi last month and his test results are awaited, officials said here on Sunday. The COVID-19 test report of the eye specialist, working at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences at Adilabad, was awaited, they said. The man, who is also a Jamat functionary and is reportedly an organising committee member, had visited Delhi on March 8, returned to Adialabad on March 10, a senior official said. He did not disclose that he had taken part in the event and began attending to patients from March 12 to April 1, he told PTI. However, he was not part of the religious congregation which was held later, the official said. He said the ophthalmologist's name cropped up when they were going through the names of those who returned from the event, following they alerted health officials. Based on their advice, he was placedin isolation at the hospital since April 1 and tests were conducted, official sources said. Asked if any complaint had been filed or police would register a case, another official said no complaint had been received, but they were contemplating taking legal opinion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eye-doctor-in-quarantine-after-attending-preparatory-meeting-for-tablighi-jamaat-event-821732.html
05-04-2020||South||COVID-19 : How Andhra Pradesh cases shot up from 21 to 252 in seven days||With almost every case added in the last seven days linked to the Delhi Nizamuddin religious meeting; Tablighi Jamaat connection alone constitutes over 90 percent of AP’s COVID-19 tally. Some among the previous 21 cases are also Markaz related, COVID-19 bulletins show. Even as they were anticipating normalcy by April second week with a ban on international flights and completion of the 14 day quarantine of the around 29,000 foreign returnees, the sudden surge in the cases has made the senior medical and health officials and district administrators anxious, to say the least. Most of Sunday's confirmed cases are from Kurnool. The Rayalaseema district with only one case last Sunday has 53 cases now, topping the AP COVID-19 chart. “A week back, it looked manageable, but suddenly the Delhi cases started pouring in. Now, frankly, we are clueless as to how bigger this (nightmare) becomes,” a senior official coordinating COVID-19 mitigation measures in the state, told DH. By Friday officials identified 1085 people as the Markaz attendees and that 946 among them were back in AP. "Tests are conducted on all of them, we identified all primary contacts and are tracing the secondary contacts. They came back by several trains and roamed freely for several days. As of now it is impossible to say how many they might have infected,” said the official.   “Hiding of symptoms especially of women and concealing travel history has become a challenge. The lone person who died on March 30 was brought in critical condition to Vijayawada hospital and died within an hour, after his swab samples were collected. It was only revealed later that his son had attended the Markaz,” said one government doctor.   “If such infected people die without coming to our notice it will be a problem.” The collector of a coastal district sounded exasperated when he said, “we had only one London returned patient with no contact infection. But the scenario changed with Delhi cases.” The district now has two dozen positive cases.     Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy is holding review meetings on COVID-19 daily. Following the outbreak in cases, the state has conducted a door to door survey of 1.28 crore households out of total 1.45 crore households. Those with any COVID-19 symptoms will be kept in observation and tests conducted accordingly. On Sunday, Reddy directed officials for cluster screening in all red zones; testing of all people in contact with Markaz attendees. In Visakhapatnam, where 15 cases are reported, random tests were carried out in red zones dividing them into eight clusters and 20 samples taken from each cluster. They turned out to be negative, officials informed the CM. Reddy, on Saturday, called COVID-19 “an invisible enemy we have to fight unitedly,” while appealing that no one should try to tag the spread to one community. “We must show compassion towards those who tested positive. We should not discriminate in this hour of global crisis,” the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-how-andhra-pradesh-cases-shot-up-from-21-to-252-in-seven-days-821761.html
05-04-2020||South||'Lack' of preparedness to deal with migrant workers during lockdown: Cong leader Shashidhar Reddy||Senior Congress leader and former vice-chairman of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) M Shashidhar Reddy has accused the Centre of not factoring in the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on daily wage earners and migrant workers before announcing it. "It clearly exposes a lack of preparedness as the implications of a lockdown and the impact that it will have on daily wage earners and the plight of the migrant workers was not factored in," he said in a statement here on Saturday. The purpose of the lockdown was defeated when lakhs of migrant workers and their families gathered in large numbers throwing social distancing to winds, he said. "There was no advance preparation for facilitating their movement, isolation and quarantine, forcing the states to rush through things, stretching the demand on the already overburdened health workers, police and civil administration, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lack-of-preparedness-to-deal-with-migrant-workers-during-lockdown-cong-leader-shashidhar-reddy-821765.html
05-04-2020||South||#GiveupChallenge by young TN bureaucrat wins hearts||Meat and fish are staple diet of an average non-vegetarian household in Tamil Nadu every Sunday. But crowding at these shops where social distancing has gone for a toss in the times of COVID-19 is a major issue that several district administrations in the state have been facing since the 21-day lockdown was announced. To lessen the crowd at the markets and keep people away from those shops, a young bureaucrat at the helm of affairs in Tiruppur, the knitwear hub that accounts for 46 per cent of India’s garment exports, threw a #GiveUpChallenge on Twitter on Saturday night. Dr K Vijayakarthikeyan, the district collector who is quite active on Twitter, asked people not to crowd the market and meat stalls in the city and elsewhere in the district. He also asked people giving up their favourite food to help the administration regulate things better to post their stories of “self-control” and “self-sacrifice” and share them with him. The challenge evoked “good response” from people who posted their stories of giving up non-vegetarian food for a day and turning to simpler delicacies that are made with ingredients available at home. From ragi dosa to bread toast to boiled egg with bread to sweet potatoes to ragi balls to white rice with sambar made of vegetables from their roof gardens – people posted pictures of “simple food” and tagged the district collector. Though meat shops and fish stalls did function, the crowd was 60 per cent less than what was witnessed last week, officials said. And Vijayakarthikeyan himself began the chain of reaction by posting a picture of three slices of bread and orange and mentioning that he has “given up a lot of my favourite dishes and been sticking to Toasted Bread slices and any available fruit for breakfast.” “What have you given up?” he asked. The collector has been leading a lot of new initiatives ever since the outbreak of COVID-19 began by installing the first “disinfection tunnel”, getting several provision shops to home deliver goods to avoid crowding at shops and pre-packed sets of vegetables and fruits delivered at the doorstep. Gobinath, who tweets through the handle @Gobinat53117992 wrote he gave up non-vegetarian dishes on Sunday. “Preferred dishes prepared from vegetables from our garden itself. It has been a fantastic feeling getting up early and roaming in the garden and searching for vegetables in small plants. Thank you for the initiative,” he wrote posting a picture with a bowl of rice and another bowl full of vegetable sambar. Another user Wasim Feroze, whose Twitter handle is @Ferozeshaja, wrote: “#GiveUpchallenge I had given up my Sunday favourite non-veg breakfast and having wheat dosa mixed with spinach. Inspired from Vijayakarthikeyan.” The collector told DH that the motive behind the move was to keep maximum people away from markets that would lead to crowding and tell others that not having their favourite food is also a sacrifice. “Even if 1 per cent of the people stay at home, it would be a success. I thought the challenge would not just keep people home, but also make them eat whatever they have at home, sacrificing for the larger good of the society. I am happy at the way the challenge has panned out,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/giveupchallenge-by-young-tn-bureaucrat-wins-hearts-821787.html
05-04-2020||South||Governor, CM Jagan Mohan Reddy lead Andhra Pradesh in lighting lamps||Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy led the people of Andhra Pradesh in lighting the lamps after switching off lights, for nine minutes from 9 PM on Sunday in response to the nation-wide call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. All the electric lights were switched off at the Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada as the Governor and the First Lady lit the traditional diyas as a mark of solidarity in the fight against the coronavirus. At his residence in Tadepalli, the Chief Minister held a candlelight vigil along with Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Director General of Police D G Sawang, Principal Secretary Praveen Prakash and other officials. Ministers also took part in the event at their respective residences. In Guntur, BJP state president Kanna Lakshmi Narayana lit the traditional lamps. In Rajamahendravaram, enthusiastic youth painted the Indian map on a street and lit lamps along the outline and chanted Bharat Mata ki Jai. In Anantapuramu, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan national vice-president S Vishnuvardhan Reddy took part in the lamp lighting event, while in Vijayawada city, some people burst crackers as the clock struck 9 PM. At important junctions in all cities of the state, police officers and men came onto the streets and held candles in their hands as people cheered them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/governor-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-lead-andhra-pradesh-in-lighting-lamps-821815.html
05-04-2020||South||COVID-19 death toll in TN mounts to five; 86 fresh patients||Also, 86 people, including the 71-year-old deceased, tested positive for Coronavirus, taking the total tally to 571. The remaining 85 had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi last month, taking the number of people infected with COVID-19 from the Nizamuddin cluster in Tamil Nadu to 522. A total of 1,246 persons, who attended the Delhi conference, have been identified and samples have been collected from all of them, but not all results have come. In a terse statement, the Ministry of Family and Health Department said the 71-year-old man, who hailed from Ramanathapuram district, passed away within two hours of his admission at the Stanley Medical College Hospital here on April 2. “He was wheeled into the hospital in a serious condition and was alive only for one hour and 20 minutes. But his samples were collected within the short period and was sent for testing. It came positive today,” Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh told reporters at the regular briefing. Another death of a 60-year-old, who was admitted to the same hospital on April 1, was reported on Sunday. The man, who was “doing fine”, developed breathlessness at around 7 pm on Saturday and was put on ventilator immediately. Despite efforts, he passed away at 1.45 am, the Health Secretary added. She evaded a direct response to breach of protocol in handing over the body of the 71-year-old to his relatives. The body was taken to Ramanathapuram, 545 km from here, in an ambulance even as a couple of his relatives travelled in a separate car. Instead, she asked people to “cooperate” and report to hospitals once they develop symptoms, while reiterating that COVID-19 was a medical emergency. The Health Secretary said the effort now was to prevent the state from entering third stage, which is community transmission, and added that the containment plan was being extended to every area where new positive patients are reported. The state has so far tested 4,612 samples and have placed 1,848 persons in isolations wards in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-death-toll-in-tn-mounts-to-five-86-fresh-patients-821825.html
05-04-2020||State||Disinfection tunnel inaugurated at Hubballi APMC||State Heavy Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar inaugurated a disinfection tunnel at Amargol Agriculture Produce market near Hubballi on Sunday. The APMC yard at Hubballi is one of the largest market yard in Asia and even during the lockdown period, hundreds of people visit the market every day. To prevent the spread of COVID-19, members of Young India, Confederation of Indian Industry, Hubballi Chapter along with district administration and Hubballi Dharwad Mahanagara Palike have installed a disinfection tunnel at an estimated cost of Rs 1 lakh that would ensure ‘decrease’ in the viral load on the body surface area. The tunnel, is a walk-through structure, consists of four sets (a total of 48 nozzles) of high-pressure micro nozzle sprinklers fitted on the top and sides of the tunnel’s steel frame. The sprinklers spray less than 1% of Sodium hypochlorite solution, which is efficient against destroying the virus on the surface. The thousand-litre tank can work continuously for 12 hours and disinfect 12 persons per minute. Speaking to media persons Young India Hubballi chapter chairman Dr Shrinivas M Joshi said the tunnel is completely safe and will not cause any dermatological or other health-related ailments. “The tunnel will not eradicate the virus inside the body, but will definitely decrease the viral load on the body surface,” he said and added that APMC yard witness one of the highest footfalls every day and if people use this tunnel the chances of spreading the diseases can be brought down drastically. Speaking after inaugurating the Shettar said State government continues to take several measures to contain the spread of COVID-19. APMC yards, where thousands of people come every day is one the most vulnerable spots for the spread of the Virus. Efforts will be made to set up such a disinfection tunnel across State.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/disinfection-tunnel-inaugurated-at-hubballi-apmc-821775.html
05-04-2020||State||Gowda assures Modi of support to fight COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephonic conversation with JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, seeking the latter's support in the fight against the pandemic. Deve Gowda tweeted, "Thousands of people are dying across the world due to Covid-19. Coming weeks are crucial for India in our fight against the virus. As a former Prime Minister I agreed to cooperate in the fight against Coronavirus that has devastated not only our country but also the whole world." The former PM said that he has assured him of his support to tackle the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gowda-assures-modi-of-support-to-fight-covid-19-821794.html
05-04-2020||State||Transport dept sets up helpline for essential services||The government has launched a 24x7 helpline to receive and resolve complaints regarding the movement of essential services.   Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi announced the launch of the helpline which will also look into the issue of inter-state vehicles. It will also act as a control room connecting all the regional transport offices (RTO) across the State. Organisations and the public can call 080 2223 6698 or 94498 63214 to raise issues related to the movement of essential commodities. Alongside this, the department will also ensure availability of vehicles to move such commodity. The move by the transport department came a day after two RTO officials were suspended for demanding bribe from vegetable transporters near Anekal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/transport-dept-sets-up-helpline-for-essential-services-821801.html
05-04-2020||State||Bengaluru hoteliers unwilling to let space for COVID-19 quarantine; BBMP notifies 17 hotels||“We have told the government to first take Ravishanker Guruji Ashram, Kaveri Guest House, Kumara Krupa Guest House, Officers Club, Jungle Lodges, etc. Definitely then hoteliers will take their stand,” Bruhat Bangalore Hotel Association President, PC Rao told DH. There are approximately 3,500 hotels in the city, and of them 580 hotels are having standard features for using as quarantine facility. He, however, said that the government should consult individual hotel owners on this. “The government can take hotels if hoteliers agree and only if it is possible to quarantine. Many hotels have no employees now, there are AC issues, among many other things,” he said. However, across Karnataka, there are two hotels that have voluntarily given their facility for quarantine -- Hotel Viceroy in Mysuru and Hotel Metro in Hubballi. On March 29, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palika (BBMP) identified around 1,418 rooms across 17 hotels in the city to quarantine persons with symptoms of COVID-19. These hotels will be used to quarantine suspected COVID-19 patients. “Before treating these patients, their swab samples will be collected and sent to labs for examination. Till the reports of samples sent for test arrive, these persons will be housed at the designated hotels,” the BBMP Commissioner said in a notification. The BBMP is taking several measures to control coronavirus cases as well as prevent them. “If the quarantined persons develop symptoms such as fever, cough or cold, they need to be treated immediately. They will be quarantined at the designated hotels,” the notification said. The persons with suspected COVID-19 infection will be retained at these hotels for a maximum of two days, the notification said. While identifying these 17 hotels, the BBMP has stipulated that they should not be having air conditioning system, and it should be disconnected before keeping the suspected persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-hoteliers-unwilling-to-let-space-for-covid-19-quarantine-bbmp-notifies-17-hotels-821806.html
05-04-2020||State||One-week revision classes for SSLC students||SSLC students will have to attend one-week revision classes before appearing for their annual examination this year. The examination, scheduled to begin on March 27 have been deferred in view of COVID-19 scare. "In an effort to bring the students back into the examination mode, one week revision classes will be held at the schools across the state, before conducting the SSLC exams as per the new timetable," Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said here on Sunday. He added that new timetable would be announced reviewing the situation after April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-week-revision-classes-for-sslc-students-821826.html
05-04-2020||State||Lockdown effects: Bootleggers having a field day||Officials claim bootlegging incidents are isolated and that cases being booked for violations of lockdown regulations. During the period, Excise department has filed 18 cases in Bengaluru Urban district, seizing around 2,500 litres of liquor in the process. While a pack of cigarettes costing Rs 160 is now sold at Rs 300, a bottle of beer worth Rs 160-170, will cost upto Rs 600. Whiskey and other hard liquor are sold at almost twice the price, via private individuals who are able to source them. Speaking to DH, Anil Kumar (name changed), a techie, said that he learnt about the availability of liquor through a friend. "A full bottle of branded whiskey, which costs around Rs 1,900 was priced double," he said, adding he was forced to buy it for a birthday party. While cigarettes are easily available, liquor was difficult to come by. According to sources, liquor from nearby bars and MRP outlets was being funneled through private individuals and mutual contacts. However, recent raids have made the process extremely difficult, though it has not stopped completely. When contacted, Venkat Raja, Additional Commissioner of Excise, said that there were isolated attempts to sell liquor illegally and the department has booked cases in connection with the same. Apart from bootlegging, there were cases of robbery at liquor stores, he said, adding enforcement agencies were on their toes. Nagesh A L, Joint Commissioner (Excise), said that 18 FIRs were filed in Bengaluru Urban district for illegal sale of liquor. "We have suspended licenses of five shops while three others are recommended for suspension," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-effects-bootleggers-having-a-field-day-821832.html
05-04-2020||State||Karnataka COVID-19 tally climbs to 151||Seven new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the state on Sunday. Five were linked to the Tablighi congregation, taking Karnataka’s tally of positive cases to 151. The five Tablighi Jamaat cases comprise three women and two men. They had attended the Jamaat event and four of them hail from Raibag in Belagavi. The fifth individual (patient 151), is a man from Ballari who was also declared by the government health officials as asymptomatic. He is currently being isolated at the MDRS in Alipur of Belagavi district.  The other four cases are - a 36-year old woman (patient 148), a man aged 40, a woman aged 41 and a 67-year-old woman. The other positive cases were in Bengaluru. They had flown in from Dubai on March 22 and were being quarantined at the Akash Institute of Medical Sciences, because they both fell into Category B (owing to the fact that they were over the age of 60). They were also revealed to be asymptomatic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-151-821838.html
05-04-2020||State||Karntaka to conduct 80,000 novel coronavirus tests in 3 weeks||The COVID-19 task force aims to conduct 80,000 throat swab and blood tests over the next three weeks. According to Dr C N Manjunath, nodal officer for the task force, an order for 1 lakh anti-body test kits has been placed, and is expected to arrive on April 12. "From January 20 to March 23, more than 1.2 lakh people arrived from international airports. Of these, we have kept 37,358 under observation," he said, adding that health officials and personnel in fever clinics and hospitals are being trained to conduct the tests. "There is no necessity to obtain a clearance to test people with suspected infection. Only laboratories need to get permission to test their blood and throat swab samples."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karntaka-to-conduct-80000-novel-coronavirus-tests-in-3-weeks-821849.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||18 new coronavirus cases in Karnataka; seven from Mysuru||Out of the 18 cases, seven are from Mysuru, four from Bengaluru, two from Dakshina Kannada, two from Bagalkot, one each from Udupi and Hosapete. One patient, who is from Kochi, had gone to Germany and is presently quarantined in Bengaluru. Four of the seven cases from Mysuru involve people who travelled to Delhi in January, much before the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the national capital. The four patients, residents of Shahdara in Delhi, arrived in Bengaluru’s Yeshwantpur on January 27. “They were a group of 11 who arrived in the city and then travelled to Mysuru. When the Tablighi Jamaat congregation contact tracing happened, they too were traced and quarantined in Mysuru. When their samples were taken, they tested positive,” said an IAS officer involved in contact tracing. Asked if they had possibly contracted the infection at the quarantine facility in Mysuru, where they were housed with COVID-19 suspected cases, the official said he cannot jump to conclusions. “Somebody came to pick them up in Bengaluru. We are yet to trace that person,” he said. There are two other patients in Mysuru but the department has no details about them. “Detailed investigation is under way,” the official said. Two people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi tested positive on Saturday. “Out of 144 COVID-19 cases in the state, 16 got infected at the Jamaat,” said S Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, who is the COVID-19 spokesperson in the state. Among the eight other cases, Patient 129 is a 21-year-old from Bengaluru who worked for P58. P130 is a 57-year-old from the city who is P58’s father. P131 is the son of P101. “P101’s daughter-in-law had gone abroad. But she has tested negative,” Kumar said. P132 returned from Dubai on March 17. P133 is from Kochi who had gone to Germany. With this, Bengaluru Urban now has 55 cases, Mysuru 28, Dakshina Kannada 12 and Bidar 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/18-new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-seven-from-mysuru-821520.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S YEdiyurappa appeals to public to adhere to COVID-19 lockdown||Expressing concern over the gradual increase in cases of COVID-19, Yediyurappa said the damage caused by the virus worldwide is known to everyone and accordingly the Prime Minister has announced nationwide lockdown till April 14. "In our state too the number of coronavirus patients is increasing in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Bidar, Kalaburagi. Besides shutting down borders, prayers at all religious places have been stopped and various other measures have been taken to prevent the COVID-19 from spreading further," the Chief Minister said in a statement. He said people have to understand the importance of lockdown as the disease was dangerous for the country. According to the health department, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 146.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-appeals-to-public-to-adhere-to-covid-19-lockdown-821702.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Elderly couple test positive for COVID-19: Total now 146 in Karnataka||An elderly couple from Bengaluru with a travel history to Dubai joined the list of coronavirus patients in the state, taking the total number of cases to 146, the health department said on Sunday. The list includes four deaths and 11 discharges. The 68-year old man and his 62-year old wife, hailing from Madiwala in the city, had returned from Dubai on March 22.   They were quarantined at a private hospital and have been asymptomatic. Meanwhile, the government appealed to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Congregation in New Delhi to contact 080-29711171 Arogya Sahayavani, the medical helpline number.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/elderly-couple-test-positive-for-covid-19-total-now-146-in-karnataka-821705.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Deve Gowda assures PM of support in fight against COVID-19||Gowda tweeted that Modi had called him on Sunday to discuss the COVID-19 situation and in response he agreed to cooperate with him in the fight against the viral disease. "Hon'ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called me today to discuss about the #COVID19 situation. Hon'ble PM praised my administrative experience and requested my support. I have assured him of my support in our Nation's fight against the pandemic," the 86-year old JD(S) leader tweeted. He also that thousands of people were dying across the world due to the virus and the coming weeks were crucial for India in its fight against the disease. "As a Former Prime Minister I agreed to cooperate in the fight against #Coronavirus that has devastated not only our country but also the whole world," he stated in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/deve-gowda-assures-pm-of-support-in-fight-against-covid-19-821780.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||47 international travellers test negative, discharged||A release from the hospital said the "47 suspected COVID-19 patients" were international travellers returning from 6 countries and one of them was of Australian domicile. "The (suspected) patients were admitted on March 15. All the patients, initially, had very mild symptoms of cold and fever. But after testing, they were found to be COVID-negative," the release said. The hospital said an isolation ward was set up and a dedicated team of in-house doctors, nurses and supervisors was provided to those quarantined for the past 16 days. To a question, a spokesperson from the hospital agreed that the 16-day quarantine was not enough. "They will be placed under home quarantine for the next 14 days," he said, adding that they were quarantined on account of their travel history and not due to "suspicion of being infected with Coronavirus". "Twelve of them are from different states, including Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Maharashtra. They will be accommodated at a hotel in Sadashivanagar. The remaining will stay home," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/47-international-travellers-test-negative-discharged-821800.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Workers wage daily war for survival during lockdown: survey||More than a week after Karnataka entered lockdown, the disruption of the working class’ livelihood is pushing them to penury. A latest survey of the situation shows that 56% of the respondents were surviving with no income at all. The survey, a collaborative effort of trade unions by the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), domestic and garment workers’ union,  besides women’s organisations, is the second part of the study on the impact of lockdown on daily, weekly and monthly wagers. It comes about a week after the first report, which warned the government about the consequences of a lockdown. More than 93% of the respondents in the survey said they stayed back in the city either due to the lack of transport arrangements or for the fear that they may spread the virus in rural areas. The survey stated that 83% of the respondents have completely stopped work and those still working were primarily from healthcare and sanitation sectors. “Among those we surveyed, 65% said that their livelihood had fully or partially been affected. This is a near 22% increase from the previous round,” it said. Only 32% of the respondents could manage to stretch their previous week’s wages or last month’s salary to make ends meet and 20% said they have to borrow money.  This condition is exacerbated by the fact that migrant workers do not have ration cards. At a time when even the card holders are finding it difficult to  get rations from PDS shops, the lockdown has hit them further. Worryingly, the survey found that pregnant women, young mothers and children who used to get nutritious food under various programmes have stopped receiving it. With March coming to an end, even salaried workers expressed helplessness in meeting the expenses next month and 32% had no answer on how they were managing currently. “The lack of any state support for poor and working classes in the city is evident from the fact that 83% had no income support from the state through any programmes or schemes. This absence of a safety net was mitigated by turning to social and kinship networks under ordinary circumstances. This is not easily available now,” thereport noted. The report included several recommendations to the government, including providing food through mobile vans, opening cooked food centres and door delivery of foodgrains and other materials. It also sought financial support of Rs 1,000 for each of the affected and said Karnataka should issue an order like Maharashtra, suspending collection of house rents next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/workers-wage-daily-war-for-survival-during-lockdown-survey-821804.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rural water supply project awaits break from COVID-19||Mysuru, Hassan and Gadag are likely to be among districts where the government’s ambitious “Mane Manege Gange” scheme to provide tap water connection to 10 lakh households will be rolled out. But work on this scheme will start only after the coronavirus situation eases, officials said.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had announced this scheme in his March 5 Budget. It will be taken up under the Centre’s “Jal Jeevan Mission.” The state government has earmarked Rs 1,100 crore for the project and half of this will come from the Centre.  While the project will pan over four years, the government has targeted providing tap water connection to 10 lakh rural households in 2020-21. A team from the state government will head to Delhi later this month, if the COVID-19 lockdown is relaxed, to present an action plan on how the scheme will be implemented.  “We’re prioritising those districts that already have multi-village water supply schemes,” Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Principal Secretary L K Atheeq said, listing Mysuru, Chamarajnagar, Hassan and Gadag as examples. “Ultimately, we need a sustainable water source.”  Over the years, Karnataka has implemented 477 multi-village schemes as they are seen as cheap and more effective in providing water supply. They range in size and complexity covering a small group of villages or hundreds of them widely scattered. The schemes rely on water sources that are local (tubewells) and remote (canals or rivers). Of the 477, some 45 have become dysfunctional due to design flaws as they relied on unsustainable water sources.  Simultaneously, the government will go ahead with its Jaladhare project, which aims to find a “permanent solution to the drinking water problem.”  With this project, the government is looking to shift from groundwater-based supply to surface water-based supply. To begin with, the project will be taken up in Vijayapura and Mandya at a cost of Rs 700 crore. Authorities have identified the Almatti and Narayanpura reservoirs as the source in Vijayapura and the KRS in Mandya. Atheeq explained the difference between Mane Mange Gange and Jaladhare thus: “As long as we provide functional household tap connection, it is Mane Mange Gange. Jaladhare will be bulk supply of water for villages requiring creation of new infrastructure.”  Karnataka has 60,248 rural habitations across 28,970 villages. For drinking water, about 48,000 habitations depend on borewells that are not reliable and have quality issues. Some 11,900 habitations depend on multi-village water supply schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rural-water-supply-project-awaits-break-from-covid-19-821813.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Diploma courses losing sheen, have few takers||Once the most sought-after courses for the students after SSLC in the state, diploma programmes, these days, have few takers. The data available with Department of Technical Education for the last five years shows a considerable decrease in the number of admissions between 2015-16 to 2019-20.  Despite various student-friendly schemes introduced by the department like free education to SC/ST students, children of HIV infected and soldiers and free laptops for students, many are not showing any interest in taking up diploma courses. “Even we are surprised with this dip in admissions. Various schemes introduced by the department have failed to attract the students to the diploma courses. After the Covid-19 crisis we are planning to conduct a survey to know the reason for dip in diploma admissions,” said a senior official of the department. Senior faculties working with diploma colleges said, “One of the reasons for dip in admissions is students taking to pre-university course route to join professionalcourses.” The number of students enrolled for diploma courses in the 2015-16 academic year was 61,000 and this number came down to 41,732 during 2019-20. There are over 85 government, 44 aided and 170 private unaided diploma colleges in state. Even 13 government engineering and 9 aided engineering colleges offer diploma courses. “In the last five years, at least 50% of the seats are falling vacant,” said an official. However, compared to aided and unaided colleges, government diploma colleges are managing good enrollment. In the 2019-20 academic year, 22,095 seats were available at government colleges. Of which, 15,802 seats were filled as against only 19,585 seats of 47,524 seats at private unaided colleges were filled||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/diploma-courses-losing-sheen-have-few-takers-821817.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No flowery touch to Cupid tales in COVID-19 season||There are many tales of love in the time of COVID-19, but it is not reflected in the lives of floriculture farmers whose produce was a key ingredient of such passions. As the lockdown put an end to celebrations, the floriculture sector in Karnataka whose annual turnover is estimated at about Rs 500 crore, is staring at tonnes of flowers withering away in the last few days. Karnataka is one of the top five states when it comes to floriculture with data from the National Horticulture Board showing close to 32,000 hectares under flower cultivation. Apart from Bengaluru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, farmers in several arid districts of north Karnataka earn their livelihood by selling cut flowers and lose flowers. However, over the last one month exports have seen a gradual fall while the lockdown put an end to all the sales as marriages, festivals and other celebrations had to be cancelled. Horticulture Department joint director M Vishwanath, who is also the Managing Director of International Flower Auction Centre, said rose, chrysanthemum, gerbera, orchids grown in poly houses account for most of the exports while lose flowers are sold in the local markets and neighbouring states. “Farmers cultivating in poly houses spend about Rs 1.2 to Rs 1.5 lakh per acre every month as regular maintenance of crops. These are plants that require regular maintenance as any delay means the farmer has to start from zero by investing in new plants,” he said. Officials in the department said the annual turnover from floriculture is estimated at about Rs 500 crore. “It is the livelihood of lakhs of people, most of whom are not even included in our statistics. Since flowers are not essential commodities, the sudden end of trade means they have nothing to do, but dump their flowers,” a senior official said. Srikanth Bollapalli, a floriculturist from Tubugere in Doddaballapur taluk, said he was throwing away flowers worth Rs 10 lakh every day. “I have a poly house on 35 acres, of which 10 acres is leased land. I have to pay the monthly lease fee of about Rs 50,000 per acre. On top of it, I spend Rs 1.2 lakh per acre for fertilisers, labour and other inputs. My monthly revenue has down come from Rs 80 lakh to near zero,” he said. The tale of small farmers is much worse, said activist Anjaneya Reddy from Chikkaballapur. “ People may buy some fruits and vegetables. But who has time for flowers,” he said, adding that the government was yet to take note of the situation. An official from the Indian Institute of Horticulture Research noted that the lockdown will also affect lakhs of labourers who work on such farms. “Though the peak season for floriculture is December to February, the sector employs lakhs of labourers for several months in a year. The lockdown in India and other parts of the world will wipe out most of their jobs for the next two months,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-flowery-touch-to-cupid-tales-in-covid-19-season-821834.html
05-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Asymptomatic cases up fear of COVID-19’s new phase||Patient 145 and Patient 146 had flown into KIA from Dubai on March 22. The couple, aged 68 and 62 respectively, had been quarantined at the Akash Institute of Medical Sciences nearthe KIA. The third case, Patient 151, is a 41-year-old man in Ballari who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation from March 13 to 18. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has described him as ‘asymptomatic’ to date. The first two cases were found to be positive at the end of their quarantine cycles, shortly before they were due for discharge from the institute, said Dr Kailash N, the Medical Superintendent at the institute.  Jawaid Akhtar, the Principal Secretary, Health, said that samples of the Akash institute cases had been sent for detailed analysis and that the results were expected on April 12. “Only then, will we know about the details of these cases,” he said. Akhtar added that there was one previous such asymptomatic, but positive, case in Bengaluru.  These four cases present the possibility that undiagnosed, asymptomatic individuals could further spread the disease. Akhtar said that the government is trying to scale up its testingtargets.  “We are taking swabs from all primary contacts of the positive patients and we are also testing those afflicted with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness in all hospitals and this is due to the discovery of one case. This was a man who had been admitted for a lung-related illness at a hospital and when his samples were sent for tests, the result turned out to be positive,” he said. Health Commissioner Pankaj Pandey said virologists had informed the government of the danger of undiagnosed asymptomatic people and how they could spread the infection further. “It is because of this that we ask people to come forward and report any symptoms. We, like the state of Kerala, are also adopting a policy to conduct rapid testing in order to catch these cases,” he said. Bagalkot case The development follows closely in the wake of another case in Bagalkot on April 3, a 75-year-old man who was apparently asymptomatic, but tested positive. However, Akhtar said this case could not be clubbed with these recent asymptomatic cases, because the man had other co-morbidity issues.   “That case is being investigated and contact tracing is underway,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/asymptomatic-cases-up-fear-of-covid-19-s-new-phase-821836.html
05-04-2020||West||Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India pledge 45,000 hotel rooms for quarantining inbound tourists||The Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI), through member hotels, has offered the government access to over 45,000 hotel rooms from across India, in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown.  Alongside, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), which is the regional arm of apex hospitality association, through its restaurant members has been offering meals, food packets and meal preparation facilities, besides distributing dry rations for the needy.  The rooms are set aside to quarantine inbound tourists who may require quarantining as well as for others who are stuck in the country because of the travel ban.  The rooms are also open for doctors and health care workers who are unable to commute from their homes while doing a splendid job of fighting the pandemic.  The hotels range from five-stars to standalone properties and have been selected based on the cluster regions identified by the Government authorities. “The association has appealed to its member hotels and restaurants to fully co-operate with the government officials and to support the cause. The hospitality industry has been on the frontline during this pandemic and is offering its full support to the government in the effort to control the spread of the virus. FHRAI through its regional Associations is offering meals as well as has voluntarily offered rooms all over India via our member hotels and restaurants,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, Vice President, FHRAI and President, HRAWI. The means are distributed in partnership with the State Governments and local authorities apart from various NGOs.  In Mumbai alone, member hotels and restaurants of the HRAWI are assisting in preparation and distribution of 2 lakh meals per day in conjunction with the State Government and local authorities. “In the Western region, the HRAWI has mobilized as many of its member restaurants to provide meals to over 5 lakh people who are in need. The industry and its players have opened their doors and hearts to support the people at the Central, State and local authorities to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. We have advised our members to take all precautionary measures and maintain the highest levels of cleanliness and hygiene. We have also been sharing all the updated advisories as received from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to members,” concludes Kohli. Hotel and restaurant members of HRAWI - which include the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa and the UTs of Diu Daman and Silvassa - are chipping in to help and support the affected in the smaller cities and towns of these States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/federation-of-hotel-restaurant-associations-of-india-pledge-45000-hotel-rooms-for-quarantining-inbound-tourists-821549.html
05-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Goa beaches deserted, but no respite for lifeguards||Jadhav and other lifeguards have to be present on duty as they need to keep an eye on occasional visitors and locals who venture into the sea. "The present scenario is like what we witness during the monsoon months. However, an emergency can arise any time so we continue to be on guard, Jadhav, who guards the Calangute-Baga beach stretch in North Goa district, told PTI. While the coastal state is under lockdown to check the spread of the deadly coronavirus, lifeguards of Drishti Marine, a private agency, still go out to work as on any other normal day. "I monitor the weather and sea conditions to assess the rip currents and tides. We put up red flags along the beaches to indicate the shoreline is not open for swimming and I continue to patrol the stretch. If I see people venturing into the waters, I ask them to go back home," Jadhav said. Drishti Marin's Executive Director Ravi Shankar is also busy ensuring that their lifeguard services continue amid the current situation. "There is an eco-system still existing along the Goa beaches, including fishermen, locals whose houses are located at the shore, tourists stranded at beach resorts and seasonal beach shack employees for whom the beach is their home. Some people come to the beaches in the morning and evening to have respite from the summer heat," he said. There have been some incidents of people venturing into the sea for a dip. In such cases, the lifeguards ask the swimmers to return to the shore and go back home, he said. "Over the last few weeks, we have been sensitising our lifeguards and staff about the do's and don'ts as prescribed by the WHO and theGoa health department. Training sessions have been conducted for the 450-strong lifeguard force to educate them about COVID-19 and dispel myths," he said. Every lifeguard tower his equipped with masks, gloves, hand wash, soaps and sanitisers so that lifeguards can regularly sanitise themselves, Shankar said. The lifeguards have been asked to maintain a distance of two metres with others at all times and to actively use whistles and hailers to give instructions to people present on the beaches, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-goa-beaches-deserted-but-no-respite-for-lifeguards-821562.html
05-04-2020||West||COVID-19 patient dies in Jaipur hospital||An 82-year-old coronavirus positive man died at the state-run SMS Hospital here on Sunday even as Rajasthan recorded five more cases of the virus, an official said.  The virus has so far claimed five lives in the state.  "An 82-year-old man died at SMS Hospital in Jaipur today. He was admitted yesterday. Further details are awaited. Six new cases have come up, including the patient who died," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said.  He said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 210.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-dies-in-jaipur-hospital-821566.html
05-04-2020||West||14 new COVID-19 cases in Gujarat; tally jumps to 122  ||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat has jumped to 122 with 14 new patients being reported from the state, an official said on Sunday. Out of the 14 new cases, 10 have a direct or indirect link to the religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month, Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said. Of the total cases in the state, 72 are of local transmission, 33 patients have foreign travel history and 17 have inter-state travel history, she said. So far, 17 patients have been discharged after recovery, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/14-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-tally-jumps-to-122-821580.html
05-04-2020||West||61-yr-old COVID-19 patient dies in Surat; Gujarat toll reaches 11||"The woman was admitted to hospital on Saturday in a condition where it was difficult to save her," Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said. On Saturday, a 67-year-old woman died at hospital in Ahmedabad, while on Friday, two coronavirus patients succumbed, including a 78-year-old man in Vadodara and a 67- year-old man in Ahmedabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/61-yr-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-surat-gujarat-toll-reaches-11-821581.html
05-04-2020||West||COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra jump to 661; 26 new patients||As many as 26 new coronavirus patients were reported from Maharashtra on Sunday, taking the total such cases in the state to 661, a health official said. Out of the 26 cases, 17 were reported from Pune, four from its neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad township, three from Ahmednagar and two from Aurangabad, he said. Asked about any new cases from Mumbai, the official said, The figures are being verified, hence Mumbai figures will be released later." So far, 32 people in the state have died of coronavirus while 52 people have been discharged after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-jump-to-661-26-new-patients-821586.html
05-04-2020||West||Pune: Dead woman's test samples found coronavirus positive||Samples of a 60-year-old woman who was brought dead to a state-run hospital here in Maharashtra have tested positive for coronavirus, an official said on Sunday. The woman, who had some co-morbid conditions,was recently discharged from Naidu hospital in Pune city after she tested negative for coronavirus there. "On Saturday early morning, the woman was brought to the Sassoon Hospital where she was declared brought dead. After realising that she had gone to Naidu Hospital where she tested negative for coronavirus, we took fresh samples and sent them for tests which came out positive," Sassoon Hospital's Dean Dr Ajay Chandanwale said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-dead-womans-test-samples-found-coronavirus-positive-821588.html
05-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Gujarat firm makes low cost ventilators in 10 days||As the world is facing shortage of medical equipment to fight the coronavirus, a Rajkot-based company has developed low cost ventilators in just 10 days and will deliver 1,000 of these machines to the Gujarat government-run hospitals in next few days. The ventilator, developed by a private company, was tested at a medical lab of the Ahmedabad civil hospital and given an approval on Friday night, an official said. The locally developed ventilator is being used for patients from Saturday, he said, adding that the machine is working fine. The entire world is fighting the silent enemy coronavirus and is facing shortage of equipment like ventilators, N95 masks and PPE suits for doctors, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Saturday. "When we have skills and big industries here, the Gujarat government decided to use it. Rajkot is considered as an engineering hub. Small scale industries of Rajkot supply engineering parts to NASA, ISRO, Railways and for defence production, Rupani said. "I am happy to announce that an industrialist from Rajkot has been successful in manufacturing ventilators in just 10 days. They designed it, made a prototype, procured parts and successfully built ventilators. Their testing has been done and certification has been completed. It is being used on patients from Saturday," he told reporters. Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who is also Gujarat's health minister, said the company, Jyoti CNC Automation Limited, has not only passed engineering requirements for the machine but also successfully cleared medical requirements at the testing lab. "Chief Minister Rupani took special interest and invited industries to come forward and help to fight this global threat. He did regular follow-ups with the industry and assured and provided all help so that ventilators can be indigenously manufactured," Patel said. Jyoti CNC has decided to donate first 1,000 ventilators to the Gujarat government, he said. The company's owner Prakaramsinh Jadeja said they were given the task which was difficult to achieve in this period of lockdown. "A team of nearly 150 people has been working day and night for last 10 days to develop a 'Made in India' ventilator. Due to the lockdown and ban on international travel and goods movement, we cannot procure any parts from abroad. So we procured the ventilator parts from 26 different companies in India, Jadeja said. The ventilator developed by the company has been named as 'Dhaman 1', which is the base model and fulfils the requirement of COVID-19 patients, he said, adding that later more advanced models will be developed. Jadeja said the market cost of a single ventilator is Rs 6.5 lakh, but they have been able to manufacture it at a cost below Rs one lakh. "We will donate 1,000 ventilators to the Gujarat government. We have got the capacity of manufacturing 100 ventilators per day and after three days, we will ramp up the capacity as per the demand," he said. "Many state governments are in touch with us and after providing ventilators to Gujarat, we will supply it to other states," he added. Till Saturday, Gujarat reported 108 cases of coronavirus and 10 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-firm-makes-low-cost-ventilators-in-10-days-821599.html
05-04-2020||West||Maharashtra Police calls for additional manpower to enforce lockdown||Maharashtra Police personnel on deputation in the CID and ACB have now been called for regular duties as the state police force is facing a shortage of manpower in its efforts to strictly enforce the lockdown. Maharashtra Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal issued an order recently, directing the Crime Investigation Department (CID), the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Protection of Civil Rights (PCR) cell, considered as non- regular units, to release the personnel on deputation there. These personnel have been asked to report to their respective police units immediately. Personnel of these special units are appointed on deputation from the state police force. "Additional manpower is required to maintain law and order in the state and to enforce the lockdown amid the increasing coronavirus cases," a police official said. In its order, the DGP office said the coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in the state, hence preventive measures are needed to be taken immediately. "The current staff available with Commissioners of Police and Superintendents of Police is falling short and hence all non-executive staff and officials should be released as per the need," the order said. There are nearly 2.20 lakh personnel on Maharashtra Police rolls, including the 10 per cent staff serving in the CID, ACB and PCR. After the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of coronavirus, the entire police staff was deployed for its enforcement. Units of the Homeguard were also roped in for field duties to share the burden at various places. However, there is still a shortage of security personnel for bandobast duties as the existing police force is stretched to its limits, the official said. Deployment of additional force could be an indication that the 21-day lockdown period may get extended, if not in the entire state but in specific areas that would require more security measures, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-police-calls-for-additional-manpower-to-enforce-lockdown-821601.html
05-04-2020||West||Pune: Samples of two dead persons found coronavirus positive||Samples of a 60-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man who died here in Maharashtra on Saturday have come out positive for coronavirus, an official said on Sunday. The woman, who had some co-morbid conditions,was recently discharged from Pune's Naidu hospital after she tested negative for coronavirus there. "On Saturday early morning, the woman was brought to the Sassoon Hospital where she was declared brought dead. After realising that she had gone to Naidu Hospital where she tested negative for coronavirus, we took fresh samples and sent them for tests which came out positive," Sassoon Hospital's Dean Dr Ajay Chandanwale said. Besides, a man who was admitted to the Sassoon Hospital also died on Saturday. "His samples were sent for testing. The results came out positive late Saturday evening. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension," Dr Chandanwale said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-samples-of-two-dead-persons-found-coronavirus-positive-821605.html
05-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: No new COVID-19 case in Goa; state tally 7||No new coronavirus case has been found in Goa as results of 18 fresh samples have come out negative, an official said on Sunday. The coastal state has so far reported seven COVID-19 cases. There has been no death related to the viral infection. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said 18 samples were tested at the Goa Medical College and Hospitals laboratory on Saturday. "All the tests have come out negative," he said. The state has set up a special hospital at Margao in South Goa district for the treatment of coronavirus patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-no-new-covid-19-case-in-goa-state-tally-7-821656.html
05-04-2020||West||COVID-19 victim's kin claim admission refusal by Kasturba hospital||Family members of a 71-year-old man from Vakola in Mumbai who died of coronavirus infection on Friday have claimed that civic-run Kasturba Hospital had refused to admit him when they failed to provide his travel history. One of the two sons of the deceased said on Sunday that family members came to know about the exact cause of the death only after local police informed them. "We first admitted my father to a civic-run facility after he complained of uneasiness on March 24. But as his health did not improve, we took him to a private doctor in Vakola," he said. He claimed that the family members approached a civic-run facility in Santacruz (east) last Thursday, but authorities there asked them to rush the man to Kasturba Hospital in south Mumbai. "They provided us an ambulance," he said. He said when they reached Kasturba Hospital, the nodal facility for COVID-19 cases in Mumbai, we were asked to provide travel history of the patient. "When we failed to provide travel history, they refused to admit my father," he claimed. I and my brother rushed my father to KEM Hospital on a two-wheeler on Thursday itself. "My father's treatment started on a bench at KEM Hospital. On one occasion he fell from a stretcher. Next day he was declared dead," he said. He claimed that no one from the hospital informed the family members that the man had died of COVID-19. "We came to know only after local police informed us," he claimed. The man was buried in the early hours of Sunday, he said, adding that they had not received any document stating the exact cause of death. Meanwhile, Shoeb Khatib, trustee of Bada Kabrastan in Marine Lines, said, "We were informed by hospital that he is a COVID-19 patient, hence we allowed his family members to bury him with all precautionary measures". Confirming that the deceased was a COVID-19 patient, a KEM Hospital official said that documents will be provided to his kin. A civic body official said that family members of the deceased have been quarantined and contact tracing is on. Kasturba Hospital officials cannot be contacted. Mumbai alone has reported 406 COVID-19 cases so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-victims-kin-claim-admission-refusal-by-kasturba-hospital-821668.html
05-04-2020||West||Uddhav Thackeray to take Council route||Maharashtra is witnessing a never-seen-before kind of a political situation. Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray was sworn in the Maharashtra Chief Minister on November 28, 2018. Uddhav, who is the unanimous leader of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government, is not a legislator and needs to get elected by May 28, 2020. From beginning, the 59-year-old Uddhav had two options - either be a member of the Assembly or Council. Uddhav had preferred the route to the Upper House. But now, there is a peculiar situation. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak and need for social distancing, the Election Commission of India, last week, deferred elections to nine seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Nine members of the Council, for which the electoral college is Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, are retiring on April 24, 2020. But MVA leaders are not worried. And they refuse to share any details. There are some immediate solutions. Two Council seats from the Governor's quota are vacant as Ramrao Wadkute and Rahul Narvekar had resigned. If Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari gives his assent, Thackeray could continue. Both were associated with NCP and it would not be a problem for the Sharad Pawar-led NCP to give the seat to Shiv Sena. In another scenario, Thackeray resigns ahead of May 28 and is sworn in again as the CM.  But, it’s a tricky process as in the event of resignation of the head of government, the council of ministers is dissolved automatically. This has to be a smooth 24-hour operation as the BJP will leave no stones unturned to topple the government. As per Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, a minister, who is not a member of either Houses, will cease to be a minister on expiry of six months. However, there are various interpretation and judgements on the article.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-to-take-council-route-821704.html
05-04-2020||West||Maharashtra BJP MLA defies lockdown, calls people for birthday||A BJP MLA from Wardha district in Maharashtra on Sunday allegedly violated the lockdown norms by distributing dry ration to people at his residence to mark his birthday. Confirming the incident, Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) Harish Dharmik said the MLA, Dadarao Keche, will face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act. He said the MLA did not take any permission from administration in view of the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of novel coronavirus. At least one hundred people gathered outside the MLA's residence to receive free grains before officials and police personnel reached the spot and dispersed them. The MLA has denied the incident and said it was a "political conspiracy" against him by his opponents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-mla-defies-lockdown-calls-people-for-birthday-821737.html
05-04-2020||West||Surge in COVID-19 cases in Gujarat linked to Tablighi Jamaat meet||The number of positive coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 122 on Sunday with detection of 14 fresh cases which includes death of a 61-year-old woman. But, what is more, alarming is that the rise in cases is linked to Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. Officials said that eight peoples were found to have been infected with the virus directly, while there are at least a dozen cases that are suspected to have got the infection through the attendees of the congregation. On Saturday, local police and officers of health department traced 16 such people from Kalupur in Ahmedabad and isolated, out of which five were COVID-19 positive. Earlier in the day, principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi told media persons "Yesterday, we found three cases linked to Tablighi congregation. Apart from that, Ahmedabad has reported ten positive cases which were detected in the hotspot zones or those areas where Muslim brothers and sisters live in the majority. There is a big possibility that these cases are directly or indirectly connected to the Nizamuddin event."  Ahmedabad city, one of the hotspots of the virus spread in the country, is worst hit with 53 positive cases. The civic authorities have put five residential societies in Jamalpur, Dariapur, Rakhial and Danilimbda, all Muslim majority areas, under cluster containment.  Later in the day, Director General of Police, Shivanand Jha, said in his media briefing in Gandhinagar that till Sunday afternoon, police have traced 126 persons who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation at its headquarters in Nizamuddin, Delhi, out of which six were detected coronavirus positive. Jha said that all of them have been isolated and being treated as per the protocol. Out of six cases, five were detected in Ahmedabad and one case was found in Chotaudaipur district in central Gujarat which recorded its first case. Earlier, two persons had been found infected with the virus who had attended the event in Delhi. In Bhavnagar city limits, ten cases have been detected out of which nine are said to be result of local transmission suspected to have spread through the 70-year-old businessman who had attended the congregation.  "We have already isolated the whole locality that house more than 20,000 population," Bhavnagar municipal commissioner MA Gandhi told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-meet-821830.html
