06-04-2020||First Edit||New J&K rule in the time of COVID-19||The new domicile rules notified by the Centre last week have been met with opposition in Kashmir even in these restrained times. The abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A, effected on August 5 last year, had created fears among the people about a forced change in the demographic composition of the erstwhile state. But the government had allayed such fears. Last month, Prime Minister Modi had assured a delegation of the newly formed Jammu & Kashmir Apni Party about this. But even that party, which is thought to have the government’s blessings, has found the new domicile rules "totally unacceptable’’. The National Conference (NC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have opposed them. The rules will lead to loss of some rights and privileges the residents of all parts of the erstwhile state have enjoyed till now.  The new rules have diluted the 1954 law of the then state which had defined its permanent residents as subjects of the state at that time, their descendants and those who had lived and owned land there for 10 years before that. They have a widened the scope of the idea of domicile. Those who have lived there for 15 years, those who have studied there for seven years, written Class 10 or Class 12 examinations, their children and Central government officials who have served for 10 years and their children are now eligible to be domiciled. Migrants registered with the state will also be considered domiciles. That means domicile status is no longer an exclusive matter of birth. The provision that reserved only lower-level jobs for domiciles has since been dropped, following criticism, but the overall message is clear. The demographic protection and other rights related to land, jobs etc, enjoyed by the residents till now, do not look as strong as they were. The opening up of the erstwhile state to those outside its territory, as envisaged in the new rules, maybe slow but it is real. These are natural corollaries of the scrapping of the special status of Kashmir, and it was expected that the government would go in for them sooner or later. But the haste with which it issued the notification was a surprise. Unexpectedly, the move came at a time when the country and even Kashmir is preoccupied with the fight against COVID-19. The government also did not hold any consultations with the leaders or any representative body from Kashmir before finalising the rules, nor has it made any explanatory statement. There is bound to be a lot of unhappiness about this move in all parts of the erstwhile state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/new-jk-rule-in-the-time-of-covid-19-821853.html
06-04-2020||In Perspective||Frame law to end child trafficking ||Eight children were allegedly among the dead in the December 2019 fire at two bag-making factories in Delhi’s Anaj Mandi. Some of them were between the age group of 11 and 16 years and were trafficked from different districts of Bihar and employed in these illegal bag units. NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) filed a petition in the Delhi High Court claiming that an attempt was being made to cover up this incident of “child trafficking” and “child labour” which allegedly flourished right under the nose of police administration in the source and destination states.  Is a strong legislation the right answer? Can a strong legislation that integrates all the states and makes police accountable, the answer to the problem? Let’s understand this in the light of some incidents of the recent past.  Over the last four months, 169 child labourers, mostly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh, were rescued from different parts of Delhi, further strengthening the argument that we have failed to crush inter-state trafficking gangs.  A startling trend all these years has emerged that though the police is at the forefront of raid and rescue with NGOs, it does little to cripple trafficking routes from one state to another. It is high time we create a political consensus and explore a national legislation to effectively make our force more accountable.  Curious case of NCRB data: A curious feature of the 2018 data, in respect of Karnataka, according to the 2018 National Crime Research Bureau report, is that only two cases involving three children were filed.  This certainly borders on the ridiculous, especially when RTI responses are taken into account. Responses to BBA’s RTI applications, specifically in relation to Karnataka, reveal that 176 child trafficking cases were lodged in 2018. It is a clear case how we are at times even not carefully documenting crimes against our vulnerable children. Legislature should rise to the occasion. We should step up effort to provide legal security cover to our poor and downtrodden children. It is precisely with this aim before them that the executive, the legislature and the judiciary must act in tandem to devise and implement an over-arching law which would bring together other laws and instruments that seek to curb and, eventually, stop the crime.  Involving NIA, CBI may not be an ideal way to curb trafficking. In July 2019, the NIA was given the additional mandate to investigate human trafficking cases.  The CBI also has a similar function. But this may not be the right architecture to deal with a trafficking that has inter-state – and sometimes inter-country – dimensions and ramifications.  In the event of a fresh proposed legislation, the government of the day could consider establishing a ‘lean and mean’ new force whose remit would be to gather information/intelligence, investigate and prosecute cases of child trafficking.  This would isolate vested interests such as the police in the states who encourage or even benefit from the crime. Key proposals  The proposed legislation could, by raising the punishment level from seven to 10 or even 15 years, clamp down on traffickers by confiscating, attaching and seizing their property (procured through pecuniary gains from the crime), freezing their bank accounts and breaking up the networks at all levels, including links, if any, with the local police and the legal fraternity. There is a need to iron out differences over lapsed 2018 anti-Trafficking Bill. There are a slew of other provisions in the erstwhile Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill that could be replicated in a freshly-minted proposed legislation.  Last but certainly not the least is the misplaced concern (in respect of the 2018 Bill) that, should it be replicated now, it would not meet global standards.  Provided all stakeholders agree on and successfully iron out their differences on the lapsed Bill, a new provision could put India on the progressive map as a nation committed to end child trafficking.  Making India in line with global standards: This would also be in keeping with achieving the enviable objective of attaining the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) by 2030, especially when Goal 8.7 is related to the need to take immediate and effective measures to end forced labour, modern slavery and human trafficking.  Any move to institutionalise a new legislation would be in line with SDG 16.2 which seeks to end abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence and torture against children.  A new legislation, properly and squarely implemented, would push India to achieve the 2025 global target of ending child labour in all its forms.  (The writer is a Rajya Sabha Member and Convener, Parliamentary Forum on Children)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/frame-law-to-end-child-trafficking-821856.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Seven more test coronavirus positive in Mysuru||The number of coronavirus positive cases in Mysuru increased to 35 with seven more tested positive on Monday. Of seven, one is Dubai returned and three have Delhi travel history. Another two are contacts of Jubilant Pharma Company employees where several of its employees tested positive. All the victims are isolated in a designated hospital and their health condition is stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-mysuru-821994.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Seven test positive for COVID-19; tally rises to 35||A total of seven positive cases of COVID-19 was reported in a day, on Monday. With this, the number of victims has increased to 35 in Mysuru district. Out of seven persons, three have a history of travel to Delhi, one patient is Dubai-returned, while another patient is a brother of patient 104 (P104). Another victim is an employee of Jubilant Generics, a pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud. The details of another patient, is yet to be received, as per the report. Seven persons were tested positive on Saturday also. While five were residents of Delhi, the remaining two were employees of Jubilant Generics. The first case was confirmed on March 21. He is a man in his mid-30s, a resident of the city, who had traveled from Dubai to Bengaluru via Goa. He went to KR Hospital and got himself admitted on March 20. The second case was confirmed on March 23. He is a man in his mid-40s from Kerala, who had travelled from Dubai. He arrived at KIA from Dubai on March 22 and took a taxi to Mysuru. He too admitted himself for treatment at KR Hospital. Among the total 35, 23 persons are related to the Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Science.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-test-positive-for-covid-19-tally-rises-to-35-822091.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Couple's new journey begins at Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border amid coronavirus lockdown||A bride from Karnataka and a bridegroom from Tamil Nadu got married at a temple in Punajanuru, situated on Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border, on Sunday, due to the existing nationwide lockdown. Usha of Alur taluk, Hassan district, and Arvind from Coimbatore, were supposed to get married at Dharamsthala temple on April 5. As the lockdown is in place, Arvind could not enter Karnataka. Similarly, Usha and family, which left for Tamil Nadu, were stopped at Banahalli checkpost. Learning about this, members of the Namo Brigade convinced the officials and asked both Usha and Arvind to come to Punajanuru. They were married in a simple ceremony at Ganesha temple. After health screening, the couple was allowed to travel to Coimbatore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/couples-new-journey-begins-at-karnataka-tamil-nadu-border-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-822097.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus suspect goes missing in Mandya; creates panic||A man suspected of COVID-19 infection, escaped from the isolation ward of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), on Monday morning, creating panic among the people, for a while. However, he was traced near the Urdu School, at Shankara Mutt, after 20 minutes. The suspect is said to have been in contact with the 10 Muslim clerics, who had come from Delhi. He was kept in an isolation ward in MIMS. On Monday morning, he was missing. Superintendent of Police K Parashuram rushed to the spot. Additional SP V J Shobharani and others visited the hospital and conducted an enquiry. They also viewed the CCTV footage. The suspect was kept in quarantine in Malavalli. He was shifted to MIMS Hospital, after he complained of throat infection and breathing problems on Sunday night. The hospital staff found him missing on Monday morning and launched a search. He was later found near the Urdu School. He has again admitted to MIMS, said District Health Officer Dr H P Manchegowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-suspect-goes-missing-in-mandya-creates-panic-822098.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Leaders, people, allege politics in milk distribution to Tumakuru slums||As Tumkur Co-operative Milk Producers Union (Tumul) is distributing 95,000 litres of milk to slum dwellers each day, local politicians are vying to take the credit for it, allege people and certain leaders. The government has taken up this initiative against the backdrop of the dip in demand for milk in the district. But milk distribution has become highly politicised here. People's representatives are competing with each other to claim the credit for the move.  Tumakuru has 109 slums 'declared' by the government and 77 undeclared ones. In Tumakuru city alone, there are 26 declared and 16 undeclared slums. There are 22,769 huts in these 109 slums.   Local leaders and corporators are claiming credit for Tumul's move of distributing milk 'on behalf' of the government in order to gain political mileage from it now and in the future. Many wannabes are also in their midst preparing for a career in politics in the future by claiming credit for it.  Accusations of partialitiy In the city, one hears allegations that Mahanagara Palike members are being partial and distributing milk only to their followers. This allegation was made by a former deputy mayor.  In Gubbi, on Sunday, such alleged partiality shown by a town panchayat member had led to disgruntlement. She had supposedly taken a lot of milk with her but distributed less.  A JD(S) leader has also complained to the tahsildar that milk packet distribution is not being done in certain places at all. He alleged that because the MLA is a Congress member and Tumul director is a BJP follower, the whole exercise of milk distribution has become politicised. He claimed that milk is being supplied only to areas where there are BJP followers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leaders-people-allege-politics-in-milk-distribution-to-tumakuru-slums-822105.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Consignment from China cause for outbreak in N'gud'||MLA B Harshavardhan on Monday alleged that a consignment from China, transported in a cold storage to Jubilant Generics, may have resulted in the outbreak of Covid-19 in Nanjangud. Speaking to reporters here, the MLA said, "The company had a consignment transported in a cold storage in the month of March. The goods may have carried coronovirus and infected the employees of the company." The first Covid-19 case from the company was initially treated at a private hospital. When he developed severe health issues, he was shifted to K R Hospital where he tested positive for Covid-19, he said. "I have brought all the matters to the notice of  District In-charge Minister V Somanna," the MLA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/consignment-from-china-cause-for-outbreak-in-ngud-822147.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Area around Malavalli declared COVID-19 containment zone||As the Delhi-based clerics who visited the town tested positive for COVID-19, Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh declared that the 3 km area around Malavalli town is a containment zone, as there are possibilities of the spread of the disease. The DC paid a visit to the Eidgah maidan in the town and held a meeting with SP K Parashuram and other officials at the Travellers Bungalow. "The clerics had stayed at a mosque in Ward 7. Along with seven people, who were in contact with him, around 36 people have been kept under quarantine. The samples of seven people have been sent for tests and the results are awaited," the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/area-around-malavalli-declared-covid-19-containment-zone-822156.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Prajwal Revanna, Preetham Gowda lock horns over illegal liquor sale during lockdown||A verbal spat ensued between MP Prajwal Revanna and MLA Preetham J Gowda over illegal sales of liquor in the district, during a meeting, here, on Monday. Prajwal raised the issue during a meeting chaired by District In-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy, to discuss measures taken to combat coronavirus, in the district. Prajwal took to task the SP and the Excise Commissioner for not taking action on a bar, belonging to a BJP worker, for selling liquor during the lockdown. Preetham Gowda intervened and complained that the MP has been issuing statements to the media, that the bar belongs to the MLA's close aide. They started referring to each other in singular terms, when the minister and others tried to pacify them. The minister directed the officials to seal the liquor shops and take action if there is any difference in the stock, after opening the seal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prajwal-revanna-preetham-gowda-lock-horns-over-illegal-liquor-sale-during-lockdown-822157.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||House collapses in Halebid||Parts of Mysuru city and district, Chamarajanagar town and surrounding areas, Gundlupet taluk, Halebid and parts of Hassan district, experienced rain for around 30 minutes, bringing respite from the scorching heat, on Sunday night. Halebid received rain for an hour. A tiled-house collapsed at Gonisomanahalli near Halebid, Hassan district, due to rain on Sunday night. All utensils and foodgrains were destroyed. However, no casualty was reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/house-collapses-in-halebid-822160.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||SWR comes to rescue of needy, serves essentials||The Hubballi division of the South Western Railway, along with the IRCTC, have reached out to the needy people serving them with provision of food packets, ration package, and other essential items. Staff, officers and their families have joined hands to feed the hungry. The division has done commendable work during the crisis by distributing around 9,800 food packets since the beginning of lockdown to the stranded and the homeless labourers, jobless porters, slum dwellers and other needy persons in and around various stations across the division. From March 29 to April 5 the Hubballi Division has supplied daily about 1,225 free meals to the needy people. This has been done by personal contribution of staff, officers and group efforts, involving women welfare organizations and the NGOs. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel are not only ensuring the distribution of food packets, but they are voluntarily sponsoring food to the needy people. RPF Vasco–Da–Gama distributed bread and tea to 162 needy people at the Vasco station on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/swr-comes-to-rescue-of-needy-serves-essentials-822206.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Indonesians booked for violating Foreigners Act||City Police have filed cases against 10 Indonesian nationals for violating Foreigners Act and have confiscated their passports on Monday. Ten Indonesians had come on tourist visa, but had been carrying out religious activities. They had attended religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat at New Delhi and had later come to the city. They have been quarantined in a mosque here. Cases were booked against them for violating the Foreigners Act, Police Commissioner B S Lokesh Kumar informed DH. Mal-Maruti police filed cases against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/indonesians-booked-for-violating-foreigners-act-822216.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fishermen accused of violating lockdown, assaulted||A group has allegedly assaulted four fishermen near Bidari in Mudhol taluk saying that they were roaming around despite the lockdown order clamped to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. A video of the incident has gone viral. Hussain Sab, his son Hasim, Kiran and Rakesh, all fishermen of Mahalingapur, who had gone to Ghataprabha river near Bidari have been assaulted by a group which came on bikes near the river bride. The bikers beat them with a stick charging that they were spreading the infection to others, during the lockdown period. In the video, the bikers were seen threatening them after receiving their mobile phone numbers. Meanwhile, SP Lokesh Jagalasar said that the police will not keep quiet if people take the law into their hands and spread hatred message on social media on the pretext of COVID-19.  He said the people can complain to the police if such incidents occur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fishermen-accused-of-violating-lockdown-assaulted-822258.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Poor wait for food, milk in Chikkaballapur||Several poor, homeless and destitutes in the city are facing difficulties to get food, following the lockdown order issued by the government. They said they are not even getting the additional milk from dairies which has to be distributed among the poor following the government's order. The milk is reaching the rich, the charged. It is learnt that the Chikkaballapur is getting 3,000 litres of milk per day for free distribution. It is supplied to 31 wards of the city through watermen. However, it is alleged that the City Municipal council members intervene in the milk distribution and distribute the milk to whoever they want. Despite this, some people are distributing grocery items to the needy in the city. But the government has failed to provide food or groceries for free of cost to the poor, destitute or to the homeless, several labourers charged. Sharadamma, a resident of Thippenahalli, said, "I was working at a hotel in the city. Recently, the hotel was closed following the lockdown. The hotel owner had asked me to go to my village. The people in our village don't want me to enter the village. I am into begging now." Mukthiyar, who was waiting for food near Indira Canteen, said, "I am working as a coolie. I don't have a job now. When I went to the Indira canteen for lunch, they are asking money for the food. I have spent all my earnings." When contacted, CMC Commissioner Lohith said, "Milk is being properly distributed in the city. Even we are distributing the food for those who have no food."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poor-wait-for-food-milk-in-chikkaballapur-822267.html
06-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||COVID-19: Siddaramaiah urges Karnataka CM to announce special package to help farmers, working class||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Siddaramaiah on Monday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappato announce a special package to help farmers, agriculture labourers and also working class in various sectors who are affected by the lockdown. Siddaramaiah put forthhis demands during a telephonic conversation and the Chief Minister positively responding to it informed that he will formulate a programme keeping in mind the suggestions made by the Opposition, a statement from the his office said. It said, the Chief Minister also spoke to Siddaramaiah regarding the government's decision to stop supply of free food for poor and needy through Indira Canteens. Siddaramaiahon Saturday had written to Yediyurappa urging him to utilise Indira Canteens efficiently and provide food for poor and needy until the coronavirus crisis and lockdown is over. The former Chief Minister's letter hadcome a day after the state government had decided not to provide free food at Indira Canteens as concerns were raised about the quality and misuse that was happening. It had however, decided continue to provide subsidised food- breakfast at Rs 5 and lunch and dinner at Rs 10, as usual. Yediyurappa during the phone conversation on Monday appraised Siddaramaiah that the decision to supply food by fixing a pricewas taken to stop misuse that was happening. Siddaramaiah however, insisted the government should provide food free of cost to the poor and need, by taking care that misuse doesn't happen. The senior Congress leader asked the Chief Minister to take action against errant officials who allowed misuse to happen, the statement said, adding that Yediyurappa has promised to look into it. Initially, the government last month had decided that the state subsidised Indira Canteens would provide food packets free of cost to the poor and needy in the wake of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/covid-19-siddaramaiah-urges-karnataka-cm-to-announce-special-package-to-help-farmers-working-class-821956.html
06-04-2020||Main Article||Racism on the rise; Ban use of ‘corona’, make learning about Northeast compulsory||Two students from Nagaland who happened to visit a supermarket in Mysore on March 25 were not allowed to enter it on the pretext that they were foreigners. Their plea that they were Indians and production of Aadhaar card, fell on deaf ears. After the matter went viral, four employees including the manager of the market were arrested.  Earlier, a man on a scooter passed lewd comments on a 25-year-old woman of Manipur when she was returning home after purchasing groceries on March 22 late evening in Mukherjea Nagar. On her objecting to his comments, he spat on her and drove away calling her “corona”. After she lodged a complaint with the police, the 40-year-old culprit was arrested and FIR lodged under Section 509 of IPC.  A few days earlier, a student hailing from the North-East was hit by a water balloon in Delhi University area and called “carona”. In yet another incident, a woman from Shillong was forced to leave a restaurant on Pandara Road just because others had a problem, suspecting her to be a carrier of coronavirus in blatant violation of Article 15 of the Constitution.  Nido Tania, a student from Arunachal Pradesh was beaten to death by a few goons following a fracas at a shop in Lajpat Nagar on January 30, 2014 (all these incidents happened in Delhi). The government ordered formation of the Bezbaruah Committee to look into the concerns of the people of N-E living in other parts of the country. The Committee has since submitted its report but further action is found wanting. Expressing concern over the spurt in crime against N-E people in Delhi, the Delhi High Court recommended in February 2014 that a study be carried out both by the Centre and the Delhi government either in tandem or separately to identify the problems so as to arrive at solutions. Such racial discrimination has been reported from Mumbai, Bengaluru and other parts of the country too. Meiyang Chang, an Indian actor, was called “corona” recently by two bikers when he went out for a morning walk in Mumbai. In Bengaluru, Higio Guntey, a student from Arunachal Pradesh, was tortured by his landlord on the pretext of his using too much water in March 2017.  With the rise in frequency of such incidents posing a serious problem, the Ministry of Home Affairs had to issue an advisory to all states to initiate serious legal action against such miscreants. The advisory further added that all law enforcement agencies should be sensitised to take “appropriate action in cases of harassment when they are reported.” How far the advisory would be implemented needs to be seen in the days to come. Most people even in metropolitan towns presume that people with Mongoloid features hail from other countries. The scant knowledge of N-E and their culture has led to unsavory incidents in the national capital and other parts of the country. Quite a few associations of the N-E people have sprung up in Delhi to protect the interests of the people of this region. Of the over seven lakh people from N-E residing in Delhi and the NCR, 86% have reported that they faced racial discrimination, 81% women have been sexually harassed while 23% women complained of molestation by their lascivious landlords. In 2018, as many as 4,500 distress calls were received in the exclusive helpline number for the N-E people by the Delhi Police. To a large extent, media stands to be blamed for the ignorance about N-E. Hardly any coverage to the happenings in that part of the region is telecast. It is only when security forces are ambushed and killed or when there is a political turmoil, some news trickle out from the region.  One has to just listen to the TV newsreaders pronouncing the names of the denizens particularly of Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland. It is amazing and atrocious. Amazing for the people of the rest of the country and hurting the sentiments of the people from these states. To bring about awareness of the N-E states, it is imperative that the geography, culture and history of these states are compulsorily taught in the schools, though the National Council of Educational Research and Training claims that text books at every level from Class 3 onwards include substantial mention of N-E.  Youth camps and NCC camps as well as national level games should be held in one of these states every alternate year. Most public schools arrange trips of students to other countries during vacations. They should be encouraged to arrange vacation trips to N-E. When they do not know their own country well, there is no point going abroad. Little faith People of N-E have very little faith in Delhi Police. Some 80% of N-E shy away from approaching the police because of their behaviour and attitude. The remaining 20% felt uncomfortable whenever they approached them.  There is a need to sensitise the police personnel about the culture, traditional attire and customs, and the best way would be to post police personnel of the rank of head constables and sub-inspectors for a two-year tenure in N-E states like Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh as is done for IPS officers.  As part of their basic training, a fortnight-long tour of the region could be conducted for the constabulary of such states where incidents of harassment of the people of N-E are rampant. Though the present set of laws under Section 509 of IPC and the SC and ST Act can be effectively used to send the culprits to jail, a separate set of laws to deal exclusively with such racial discrimination is the call of the day.  Such offences need to be made cognizable and non-bailable if it is to deter miscreants from passing despicable comments as “chinki”, “chinese” and “momos”. Though the word ‘chinki’ is derogatory, it is yet to be notified by the government. Now that the word “corona” is being associated with China and it is being used to humiliate our N-E brethren, this word needs to be added to the law, banning its use.  The denizens of the rest of the country too need to have a better understanding of the culture and history of the region. The deep sense of alienation nurtured in the hearts of these people will continue to simmer and create dissensions until the people from the rest of the country treat them with love and compassion as our very own. Until then, all this hullabaloo about nationalism will merely be humbug. (The writer is retired Inspector General of Police, CRPF)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/racism-on-the-rise-ban-use-of-corona-make-learning-about-northeast-compulsory-821854.html
06-04-2020||Main Article||How Kerala has responded to the coronavirus crisis||It was about a week back that Kerala had the dubious distinction of having the highest number of patients in the country, with 137 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection. The numbers were accelerating. Now, the scenario appears to be changing. Kerala has slipped to the fourth place -- with 286 confirmed cases, of which 256 are active cases, and two deaths as of April 3). While Kerala’s curve has ceased to accelerate, those of many other states have sharply gone up. There are many limitations in the comparison of COVID-19 data, particularly with regards to testing. But what is incontrovertible is the low mortality rate in the state. The most celebrated case of recovery was that of an aged couple, the man 93 and his wife 88, with multiple complications, after being admitted to hospital for more than a month. Is the case of Kerala different? We may not rush to conclusions, but some simple facts stand out and make the state different from the rest of India. The great strength of Kerala has been its public health system which has been responsible for remarkable health indicators such as low infant mortality, high life expectancy and a sex ratio that is not skewed against women as it is in many other states. This inherent strength, which is built over the years and based on the philosophy that the health of each and every citizen is a key part of development and growth, has stood us in good stead in Kerala in these difficult times. The first wave of coronavirus with China returnees in January-end was effectively contained. But in March, things went out of hand with the arrival of infected migrants from Europe and the Gulf countries. Some of these returnees dodged health protocols and clusters of the infected emerged in a few districts. There was no choice other than quarantining those with COVID-19 symptoms at their homes or in isolation wards. A route map of every infected person was drawn up and all their contacts were traced. They were also placed under observation and tested. Nearly two lakh persons are under observation. The paramount importance of testing anyone with active symptoms is what is missing in India’s strategy of fighting COVID-19. There is absolute scarcity of testing equipment, ventilators and relevant medical supplies. The country has to address the need to augment the manufacturing of medical supplies on a war-footing. Preparing for the worst  While we are optimistic about preventing the possibility of a community-wide spread, we are also preparing for the worst-case scenario. Apart from the hospitals, PWD and local governments have identified other public institutions, hotels and private buildings that could be used for setting up one lakh additional beds. We are hiring temporary doctors and paramedical professionals and recalling a section of the retired medical staff from the public sector. Pharmaceutical factory capacity is being optimised to produce sanitisers and ensure additional supplies of essential medicines. Since Kerala has many of its residents working in the Gulf nations, we expect another wave of migrants from these areas once flights are restored. We are preparing for it. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has taken the lead, collecting inputs from different agencies and responding to the everyday challenges through a daily evening, live televised media interaction. So, there is no confusion and there is clear direction for action. But what distinguishes the lockdown in Kerala has been the empathy and concern for the ordinary citizens with which it is being implemented. A major weakness of the national lockdown has been the failure to ensure social security and food for the migrant workers, which resulted in their flight to the safety of their villages, disrupting the entire logic of the lockdown. In Kerala, along with the lockdown, we have declared a Rs 20,000 crore package aimed at transferring money into the hands of the people. Given the hard budget constraints of the state, this package has been financed by frontloading the government’s annual borrowing. The welfare payments for 55 lakh persons, including arrears at Rs 8,500 per person, is being disbursed. Free rations, with additional food grains to non-priority sectors, and Rs 1,000 worth food ‘kits’, with three types of pulses, cooking oil, sugar, tea powder and condiments, are being delivered to all households in the state. Arrangements are being made to ensure that 55 lakh wage labourers who are members of Welfare Boards receive sound financial support. Consumer loans are being provided from the bank in aid of the poor through the ‘Kudumbasree’ self-help group network. A sum of Rs 2,000 crore has been earmarked for the purpose. This is further supplemented by door delivery of cooked food from anganavadis to children and other beneficiaries. Another novel programme is the 1,100 Community Kitchens set up by the local governments for providing free food and 1,000 budget hotels serving meals at Rs 20 have been opened. Street-dwellers are accommodated in marriage halls and free food provided. Local governments, in partnership with the contractors, are providing food and other amenities to migrant workers at their camps. Unfortunately, the special contribution of the Union government in such major efforts of the state government is virtually nil. GST compensation is in arrears, tax devolution has shrunk, and no additional market borrowing has been permitted. All that has been given is pending arrears of the National Health Mission allocation amounting to around Rs 150 crore and permission to spend from SDRF for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The central government is pursuing a maverick policy of forcing states to cut expenditure when governments all over the world are increasing expenditure, ignoring neo- liberal hangovers. The difference in Kerala’s response is therefore in the inherent strength of the health eco-system that works right down to the level of primary care, supplemented by a war effort to reach help to needy people, with money, rations and right down to direct feeding where required. Without such effort and leadership and clarity of purpose, COVID-19 cannot be fought and defeated. (The writer is the Finance minister of Kerala) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/how-kerala-has-responded-to-the-coronavirus-crisis-822266.html
06-04-2020||Mysuru||High alert at Mysuru Zoo, Pilikula Park amid reports of animals getting coronavirus||With a tiger testing positive for COVID-19 in the US, the Mysuru Zoo authorities have taken measures to contain the spread of the disease as per the directions of the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). The zoo is on high alert and animal keepers are not allowed to enter the enclosures without safety gear. Thermal screening is mandatory before entering the zoo and staff are provided masks, gloves and sanitisers. The CZA has told zoo authorities to spray disinfectant near enclosures and monitor the animals’ behaviors. Zoo Authority of Karnataka Member Secretary B P Ravi said that COVID-19 was detected in a domestic cat two weeks ago in Hong Kong. “After the bird flu case in Mysuru, we have taken precautions to combat COVID-19” he added. Measures taken at Pilikula Park Meanwhile, similarly precautionary measures have been put in place at Pilikula Biological Park in Mangaluru.  “We are strictly adhering to the safety and disinfection protocol issued by Zoo Authority of India. Animals are tested by veterinary staff daily. As there is a shortage of red meat due to the lockdown, animals are being fed chicken. There are no symptoms of COVID-19 here so far,” Park Director H J Jayaprakash Bhandary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/high-alert-at-mysuru-zoo-pilikula-park-amid-reports-of-animals-getting-coronavirus-822119.html
06-04-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru DC warns of criminal case if quarantine sticker removed||Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar warned of filing criminal cases against removal of stickers pasted outside quarantined homes. The DC said, "A few people have removed the stickers pasted outside their houses in Nanjangud area. The stickers have to be removed after completion of the quarantine process and the Health department officials will remove them. The stickers are pasted for the good of the public and the people must support the administration." The DC said, "Karnataka State Board of Auqaf has ordered all managements organising Shan-E-Barat on Thursday, not to allow any congregational prayers in mosques. He urged the people to offer prayers at homes." Sankar urged the people not to rush to collect ration. All card holders will get the ration and the authorities will supply at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. The authorities have lifted 30% ration in the district, he said. Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth urged the people who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz, Delhi, to self-report to avoid spread of COVID-19. The SP said, "There were a few complaints of discrimination among the suspected contacts of COVID-19 in some parts of the district. The police will not tolerate any kind of discrimination in the name of COVID-19." A few shop vendors denied providing ration, milk and other essential items to a quarantined or primary contact of COVID-19 infected. “We will identify and take care of COVID-19 positive cases. The individuals with symptoms will be quarantined and the public need not panic and must not create it as an issue,” the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-dc-warns-of-criminal-case-if-quarantine-sticker-removed-822124.html
06-04-2020||Mysuru||Biggest, brightest pink supermoon of 2020 on Wednesday||The biggest, most beautiful and brightest pink supermoon of the year 2020 will be visible on Wednesday. S A Mohan Krishna, observational astronomer, said, “Coronavirus, COVID-19, lockdown, sultry weather, etc have caused anxiety among the people. They need some diversion. On April 8, Indians can witness the spectacular, resplendent, and biggest supermoon of this year. This is known as lunar perigee and a normal lunar perigee averaging a distance of 3,62,479 km happens once every orbital period. This event can be referred as ‘Supermoon’. The Earth, Moon and Sun will be in a line, with the Moon in its nearest approach to Earth.” In February, the full moon ushered in a series of four full moon supermoons — on February 9, March 9, April 8 and May 7. There will be three new moon supermoons on September 17, October 16 and November 15. All of these full moons are less than 3,63,000 km distance, as measured from the centers of the Earth and moon. In contrast, the previous year’s farthest full moon on September 14, 2019, was at a distance of 4,06,248 km. He said, “The Supermoons that occurred in 1955, 1974, 1992, 2005, 2011, 2016 and 2018 were amazing. It is a scientific fact that when the Moon is at perigee, there is more gravitational pull, creating higher tides or significant variations in high and low tides. In addition, the tidal effect of the Sun’s gravitational field increases the Moon’s orbital eccentricity when the orbit’s major axis is aligned with the Sun-Earth vector." "The average tidal bulge closely follows the Moon in its orbit, and the Earth rotates under this tidal bulge in just over a day. However, the rotation drags the position of the tidal bulge ahead of the position directly under the Moon. Generally, Tidal forces contribute to ocean currents, which moderate global temperatures by transporting heat energy towards the poles. It has been suggested that in addition to other factors, harmonic beat variations in tidal forcing may contribute to climate changes,” said Mohan Krishna. Astronomers have estimated that the supermoon will be around 15% brighter and 30% bigger than the average full moon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/biggest-brightest-pink-supermoon-of-2020-on-wednesday-822155.html
06-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Nurses move SC on 'extreme risks', seek more steps from Centre||The 'United Nurses Association' has approached the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre to formulate a 'National COVID-19 Management Protocol' to address concerns related to the extreme risks faced by healthcare workers across the country. In a PIL, the Kerala-based body sought an order to expand the scope of personal accident cover provided under the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Health Workers Fighting COVID-19' to include all healthcare workers, including those recruited on ad hoc basis. "So far, seven doctors working in different hospitals and clinics in the national capital have tested positive for COVID-19. A large number of healthcare workers including nurses and doctors are infected in various states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi etc. At least 50 nurses are under quarantine or isolation and many of them have tested positive," it contended. Maintaining that protecting healthcare workers should be of paramount importance, the petitioner said it is the duty of the governments to extend them every possible help and assistance. The petitioner also sought a direction to the Centre to ensure that protection kits were made available to all healthcare professionals working in isolation wards, or in close proximity of infected patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-nurses-move-sc-on-extreme-risks-seek-more-steps-from-centre-821862.html
06-04-2020||National||News in the time of coronavirus, and beyond||Last year, when this column started, I made a reference to a Chinese saying: “May you live in interesting times.” This exhortation, as then noted, was not so much a blessing as a curse, i.e., may your life be torn apart by events beyond your control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/news-in-the-time-of-coronavirus-and-beyond-821872.html
06-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 06, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe. Keywords:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-06-2020-edition-821871.html
06-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 6||While the impact of the novel coronavirus has been the most in China and Italy, India also is within its grasp. After making its presence in Kerala first, the novel coronavirus reached other cities/regions including Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Jaipur, Agra, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir among others. We, at Deccan Herald, bring to you the list of total positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the epidemic, according to the Union Ministry of Health and sources (the list will be updated regularly).     The total number of positive cases (including deaths) in India: 4,505 as of April 6. Total deaths in India: 141 Andhra Pradesh: 3 Haryana: 2 Rajasthan: 6 Uttar Pradesh: 3 Telangana: 11 Madhya Pradesh: 14 Karnataka: 4 Delhi: 7 Maharashtra: 52 Punjab: 7 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 12 West Bengal: 7 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Tamil Nadu: 5 Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Kerala: 3 States/UT with confirmed positive cases: (State-wise details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 295Punjab: 68Delhi: 525Jammu and Kashmir: 109Ladakh: 13Rajasthan: 274Uttar Pradesh: 305Maharashtra: 868Karnataka: 163Tamil Nadu: 571Telangana: 364Haryana: 96Andhra Pradesh: 226Himachal Pradesh: 15Gujarat: 146Uttarakhand: 27Odisha: 21West Bengal: 80Chandigarh: 16Chhattisgarh: 19Madhya Pradesh: 215Bihar: 32Puducherry: 6Manipur: 2Mizoram: 1Goa: 7Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 10Jharkhand: 4Assam: 26Arunachal Pradesh: 1Tripura: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 267 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the epidemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-6-821874.html
06-04-2020||National||Congress leader lights two lamps, says will light seven more if govt lives up to people's expectations||Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill lit two lamps on Sunday for motivation and in the memory of those who died of coronavirus and said he will light seven more if the government lives up to people's expectations. Shergill said while he lit two lamps -- one for motivation and another in the memory of those who died of coronavirus -- he will light seven more when adequate testing kits are made available by the government, free COVID-19 tests are done, doctors are provided with PPE kits and relief is given to labourers and those who lost their jobs due to the pandemic. "9 diyas-Lit up 1 Diya for "Motivation", 1 in memory of lives claimed by Covid19 - 7 when Government focuses on "Preparation": 1. Testing Kits+ 2. PPE+ 3. Free Testing  4. Quarantine Beds+ 5. Relief for Labourers 6. Loan Waiver on EMI for salaried class 7. Employment generation," he said in a tweet.  The Congress leader was referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for lighting lamps for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday to show solidarity with the war against the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-lights-two-lamps-says-will-light-seven-more-if-govt-lives-up-to-peoples-expectations-821887.html
06-04-2020||National||Suspected coronavirus patient dies in Bihar||A 35-year-old man, who was admitted in the coronavirus isolation ward of the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) here, died on Sunday during the course of treatment, a senior hospital official said. The deceased, a resident of Beldaur village in Khagaria district, was admitted in the isolation ward of JLNMCH with symptoms of high fever and high blood pressure, hospital Superintendent Dr R C Mandal said. His swab sample was sent to the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Patna for the COVID-19 test after his death on Sunday evening, the superintendent said, adding that further procedure will be followed after receiving the report. The body was handed over to his family members on their insistence, Mandal said. It may be noted that a 65-year-old man from Naugachia in Bhagalpur district with a travel history to the United Kingdom had earlier tested positive for coronavirus. This was the first active coronavirus case in the district, which was confirmed following a test at RMRI, Patna on Saturday. Fourteen persons, including a doctor, who had attended to him have been kept in quarantine at the Naugachia Sadar Hospital, Bhagalpur Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar said. According to the State Health Society's bulletin issued on Sunday evening, the total number of coronavirus cases stood at 32, including one death, in Bihar. A 38-year-old man from Munger, who had returned from Qatar a month ago, died at AIIMS, Patna, on March 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspected-coronavirus-patient-dies-in-bihar-821895.html
06-04-2020||National||Woman admitted to Bengal hospital with coronavirus-like symptoms delivers baby||A woman, admitted to the isolation ward of a state-run hospital here with coronavirus-like symptoms, has given birth to a baby boy, a senior doctor at the medical facility said on Sunday. The condition of the mother and the child is stable but both have been kept under observation, he said. The woman was admitted to the Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata (MCHK), on Wednesday morning with cough, cold and fever, the doctor said. "She started to experience labour pain soon after she was admitted, following which PPE-clad gynaecologist, anaesthesiologist and surgeon helped her deliver the child by performing a C-section. "As the woman exhibited mild symptoms, no COVID-19 test was conducted. Her condition has improved," he said. Though the woman does not have a travel history and she did not come in contact with any COVID-19 patient, she will be kept in the isolation ward along with her child for a few still as a precautionary measure, the doctor said. The mother has been asked to wear a mask while breastfeeding her child and nobody has been allowed to go near them, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-admitted-to-bengal-hospital-with-coronavirus-like-symptoms-delivers-baby-821899.html
06-04-2020||National||BJP's 40th Foundation Day: PM Modi asks party workers to help the needy amid coronavirus||Recalling the contribution of those who toiled for decades to build the party, he said it is because of them that the BJP got the chance to serve crores of Indians. "Tributes to all those who have toiled hard to build the party for decades, due to which BJP has got the opportunity to serve crores of Indians across our nation's length and breadth," Modi wrote on Twitter. The prime minister also said that whenever the BJP has been given the opportunity to serve the nation, it has focused on good governance and empowering the poor. "In line with the party's ethos, our karyakartas (workers) have worked hard to bring a positive difference in the lives of many and done great social service," he tweeted. Pointing out that the party's 40th anniversary comes at a time when India is battling COVID-19, Modi said, "I appeal to BJP karyakartas to follow the set of guidelines from our party president J P Nadda-ji, help those in need and reaffirm the importance of social distancing. Let's make India COVID-19-free," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-40th-foundation-day-pm-modi-asks-party-workers-to-help-the-needy-amid-coronavirus-821902.html
06-04-2020||National||COVID-19: 50 people, including doctors, quarantined in Bikaner as woman tests positive after death||Over 50 people, including doctors and nursing staff of a hospital in Bikaner, have been quarantined after samples taken from a 60-year-old woman, who died here on Friday, tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. The staff at the state-run PBM Hospital had handed over the body of the woman to her family members on Friday afternoon but the results of the test for COVID-19 came at night, they said. By then, the family members had already cremated the body, the officials added. An inquiry was ordered after the matter came to light. Realising the mistake, a rapid response team was rushed to quarantine the family members, they said. "After the matter came into light, a report has been sought from the medical college principal and hospital superintendent," Bikaner district collector Kumar Pal Gautam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-50-people-including-doctors-quarantined-in-bikaner-as-woman-tests-positive-after-death-821912.html
06-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Kolkata's Jadavpur University working on low-cost masks||The varsity's Centre for Appropriate Social Technologies (CAST), an idea incubation centre, has prepared the preliminary version working on a "simple procedure" and with materials mostly available at home, it said in a statement. The two outer layers of the mask are made of polypropylene fabric, while a cotton towel forms the inner portion. "Majority of the droplets caused by sneezing will be screened by this mask, which would also cause no difficulty in breathing for a person," the JU statement said. Further experimentation on bigger scale can be carried out when the university laboratories are accessible once the lockdown phase is over, it said. "The three-layer mask can be made very easily using any suitable method -- a sewing machine or even by hand," it added. Two researchers at the School of Medical Science and Technology, IIT Kharagpur, had recently come up with the prototype of a face shield for health workers attending to COVID-19 cases. The face shield is a transparent plastic protective cover attached to an elastic gear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-kolkatas-jadavpur-university-working-on-low-cost-masks-821936.html
06-04-2020||National||Who gave permissions for the Tablighi Jamaat religious event? asks Sharad Pawar||In what would lead to a political slugfest, NCP supremo and former Union minister Sharad Pawar on Monday wanted an answer as to who gave permission to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi.  Pawar also expressed displeasure saying that the media are unnecessarily targeting the Muslim community. Several of the cases of COVID-19 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin markaz in mid-March. Pawar also lauded the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government for withdrawing permission to hold a gathering of 50,000 persons in Vasai near Mumbai. "If (Maharashtra) chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh can take such a decision, why the permission was not denied for a similar congregation in Delhi and who approved it?" he asked. "Why was it so necessary for the media to hype it? It unnecessarily targets one community in the country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-gave-permissions-for-the-tablighi-jamaat-religious-event-asks-sharad-pawar-821945.html
06-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: For stranded foreigners, help is just a click away||In a distant land thousands of miles away from their homelands, scores of tourists are confined to their hotel rooms and cannot fly out due to a nationwide 21-day lockdown to fight COVID-19. Among them was an American woman who desperately wanted to reach Delhi to be with her son undergoing surgery but stuck in Bihar's Supaul, and an Australian tourist with a history of epilepsy who ran out of his medicines in Gujarat's Ahmedabad. The portal also provides the helpline number of states as well as the Tourist Helpline numbers 1363 and 1800111363. As soon as the American woman's request to be with her son at his hospital bed popped up, the authorities swung into action by facilitating the required inter-ministerial, inter-departmental and State-Centre coordination to secure her a special transit-permit to travel. "She has safely reached her destination," an official statement said. The Australian national and family were in Ahmedabad when he ran out of his medicines prescribed by his Australian doctors. They were worried and the portal alerted the office of the District Collector, which not only arranged mediation but also food and local transportation. "Now, they are comfortable and safe," the Ministry said. For two Costa Rican citizens, the wait in Chennai after surgery was creating more anxiety and panic, as they could not fly to their homes. After their request seeking help reached the portal, the tourists who were staying in a hotel were approached by the state government and Costa Rican embassy officials to soothe their "frayed and panicked nerves". "The utility and efficacy of the portal have led to stranded foreign tourists being contacted over e-mails, telephones and also in person depending on the nature of support required by them. They have been connected with the relevant foreign office of their home country in India and provided various information updates on flights out of India to their home countries. Wherever required, they have been provided medical assistance, food and accommodation," the statement said. Tourists in trouble would need to provide some basic contact information and narrate the nature of issues being faced by them. Once a request is received, the five regional offices of the Ministry will get in touch with the Nodal Officers appointed by states and union territories to assist such tourists and provide them ground support. "Requests for movement within the country/state and for transfer to the home country of such tourists are also being coordinated with the Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs and with the respective Embassy/High Commission/Consulate," the statement said. "The Government is committed to the cause of ensuring the comfort and well being of our foreign guests during their stay in India. That is the spirit of 'Atithi Devo Bhava' (Guest is God), the mantra that drives 'Incredible India'," it added. However, those using the portal are warned that providing false or misleading information will face legal action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-for-stranded-foreigners-help-is-just-a-click-away-821957.html
06-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Indian Railways converts 2,500 coaches into isolation wards||Indian Railways has already converted 2,500 coaches into isolation ward to treat COVID-19 patients.  Of the target to convert 5,000 coaches into an isolation ward, railways already converted 2,500 coaches into isolation ward in the first phase, said railway officials.  With the conversion of around 2,500 coaches, 40,000 isolation beds are now ready for use, railways said in a statement. "Once the prototype was approved, conversion action was started quickly by Zonal Railways. On average, 375 coaches are being converted by Indian Railways in a day. The work is being carried out at 133 locations in the country," it said. These isolation wards are being prepared to supplement the existing hospital to treat patients in case large scale breakout of disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-railways-converts-2500-coaches-into-isolation-wards-821958.html
06-04-2020||National||Major ports, PSUs under shipping ministry contribute Rs 52 cr to PM-CARES Fund||Amid the coronavirus outbreak, India's major ports and PSUs under the Ministry of Shipping on Monday announced contributing Rs 52 crore to the PM-CARES Fund to fight the pandemic. India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Mormugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V.O. Chidambaranar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia). "All major ports and public sector undertakings under the Ministry of Shipping have decided to contribute Rs 52 crore as CSR fund to the 'Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund' (PM-CARES Fund) which has been created to provide relief to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic-affected people," the Ministry of Shipping said in a statement. Apart from 12 major ports, other entities under the shipping ministry which contributed to the Fund include Cochin Shipyard Ltd, which contributed Rs 2.5 crore; Dredging Corporation and DGLL pledged Rs 1 crore each; IPRCL Rs 0.5 crore; Shipping Corporation of India Rs 0.37 crore; and SDCL Rs 0.094 crore. Among the major ports, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust contributed the highest Rs 16.40 crore from corporate social responsibility (CSR) to the PM-CARES Fund, followed by Rs 8 crore each by Deendayal Port Trust and Paradip Port Trust, and Rs 4 crore each by Kamarjar Port and New Mangalore Port Trust. V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust gave Rs 2 crore to the Fund for fight against COVID-19, while Vishakhapatnam Port Trust, Kolkata Port Trust and Mumbai Port Trust contributed Rs 1 each crore each to the Fund. Among others, Cochin Port Trust contributed Rs 0.54 crore, Chennai Port Trust Rs 0.50 crore and Mormagao Port Trust Rs 0.25 crore. The death toll due to novel coronavirus in the country rose to 109 and the number of cases climbed to 4,067 on Monday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-ports-psus-under-shipping-ministry-contribute-rs-52-cr-to-pm-cares-fund-821962.html
06-04-2020||National||Anurag Srivastava takes charge as MEA spokesperson||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) got a new spokesperson on Monday with Anurag Srivastava replacing Raveesh Kumar as the Joint Secretary (External Publicity). Srivastava, an officer of the 1999 batch of the Indian Foreign Service (IFS), was India’s ambassador to Ethiopia before he was appointed as the new spokesperson of the MEA. He earlier headed the Political Wing at the High Commission of India in Colombo.     He served at the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations in Geneva. He also held different positions at the MEA headquarters in New Delhi, including in the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division and as Director of the Finance Division.  Kumar had been appointed as the Joint Secretary in charge of the External Publicity Division and the spokesperson of the MEA in August 2017. He is now likely to be appointed as New Delhi’s envoy to a foreign nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-srivastava-takes-charge-as-mea-spokesperson-821963.html
06-04-2020||National||Couple form Kashmir tests coronavirus positive 18 days after returning from abroad||In a development that could ring further alarm bells, a couple from south Kashmir’s Shopian district tested positive for novel coronavirus 18 days after their return from Umrah (minor Hajj) pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia. Reports said the couple had returned to Srinagar via the same flight on March 16 in which an elderly woman from Khanyar area of Srinagar, who was Kashmir’s first COVID-19 positive case, travelled. Besides the couple, nine pilgrims from Shopian district had returned in the same flight and all of them were traced and put in quarantine, while their family members were instructed to stay at home and put under surveillance. After completing 14 days in quarantine, 10 of the pilgrims were let go home but the eleventh was admitted to a hospital. On April 1, the said person was found to be coronavirus positive. The other 10 pilgrims, who completed 14-day mandatory quarantine, were advised by the doctors to stay at home for further two days. However, according to locals, the pilgrims instead of staying home started meeting relatives, friends and neighbors. After two days when the 11th pilgrim was tested positive, the rest 10 were again taken to quarantine facilities which doctors called as a precautionary measure. On April 3 (Friday) a husband and wife, among the ten, showed symptoms and they were tested positive on Saturday evening. “The virus may have been transmitted in the quarantine facility. Why else would they develop symptoms after 18 days of being under observation,” a doctor told DH wishing anonymity. According to locals, these pilgrims had met people, hugged them, shook their hands, and shared sweets with them before they were taken for quarantine. “Now again, we have to go for contact tracing of these 11 pilgrims and there is every likelihood that in the coming days, a good number of people will test positive in the area,” the doctor added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/couple-form-kashmir-tests-coronavirus-positive-18-days-after-returning-from-abroad-821968.html
06-04-2020||National||Zoos across India put on high alert after tiger tests positive for COVID-19 in US||After a tiger in a New York zoo contracted COVID-19, Centre on Monday sounded alerts for zoos across the country advising quarantine for sick animals and personal protection equipment for zookeepers. The Centre also issued an alert across for national parks of the country to step up vigil to stop the spread of COVID-19 among wild animals. The Central Zoo Authority issued a circular to all the zoos across the country to keep a 24x7 watch on animals through CCTV and report any abnormal behaviour amid reports of spread of the coronavirus from humans to animals and vice versa. The Ministry of Environment and Forests issued directives to national parks, sanctuaries and tiger reserves to reduce the human-wildlife interface and restrict movement of people as part of preventive measures to stop the spread of the virus. It also asked national parks to constitute a task force or a rapid action force comprising field managers, veterinary doctors and frontline staff to manage the situation as quickly as possible. The ministry also directed them to enhance disease surveillance and set up a mapping and monitoring system through coordinated efforts with other departments. In a letter to all states and Union territories, CZA Member Secretary S.P. Yadav said the United States Department of Agriculture's National Veterinary Services Laboratories has confirmed COVID-19 in a tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York. “Zoos in the country are, therefore, advised to remain on highest alertness, and monitor animals 24X7 using CCTVs for any abnormal behaviour or symptoms,” it said. The authority said mammals, especially cats, ferrets and primates, need to be carefully monitored and fortnightly samples of suspected cases be sent to designated animal health institutes for COVID-19 testing. The samples can be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal, the National Research Centre on Equines in Haryana's Hisar and the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, the letter said. “Sick animals should be isolated and quarantined,” it added. The alarm bells rang in the environment ministry after a four-year-old Malayan tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York tested positive for the coronavirus infection. The female tiger, named Nadia, is believed to be the first known case of an animal infected with COVID-19 in the US. It is suspected that she contracted the virus from a caretaker who was asymptomatic at that time of being in contact with the tiger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zoos-across-india-put-on-high-alert-after-tiger-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-us-821974.html
06-04-2020||National||British-era bridge on Mumbai-Pune highway brought down||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/british-era-bridge-on-mumbai-pune-highway-brought-down-821976.html
06-04-2020||National||COVID-19 awareness along with Adhan in Kerala mosques||While many religious centres were reportedly violating the lockdown directives to prevent COVID-19 spread, a couple of mosques in Kerala are even giving awareness messages about coronavirus along with the regular Adhan, the Islamic prayer call. Many mosque committees are also actively involved in awareness among the community members through social media groups and even door to door campaign. A mosque at Pulikkal and another mosque at Aroor, both in Malappuram district in North Kerala, have been giving awareness messages about COVID-19 along with Adhan, which is performed five times a day. Advice to people to remain at home, ensure hygiene and to seek medical attention in case of any sorts of symptoms were being given. Being a district with a high NRI population, messages to strictly follow health workers' advice to remain in quarantine to those who recently returned from aboard was also being carried out. Kerala State Waqf Board chief executive officer B M Jamal said all prominent jammaath leaders were advised that apart from ensuring that the lockdown norms were strictly followed in mosques the committees should also do possible steps in fighting COVID-19. Saifuddin Haji, a secretary of the Kerala Muslim Jamaath, said that many jamaaths have set up help desks for the members to seek assistance like delivering medicines. Also, social media groups of all members were formed for sharing advisories and useful information. Some members were also conducting house visits with police permission to ensure the welfare of the members, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-awareness-along-with-adhan-in-kerala-mosques-821980.html
06-04-2020||National||NTCA issues high alert to India’s tiger states over coronavirus threat||Amidst COVID-19 pandemic gripping the nation in fear, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on Monday sounded high alert across India after the 4-year-old Malaysian tiger ‘Nadia’ tested positive for coronavirus in New York’s Bronx Zoo. Alerting the Chief Wildlife Wardens of all the Tiger Range states in India, NTCA has directed to gear up the frontline staff as well as veterinary officials to detect the disease and prevent any spread in tigers in the wild. According to the directive, a copy of which is accessed by DH, NTCA’s Assistant Inspector General of Forests Dr Vaibhav C Mathur directed the forest officials to observe the tigers for symptoms consistent with COVID-19 such as respiratory signs of nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing through direct observation to the extent possible besides through camera trap images for visible symptoms. Considering the communicable and zoonotic nature of the COVID-19, NTCA listed out actions to avert the disease in wild tigers including, “Personal handling tigers in human-tiger negative interactions and translocation operations be ascertained to be coronavirus negative. Diligence needs to be exercised while handling post mortem cases to record location, age, sex of the animal while collecting samples for coronavirus diagnosis in consultation with the state veterinary officials,” the circular stated. Suggesting that the coronavirus affect the gastrointestinal system in felines, the NTCA said, “A correlation may be made for characterising the virus type in consultation with the veterinarians. Differential diagnosis with feline infectious rhino-tracheitis needs to be made as similar respiratory symptoms may be observed.” The NTCA also directed the states to send the samples to ICAR approved laboratories as per the protocol besides reporting such cases immediately to NTCA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ntca-issues-high-alert-to-india-s-tiger-states-over-coronavirus-threat-821983.html
06-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi chairs meeting of council of ministers via video-conferencing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of the council of ministers on Monday via video-conferencing amidst a nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak. It will be followed by a meeting of the Cabinet, also to be held via video-conferencing. This is perhaps the first time in the country's history that a meeting of the council of ministers or the cabinet is being held virtually. The COVID-19 outbreak and the ongoing 21-day lockdown are likely to be discussed during the meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-chairs-meeting-of-council-of-ministers-via-video-conferencing-821984.html
06-04-2020||National||India learnt to live without politics, religion during lockdown: Scientist||"The country has learnt to live without politics and religion," says eminent scientist G Madhavan Nair on the lockdown imposed across the nation to curb the spread of COVID-19. "This is a great achievement," observed the former Chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation. He said this trend should be continued after every election, with all the political activities pushed into the background and everybody concentrating on nation-building. On COVID-19, Nair told 'PTI': "Actually, many of these viruses are dormant on the earth, and when favorable conditions come, they flare-up. If you look at the last three centuries or beyond, once in 100 years, something or the other breaks out. So, it is a natural phenomenon." He said Indians have demonstrated their unity, standing up together without any caste, creed and political colour in the battle to combat the spread of the Coronavirus, adding, the same approach should be adopted in nation-building. Nair said implementation of various measures aimed at halting the spread was being spearheaded largely the bureaucracy, who have risen up to the occasion extremely well and the same tempo has to be maintained. In the matter of bringing COVID-19 relief package to people, India has been able to cut out the middle-men, he said. "Previously all the funds used to be leaked out to middlemen and that used to really deny benefits which are supposed to reach the people. So that process (cutting out middlemen), if it's continued, it's definitely good for the country," Nair said. Noting that India has a huge domestic market, he pitched for giving a thrust to the indigenisation progragramme, which perhaps had taken a back-seat for quite some time because of readily available things outside. "Now is the time for Indian industries and research laboratories to wake up and give a big push to indigenisation drive," Nair underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-learnt-to-live-without-politics-religion-during-lockdown-scientist-821993.html
06-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: India’s COVID-19 capital, Mumbai||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird's eyeview of the COVID-19 situation in India, and takes a closer look at Karnataka's northern neighbour Maharashtra, where Mumbai is emerging as the city with the highest number of cases. DH’s Mrityunjay Bose throws light on the ground situation there. DH Fact Check with Akash Sriram gives an idea of what's hot in the world of fake news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-india-s-covid-19-capital-mumbai-822000.html
06-04-2020||National||Employees of major ports, shipping PSUs donate a day's salary totalling Rs 7 cr to PM-CARES Fund||Nearly 30,000 employees of the country's major ports and shipping PSUs have contributed a day's salary totalling over Rs 7 crore to the PM-CARES Fund to support the fight against COVID-19, the government said on Monday. India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Mormugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V.O. Chidambaranar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia). "Employees of all the major ports and PSUs (public sector undertakings) under the Ministry of Shipping have come forward to donate a day's salary amounting to Rs 7 crore to the PM-CARES Fund, for providing assistance to those impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic," the Ministry of Shipping said in a statement. These ports and entities have about 30,000 employees, with the highest 6,324 employees with the Mumbai Port Trust, who contributed Rs 1.27 crore; followed by 3,891 employees with Chennai Port Trust who contributed Rs 0.72 crore; 3,700 employees with Kolkata Port Trust who contributed Rs 1 crore; and Rs 3,177 crore contributed by Vishakhapatnam Port Trust's employees. Apart from employees' contribution, these ports and entities have also contributed Rs 52 crore to the PM-CARES Fund to fight the pandemic. Among the major ports, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust contributed the highest Rs 16.40 crore from corporate social responsibility (CSR) to the PM-CARES Fund, followed by Rs 8 crore each by Deendayal Port Trust and Paradip Port Trust, and Rs 4 crore each by Kamarjar Port and New Mangalore Port Trust. V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust gave Rs 2 crore to the Fund for fight against COVID-19, while Vishakhapatnam Port Trust, Kolkata Port Trust and Mumbai Port Trust contributed Rs 1 crore each to the Fund. Among others, Cochin Port Trust contributed Rs 0.54 crore, Chennai Port Trust Rs 0.50 crore and Mormagao Port Trust Rs 0.25 crore. The death toll due to novel coronavirus in the country rose to 109 and the number of cases climbed to 4,067 on Monday, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/employees-of-major-ports-shipping-psus-donate-a-days-salary-totalling-rs-7-cr-to-pm-cares-fund-822007.html
06-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi, Union Cabinet approves 30% pay cut for all MPs for one year||In a reminder of unprecedented times, the President, Prime Minister, Vice President, Governors and all MPs will undertake a 30 per cent salary cut for a year to shore up funds for the fight against COVID-19 pandemic.    A meeting of the Union Cabinet chaired by PM Narendra Modi on Monday approved an ordinance amending the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954 reducing the salary of the MPs by 30 per cent from April 1. 2020. There will, however, be no change in the pension and allowances of the MPs as there is no plan to reduce these. The Union Cabinet also approved temporary suspension of MPLADS during 2020-21 and 2021-22 for managing health and the adverse impact of an outbreak of COVID-19. Members of Parliament Local Area Development Fund allows an MP to use an annual fund of Rs five crore per annum for development activities in the Parliamentary seat he represents. In the case of Rajya Sabha, the MP can spend the money on development work anywhere in the state from where he is an MP. Lok Sabha has a strength of 545 members while Rajya Sabha has 245. Since the suspension of the fund is for two years, the Rs 10 crore MPLAD fund from each member in next two financial years, will go to the Consolidated Fund of India and will add up to nearly Rs 8000 crore to the government treasury at a time when Centre is having to spend thousands of crore to fight the COVID-19 menace, which in all probability, is going to be a long-drawn exercise. Briefing reporters after the meeting of the Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, that was held via video conferencing perhaps first of its kind in recent times, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said that the President, Vice President and Governors of States have also voluntarily decided to take a pay cut as a social responsibility. The money will go to the Consolidated Fund of India. Before the Union Cabinet meeting, the Prime Minister held interaction with central ministers in a separate meeting of the Union Council of Ministers in which he spoke at length about the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. The Prime Minister said that the government must work on war-footing to mitigate the impact, adding that the Ministries should prepare a Business Continuity Plan. He noted that a graded plan to slowly open departments where hotspots are not existing should be made, adding that the crisis offers an opportunity to become self-dependent in the medical sector. There should be continuous monitoring to maintain timelines of the production of essential medicines and protection equipment. Micro level-planning is essential to maintain supply lines and availability of essentials. Stating that lockdown measures and social distancing must go hand in hand, the Prime Minister said that it is essential to strategize for the emergent conditions once lockdown ends. He asked the ministers to prepare a list of ten major decisions and ten priority areas of focus once lockdown ends while exhorting them to identify and implement pending reforms in their Ministries. Highlighting the impact on India’s exports, he asked the Ministers to submit actionable suggestions on boosting manufacturing and exports and ensure that new sectors and countries are added in India’s export net.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-union-cabinet-approves-30-pay-cut-for-all-mps-for-one-year-822008.html
06-04-2020||National||Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor recovers from COVID-19, discharged from hospital||Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor, who had been admitted to the hospital after being tested positive for coronavirus, was on Monday discharged after her two consecutive blood tests turned out to be negative. According to the doctors, Kanika has been asked to remain in the home quarantine for 14 days.  Kanika was booked by the police after she attended a series of parties and programs in the state capital of Lucknow after her return from London last month.  Several VIPs, including former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje Scindia, BJP MP Dushyant Singh, and UP health minister Jai Prakash Singh, were among dozens, who had also attended the parties in which the singer was present. None of the persons, who had attended the programs in which Kanika was present, however, tested positive for the virus. Four cases have been lodged against Kanika charging her with deliberately spreading infection and also violating of section 144 by attending parties.  Police sources here said that the singer would be quizzed once her home quarantine period was over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bollywood-singer-kanika-kapoor-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital-822009.html
06-04-2020||National||92 hospital staff quarantined after patient contracts COVID-19||At least 92 staff members, including several doctors, of the D Y Patil Hospital here in Maharashtra have been quarantined after an accident victim, who was being treated at the facility, tested positive for coronavirus, an official said on Monday. A senior civic official denied speculations of the COVID-19 patient having direct or indirect link to the Tablighi Jamaat which organised a religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month that later emerged as a coronavirus hotspot in the country. The patient, an autorickshaw driver, met with the accident on March 31, said Jitendra Bhawalkar, dean of the D Y Patil Medical College and Hospital, a private medical facility located in Pimpri Chinchwad township here. "The man,who is in his 30s, came to the emergency section of the hospital on March 31 after the accident. He was operated upon and on the second day, he developed fever. The doctors got suspicious and his samples were sent for testing which came out positive for coronavirus," he said. The patient was immediately shifted to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital. "We then tried to find out those who came in contact with the man and quarantined our 42 doctors and 50 paramedical staff members as a precaution. Samples of all of them have been sent for tests," Bhawalkar said. Some people claim the man has link to the Tablighi Jamaat while some say he had transported people belonging to the Islamic organisation, the official said, adding that the patient hid the information from the hospital after he was admitted following the accident. Asked if the man has any link to the Tablighi Jamaat, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the patient does not have any connection to the outfit. "Thepatient is in ICU. People are speculating about his links, but right now we can only say he is not from the Tablighi Jamaat. He is from the different community altogether," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/92-hospital-staff-quarantined-after-patient-contracts-covid-19-822014.html
06-04-2020||National||How to survive coronatimes? Internet’s the word||Every move you make, every step you take, it’s the internet that is possibly enabling it – at least in urban India -- powering the router tucked away in a corner as well as mobile data packages that are the pivots to keep the work and home worlds revolving in lockdown times. The dictionary defines internet as “the large system of connected computers around the world that allows people to share information and communicate with each other”. Behind the rather prosaic definition is a tool that has woven itself intricately into the fabric of everyday life. And never more so than now when the entire country is under an unprecedented 21-day lockdown. At a time when staying indoors is the best way to survive the coronavirus pandemic, the internet has emerged as saviour for over 480 million internet users across the country. The lockdown doesn’t look quite as unbearable with the internet. Take it away and chances are urban lives will fall apart like dry cake. It’s about work, leisure, shopping, family bonding and myriad other things as people recalibrate their lives. For every closed grocery shop, restaurant, movie hall, gym or even doctor’s appointment, the internet has an alternative ready at the click of a button.  When living in the same city can feel more distancing than ever, it is bringing families and friends closer. Many office systems would have collapsed had the internet not made possible video calls from different parts of the city and sometimes even the country.  Pune-based Shreya Sengupta said the net is helping keep her sane in these stressful times. Video calling is the closest thing to seeing her brother and boyfriend in London after her trip to the city last month got cancelled because of the coronavirus threat.  “Internet is all I have. London has the most number of corona cases in the UK, and WhatsApp video call is the only way I know they are okay. I just literally need to see them everyday just to know they are fine, not coughing etc,” the 29-year-old instructional designer told PTI. Over the last few weeks, social media users have been sharing screenshots of their video chat windows with friends, family and colleagues, evidence of the role the internet is playing in connecting people in these days of social distancing.   Besides the usual Whatsapp, Facetime, or Facebook messenger, new apps like Zoom are making the process seamless. The increased dependence on the internet has led to data consumption in the country going up by at least 20-30 per cent in data consumption, according to Cellular Operators'' Association of India (COAI) Director General Rajan Mathews. To help mitigate mobile and broadband network congestion, platforms like Netflix and Facebook are reducing video quality after COAI wrote to the government urging it to initiate measures to ease the burden on network infrastructure. Mathews said last week that mobile users could do their bit by choosing to time their online activities during off-peak hours. Gurshabad Grover of the Bengaluru-based Centre for Internet and Society (CIS), however, reassured that the internet system is far from collapsing in the country. "The internet won’t break. It is designed to be resilient, and our internet traffic gets routed around failures. There is an extremely low chance of multiple independent network failures happening simultaneously, in the absence of which any single network congestion or failure may not even be noticeable,” Grover told PTI. He explained that low speeds often experienced by broadband users is a temporary inconvenience. "One can face low speeds, especially for broadband services, but that will be for a certain point of time as bandwidth is split across several customers.“ His words come as comfort for Shruti Menon, who works with Mumbai-based NGO Vitamin Angels, and has been coordinating with colleagues over video conferences since the first week of March.  “We try to have one call a day with the core team in the morning. It helps us to check-in with each other and plan our work for the day. If there is an urgent need to address something, we schedule another call,” the 30 year-old said. While many would argue that office calls can also be conducted over audio calls, Menon said video conferencing was a closer replacement of the “face to face meetings”. The internet is also coming in handy for patients to keep in touch with their doctors in these “contactless” times. Several hospitals across NCR have started offering consultations online.   Gurgaon’s Paras hospital has been extending the service since March 22 through video sessions on their own app — Paras Health Mate.  “We started our online consultation service soon after people were asked to maintain social distancing. There are video sessions between doctor and patient. We issue e-prescriptions, and payment needs to be done online before the consultation begins,” said Dr Sameer Kulkarni, facility director at the hospital.  The internet has also come to the rescue of fitness freaks who, after the closure of gyms and parks, have now turned to online workout videos to keep their bodies in top notch shape. "The lockdown has not weakened my will to work out. I have been exercising at home since the restrictions were imposed by watching workout videos by ‘Kayla Itsines’, ‘Jordon Yeoh’, and ‘Real Rubali's. They are power packed, dynamic, varied and impactful,” said Delhi-based fashion photographer Richa Maheshwari. Over the last one week, several home workout videos have garnered millions of views, and hashtags like #quarantineworkout #covidworkout #coronaworkout #athomeworkouts are trending on platforms like YouTube and Instagram.  “With the new reality of social distancing, we're glad creators are connecting with their communities and engaging with them. Especially in the past week, there have been many fitness regimen videos, inspiring people to be fit within the confines of their homes,”  Manish Chopra, Head of Partnerships, Facebook India, told PTI.  The Internet's role in offering entertainment is not new, and therefore the outpouring of posts seeking and offering recommendations on what to watch on streaming platforms like Netflix, AmazonPrime and Hotstar comes as no surprise. Online games, particularly Ludo, which one can play with their friends in any part of the country, has been keeping lakhs of people engaged since the lockdown.  The internet is the word also for those who are afraid to step out to go to the market, or who are tired of eating home-cooked food. The fact that daily groceries can be delivered through apps like Dunzo, and Swiggy, and Zomato are being able to break the monotony of 'ghar ka khana' is all thanks to the wonder tool.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-to-survive-coronatimes-internet-s-the-word-822027.html
06-04-2020||National||Centre failed to resolve road blockade by Karnataka, Kerala tells Supreme Court||The Kerala government on Monday contended before the Supreme Court that the Union government has failed to resolve the issue arising out of Karnataka's blockade of national highway and other roads connecting to Kasargod, on the high incidents of COVID-19 patients. In an affidavit to the Karnataka government's petition against the Kerala HC's April 1 order, the state government said the unilateral blockade cannot by any stretch of imagination be stated to be reasonable restrictions on the people's right to access food and proper health care. "The act of Karnataka in blocking the national highway and other roads to Kerala preventing people from getting access to medical treatment and movement of essential goods is violative of fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizens under the Constitution," the state government said. The Kerala government asked the court to dismiss the plea by Karnataka against the High Court's order to remove blockade at inter-state border to allow people to access medical facilities in Mangaluru. Maintaining that Karnataka's move was "arbitrary, illegal and violative of statutory guidelines and punishable under the Disaster Management Act", the CPM-led government said the Union Home Secretary failed to discuss the matter and resolve the issue, despite the top court's direction on April 3. "We direct the Union of India and the States of Karnataka and Kerala to confer immediately and formulate the parameters for passage of patients for urgent medical treatment at the interstate border at Talapadi," the top court's bench had then ordered. In its response, the Kerala government also pointed out Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa, even after the apex court's order, openly declared that blockade would not be removed. Notably, the Karnataka government, for its part, apprehended the spread of coronavirus in its districts, as Kasargod in Kerala has emerged as a hotspot with over 100 COVID-19 patients.  The Kerala government, on the other hand, asserted it was "catering" to COVID-19 treatment to patients in an excellent manner. It said it had already assured to the High Court that its Health and fire department were ready to sterilise all vehicles carrying patients to Karnataka from Kasargod for treatment purposes. The court is to consider the matter on Tuesday, April 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-failed-to-resolve-road-blockade-by-karnataka-kerala-tells-supreme-court-822032.html
06-04-2020||National||'Go Corona Go' slogan has become world-famous, claims Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Monday claimed that the Go Corona Go slogan he coined has now become famous all over the world. The minister said questions were raised earlier if such a slogan would help but its widespread use has proved the efficacy of the slogan. When millions of Indians switched off the lights at their homes and lit candles, diyas or turned on mobile phone torches for nine minutes starting 9 pm on Sunday, in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to show the nation's "collective resolve and solidarity" in its fight against coronavirus, Athawale was seen chanting the slogan at his residence in suburban Bandra along with his family members.  In February, a video of Athawale, Chinese Consul General in Mumbai Tang Guocai and Buddhist monks chanting "Go corona, go corona" at a prayer meeting went viral on social media. The video was reportedly shot at Gateway of India on February 20 during a prayer session to stop the spread of the coronavirus in China. The novel coronavirus, which was first detected in China''s Wuhan city in December, has since spread to several countries, including India, and killed thousands and shaved off several billion dollars from the world economy. The clip urging coronavirus to take a "back step" amid crises was shared across social media platforms, leaving netizens amused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/go-corona-go-slogan-has-become-world-famous-claims-athawale-822035.html
06-04-2020||National||Call meeting of party heads on COVID-19: Raja to PM||CPI General Secretary D Raja on Monday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should hold consultations with heads of all political parties on COVID-19, as the government has left out some parties on "technicality" in his interaction with Parliament floor leaders two days later. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Raja acknowledged that country is confronting a huge health disaster of gigantic proportions and said that the government, parties and all those who matter in shaping the political, economic and social course of the country should come together to put their heads and efforts together to contain the disaster. "You have been interacting with the Chief Ministers of states and other experts. Now you have decided to have an interaction with the floor leaders of the political parties in Parliament in which some of the important parties are left out on the basis of a technicality. In fact, this interaction should have happened during the last days of the last Budget Session of Parliament or immediately after the adjournment of the Session," he said. "However, our Party is of the view that the initiative taken by you must be followed by holding consultations with the heads of all recognized political parties at national and state level," Raja said. Modi will be interacting with floor leaders of parties with more than five MPs in Parliament on Wednesday through video conference. This comes after his similar exercise with AYUSH exponents and sportspersons among others. While Trinamool Congress has decided not to attend the interaction with the Prime Minister, parties like AAP, CPI and RJD have not been invited as they do not have five members in Parliament. AAP has four MPs while RJD and CPI have three MPs each. Trinamool Congress has said that they have been demanding a discussion in Parliament as well as an all-party meeting over COVID-19 since early March but it was never called. "Now why? Photo-op?" a senior Trinamool Congress leader said. There are at least 27 parties in Parliament, which has less than five members, while 17 with more than five or more than five MPs have been invited to the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/call-meeting-of-party-heads-on-covid-19-raja-to-pm-822038.html
06-04-2020||National||India learnt to live without politics, religion during lockdown: G Madhavan Nair||"The country has learnt to live without politics and religion," says eminent scientist G Madhavan Nair on the lockdown imposed across the nation to curb the spread of COVID-19. "This is a great achievement," observed the former Chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation. He said this trend should be continued after every election, with all the political activities pushed into the background and everybody concentrating on nation-building. On COVID-19, Nair told PTI: "Actually, many of these viruses are dormant on the earth, and when favourable conditions come, they flare up. If you look at the last three centuries or beyond, once in 100 years, something or the other breaks out. So, its a natural phenomenon."   He said Indians have demonstrated their unity, standing up together without any caste, creed and political colour in the battle to combat the spread of the Coronavirus, adding, the same approach should be adopted in nation building. Nair said implementation of various measures aimed at halting the spread was being spearheaded largely the bureaucracy, who have risen up to the occasion extremely well and same tempo has to be maintained. In the matter of bringing COVID-19 relief package to people, India has been able to cut out the middle-men, he said. "Previously all the funds used to be leaked out to middlemen and that used to really deny benefits which are supposed to reach the people. So that process (cutting out middlemen), if it's continued, it's definitely good for the country," Nair said. Noting that India has a huge domestic market, he pitched for giving a thrust to the indigenisation progragramme, which perhaps had taken a back-seat for quite some time because of readily available things outside. "Now is the time for Indian industries and research laboratories to wake up and give a big push to indigenisation drive," Nair underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-learnt-to-live-without-politics-religion-during-lockdown-g-madhavan-nair-822043.html
06-04-2020||National||Lost five men in hand to hand battle with militants on LoC; All infiltrators killed: Army||The Army on Monday said that it killed five militants in a hand-to-hand and close quarter battle in snow bound woods of Keran sector along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir's Kupwara district. The Army said it launched a massive and daring anti-infiltration operation along the LoC and engaged the infiltrators in a “close quarter battle” in heavy snow, during which all the five militants were killed. Defence Spokesman, Colonel Rajesh Kalia said that in the quarter battle with militants, it lost five professional soldiers including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), “who were air dropped near the LoC soon after getting specific inputs about the infiltration.” Led by Subedar Sanjeev Kumar (hailing from Himachal Pradesh), the party which took on the militants, included Haveldar Davendra Singh (Uttarakhand), para-troopers Bal Krishan (Himachal Pradesh), Amit Kumar (Uttarakhand) and Chhatrapal Singh (Rajasthan). They made their sledge fall on the 'dhok' to allow other squads to hit the militants. The army spokesperson said that the five troopers with the help of other squads neutralised the five infiltrating militants. The subedar died during the intense gunfight while the four others succumbed either on the way to hospital or at the 92-base hospital, Col Kalia added. A police official in Kupwara said the bodies of all the slain militants are lying in the woods. “The terrain is tough and snow covered. The bodies haven’t been handed over to us for identification,” he said, wishing not to be named. It may be recalled that a fierce encounter broke out between the security forces and militants on the LoC in Teen Bahak, KK Gali area in Keran sector on Saturday late evening. The operation concluded Sunday late evening with the killing of five militants and five soldiers, including a JCO. On Saturday evening, the army had rushed elite paratroopers to Rangdoori, Guguldara and Teen Behak area of Jumgund in Kupwara. The operation was launched initially by army’s 8 JAT after intercepting a group of militants on Wednesday. Besides, the searches continued along Awaoora, Kumkadi, Zurhuma, Safawali, Batpora, Haihama areas by the joint team of army’s 41 and 57 Rastriya Rifles, 160 Territorial Army and J&K police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lost-five-men-in-hand-to-hand-battle-with-militants-on-loc-all-infiltrators-killed-army-822051.html
06-04-2020||National||COVID-19 outbreak: Amid equipment shortage, a curious case of imported used ventilators||At a time when the world is struggling to get ventilators to treat COVID-19 patients, 200 such equipment are lying at Chennai port but they are 'second-hand' or 'used' ones and come under the 'hazardous' category. Import of such used equipment is prohibited under hazardous waste management rules of the Ministry of Environment and Forest. A Chennai-based company Skylark Office Machines imported these ventilators in November 2018 from a US-based firm, according to sources. The customs authorities confiscated the consignment and imposed penalty on the goods. But, the importer approached the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) which set aside the orders of the customs authorities and allowed the company to re-export the goods back to the US, they said. Things took turn as the central government banned exports of all kinds of ventilators during the last week of March amid the coronavirus outbreak. After this decision, it was impossible for the company to re-export the consignment. The firm sent a communication to the Chennai office of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) seeking clearance of the consignment as a "special case" to enable use of those ventilators at government medical institution, Tamil Nadu, for tackling the COVID-19 outbreak. "We appeal to you that the policy condition may be relaxed to cover clearance of these goods already imported by us as a very special case to enable us to supply to Government of Tamil Nadu through Tamilnadu Medical Services Corporation Ltd (a fully-owned Tamil Nadu government company) for use in the government medical institution in Tamil Nadu for tackling COVID-19 patients," according to the communication of the company, dated March 31, 2020, accessed by PTI. On this, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation in a communication date March 31 to Chennai DGFT sought clearance of the consignment of used ventilators imported by Skylark Office Machines. The Corporation appealed that the policy condition may be relaxed to cover clearance of these goods so that it can be used to treat COVID-19 patients. DGFT headquarters at the national capital has finally given the approval on April 4 after getting clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forest. The Directorate has also written to the chief secretary and health secretary of Tamil Nadu to check the specifications, standards, quality and safety of these used/old ventilators before using that in hospitals to treat the patients. Skylark Office Machine owner Rohit Jhunjhunwala did not responded to the repeated calls and even to messages sent to him to get his comments on the matter. Some of the major suppliers in the country have stated that they have acute shortage of ventilators in view of the increasing demand worldwide amid the coronavirus outbreak. According to some reports, there is an over 30,000 ventilators in India with every state having a varying number. Health experts have said only few of the total affected patients require critical care as they go on respiratory failure and need to put on ventilators while rest recover with supportive treatment. According to Mumbai-based doctor Sachin Ramteke, few specific cases need ventilators and not all patients. About the number of these equipment, he said that normally, a 100-bed hospital would keep ventilators for 10-20 beds in ICU, but now as the number of patients are increasing, hospitals are facing shortage of these equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-outbreak-amid-equipment-shortage-a-curious-case-of-imported-used-ventilators-822054.html
06-04-2020||National||Total tally in Madhya Pradesh reaches 239; Death toll at 13||Bhopal with 62 cases has become the second most coronavirus-hit city in Madhya Pradesh after Indore, having 135 patients under treatment. Death of a 52-year-old man in Bhopal on Monday has taken the toll from the pandemic in the state to 15 with Indore accounting for 13 of the fatalities. The total number of cases in Madhya Pradesh has surged to 239. Bhopal recorded 44 new cases in the last 24 hours of which 11 are of health department personnel and 20 of the attendees of the controversial Nizamuddin Tablighi congregation. Four police personnel including two women have also been found positive for the virus. The Bhopal administration has declared 23 sensitive localities as a cantonment for the house-to-house screening of residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-tally-in-madhya-pradesh-reaches-239-death-toll-at-13-822063.html
06-04-2020||National||Over 25,500 Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined in country till now; 5 Haryana villages sealed: MHA||More than 25,500 Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country till now, a senior Union Home Ministry official said on Monday. During the daily briefing, Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava also told reporters that five villages in Haryana have been sealed and the residents quarantined as members of this Islamic organisation had stayed there. She said that 1,750 foreign-based members of the Jamaat, out of the total 2,083, have been blacklisted till now. Srivastava said that Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to all states and Union Territories asking them to ensure that the supply chain of medical oxygen, critical for treatment of COVID-19 affected people, should go on smoothly while following norms of social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-25500-tablighi-jamaat-members-quarantined-in-country-till-now-5-haryana-villages-sealed-mha-822066.html
06-04-2020||National||Tirupati, Srikalahasti, other temples open doors for COVID-19 suspects, including Markaz attendees||At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic is catching communal colors, prominent Hindu temples in Andhra Pradesh, with Tirupati in forefront, have opened their doors for sheltering the COVID-19 suspects including the Delhi Markaz attendees and relatives.   The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, which manages the famed Lord Venkateswara temple, has handed over several of its pilgrim rest houses like the Padmavati Nilayam and Vishnuvasam for COVID-19 mitigation. Some premises of the Srikalahasti and Kanipakam Varasiddhi Vinayaka temples – also in Chittoor district like Tirupati – are designated as COVID-19 quarantine centres. Speaking to DH, Chittoor collector Dr Bharath Gupta said that 100 rooms of one block of Padmavati Nilayam, 88 rooms at Kanipakkam and 14 rooms at Srikalahasti are presently set aside as quarantines.   187 people, including several connected to Nizamuddin Markaz, are in Padmavati Nilayam presently while about 40 such persons staying in Kanipakam “were sent back home after tests showed them as negative.” “Since these guest houses have rooms with attached bathrooms and are nearest such facilities suitable for quarantine, we decided to utilize them for COVID-19 purpose,” Gupta said. TTD’s Vishnuvasam, Srinivasam, etc. pilgrim rest houses are being used to accommodate the destitute, migrant workers, etc... Srikalahasti is about 40 KMs and Kanipakam is 70 KMs from Tirupati. These temples led by Tirupati are visited by millions of devotees especially from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana but are closed since the middle of March due to the COVID-19 scare.   Chittoor district at the junction of AP, TN, Karnataka recorded 17 positive cases, out of the state's total 266 COVID-19 cases as of Monday morning. Over 90 percent of the state’s COVID-19 tally are Markaz attendees or their contacts, which has prompted some people, especially on social media, to attribute the mounting cases to one religion, particularly the Tablighi Jamaat cult.     Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has appealed to the public not to single out one sect as the virus spread cause, while asking them to be compassionate towards those tested positive. “Coronavirus does not discriminate between communities, caste or creed; or differentiate between rich or poor, countries or continents,” Reddy said on Saturday in an address to the public. “It is an invisible enemy we have to fight unitedly, in this hour of global crisis.” A decision to extend temple facilities as quarantines depends on the cases and developing COVID-19 situation, officials say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tirupati-srikalahasti-other-temples-open-doors-for-covid-19-suspects-including-markaz-attendees-822081.html
06-04-2020||National||North Indians turn on to PM Modi's 'lights off' call, South Indians less swayed||Power demand around India shows how many nationwide heeded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to switch off their lights on Sunday and burn candles instead to "challenge the darkness" of the coronavirus, with the north coming out clear winners. Data reviewed by Reuters shows that northern India's power demand fell almost twice as steeply as in the south in response to Modi's lights-off plan, indicating the north - a traditional stronghold for PM Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party - was more enthusiastic in its support. Modi had appealed to Indians to display solidarity amid the coronavirus crisis by turning off their lights for nine minutes at 2100 on Sunday and light candles, lamps and flashlights instead. India's overall power demand plunged as much as 26.6% during the period to 85,799 megawatts, preliminary data released by the national grid operator showed. "The drop in national demand by 32,000 megawatts shows a huge response of the nation to the call of the Prime Minister," federal Power Minister R.K. Singh said in a tweet. But a deeper analysis showed that power demand fell as much as 30.6% in India's northern region, compared with a 17.1% fall in the southern region, data released by POSOCO showed. Modi swept to power in May for a second term with a huge mandate in the federal elections held in 2019, but his party won very few seats in four of five southern states.  To be sure, the data shows a significant number of people in south India also responded to Modi's "lights off" call. Safriz Ahamed, who lives in the southern town of Cumbum, said many in his mainly Muslim neighbourhood who lit lamps on Sunday had just weeks ago protested against the Modi government's Citizenship Amendment Act, which critics say is unfair to Muslims. "It's not always a political statement, or blind hate," he said. "People wanted to show solidarity with a national cause yesterday, as we're all facing a tough time amid the lockdown."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-indians-turn-on-to-pm-modis-lights-off-call-south-indians-less-swayed-822082.html
06-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Chidambaram donates Rs 1 crore to govt hospital||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday donated Rs 1 crore to state-run St George Hospital, which has been converted into an exclusive facility to treat COVID-19 patients in the metropolis. The former Union minister has sent a letter to the director of the Maharashtra government's medical education department informing about his donation of Rs 1 crore to the hospital from his MP Local Area Development Scheme, a state Congress spokesperson said here. An official of the deparment said the money donated by Chidambaram will be used to buy medical equipment and protective gear needed in the fight againsst coronavirus. It would be helpful for the state to purchase two digital portable X-ray machines, 10 para-monitors, four defibrillators, four suction machines and some 2,000 PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, among others, he said. Chidambaram is a Rajya Sabha member from Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-chidambaram-donates-rs-1-crore-to-govt-hospital-822083.html
06-04-2020||National||Prepare graded plan to slowly open depts where COVID-19 hotspots aren't existing: PM to ministers||Indicating a phased opening of the ongoing lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked Union ministers to prepare a "graded plan" to slowly open departments in areas that have not emerged as hotspots of the COVID-19 pandemic. Modi made this suggestion while chairing a meeting of the council of ministers via video-conferencing. Talking about the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, the prime minister said that the government must work on war footing to mitigate the impact, adding that the ministries should prepare a business continuity plan, according to an official statement. "He noted that a graded plan to slowly open departments where hotspots aren't existing should be made," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prepare-graded-plan-to-slowly-open-depts-where-covid-19-hotspots-arent-existing-pm-to-ministers-822089.html
06-04-2020||National||Maharashtra: Activist heckled for ignoring 'switch off lights' appeal||A social activist here in Maharashtra has alleged that he and his family were heckled and termed as "anti-national" by a neighbour after they did not switch off lights at 9 pm on Sunday in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal. Siddharth Prabhune took to Twitter to express his grievance and said his family did not switch off lights as he was unwell. His wife Trupti Prabhune said they did not lodge a police complaint in the matter as the security personnel is already busy enforcing the lockdown. The activist said he along with his family were on the terrace of their house by 8.45 pm on Sunday. "By 9 pm, people started switching off the lights and lit diyas and candles. Lights in our house as well as on the terrace were on because I was not well," he tweeted. He further stated that a builder, who lives in front of their building, started shouting to switch off the lights. "However, we remained silent. He then came down and gathered people and started shouting at us," Prabhune alleged. In his Twitter post, the activist further alleged that the builder used intimidating language, labelled his family as "anti-national, "vile", and threatened to send them to jail for three months. The activist said the appeal made by Prime Minister Modi was voluntary, and such "intimidation" is wrong. When contacted, the activist's wife said the behaviour of the person was not appropriate, but they do not want to escalate the matter. "He should have not used that sort of language," she said, adding that they chose not to approach police who are already overburdened due to the current lockdown situation. Prime Minister Modi last week appealed to people to defeat coronavirus by switching off lights in their premises for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday amid the nationwide lockdown. People across the country enthusiastically responded to his appeal by lighting candles and diyas, and flashing lights of their mobile phones by standing in balconies and in front of their houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-activist-heckled-for-ignoring-switch-off-lights-appeal-822092.html
06-04-2020||National||COVID-19 survivor beat isolation blues through action movies, video calls to wife||The 29-year-old, who did not wish to be named, was discharged from the Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurgaon, on April 1 after he tested negative for the virus in his second consecutive report. The Gurgaon resident was tested COVID-19 positive on March 21, soon after his return from an official trip in the UK. "I returned to India on March 18 and was absolutely fine as per the airport screening. But once I reached home, I felt shivering and fever. That is when I reached a government hospital for check-up and then I was asked to take the COVID-19 test," he told PTI over phone. "Till the report came, I was observing a self-quarantine at my home only. On March 21, I was told by the hospital that the report was positive. In no time I got myself admitted to Fortis as I wanted to spend the isolation period in a private setup only," he said. Though aware of the fact that he has to stay put in the isolation ward of the hospital for at least 14 days, he said after four-five days, no matter how hard one tries "boredom and frustration" starts creeping in. He said he will always be indebted to his wife for the several video calls, and the streaming apps for showing latest action movies that kept him "busy and happily engaged" during such times of distress. "My wife and I would talk on the phone for four-five hours during my isolation period. Since I was not allowed to move out, she would go to the balcony and show me the view of my society, roads, trees and birds," he recalled. "Trust me, all this becomes very helpful when you are confined to one place for days with no access whatsoever to the outside world," said the man, who stayed in the hospital for 10 days owing to his speedy-recovery. On movies, he said he was binge-watching latest action movies and series. His favourites of the lot were: "Mardaani-2", "Special-OPS", "Family Man" and "War". Particular about his "watching list", he was also clear in his head about what "not to watch" during the isolation period. For instance, "negative news" on coronavirus. "The last thing that you want around you during the isolation period is negativity. In the hospital, we were given a separate TV for each bed, and yes I did keep a tab on the news but then only to a point," he said. "I avoided watching negative news on coronavirus -- like spike in cases or death toll. In fact during conversation with my wife also, we both made it a point to not use the C-word (coronavirus) much and talk about other things," he added. Dr Manoj Goel (55), director of pulmonology at the Fortis Memorial in Gurgaon, who has so far successfully discharged four of six patients admitted there, said the hospital is monitoring its patients in the isolation ward round the clock and that they are being provided with all possible support they need -- be it physiological or psychological. "The treatment essentially is symptomatic in the majority of the patients and aimed at relieving fever, cough and shortness of breath. In mild cases, this might simply mean rest and fever-reducing medications such as paracetamol for comfort. "Oxygen therapy represents the major treatment intervention for patients with severe infection. Out of the two patients we are treating right now, one is a severe case," he added. The total number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in India has crossed the 4,000 mark with the death toll surging past 100 on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-survivor-beat-isolation-blues-through-action-movies-video-calls-to-wife-822100.html
06-04-2020||National||UGC asks varsities, colleges to set up mental health helplines for students||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked all universities and colleges to set up mental health helplines to address the psychosocial concerns of students during the 21-day lockdown imposed to combat COVID-19. In a letter to Vice-Chancellors of universities, UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain asked them to take steps to reassure the students to avoid panic or stress during the lockdown period. “During the period of national lockdown, it is equally important to address any kind of mental health and psychosocial concerns of student community during and after COVID-19 situation issue,” Jain said. “Therefore, in order to reassure the student community to avoid any kind of stress or panic in the prevailing situation vis-a-vis their studies, health and other issues, the universities and colleges may set up mental health helplines for the purpose. The helpline should be regularly monitored and managed by counselors and identified faculty members,” the letter said. The commission has suggested that there should be regular mentoring of students through interactions and appeals to remain calm and stress-free. "The universities may form COVID-19 help groups of students, headed by hostel wardens and senior faculty, who can identify friends and classmates in need of help," Jain said. The Union health ministry has launched a toll-free helpline (080-46110007) for people who may face mental health issues due to the ongoing 21-day countrywide lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-asks-varsities-colleges-to-set-up-mental-health-helplines-for-students-822104.html
06-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Mumbai, Pune top hospitals quarantined||Amid mounting cases of COVID-19, two big hospitals accidentally came in contact with patients of coronavirus infection and have been quarantined.  The two hospitals involved in the health care are DY Patil Hospital in Pune and Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai. In the Pune hospital,  92 member staff including doctors,  nurses and ward boys were quarantined after a patient, who was involved in an accident, was found positive. The patient underwent an operation but developed fever, after which his swabs were sent for tests. He has been shifted to YB Chavan Memorial Hospital. Meanwhile, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has declared the Wockhardt Hospital near Mumbai Central,  a containment zone after at least 29 staffers including 3 doctors and 26 nurses were found as COVID-19 patients. The infections reportedly happened after two COVID-19 patients and two suspected cases were shifted here from the Kasturba Hospital, a fortnight ago. Meanwhile,  in a related development,  the nurses have shot off a letter to authorities, demanding PPEs. A police officer too was admitted as a COVID-19 suspect patient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mumbai-pune-top-hospitals-quarantined-822112.html
06-04-2020||National||PM egging party workers to violate lockdown: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of giving a call to violate the national lockdown due to COVID-19, saying his appeal to BJP members to collect funds from 40 people and visit another 40 who is engaged in fighting the pandemic should be withdrawn. In a statement, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau said this was "nothing but an open violation" by the Prime Minister himself of the 21-day lockdown that he himself announced and an "open encouragement" to the ruling BJP do so. "This is not merely objectionable but has to be immediately rescinded if the country and people’s fight against COVID-19 pandemic has to succeed," it said. In his address to the party workers on the occasion of BJP's 40th Foundation Day, the CPI(M) said, Modi gave a call to BJP workers to contribute generously to PM-CARES and also collect a contribution from 40 others. "Secondly, at every booth level, BJP workers are to visit at least 40 people who are working for essential services and health care to personally thank them. Thirdly, after abdicating the government’s responsibility to provide with food, shelter, and wages, the Prime Minister is now calling upon the BJP workers to provide relief, violating the lockdown," the CPI(M) said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-egging-party-workers-to-violate-lockdown-cpim-822116.html
06-04-2020||National||Lok Sabha speaker to give 30 per cent of salary to Consolidated Fund of India||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will contribute 30 per cent of his salary to the Consolidated Fund of India for the next one year to help the government in its fight against coronavirus crisis.  "In view of the economic crisis arising out of the corona pandemic, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has decided to give 30 per cent of his monthly salary to the Consolidated Fund of India for the next one year," an official statement said on Monday.  Birla has written to the Lok Sabha secretary general to deduct that much amount from his salary for the next one year.  The decision came after the Union cabinet approved an ordinance to reduce the salaries, allowances and pensions of Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30 per cent for one year to utilise the saved money in the fight against coronavirus. The president, vice president, governors of states have also voluntarily decided to take a pay cut as a social responsibility, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-speaker-to-give-30-per-cent-of-salary-to-consolidated-fund-of-india-822117.html
06-04-2020||National||'India acts to shield its tigers against COVID-19 malady'||Amid reports of a US zoo tiger found coronavirus positive, India's apex tiger conservation body has swung into action and has asked all tiger range states to keep an eye over big cats and immediately report to authorities, if anyone of them are found having COVID-19 symptoms. The National Tiger Conservation Authority alerted chief wildlife wardens of all tiger range states shortly after the Union Ministry of Environment advised states to curb human visits to and movements in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries as precautionary measures against the transmission of infection from humans to animals. It asked them to gear up frontline staff as well as veterinary officials to prevent the spread of the disease among tigers owing to the zoonotic nature of COVID-19. "I am directed to inform that owing to the communicable and zoonotic nature of the said disease, following actions need to be taken to avert the disease in wild tigers in India. "Tigers may be observed for symptoms consistent with COVID-19 such as respiratory signs of nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing through direct observation to the extent possible, besides through camera trap images for visible symptoms," said Vaibhav C Mathur, NTCA's Assistant Inspector General of Forests. He also said it should be ensured that "personnel handling tigers in human-tiger negative interactions and translocation operations be ascertained to be coronavirus negative". They should also take due precaution as advised by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare from time to time, he added.  "For COVID 19 diagnosis as well as differential diagnoses and characterization as highlighted above, samples may be sent to ICAR-approved laboratories as per the enclosure. "It is, hence, requested to gear up the front line staff as well as veterinary officials engaged in monitoring tiger mortality in areas under your jurisdiction to detect the disease and prevent its spread in tigers in the wild. Being a notifiable disease, any positive case needs to be reported immediately to the NTCA for onward transmission to the authorities concerned," the NTCA said. Diligence needs to be exercised while handling postmortem cases to record location, age and sex of the animal while collecting samples for coronavirus diagnosis in consultation with the state veterinary officials while safeguarding oneself through appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), it said. As coronavirus is known to affect gastrointestinal system in felines, requisite correlation may be made for characterizing the virus type in consultation with the State Veterinary Department. "Differential diagnosis with feline infectious rhino-tracheitis needs to be made as similar respiratory symptoms may be observed," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-acts-to-shield-its-tigers-against-covid-19-malady-822122.html
06-04-2020||National||Modi, Morrisson agree on India-Australia joint research to develop Covid-19 vaccine||India and Australia on Monday agreed on collaboration between researchers of the two nations to find an effective cure for the COVID-19 and to develop a vaccine to keep the virus away. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison spoke to each other over the phone and discussed the COVID-19 pandemic. They briefed each other about the domestic response strategies being adopted by their respective Governments.     “They agreed on the importance of bilateral sharing of experiences in the context of the health crisis (COVID-19 pandemic), including through collaborative research efforts,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a press release issued in New Delhi after the talks between the two leaders. Modi conveyed to Morrison that his government would always stand ready to provide necessary facilitation and support to any citizen of Australia stranded in India due to travel restrictions imposed to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Morrison too assured Modi that the Indian students and other Indian nationals in Australia would continue to be valued as a vibrant part of the society in Australia. “A warm discussion by phone today with my good friend Prime Minister @narendramodi on our responses to the #coronavirus crisis. We shared our experiences on managing the crisis and will continue to share knowledge on treatment for the virus and as we work towards a vaccine,” Australian Prime Minister posted on Twitter. Morrison would have been the first foreign leader to visit New Delhi and meet Modi in 2020. But his visit – scheduled from January 13 to 16 – had to be indefinitely postponed as he had to cancel all foreign tours to remain in Canberra and oversee efforts to control a devastating bushfire in southeastern Australia. With the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to contain it making it difficult to reschedule Morrison’s visit to New Delhi, he and Modi on Monday agreed to hold a virtual summit soon through video-conferencing. “We agreed to schedule a virtual summit very soon, given we won’t be able to meet in person. We also discussed the important role being played by the Australian Indian community, particularly in supporting the vulnerable in our community and rallying around those in need,” tweeted Morrison. The Prime Minister and the Australian Prime Minister agreed to “remain attentive to the wider significance of the India-Australia partnership, including in the Indo-Pacific region, even as they focus on solving the present health crisis”, according to the press-release issued by the Government of India in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-morrisson-agree-on-india-australia-joint-research-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-822136.html
06-04-2020||National||COVID-19: 2-year-old tests positive, UP tally crosses 300||A two and a half-year-old child tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh even as the total number of cases in the state jumped to 305 on Monday. Additional chief secretary, home, Avaneesh Awasthi told reporters here that of the 27 cases reported on Monday as many as 21 were members of Tableegh-e-Jamaat. He asked the Jamaat members to come forward and get themselves tested if they had attended the recent religious event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Awasthi said that the rising number of coronavirus patients in the state was a cause for concern and that it might prompt the state government to continue the lockdown in the state after April 14, when the 21-day period would end. According to the doctors at the KG Medical University here, a two and a half-year-old child was admitted to the hospital after being tested positive for the virus infection. The child's mother had also tested positive earlier but was cured and discharged from the hospital a few days back. So far three people had died from Coronavirus in the state while 22 had recovered and discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-2-year-old-tests-positive-up-tally-crosses-300-822149.html
06-04-2020||National||18 Malayalis die abroad with COVID-19; 13 more infected in Kerala||While Kerala is managing to limit the deaths caused by COVID-19 in the state to two so far, the state is worried about the increasing deaths of Malayalis in various countries. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that so far 18 Malayalis in various countries died due to COVID-19, the highest being in America, eight. Four persons each died in UK and Saudi Arabia. Other deaths were reported from UAE and Ireland. As many as 46 Malayali nurses in Mumbai and five in Delhi were also reportedly infected. The Chief Minister said that he had held talks with representatives of non-resident Keralites in various countries and were trying to address their concerns with the help of external affairs ministry. Meanwhile, 13 more COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Monday, while three more got cured.  Nine of the fresh cases were from Kasargod, of which three came from aboard. The upcoming Kasargod Medical College hospital's administrative block started functioning as a COVID-19 hospital from Monday with 200 isolation beds and ten ICU beds. Another 100 isolation beds and ten ICU beds would be added soon. A 26-member medical team from Thiruvananthapuram medical college was deputed to Kasargod where 138 COVID-19 infected persons are under treatment and 221 symptomatic persons in hospitals observation. Tata group also offered to set up COVID-19 treatment facilities in Kasargod. Two found infected on Monday were those who returned from the Nizamuddin congregation.  So far 327 persons in Kerala were infected of which 59 were cured so far and two died. Remaining 266 persons were now under treatment. The Chief Minister said that COVID-19 seems to be under control in Kerala now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-malayalis-die-abroad-with-covid-19-13-more-infected-in-kerala-822151.html
06-04-2020||National||IIT Roorkee develops app to locate coronavirus suspects||The IIT Roorkee has developed a mobile tracking application endowed with state-of-the-art features to boost government efforts for the surveillance of coronavirus suspects.        The application can track the COVID-19 suspects who have been quarantined through the geofencing technology, which marks a virtual geographic area and triggers a response if an individual exits or enters the boundary. The system will get an alert, if geofencing is violated by the quarantined person, Prof Kamal Jain from the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Roorkee, said.          In case the GPS data is not received, the location will be obtained automatically through the triangulation of mobile towers. If the Internet is not working in a certain area, the location will be received through SMS. If the application gets off, an alert will be received immediately. The location of the person can be received by sending an SMS to the device. It allows the sharing of quarantined persons/places photographs on a Google map, uploading geotag image to a server. Furthermore, administrators can view all reports on a map. If installed on the mobile of the affected person, it can provide a history of all people in his vicinity for a defined period. “The tracking system allows for state-of-the-art surveillance during COVID-19. Besides facilitating quarantine management, it helps overcome overcrowding at any location by issuing an alert to the predefined agency. This is our small step to supplement government efforts in these testing times,” Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-roorkee-develops-app-to-locate-coronavirus-suspects-822164.html
06-04-2020||National||India between Stage 2 and 3 of COVID-19 pandemic: Health Ministry||India is between Stage 2 and 3 of coronavirus pandemic with large number of cases being found in particular areas, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday concurring with the AIIMS Director's remarks that localised community transmission is being observed in some pockets of the country.  AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria, who is also a member of a Task Force on COVID-19, on Monday reportedly said that "localised community transmission" has been seen in some pockets and that India is between Stage 2 (local transmission) and Stage 3.  He had clarified that most of India is currently at Stage 2 of the COVID-19 pandemic. Asked about Guleria's remarks, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal said, "What the AIIMS Director has said is not in variance with what we have been explaining to you." Explaining further, Agarwal said that they go for a cluster containment strategy when limited cases are reported from a particular area while the government's action and intervention get intensified when a larger number of cases are reported. "We tell you every time that if there will be a community transmission we will be the first one to tell you so that everyone gets alert. If we go by the wordings (of AIIMS Director), he said localised community transmission, which implies larger number of cases are being found in a particular area," the official said. "We are in between Stage 2 and 3 and that implies that our efforts and actions should be focused on ensuring we do not shift to stage 3," the joint secretary said, adding there are clear defined strategies for containment in areas reporting larger number of cases and the government was working according to that. In Stage 2, disease transmission is limited to those with travel history to affected countries or those in contact with the infected persons. Community transmission or Stage 3 means a patient was infected though he had no known contact with another confirmed case of COVID-19 or travelled from a country affected by the pandemic. Agarwal said there had been 693 new COVID-19 cases and 30 deaths since Sunday. The total number of cases stand at 4,067 with the death toll at 109. However, a PTI tally based on figures reported by states directly showed at least 126 deaths across the country, while the confirmed cases reached 4,111. Of them, 315 have been cured and discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-between-stage-2-and-3-of-covid-19-pandemic-health-ministry-822171.html
06-04-2020||National||Testing times for India in race to head off coronavirus||India, like a lot of countries plunged into crisis by the pandemic, is struggling to ramp up testing for the coronavirus, but in few places would the odds of containing the disease appear so bleak should domestic transmission start to multiply. Officials hope to be testing 20,000 people daily by the end of the week, four times the current rate. Since India's first case was confirmed on Jan. 30, they have only conducted 90,000 tests, having focused efforts on identifying people who had come in contact with anyone who has tested positive. The results show 4,067 people are infected, and 107 have died of the respiratory disease. Officials believe the three-week nationwide lockdown ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have slowed the spread of the virus in communities, giving them a chance to catch up in the race to stop a full blown epidemic. "We are increasing our testing capacity progressively," said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Indian health ministry leading the effort to tackle the spread of infections. "We should be not be panicking, we should be preparing," Agarwal said. "We have followed a pro-active policy from the beginning. Our focus has been on surveillance and contact tracing. Instead of the virus chasing us, we have been chasing the virus." Testing had already doubled in the last two days from 5,000 samples a day, another health official said. "This is expected to reach 20,000 in the next three days and increase further over the next few weeks as per the plan," the official said. Worldwide, more than 1.25 million people have been reported infected by COVID-19, and far wealthier countries than India have been fiercely criticised for their slow initial response, particularly regarding testing. Having been chided for a lag in testing, the United States has overtaken China as the country suffering the most infections. The United States has now conducted around a million tests, and 336,000 people have tested positive. But in a country like India, with 1.3 billion people, hundreds of millions of poor, living in unhygienic and crammed conditions, there is a very real fear that if the testing starts too far behind the curve, the confirmed cases won't even account for the tip of the tip of the iceberg. "There is unanimity among epidemiologists, doctors and district-level administrators that the need of the hour is aggressive and extensive testing," said former finance minister P. Chidambaram and a leader of the opposition Congress party. Yet, doctors say the campaign for mass screening is handicapped by a lack of both testing kits and protective gear for staff carrying out the tests. SOUTH ASIA Elsewhere in South Asia, the medical infrastructure can be even more inadequate, and authorities are playing catch up as testing kits become available to them. Afghanistan has had 367 cases from the 2,737 people it has tested. The western border province of Herat has suffered the worst outbreak, as thousands of Afghans returned in recent weeks from Iran, where the virus has hit hard. Officials say there has been basic screening such as temperature checks but only a fraction of those crossing the border from Iran have been tested. In Bangladesh, with a population of 160 million, the government has faced criticism also over a lack of testing. "We are testing at 14-15 different places. We will increase the number of tests to 1,000-1,500 per day in future," Health Minister Zahid Malik said at a briefing on Sunday. The testing rate has varied from 300 on Sunday, to barely 50 to 100 last week. Pakistan's health ministry said it had conducted 35,875 tests so far, based on a policy of testing only those people with a suspect travel history, or directly exposed to someone who has tested positive or showing acute symptoms with underlying history of health problems. Following are government figures on the spread of the coronavirus in South Asia: * India has 4067 cases, including 109 deaths * Pakistan has 3,277 cases, including 50 deaths * Afghanistan has 367 cases, including 7 deaths * Sri Lanka has 176 cases, including 5 deaths * Bangladesh has 123 cases, including 12 deaths * Maldives has 19 cases and no deaths * Nepal has nine cases and no deaths * Bhutan has five cases and no deaths||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/testing-times-for-india-in-race-to-head-off-coronavirus-822182.html
06-04-2020||National||PM Modi says 'long fight' ahead to defeat COVID-19, asks ministers to ready plans for 'slow' exit from lockdown||Cautioning people to be ready for a "long fight" against COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday told his ministers to make plans for slowly exiting the ongoing lockdown and to contain the economic impact of the deadly virus pandemic, including by reducing dependence on other countries. As more people tested positive in New Delhi, Mumbai and other parts of the country, the nationwide tally of infections went over 4,500 and the death toll rose to at least 129, as per figures announced by various states. The government also announced a 30 per cent cut in salaries, allowances and pensions of all MPs for one year and a two-year suspension of their local area development funds worth nearly Rs 8,000 crore. The Union Health Ministry indicated the disease is in "localised community transmission" stage with a large number of cases being found in some particular areas, amid indications that some areas including in Uttar Pradesh may not see full exit from the lockdown. Addressing his council of ministers in a video conference, Modi asked them to prepare business continuity plans to fight the economic impact of COVID-19 on a war footing, but also asserted that this crisis is an opportunity to boost the 'Make-in-India' initiative and reduce dependence on other countries. He also indicated a phased emergence from the lockdown and said that "a graded plan to slowly open departments, where hotspots aren't existing, should be made". "This is going to be a long fight. We don't have to tire or feel defeated. We have to win in this long battle. We have to emerge victorious. Today, the nation's goal, mission and resolve are one, and this is to be victorious in this battle against the coronavirus pandemic," Modi said. In their daily briefing, government officials announced fresh figures to show that the people linked to Tablighi Jamaat account for more than one-third of the total tally and also said that elderly persons are in high risk category and so are those aged between 40-60 years with other serious medical conditions.  Separately, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh's Joint General Secretary Manmohan Vaidya said "figures tell the truth", referring to the Jamaat-linked numbers in the nationwide tally. He said the Jamaat should have acted "sensibly and responsibly" in dispersing the participants at their congregation last month and referred to RSS's own decision to cancel its meetings and programmes. Authorities at several places have warned of invoking attempt to murder charge and the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against those participants of the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi who fail to report for screening test. In addition to pay cuts for MPs that include ministers, the government also said that President, Vice President and state governors have also taken voluntary salary cuts to help fund the COVID-19 fight. Congress welcomed the decision to cut MPs' salaries, but said suspending MPLADs, as the development fund scheme is known, will undermine the role of an MP and called for its review. CPI(M) also slammed the suspension of the MLAD scheme, while Trinamool Congress called it "whimsical". Experts opined that the lockdown, in its 13th day on Monday, has helped in slowing down the spread of the virus, but called for an exponential ramping up of the testing mechanism and upgrading of healthcare facilities. The Indian Council of Medical Research, which has so far conducted nearly 90,000 coronavirus tests, said orders have been placed for 5 lakh rapid antibody testing kits. The new positive cases reported by various states include a 14-month-old boy in Gujarat's Jamnangar district with no travel history, as also a 2 1/2-year-old son of Lucknow's first COVID-19 patient. two private hospitals in Mumbai were sealed after some of their medical staff, including doctors and nurses, tested positive. In Haryana, five villages were sealed and all their residents quarantined after it was found that some foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat had stayed there, the Union Home Ministry said. More than 25,500 Jamaat members and their contacts have been quarantined across the country, while 1,750 foreign-based members of the religious group, out of the total 2,083, have been blacklisted till now by the Indian government, a senior Ministry official said. The evening update from the Union Health Ministry put the number of confirmed cases at 4,281 with 111 deaths. However, a PTI tally of figures announced by various states as at 6.30 PM showed more than 4,500 have been infected so far, 129 have died and 344 have been cured and discharged. West Bengal has revised downward its death toll from 7 to 3. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the number of COVID-19 cases in the national capital has reached 523, out of which 330 are from the Nizamuddin centre of the Jamaat. He said testing is being ramped up and his government has placed placed orders for one lakh testing kits to be used from Friday. The cases have risen sharply in the national capital and in Mumbai over last few days. At least 57 new cases were reported in the country's financial capital on Monday, taking its total tally to 490, while the state-wide number of positive cases in Maharashtra has neared 800. Officials have, however, maintained that the spread has still been slower in India than many other countries. Worldwide, more than 12.5 lakh have got infected by this deadly virus since its outbreak in China in December last, while more than 70,000 have died including over 50,000 in Europe and more than 10,000 in the US. The entire world is also battling a huge economic crisis due to the pandemic. France said on Monday it is heading for the worst recession since the World War II, while Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has proposed a state of emergency. Sources said the Finance Ministry is also working on a new relief package for the Indian economy hit hard by the outbreak and the lockdown. Last month, the government had announced a Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package in the form of food grains and cash transfers for poor and vulnerable sections to help them deal with the hardships caused by the lockdown. In his video conference with ministers, Modi also asked them to explore innovative solutions like 'truck aggregators' on the lines of app-based cab services to connect farmers with mandis and also underlined the need to devise a strategy to ensure procurement of tribal products. Separately addressing the BJP workers on the party's 40th foundation day, Modi also asked every BJP worker to donate to the PM-CARES Fund and also encourage others to contribute to it to help his government's measures against the pandemic. The new cases of confirmed infection reported since Sunday include those from Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra, while fresh deaths have been reported from Gujarat, Andhra and Rajasthan among other places. Railways said it has converted 2,500 coaches into isolation wards, achieving half of its target of delivering 5000 such coaches in the first phase as part of its efforts to supplement the government's measures to fight coronavirus. With the conversion of around 2,500 coaches, 40,000 isolation beds are now ready for use, Railways said in a statement. The Supreme Court also directed all courts across the country to extensively use video-conferencing for judicial proceedings saying congregation of lawyers and litigants must be suspended to maintain social distancing amid coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-long-fight-ahead-to-defeat-covid-19-asks-ministers-to-ready-plans-for-slow-exit-from-lockdown-822183.html
06-04-2020||National||India receives 1.7 lakh PPEs donated by China||India on Monday received 1.70 lakh personal protection equipment (PPE) coveralls donated by China, the Union Health Ministry said. Along with the domestic supplies of 20,000 coveralls, a total of 1.90 lakh coveralls will now be distributed to hospitals and will add to the 3,87,473 PPEs already available in the country as of now, it said. “Supply lines from abroad opened up today with the receipt of 1.70 lakh Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) coveralls from China which have been donated to the Government of India,” the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in press release. A total of 2.94 lakh PPE coveralls have been arranged and supplied by the Centre till now to states, the ministry said. In addition to this, 2 lakh domestically produced N-95 masks are also being sent to various hospitals. Including these, over 20 lakh N-95 masks have been supplied by the government of India. "About 16 lakh N-95 masks are presently available in the country, and this figure will increase with the fresh supply of 2 lakh masks," the ministry said. Major portions of the fresh supplies are being sent to states with comparatively higher number of cases such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan. Supplies are also being sent to central institutions like AIIMS, Safdarjung and RML hospitals, RIMS, NEIGRIHMS, BHU and AMU, it said. "The commencement of foreign supplies marks a major milestone in our efforts to procure personal protection equipment for the battle against COVID-19," the ministry said. An order for 80 lakh complete PPE kits (including N-95 masks) had been placed on a Singapore-based platform earlier and now it has been indicated that supplies will commence from April 11 with the first installment of 2 lakh, followed by 8 lakh more soon thereafter, it said. "Negotiations are in final stages with a Chinese platform for placing an order of 60 lakh complete PPE kits, which will also include N95 masks. Separate orders for N95 masks and protective goggles are also being placed on some foreign companies," the ministry said in its statement.  Giving a further fillip to domestic capabilities, the Northern Railways has developed a PPE coverall, in addition to the PPE coveralls and N-99 masks developed by DRDO earlier, it said. "Efforts are now being made to start mass production of these products," the ministry said, adding existing N-95 mask producers have increased their capacity to about 80,000 masks per day. In all, srders have been placed for 112.76 lakhs standalone N95 masks and 157.32 lakhs PPE coveralls. Out of these, 80 lakh PPE kits will include N95 masks, it said, "The objective is to achieve a supply of about 10 lakh PPE kits per week. Looking at the number of patients in the country, sufficient quantities are available for the moment. Further supplies are expected within this week," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-receives-17-lakh-ppes-donated-by-china-822191.html
06-04-2020||National||Elderly account for 19% COVID-19 infections; 63% deaths||India’s elderly account for 19% of the total COVID-19 infections, but 63% of the 109 deaths across the country. The country also witnessed its highest increase in COVID-19 cases in a single day as 693 new patients were found infected by the virus taking the total number of confirmed cases to 4,067. According to Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary at the Health Ministry, 47% positive cases are in people below the age of 40 years, 34 % cases in the age group of 40 to 60 years and 19 % cases are above 60 years of age. While 63% of the total 109 deaths belonged to the 60 years plus age group, 86% of the fatalities were due to co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma, heart ailments or chronic kidney issues. Out of total positive cases, 76% are males while women comprise 24 %. Males account for 73% of total deaths and females the rest 27%. He said those above 60 years of age accounted for 63% of the total deaths, while those between 40 years and 60 years comprised 30% of the dead. Seven per cent deaths were reported among those below the age of 40. 86% of deaths amongst people with co-morbidities indicate that young persons with a history of illnesses such as diabetes, kidney issues, hypertension, heart ailments, and asthma were susceptible to the disease. Aggarwal said that elders should be protected and every youth has to be careful that they maintain sufficient social distance to not pass the infection to anyone in the family, particularly the elderly. He said of the 4067 confirmed cases of COVID-19 across the country, 1445 were epidemiologically linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the national capital last month. “We have quarantined 25,000 Tablighi Jamaat workers as well as people who have come in contact with them,” Punya Salila Srivastava, Joint Secretary in the Home Ministry said. Besides, five villages in Haryana where the Jamaat workers had stayed have been sealed off completely and placed under quarantine. “So far 2,083 foreign TJ members have been identified out of which 1,750 have been blacklisted,” she said. Last week, the government has cancelled visas of hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members for their involvement in activities in violation of their visa conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elderly-account-for-19-covid-19-infections-63-deaths-822201.html
06-04-2020||National||Railways addresses 1.25 lakh queries on its helplines in 10 days of lockdown||The Indian Railways said on Monday its helplines for passengers has received 1.25 lakh queries in the first ten days of lockdown, 87 per cent of which were handled through direct human intervention. The Railways had opened a control office after the 21-day lockdown was announced. The control office is being manned by director-level officers, who monitor citizen feedback on social media and email, and ensure appropriate action is taken, especially in goods transportation. The control office has been doing 24x7 monitoring of four communication platforms - Helplines- 139, 138, social media (Twitter) and email (railmadad@rb.railnet.gov.in). "Since its inception a few days back, the facility has become a huge management success so much so that railway personnel have responded to over 1,25,000 queries in the first 10 days on designated communication platforms, 87 per cent (over 1,09,000) of which were handled through direct human interaction over the phone,” the national transporter said in a statement. Helpline 139 answered over 80,000 queries on one-on-one basis in the first 10 days of the lockdown, in addition to queries answered by its IVRS facility. "While the queries are mostly for commencement of train services and the relaxed refund rules, the social media is flush with appreciation of Railways’ efforts in these trying times. "Some of the efforts lauded include running of freight trains carrying essential items, waiving penalties for late release of wagons, converting coaches into hospital wards, distribution of food packets, preparing PPEs, sanitisers and other equipment in the fight against coronavirus,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-addresses-125-lakh-queries-on-its-helplines-in-10-days-of-lockdown-822233.html
06-04-2020||National||Ensure smooth supply of medical oxygen: Centre to states||The Union government on Monday asked the states and union territories to ensure adequate supply of medical oxygen as it is a critical need in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. In a letter to chief secretaries of all states and UTs, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said special attention should be given to ensure smooth supply of essential commodities and medical oxygen during the lockdown. "There is a critical need to maintain an adequate supply of medical oxygen in the country in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and as medical oxygen is also included in the national list and WHO's list of essential medicines," he said. Bhalla also reiterated the exemptions made under the guidelines on lockdown measures. All manufacturing units of medical oxygen gas/liquid, medical oxygen cylinders, cryogenic tanks for storing liquid oxygen, liquid cryogenic cylinders, liquid oxygen cryogenic transport tanks, ambient vaporisers and cryogenic valves, cylinder valves and accessories are exempted, he said. The home secretary asked the state and UT officials to take action for the transportation of these items, travel of workers of such units from their homes to factories, so that such units run at full capacity. In the communication to all states on April 3, detailed guidelines have been issued for smooth functioning of supply chain of exempted items, involving inter-state movement of employees, he said. In his communication, Bhalla emphasised that social distancing and proper hygiene practices must be ensured in each of the above activities. It will be the responsibility of the head of the organisation to ensure compliance of norms. The district authorities have been asked to ensure strict enforcement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-smooth-supply-of-medical-oxygen-centre-to-states-822235.html
06-04-2020||National||Zero deaths, 22 fresh cases COVID-19 cases in Delhi; contact history of 28 yet to be established||Delhi reported no COVID-19 related deaths in the national capital on Monday while the number of cases rose to 525 following the addition of 22 fresh patients. Of the 525 cases, 329 are linked to Tablighi Jamaat gathering in south Delhi's Nizamuddin in mid-march while another 168 have either foreign travel history or came in contact with those infected by the virus. However, there are 28 COVID-19 positive patients whose contact history is yet to be established as to ascertain how they contracted the virus infection. Till Sunday evening, the number was 71 and the medical bulletin issued on Monday night said it has come down to 28, implying that authorities have found out details of over 40 patients. Of the 28 such patients, authorities have no idea about how around ten of the new patients were infected as of now. DH on Sunday had reported that authorities were yet to ascertain the contact history of 71 patients who tested positive for COVID-19. On the positive note, the number of COVID-19 cases on Monday was the lowest for a day in April. While there were 32 cases on April 1, it rose to a record high the next day when it touched 141. On April 3, it came down to 93 followed by 59 on April 4 and 58 on April 5. So far, seven people have died due to COVID-19 while 498 are still in hospital and 19 discharged from hospital. One patient had migrated out during treatment. "In the last few days, it must have seemed like there has been a sudden rise in the COVID-19 positive cases in Delhi. One reason for that is the rise in the Tablighi Jamaat cases, which is evident since 329 out of 525 cases are from Markaz. The second reason is that now, we have started getting the testing kits and testing capacity has increased across Delhi in the last few days. We want maximum people to be tested to provide better treatment to the people infected by Corona," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. Kejriwal said more tests would ensure that infected people are identified, quarantined, and treated so that the virus does not get transmitted to other people. "Our testing capacity around March 25 was 100-125 people per day, which has increased to 500 people per day after April 1, and is now reaching a capacity of 1000 tests per day. We have given the orders for one lakh testing kits, which are expected to be procured by Friday," he said. In relief for the state government, it also got delivery of 27,000 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits for healthcare professionals. Kejriwal said he thank the Centre for allotting the PPE kits, which is likely to be delivered on Tuesday or Wednesday. At least 25 healthcare professionals in the national capital have contracted the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zero-deaths-22-fresh-cases-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-contact-history-of-28-yet-to-be-established-822236.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Modi widens ambit of COVID-19 discussions; dials Sonia, Manmohan and others||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday widened the ambit of political discussions over COVID-19, three days before he is slated to interact with the floor leaders of political parties in Parliament. Besides Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, who had written to the prime minister on the virus challenge, Modi called two former presidents — Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil — and two former prime ministers —  Manmohan Singh and H D Deve Gowda — to discuss the situation. He also spoke to leaders of different political parties from states in the north and south, including at least three former chief ministers — Mulayam Singh Yadav and son Akhilesh Yadav (Uttar Pradesh) and Parkash Singh Badal (Punjab) — and three chief ministers — Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal) Naveen Patnaik (Odisha) and K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana) — and DMK leader M K Stalin. There has been criticism that the government has not taken the Opposition into confidence on drafting the strategy to counter COVID-19.  On Saturday, when the government announced that the prime minister will interact with floor leaders of parties having at least five MPs in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha combined, the Trinamool Congress had flagged the issue, saying its demands to discuss the issue in Parliament were not accepted and hence it would not participate in the interaction. Modi's move to rope in senior leaders is expected to smoothen the rough edges and help evolve a political consensus on fighting the pandemic.  The Congress has in the last few weeks repeatedly trained its guns on the Modi dispensation over the spread COVID-19 and the government's strategy to counter it, particularly its handling of migrants on the move, after the announcement of the 21-day lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-widens-ambit-of-covid-19-discussions-dials-sonia-manmohan-and-others-821857.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Give up one meal to mark BJP foundation day: J P Nadda to party workers||BJP president J P Nadda asked party workers to give up one meal to show solidarity with people facing hardships during the ongoing lockdown to mark the organisation's foundation day on Monday.  Nadda issued a set of directives to party workers, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted it, urging them to follow these guidelines. Nadda has urged party workers to provide food packets to the needy, distribute home-made face covers and get signatures of people to express gratitude to emergency staff, from health professionals to sanitation workers and police besides bank and postal employees among others, working during the lockdown to combat the coronavirus pandemic.  They must maintain social distancing, he said.  "All BJP Karyakartas (workers) to give up one meal on our Foundation Day as a way to show solidarity with people facing hardships during the lockdown," one of his directions said.  "In the next one week, put a system in place where we can provide two homemade face covers to each person at our booth. We should circulate videos of preparation and distribution of such face covers with #WearFaceCoverStaySafe," the guidelines added BJP Karyakartas should encourage 40 others to donate Rs. 100 each to PM-CARES Fund, it said.  In every booth, they should contact 40 houses to get their signatures on thank you letters to emergency staff, he said.  Nadda also asked them to read literature available in their house about the party and its senior leaders. The BJP was founded on this day in 1980 by leaders of the erstwhile Jana Sangh, which had merged with the Janata Party to put up a united fight against the Indira Gandhi-led Congress in the 1977 Lok Sabha polls, held after the Emergency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/give-up-one-meal-to-mark-bjp-foundation-day-j-p-nadda-to-party-workers-821907.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||BJP foundation day: Party workers to undertake week-long outreach activity||To celebrate the 40th foundation day of the BJP on Monday, party workers will engage in a week-long outreach programme across Uttar Pradesh and also undertake a signature campaign to thank the people working on the frontline in the fight against coronavirus, party state chief Swatantra Dev Singh said. The party workers have also been told to make at least two face masks at their homes for the people, he said. A week-long outreach programme will be undertaken as well as a signature campaign to thank doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, policemen, sanitation workers, bank officials, postal department officials and employees other departments, Singh said. General secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal said while undertaking the campaign, the party workers must adhere to social distancing norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-foundation-day-party-workers-to-undertake-week-long-outreach-activity-821909.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi greets people on Mahavir Jayanti||Greeting people on the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that Lord Mahavir's life, based on truth and non-violence, will remain an inspiration for all. "Happy Mahavir Jayanti to all citizens. His (Lord Mahavir's) life based on truth, non-violence and austerity will always remain an inspiration for everyone," the prime minister tweeted in hindi.    सभी देशवासियों को महावीर जयंती की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। सत्य, अहिंसा, त्याग और तपस्या पर आधारित उनका जीवन हर किसी के लिए सदैव प्रेरणास्रोत बना रहेगा।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-mahavir-jayanti-821918.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||PM Modi's 'panch agrah' pitch to fight 'long battle' against coronavirus||Addressing party workers through video conferencing on the 40th foundation day of the party, Modi asked party workers to take five vows (pancha graha) that included constant campaign to provide foodgrain and grocery items to the poor, distributing masks among at least five to seven persons, organising thanks giving campaigns through five different groups set up by the party for nurses and doctors, sanitation staffs, cops and all other staffs engaged in providing essential services. The other two vows that the PM asked the party workers to take include giving information about and installing Arogya Setu, developed for providing help in the fight against coronavirus, in the mobile phones of at least forty persons and making a personal contribution as well, inspiring at least 40 persons to contribute in the PM-CARES fund. Reminding people of donations during war times, Modi asked them to contribute liberally to fight out this ‘mahamaari’ (pandemic) and shift focus from mask to money to combat the menace. Asking people to gear for this "long fight", Modi said, “We do not have to get tired in this battle or lose this battle. We have to emerge victorious in this long fight.” Thanking people for their total support to his switch off the lights and light a diya or candle for nine minutes at 9 pm call on Sunday, the Prime Minister said that the display of collective power of 130 crore people of the nation belonging to all sections strengthened the resolve to fight against coronavirus. “There is just one mission of the nation today—victory in the war against the coronavirus pandemic,” Modi said thanking people for showing maturity during the lockdown. “Nobody could have imagined that people will follow such a discipline and sense of service like this in a huge nation like India,” Modi said. He reminded that even the World Health Organisation has praised India for the speed, comprehensiveness and holistic approach with which it has conducted its fight against COVID-19. Recalling how India played a key role in organising a meeting of SAARC countries and organising a conference of G-20 nations to ensure that all countries come together in the fight against coronavirus, Modi said that India has presented a unique example before the world through its efforts to tackle the pandemic. “India is one of the few countries which understood the seriousness of the coronavirus and declared a comprehensive war against it in time,” the Prime Minister said. Repeatedly reaffirming the importance of social distancing to make India COVID-19 free, Modi reminded the party workers that whenever the BJP got the opportunity to serve, the party has focused on good governance and empowering the poor. He also paid tributes to all those who have toiled hard to build the party for decades, due to which BJP has got the opportunity to serve crores of Indians across our nation’s length and breadth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-panch-agrah-pitch-to-fight-long-battle-against-coronavirus-821953.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19: Priyanka Gandhi wants people to raise voice for large-scale testing||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday asked people to raise their voice for more and more testing, saying it the only way to prevent the spread of coronavirus. She said the mantra should be to test as much as possible and raise the testing levels and then treat the infected people. "The only way to prevent infection of coronavirus is through more and more testing. Only then can we treat the infected person. "Test as much as possible and treat - this should be our mantra. My request to all of you is - raise your voice for more testing," she said in a tweet in Hindi. She also used the hashtag "TestMoreSaveIndia" along with her tweet. The Congress has been calling for more testing, saying India's testing has been the lowest in the world, going by its population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-priyanka-gandhi-wants-people-to-raise-voice-for-large-scale-testing-821971.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Political war in Delhi over COVID-19||The political war over COVID-19 funds escalated in Delhi on Monday with East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir accusing AAP-led government of not accepting his offer from MPLAD funds due to "massive ego" while Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal retorting that money is not the issue but availability of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE). Gambhir, a cricketer-turned-politician, offered another Rs 50 lakh saying his total offer of Rs 1 crore could be used for buying PPE kits, days after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia shot off a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman protesting against the Centre not allocating a single rupee for Delhi when it released over Rs 17,000 crore to several states to aid the fight against COVID-19. Tweeting the letter he wrote to the Chief Minister, Gambhir said, "Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Deputy (Chief Minister) say funds are needed. Though their massive egos didn't allow them to take Rs 50 lakh from my LAD (Local Area Development) fund earlier, I pledge Rs 50 lakh more so that innocents don't suffer!" "Rs one crore would at least solve urgent need for masks and PPE kits for days. Hope they prioritize Delhi," he added. To this Kejriwal responded, "Gautam-ji, thank you for your offer. The problem is not of money but the availability of PPE kits. We would be grateful if you cud help us get them from somewhere immediately, Delhi government will buy them. Thank you." In his letter, the East Delhi MP said, "In addition to Rs 50 lakh which I had pledged two weeks ago, I would further like to pledge Rs 50 lakh from my MPLAD to you kind office with the hope that the said amount would be useful in the procurement of equipment for medical staff as well as treatment of COVID-19 patients. Kindly direct the officers-in-charge to share requirements with my office." Delhi government had last week send an 'SOS' to the Centre saying it was running of PPE kits, which include surgical suit, face mask and gloves among other things, for medical staff engaged in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. However, the Delhi government had said that it had not received any kit since then and its stock of around 8,000 kits was running out. At least 24 healthcare professionals have been detected with COVID-19 while over 250 personnel are in quarantine in hospitals or houses after they came in contact with patients. The Delhi government was also upset with the Centre government for not allocating any assistance from the Rs 17,287 crore it released to different states to "enhance their financial resources" to deal with the challenges in the fight against COVID-19 with Sisodia accusing the Narendra Modi government of "playing politics". In his letter to the Finance Minister, Sisodia had also said it has been "unfortunate" that they have not been "not given a single rupee" by the Centre, which has come as a "huge shock and a disappointment" to the Delhi government at a time is fighting shoulder to shoulder with the Centre in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-war-in-delhi-over-covid-19-821981.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Share profits from low crude oil prices with people amid COVID-19 lockdown: Congress to govt||The Congress accused the government on Monday of indulging in profiteering from low crude oil prices when the country is in the grip of coronavirus pandemic, and stressed that it is time to care for the people and "share a part of the Rs 20 lakh crore profit". The need of the hour and immediate necessity is to share a part of this profit made by the government in the last six years, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said. He said it is time to reduce taxes or give it back in some other form to farmers, labourers and common people suffering amid lockdown due to COVID-19 and due to the country's economic downturn. "It is not a time for profiteering, it is a time for the government to do profit sharing and do some sharing and caring. This is the need of the hour and the immediate necessity," he said at a press conference addressed through video conferencing.  Singhvi also alleged that the Centre has made a profit of around Rs 20 lakh crore in the last six years. "Our question today to you is, why are you not passing on a fraction of these humongous gains," he posed, adding, "The BJP needs to realise that it has to stop solo profiteering; instead of stealing touch it has to give a healing touch" Singhvi recalled that the price of crude oil internationally was hovering around USD 108 per barrel in March 2014 and now, six years later on March 30, 2020, it was at a historic low of USD 23 per barrel. Lives are most important, followed by livelihood, the Congress leader said "We want to draw your attention to GDP -- Gas Diesel Petrol -- during lockdown and how they should be harnessed to deal with the lockdown," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/share-profits-from-low-crude-oil-prices-with-people-amid-covid-19-lockdown-congress-to-govt-822004.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19 death toll rises to 109, number of cases to 4,067: Health Ministry||While the number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 3,666, as many as 291 people were cured and discharged, and one has migrated, it stated. The total number of cases include 65 foreign nationals. According to the Health Ministry's data updated on Monday 9 am, 21 fresh deaths were reported from Maharashtra, two each from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and one from Punjab. Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 45, followed by Gujarat at 11, Madhya Pradesh at nine, Telangana and Delhi at seven each, Tamil Nadu at five and Punjab at six. Karnataka has reported four deaths, while West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have recorded three fatalities each. Two deaths each have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala. Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana have reported one fatality each, according to the data. The highest number of confirmed cases is from Maharashtra at 690, followed by Tamil Nadu at 571 and Delhi at 503. The number cases in Telengana has gone up to 321, in Kerala to 314 and in Rajasthan to 253. There are 227 COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, 226 in Andhra Pradesh, 165 in Madhya Pradesh, 151 in Karnataka and 122 in Gujarat. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 106 cases, Haryana 84, West Bengal 80 and Punjab 68. Thirty people are afflicted with COVID-19 in Bihar, while Assam and Uttarakhand have reported 26 novel coronavirus cases each. Odisha has 21 positive cases, Chandigarh 18, Ladakh 14 and Himachal Pradesh 13. Ten cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, while Chhattisgarh has nine cases of the infection. Goa has reported seven COVID-19 cases, followed by Puducherry with five cases, Jharkhand three and Manipur two cases. Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one infection each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the Health Ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-109-number-of-cases-to-4067-health-ministry-822013.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||In a first, PM Modi chairs Cabinet meet via video link||In a first, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of the Union Cabinet on Monday via video link amid the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. Besides Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah were present at the prime minister's official residence along with some senior officials, other members of the Cabinet were connected via a video link from their offices and residences. In the last Cabinet meeting on March 25, the large oval table at the 7, Lok Kalyan Marg was gone, and Prime Minister Modi and his ministerial colleagues sat in chairs kept at quite a distance from each other as they practised 'social distancing' to prevent a possible spread of the novel coronavirus. Usually, the Cabinet meetings are held around the oval table. The prime minister has been pitching for "social distancing" to check the spread of coronavirus and as part of it he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. Before chairing the Cabinet meet, the prime minister chaired a meeting of the council of ministers via video conference on Monday morning. Pictures showed that while Modi, Singh and Shah were at PM's residence, the ministers were connected via video link.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-a-first-pm-modi-chairs-cabinet-meet-via-video-link-822015.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah compliments PM Modi for MPs' salary cut||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Union Cabinet's approval for reduction of allowances and pension of all MPs by 30 per cent, and said the Parliament of the world's largest democracy stands together in these challenging times. The home minister also thanked President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and State Governors for voluntarily deciding not to take 30 per cent of their allowances for one year. "I congratulate PM @narendramodi ji, as cabinet approves the Ordinance for reducing allowances and pension of all MPs by 30% for a year," he tweeted. The Parliament of the world’s largest democracy stands together in these challenging times. I thank all the parties and MPs for their support. Shah said the Modi cabinet has also approved the temporary suspension of MPLAD fund for two years and the fund will go to the Consolidated Fund of India. "The Parliament of the world's largest democracy stands together in these challenging times. I thank all the parties and MPs for their support. "I also thank the President of India, Vice President and Governors who have decided to contribute voluntary to this noble cause," he said. The Union cabinet on Monday approved an ordinance to reduce the salaries, allowances and pensions of Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30 per cent for one year and the amount will be utilised in the fight against coronavirus. The President, Vice President, governors of states have also voluntarily decided to take a pay cut as a social responsibility, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-compliments-pm-modi-for-mps-salary-cut-822086.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Congress welcomes decision to cut MPs' salaries, calls for review of MPLAD suspension||The Congress on Monday welcomed the government's decision to cut MPs' salaries to fight the battle against coronavirus, but said suspending MPLADs will undermine the role of an MP and called for its review. "Dear PM, INC supports the salary cut for MPs. Please note that MPLAD is meant to execute developmental works in the constituency. Suspending it is a huge disservice to the constituents and will undermine the role and functions of MP," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel welcomed the decision but suggested cutting down on non-COVID-19 publicity costs to enable the central government to save money. "As a Member of Parliament, I welcome the government's decision to cut salaries of MPs. In this difficult time, this is the least we can do to help fellow citizens," Patel said on Twitter. "Apart from cutting salaries of MPs and ministers, the central government can save more than Rs 20,000 crore by scrapping the central vista redevelopment project & cutting down on non-COVID-19 publicity expenses," he also said. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said suspending the MPLADS is an overstretch and needs to be restored, saying a knee jerk reaction much like the lockdown will hurt poor the most. "Hon'ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi - As an MP who represents a predominately rural constituency I fully support the 30 pc cut in my salary. However the suspension of MPLADS is a bit of an overstretch," he said. Tewari said at this time of grave humanitarian distress that will get only worse in the months ahead. He noted that MPLADS is a targeted and nimble instrument to customise micro-level interventions to alleviate distress. "I think MPLAD Funds need to be restored. Please re-think it once again. It is a knee jerk reaction much like the lockdown at a 4-hour notice. It will hurt poor most," the Congress MP from Punjab said. Another Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said the Centre's decision to cut salaries and pensions of MPs is welcome. "It's a good way for us to show solidarity with people suffering across the country. But the ordinance ending MPLADS funds for two years and pooling them into a consolidated fund run by the central government is problematic," he said. Tharoor said MPLADS is the only means for an MP to direct development resources to his constituency. An order to earmark all MPLAD spending for COVID-19 related measures would have been okay. "I used mine to get urgently-needed rapid test kits and PPE to Thiruvananthapuram's health workers," he tweeted. Citing examples of disproportionate relief, he said the Centre has allocated Rs 157 crore of Disaster Response Mitigation Funds to Kerala, which has 314 COVID19 cases, while Gujarat, with only 122 cases, gets Rs 662 crore. "Will this kind of imbalance also affect the reallocation of MPLADS funds," he asked. "In order to avoid such injustice, it's essential that MPLADS money continues to be spent constituency-wise. I urge the government to revise this decision by allowing MPs to earmark these funds for COVID-19 related expenditure to meet local needs and benefit the vulnerable. It's their job," Tharoor said in another tweet. The union cabinet in its meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved an ordinance to bring a 30 per cent cut in salaries and pensions of MPs for a year starting April 1. The money will go to the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI), Union minister Prakash Javadekar had said. All the revenue received by the government by way of taxes like income tax, central excise, customs and other receipts flowing to the government are credited into the CFI. All government expenditure is incurred from this fund and no amount can be withdrawn from the CFI without authorization from Parliament. The Cabinet also approved temporary suspension of the MPLAD (Member of Parliament local Area Development) fund scheme during financial years 2020-21 and 2021-22, and the amount will be used for managing health and adverse impact of outbreak of COVID-19 in the country, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-congress-welcomes-decision-to-cut-mps-salaries-calls-for-review-of-mplad-suspension-822113.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Tharoor writes to PM, seeks rollback of govt's decision to suspend MPLADS funds||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the Centre's decision to suspend MPLADS funds for two years, saying they have a demonstrable potential to be deployed as an effective supplement to the initiatives being made by the central and state governments. In a letter to the prime minister, Tharoor commended the government for its decision to revise the salaries of Members of Parliament and offered his wholehearted support for it. However, he expressed concern over the government's decision to suspend all Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds for the period of two years in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. "As I am sure you will agree, by design, the MPLADS has traditionally been utilised to address and remedy gaps in our governance initiatives that may have been overlooked by the state and central government in their announcements of major development projects," Tharoor said in his letter. "By removing the resources at their (MPs) disposal to make critical interventions and bringing them under the ambit of the Consolidated Fund of India, it would centralise the allocation of funds, in turn, potentially leading to significant delays in the devolution of funds. MPLADS preserved the sense of direct responsibility for the well-being of constituents that is a hallmark of an Indian MPs work," he said. The money will now be allocated by the Centre and will follow the priorities and preferences of New Delhi, rather than reflect 543 sets of local needs, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. The government's move will also raise other questions regarding allocation, he said. "For instance, despite being one of the most affected regions, my state of Kerala has so far only received 157 crores from the first instalment of the Centre's share in State Disaster Response Mitigation Fund, whereas other states that are less affected have received a larger portion of the first tranche from the Centre," he said. Tharoor said that he agrees with the prime minister on the need to garner additional resources in the nationwide campaign against COVID-19. However, he said, "I would urge you to reconsider the decision to suspend MPLADS funds since it has a demonstrable potential to be deployed as an effective supplement to the initiatives being made by the central and state governments." "As an alternative, the government could use its authority to mandate that the MPLADS should be directed for COVID-19 related initiatives and could issue a fresh set of guidelines to enable the same," he said. There are no political differences in the fight to address the impact of this epidemic but at the same time, it must also be ensured that all branches of the governance structure of the country are equipped in their own way to intervene and offer relief to the people in these trying times, Tharoor said. The Cabinet on Monday approved temporary suspension of MPLADS fund scheme during 2020-21 and 2021-22, and the funds will be used for managing health services and the adverse impact of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The Union cabinet also approved an ordinance to reduce the salaries, allowances and pensions of Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30 per cent for one year and the amount will be utilised in the fight against coronavirus. The President, Vice President, governors of states have also voluntarily decided to take a pay cut as a social responsibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tharoor-writes-to-pm-seeks-rollback-of-govts-decision-to-suspend-mplads-funds-822173.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Telangana CM K Chandrashekar Rao appeals to PM Modi to extend coronavirus lockdown||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao has opined that the lockdown period in the country should be extended by at-least two weeks in order to save lives from COVID-19 pandemic, adding that he would emphasize such necessity to the PM. As announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24, the nation is presently under a lockdown till April 14, to contain the spread of the virus. “For a country like ours with poor health infrastructure, lockdown is the only weapon to fight COVID-19. I appeal to the PM to extend the lockdown by at-least one, two weeks more,” said Rao addressing a press conference on Monday. “Yes, the economy would suffer but money can be made later also. We need to first save lives,” said Rao pointing that his state has earned a revenue of just Rs six crore in place of Rs 2400 crore, because of the shutdown. Rao cited Boston Consulting Group’s Epidemic Projections report as saying that lockdown could be required till June first week. While Rao said that lifting of lockdown would open the flood gates of public activity from offices, markets to pubs leading to an undesired situation, what apparently weighed strongly in favor of lockdown extension is the piling cases in Telangana from the Nizamuddin Markaz event. Rao’s latest stand is in stark contrast with his projections made one week back, when, mentioning the 14-day quarantine of 25937 foreign returnees as ending by April 7, he said that Telangana could become COVID-19 free by then. On Monday, the CM said that the Nizamuddin Markaz event has shattered all those hopes. Most of the state’s 364 COVID-19 cases have origins from the Jamiaat Tablighi event, revealed in shocking numbers since last week. 308 patients are under treatment in Hyderabad’s Gandhi Hospital now, said Rao estimating that at-least 100 more cases could add to the tally. According to the CM, out of the over 1000 who returned from Delhi, 172 are detected with the virus, and 11 of them died. 93 more positive cases are revealed as of their primary contacts. In contrast, only 50 cases have foreign origin (returnees 30 and their contacts 20), out of which 35 persons are discharged and 15 will be soon. “Foreign returnees’ episode was not much trouble,” Rao said. Rao made a strong appeal to persons connected with Markaz and their contacts to immediately report to the health authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/telangana-cm-k-chandrashekar-rao-appeals-to-pm-modi-to-extend-coronavirus-lockdown-822181.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19 cases soar to 96 in Haryana, Tablighi Jamaat members account for sizeable chunk: Govt||Haryana saw a sharp spike in the number of COVID-19 cases which touched 96, with most of them linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event, officials said on Monday. Of the fresh cases, nine are from Palwal district, six from Nuh, four from Karnal and one from Charkhi Dadri, according to the state Health Department's bulletin in the evening. The positive cases on Sunday stood at 76 and the state recorded a jump of 20 cases in a single day. At present, there are 79 active cases in the state, 15 patients have been discharged while the state has recorded two COVID-related deaths. Reports of 459 samples were awaited.     Among the total positive cases reported, six are Sri Lankan nationals, and one each is from Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa while 29 are from other states of the country, including Jammu and Kashmir UT, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana and Punjab, as per the bulletin. Home Minister Anil Vij said 40 of the total active cases in the state are those linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. He said that until Monday, 1,526 Jamaat members, which include 107 foreigners, had been tracked down by police in the state, out of which 678 were traced from Nuh district, all of whom have entered the state before the nationwide lockdown was announced. Among other districts, 231 Jamaat members have been tracked down from Yamunanagar district, 136 from Faridabad and 117 from Panchkula, he said. He warned that all those Jamaat members, who may still be hiding, are given time till 5 pm on April 8 to report to concerned district administration, failing which strict action will be initiated against them as per law. Vij, who is also state's health minister, said as against earlier decision to take samples of only those Jamaat members for COVID-19 testing who had entered the state less than a month earlier, now it has been decided that all of them will be tested irrespective of when they entered Haryana. Officials said it was a cause of concern as a chunk of the fresh cases were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event. Meanwhile, Chief Minister M L Khattar, during a televised address to people of the state on Monday, informed that 13 of the 14 Italian tourists, who were admitted to the Medanta hospital in Gurgaon last month after they were found COVID-19 positive, had been discharged. Khattar touched upon various steps which the state government has been taking to check the spread of COVID-19 in the state, besides extending help to those poor sections of the society who have been adversely hit in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. He said the state has adequate number of personal protection equipment available which are needed by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff who are at the forefront of the battle against COVID-19 while orders are being placed at regular intervals to procure new PPE kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-cases-soar-to-96-in-haryana-tablighi-jamaat-members-account-for-sizeable-chunk-govt-822205.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||MPLADS Suspension: MPs ask what will they do in their constituencies||Government’s decision to suspend MPLADS funds for two years evoked mixed reactions with many Opposition parties including Congress opposing the move but Rajya Sabha MP from Karnataka Jairam Ramesh had a different take. “I welcome the decision on MPLADS. I have been arguing for long that the approximately Rs.7000 crore given to MPs and MLAs annually for development works should be used as a corpus for State funding of elections,” said Ramesh inviting sharp reaction from former Finance Minister P Chidambaram’s son Karthi, who strongly opposed the government’s decision. ‘This can only be stated by someone who has never faced a direct election and has no constituents to answer to,” said Karthi P Chidambaram replying on Twitter to Ramesh. The Sivaganga MP sarcastically said the government can garner funds by cancelling all its “vanity projects” and by reducing the money allotted for publicity of each department. “MP LAD funds are used to fund small projects like installing a borewell, building a bus shelter and installing CCTV cameras in localities. If you even take that away, then what is the purpose of me being an MP. Already, we don’t have anything to do inside Parliament. With MP LADs also being taken away, we will only be churning out recommendation letters,” he said. BJP MP from Karnataka Sumalatha Ambareesh, however,  welcomed the move. Replying to a tweet that raised questions on the decision, the MP said, “your understanding of how central schemes work in states and rural areas needs to be corrected, apart from MPLADS , there are so many central schemes which fund our rural areas , the concept u are projecting is not true at all.” CPI-ML leader Dipankar Bhattacharya, was also critical of the government’s decision. “So Modi govt suspends MPLADS schemes for two years to channelize Rs 7,900 crore to the consolidated fund to battle COVID-19.  But rather than stalling local area development across India for 2 years, why not drop the Rs 20K Central Vista project for makeover of Lutyen's Delhi?,” he asked. The scheme, which was launched in December 1993 with Rs 5 lakh allocation to each MP underwent many changes and its allocation was raised to Rs 1 crore and then finally to Rs 5 crore per annum. Lok Sabha MP and Congress leader from Punjab Maneesh Tewari wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that as an MP who represents a predominately rural constituency, while he fully supports 30% cut in his salary, the “suspension of MPLADS is a bit of an overstretch” and a “kneejerk reaction”. He argued MPLADS is a targeted and nimble instrument to customise micro level interventions to alleviate distress.  “I think MPLAD Funds need to be restored. Please re-think it once again. It will hurt poor most.” His party colleague from Assam Gourav Gogoi wondered will the Central Government ensure that the two years of MPLAD funds that it will absorb will be used to develop healthcare facilities in his Kaliabor Lok Sabha constituency? “The people of Kaliabor should not be starved of funds due to the centralisation mindset of PMO,” he said. Shashi Tharoor wrote a letter to the Prime Minister requesting him a reconsideration of the decision on MPLADS. “The money can certainly be earmarked for the fight against COVID 19 but should be spent in constituencies and not allocated by a remote Central Govt,” he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mplads-suspension-mps-ask-what-will-they-do-in-their-constituencies-822219.html
06-04-2020||National Politics||Cancel Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project to save funds for fight against COVID-19: Congress MP||Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday called for cancellation of the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista redevelopment project to save funds for the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Welcoming the Centre's decision to cut MPs' salaries by 30 per cent for a year and suspend MPLADS funds for two years, the parliamentarian from Punjab suggested that the President, the Vice President, the Prime Minister and all Union ministers take a 50 per cent cut in their salaries to generate more resources in the fight against COVID-19. "I welcome recent ordinance that suspend MPLADS funds @nsitharaman ji but in doing this with aim of saving about Rs 8K Cr. Would it not be wise to also cancel Central Vista project, saving exchequer 20K Crore? Maybe Govt would do better in not being penny smart & pound foolish," he said on Twitter. "I also urge that States should not be deprived of their due through the suspension of the MPLAD funds. If a State has 20 MPs in the Parliament, they must get their share as they would have prior to the suspension of the scheme," Bajwa said in another tweet. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 111 and the number of infections climbed to 4,281 in the country on Monday registering a record jump of 704 cases in 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry data. The Central Vista redevelopment project envisages a triangular Parliament building next to the existing one, a common central secretariat housing the various ministries, and a revamp of the 3km Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cancel-rs-20000-crore-central-vista-project-to-save-funds-for-fight-against-covid-19-congress-mp-822231.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Noida: No fresh COVID-19 case, tests see a jump||No fresh coronavirus positive case was reported on Sunday in Gautam Buddh Nagar, even as the number of COVID-19 tests saw a sharp spike to cross the 1,000-mark, officials said on Sunday. Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh has so far 58 positive cases of COVID-19, the highest for any district in the state, according to official figures. "A total 1,020 samples have been sent for COVID-19 test from Gautam Buddh Nagar so far, of which 58 have tested positive, 632 negative and result for 336 was awaited," the Health Department here stated in its daily statement. Eight people have been cured and discharged from hospitals so far while the active cases stand at 52, it said. Currently, 1,129 people are under surveillance across Noida and Greater Noida, while another 363 quarantined -- 90 of them at a Gautam Buddh University hostel and the rest in special isolation facilities at hospitals in Noida and Greater Noida, it added. Previous daily statements from the department had put the test samples figure at 804 on Saturday, 699 on Thursday, 696 on Wednesday, 626 on Tuesday and 531 on Monday, showing a steady upward rise. Data was not available for Friday.  District Magistrate Suhas L Y on Sunday reiterated his appeal to the people to stay indoors and practice all measures against the pandemic like social distancing and hand sanitation. He also warned of action against people spreading any false rumours related to the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-no-fresh-covid-19-case-tests-see-a-jump-821883.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Eight COVID-19 patients discharged after recovery so far||A total four COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals on Sunday in the state. With this, the tally of discharged patients has reached eight in the state while the number of active cases are two. "While three patients, including two women, were discharged from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur this morning, another was discharged from Rajnandgaon Medical College following their recovery," an official here said. All of them, aged between 21-25 years, had returned from abroad, he said. The two active cases are now a 21-year-old man, who had returned from London and was admitted on March 31, and a 16-year- old Tablighi Jamaat member, both from Korba district. Both are undergoing treatment at AIIMS, he said. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has expressed gratitude towards doctors and healthcare staff engaged in "The state has been fighting against coronavirus with full determination while complying with lockdown and social distancing guidelines. Our doctors are serving the patients with full commitment. Coronavirus will be defeated and we will won, the official quoted the CM as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-eight-covid-19-patients-discharged-after-recovery-so-far-821885.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||5 soldiers killed as Army fights infiltrators in north Kashmir; 5 militants gunned down||Five Army personnel and as many militants were killed in a fierce gun battle between the forces and a terrorist group that had infiltrated from across the Line of Control in Keran sector of north Kashmir, officials said here on Sunday night. A Srinagar-based defence spokesman had earlier said that three Army personnel had fallen to the bullets of the militants in the higher reaches of Keran, which falls under Kupwara district. However, later, the officials said that the number of soldiers killed in the gun battle was five and an equal number of terrorists had been killed in the operation which had been going since the intervening night of April 3 and 4. The terrorists are believed to have entered the Indian territory from Shamsabari range and were hiding in 'Gujjar Dhok' (temporary shelter for nomads) in the Poswal area of the sector, they said. Earlier the defence spokesman had said that "in an ongoing anti-infiltration operation in Keran sector of north Kashmir, alert troops braving inclement weather and hostile terrain have so far eliminated five terrorists attempting to infiltrate across the LoC." "Evacuation of the injured is hampered due to heavy snow and rough terrain conditions," he said, adding the operation was still in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-soldiers-killed-as-army-fights-infiltrators-in-north-kashmir-5-militants-gunned-down-821886.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases cross 500 in Delhi, government mulls taking over private hospitals for treatment||As many as 58 fresh cases and one death were reported. In the wake of a sudden spurt in coronavirus cases, Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has directed the health department to identify private hospitals which can be taken over by the government to treat COVID-19 patients, official sources said. The COVID-19 cases include 320 people who took part in Tablighi Jamaat's Markaz in Nizamuddin last month, with 19 new cases from the congregation being reported on Sunday. A sanitation worker at NDMC's Charak Palika Hospital in south Delhi tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday and another 30 staffers who came in contact with him have been placed under quarantine, officials said. The sanitation worker is not a full-time employee of the civic body, they said. He was suffering from fever and was referred to RML hospital, where he tested positive for COVID-19, a senior official said. Eight Malaysian citizens, who attended the Tablighi congregation, were caught by immigration authorities at the IGI Airport while trying to flee the country through a special flight arranged for the stranded travellers of that nation, officials said. They were hiding in the Delhi-NCR region and tried to take the advantage of a special flight arranged by the Malaysian High Commission for their citizens stranded in India due to the coronavirus-triggered 21-day lockdown. Sources said that as the Delhi government has limited resources , ICU wards, beds and other facilities of private hospitals can be used to deal with the increasing numbers of coronavirus cases. Officials have been asked to prepare a list of private hospitals that can be taken over if needed. "In a recent meeting, the LG directed officials to prepare a list of private hospitals which can be taken over by government in case a need arises and their infrastructure can be used to treat COVID-19 patients. "The government will provide treatment to coronavirus patients admitted at these hospitals," a source said. Residents of Ibrahimpur village in north Delhi's Burari are blocking roads and putting barricades to prevent the entry of outsiders into the area. There are five entry points of Ibrahimpur village wherein temporary ropes and wooden blockades have been set upto ensure that no outsider gains entry into the area. Vegetable and milk vendors, who are part of the essential services, are allowed to enter the village if they have hand sanitizers. Meanwhile, State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) Ramesh Negi has written to district magistrates to ensure that curfew passes are issued to the caregivers of disabled people. This is the second such letter written by Negi. The first letter was written on April 1. According to the police, over 170 cases were registered and 3,531 people detained in the national capital on Sunday for violation of government orders during the lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus. As many as 176 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5pm. A total of 3,531 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 388 vehicles impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated. A total of 782 movement passes have been issued, the police said. A man suspected to have contracted the coronavirus infection allegedly attempted to commit suicide by jumping from the third floor of a hospital in central Delhi, police said on Sunday. The 37-year-old man was admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital on March 31, they said. Around 11.30 pm on Saturday, he jumped from the third floor of the hospital. He first hit a tin roof before hitting the ground, fracturing his leg, police said. His condition is stable and the result for his coronavirus test is still awaited. The National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee has asked the Central Pollution Control Board and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to ascertain the impact of the lockdown on the water quality of the Yamuna and submit a report within a week. The directions come in the wake of several people sharing pictures of a fuller and cleaner Yamuna on social media, attributing the reduction in pollution levels in the river to the 21-day lockdown enforced to contain the spread of deadly COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-cross-500-in-delhi-government-mulls-taking-over-private-hospitals-for-treatment-821892.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Punjab: 60-year-old woman ends her life fearing coronavirus infection||A 60-year-old woman in Punjab's Phagwara committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance, fearing she had contracted the coronavirus disease, police said on Sunday.   Santosh Kaur, a resident of Khurampur village, committed suicide after she complained of a throat problem. She feared that she had contracted the coronavirus disease, her family said. Though doctors told her that she was hale and healthy and only suffered from sore throat, she could not get rid of her fears, they said.   Her relatives further said Santosh feared that her children will be afflicted with the disease and consumed celphos, a pesticide, in her room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-60-year-old-woman-ends-her-life-fearing-coronavirus-infection-821893.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: COVID-19 count rises to 215 with 36 fresh cases||Madhya Pradesh on Sunday reported 36 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally in the state so far to 215, officials said. Simultaneously, the number of deaths caused by coronavirus infection rose to 13 with two persons succumbing to the deadly virus. Among cities, the state capital led the chart by recording the highest number of 23 new cases in the last 24 hours, which took its tally to 40 so far. Of the total 215 cases, 135 are from Indore, the commercial capital of the state. "The death toll due to coronavirus in the state now stands at 13 with two more persons succumbing to the virus," the state health bulletin said. Meanwhile, some officials of Health department involved in operations to check the spread of the virus tested positive in Bhopal on Sunday, said officials. In the last one week, two IAS officers posted in Health department, including a principal secretary-level officer, have tested positive to coronavirus. As per the health bulletin, the maximum number of 135 COVID-19 cases were reported from Indore, followed by Bhopal (40), Morena (12), Jabalpur (8), Ujjain (7), Khargone (4), Barwani (3) and two each in Chhindwara, Shivpuri and Gwalior taking the total number of affected persons in the state to 215. While the state health bulletin said that COVID-19 positive cases in Bhopal stands at 18, the Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Sudhir Deharia said that number of coronavirus positive cases in the state capital have gone up to 40 with 23 more positive cases on Sunday. As many as 168 patients are stable while three persons are in a serious condition, it said. Meanwhile, four more coronavirus infected persons, including three in Jabalpur and one in Shivpuri, have recovered and discharged from the hospital, officials said. Jabalpur district collector Bharat Yadav said that three such patients being treated at the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College Hospital have recovered and discharged on Sunday. Now, they are placed under home quarantine for another fourteen days. They were the first three coronavirus positive cases of Madhya Pradesh recorded on March 20. Earlier, two persons, including a journalist and his daughter, were discharged in Bhopal on Friday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-count-rises-to-215-with-36-fresh-cases-821894.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 positive man dies in Rajasthan||A 60-year-old coronavirus positive man died at the state-run MBS Hospital in Kota even as Rajasthan recorded seven more cases of the virus, an official said on Monday. The virus has so far claimed six lives in the state and infected 274 people. However, officials maintain that those who died were also suffering from other illness.   "A 60-year-old man with no recent travel history died at MBS Hospital in Kota. He was admitted yesterday and died late night. Eight new cases have come up, including the patient who died," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said that a few people who had participated in the Nizamuddin event in Delhi were found in the locality where the deceased lived but their test report has come out negative. It seems the family is hiding travel and contact history.  The seven new positive cases include five Tablighi Jamaat participants from Jhunjhunu and two people from Dungarpur, including one who attended the Nizamuddin event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-man-dies-in-rajasthan-821920.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Gambhir offers Rs 50 lakh from MPLAD fund to Delhi govt for medical equipment||East Delhi BJP MP Gautam Gambhir on Monday offered Rs 50 lakh from his MPLAD fund to the Delhi government for procurement of equipment for medical staff dealing with COVID-19 cases, around two weeks after he pledged the same amount for the purpose. The Delhi government has yet to respond to his previous offer, said an aide of the cricketer-turned-politician. "It is stated by Deputy CM Manish Sisodia that funds are needed to meet the growing demand of medical equipment in several Delhi government hospitals. In addition to Rs 50 lakh which I had pledged two weeks ago, I would further like to pledge Rs 50 lakh from my MPLAD to your kind office with the hope that the said amount would be used in procurement of equipment of medical staff as well as treatment of COVID-19 patients," Gambhir said in a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday.  Earlier Gambhir had accused the AAP government of "shedding crocodile tears" and playing victim card over the issue, saying he had offered Rs 50 lakh for PPE kits and masks to it but did not receive any feedback. "People would be benefited if the crores spent on advertisements from morning till evening on television were used for PPE kits. I had pledged Rs 50 lakh for PPE kits and masks but there is no feedback so far. Now they are asking the Centre. Shedding crocodile tears and victim card are two weapons of Arvind Kejriwal," Gambhir had tweeted. Kejriwal on Saturday said that his government has asked for PPE kits from the Centre but none were received. Sisodia on Saturday had demanded a disaster fund from the Centre to fight coronavirus outbreak in Delhi, saying it was third most affected state in the country. In a letter to the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, he had said that the Centre released over Rs 17000 crore to the states from the Disaster fund but not a single rupee was given to Delhi.  "I have demanded disaster fund for Delhi also in a letter to the Central government. The Centre released Rs 17000 crore to the states to fight corona from the disaster fund but Delhi was not given a single rupee from it. The country should fight as one at this hour. This discrimination is unfortunate," Sisodia had said in a tweet. Coronavirus cases in Delhi have crossed 500 and seven deaths have been reported due to the virus so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gambhir-offers-rs-50-lakh-from-mplad-fund-to-delhi-govt-for-medical-equipment-821926.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh man suffering from cough, cold ends life fearing he had COVID-19||A 35-year-old man who had self-isolated after having cough and cold, hanged himself in Jamalpur village here, with the police suspecting that he acted out of the fear of having contracted the novel coronavirus. Rajendra took the extreme step at his in-laws' house on Saturday. His brother-in-law told police that after having cough and cold he isolated himself in a room after some villagers suspected that he was suffering from COVID-19. "Maybe, he committed suicide due to this. The matter is being probed," a police official said. The district's Chief Medical Officer Dr Santosh Kumar said the man had not visited any government hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-man-suffering-from-cough-cold-ends-life-fearing-he-had-covid-19-821927.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Odisha CM directs authorities to ensure essentials available in containment areas||Patnaik issued instructions to officials as the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has notified four containment zones like Surya Nagar, Bomikhal, Kaplia Prasad, Jadupur and Begunia. Of the total 39 COVID 19 cases in the state, Bhubaneswar alone has 32 patients making it as the corona hot spot in Odisha. This apart, the local authorities have also declared containment zones in Cuttack, Puri, Jajpur, Ganjam and Kalahandi districts following detection of one or more positive cases. BMC commissioner P C Chaudhury said different nodal officers have been appointed in the containment zones to look after the health service, supply of essentials commodities and other requirements of the people residing in the sealed areas. He said the BMC officials are making door to door visit to each household in the containment areas to provide grocery, milk and other goods while medical teams are in readiness to rush to houses if there is any urgency. "Of the 32 coronavirus cases in the state capital, 30 are active while two persons have so far been cured and discharged from the hospital," the Health department said, adding that the chief minister is closely monitoring the situation. While making a sincere appeal to people to remain indoors and not to venture out, the chief minister also cautioned citizens of criminal action if anyone violates social distancing norms. The shops and markets will be sealed if found violating social distancing norms, he said. Patnaik also instructed the Health department to ensure the safety of doctors and frontline workers during house to house surveys in the containment areas. Health and Family Welfare secretary N B Dhal has asked the municipal corporations, district collectors and chief district public health officers to provide triple layer surgical masks to persons under quarantine at home. Meanwhile, KIMS started its COVID hospital in the state capital with 450 beds . At least 14 patients have so far been admitted to KIMS COVID Hospital here, the official said, adding that Hi-Tech COVID Hospital at Rourkela has also started operation. In regard to the 32 COVID-19 patients in Bhubaneswar, the Health department said most of the cases are linked to first case confirmed in Surya Nagar and Bomikhal. "Almost all cases of Bomikhal are from one family and have been put under active surveillance. Both Bomikhal and Surya Nagar clusters sealed and put under active surveillance, no need to panic", the department said in a twitter post. Of Bhubaneswars 32 coronavirus cases, 19 patients are from Bomikhal area while eight are residents of Surya Nagar. The department could find out more cases from these two areas due to aggressive surveillance during the complete shutdown period which ended on Sunday night. There has been a spike in the COVID-19 cases in the state since the beginning of April. "We had an internal target to contain the COVID-19 cases within single digit figure in the month of March and that has been achieved," said chief secretary A K Tripathy. While the number of COVID-19 cases remained at 5 till April-1, it suddenly increased to 39 cases on April 5, the Health department said.    ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/odisha-cm-directs-authorities-to-ensure-essentials-available-in-containment-areas-821929.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Man escapes from quarantine centre in J&K's Samba; brought back, booked||A man escaped from a coronavirus quarantine centre in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district, but he was brought back to the facility and booked by the police, officials said on Monday. Showket Ahmed Malik, a resident of Handwara town in Kupwara district, fled the quarantine centre on Sunday. On being informed about the incident a police team from Ramgarh immediately swung into action, traced the man and brought him back the same day, they said. Official said that despite knowing that the COVID-19 disease can be fatal, the man negligently and deliberately left the quarantine centre increasing the risk of spreading the disease. A case has been registered against the man at Ramgarh police station, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-escapes-from-quarantine-centre-in-jks-samba-brought-back-booked-821932.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Earthquake jolts Chamba in Himachal Pradesh, eighth in 11 days||A 3.1 magnitude earthquake shook Himachal Pradesh's Chamba district on Monday morning, the meteorological department said, but no loss of life or property was reported. The earthquake was recorded at 7.03 am, Shimla Meteorological Centre Director Manmohan Singh said. This was the eighth earthquake in Chamba district in 11 days. The epicentre of the quake was at a depth of 5 km northeast of Chamba. Mild tremors were felt in adjoining areas, Singh said. Earlier, seven earthquakes of magnitude between 3 and 4.5 were felt in the district between March 27 and 30. Most parts of Himachal Pradesh, including Chamba, fall in the high seismic sensitive zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/earthquake-jolts-chamba-in-himachal-pradesh-eighth-in-11-days-821955.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Three Tablighi Jamaat attendees, who tested COVID-19 positive, travelled by bus to Himachal Pradesh||Baddi Superintendent of Police Rohit Malpani said the three Jamaatis came to Nalagarh in two buses with registration numbers HP 93 0564 (Delhi-Nalagarh) and HP 12 0446 (Delhi-Hamirpur via Baddi-Nalagarh-Bilaspur). The SP requested the passengers of these buses to come forward in their respective districts for medical check-up to contact spread of COVID-19. The Delhi-Nalagarh bus started from Delhi at 7.30 am and arrived at Nalagarh at around 4 pm on March 18, he said. The Delhi-Hamirpur bus started at 9:15 pm on March 18 and reached Nalagarh on March 19 at 4.30 am, he added. Residents of Uttar Pradesh, the three Jamaatis hid in a mosque in Nalagarh. They were quarantined after their identification.  They were admitted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla on Sunday morning after they tested positive on Saturday night.   ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-who-tested-covid-19-positive-travelled-by-bus-to-himachal-pradesh-821959.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Man suspected to have coronavirus falls to his death while trying to flee hospital||A 55-year-old man who was admitted to the Kalpana Chawla Medical College in Karnal on the suspicion that he might have contracted coronavirus, fell to his death from the sixth floor of the hospital on Monday while allegedly trying to escape, police said. The man, a resident of a village in neighbouring Panipat, tied together bedsheets, a polythene sheet and his shirt to make a rope to escape the isolation ward of the hospital, they said. "He was admitted to the isolation ward. He tried to escape in the early hours of Monday, but fell to his death," Inspector Sanjeev Gaur of Karnal Police said. Asked if none of the hospital staff noticed him trying to escape, the police official said, "In the isolation ward, he was kept in a separate room and no one noticed what he was doing at that time." Asked if the man's coronavirus test report has arrived, Gaur said the preliminary report was negative though the final one is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-suspected-to-have-coronavirus-falls-to-his-death-while-trying-to-flee-hospital-821960.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Prisoners help health officials to develop PPE kit||Amid the shortage of safety gear for medical staff in the fight against coronavirus, Madhya Pradesh health officials with the help of some prisoners have come up with a low-cost personal protective equipment kit. State health commissioner Faiz Ahmed Kidwai has also called for rational use of PPE kits, which the health care workers and those deployed at quarantine centres, hospitals and laboratories need the most at this crucial time. In view of the growing demand for safety gear by those treating coronavirus patients, the health officials in Betul have prepared their own personal protective equipment (PPE) with the help of prisoners of the district jail. "We have developed our own PPE kit, which includes a robe stitched by prisoners lodged at the district jail. The raw material required for this locally made kit was procured from the neighbouring Chhindwara district with the help of funds provided by the local MP," Betul's Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr G C Chourasia said. The prisoners earlier prepared masks which have been provided to the local health workers, he said. Betul district hospital's medical officer Dr Ankita Seete said. the prisoners have so far provided 30 protective robes to the health team. As part of the PPE kit, the health officials have also made a 'face shield' out of plastic which can be used along with the robes. Betu's Shahpur block medical officer Dr Shailendra Sahu said he has prepared the face shield with locally available material, after seeing some foreign videos of the safety gear. "After finding that such a face shield was not available online or in the local market, we prepared it with the plastic sheets used in the packing of sarees, hair bands, tapes and adhesives. This is also included in the PPE kit being given to the health staff of the district," Sahu said. The robe in the PPE kit costs around Rs 150 and ensures the safety of health workers, said Yogesh Pandagre, the MLA from Amla assembly seat of the district, who is also a doctor and has helped in preparing the kit. "The quality of this protective robe is at par with the product of any big company, he claimed. Meanwhile, health commissioner Kidwai directed the medical staff across the state for judicious use of PPE. In a directive issued on Saturday, he said there is limited availability of PPE kits and N95 masks, so these safety gears should be used rationally during the battle against coronavirus. Kidwai also directed the health staff to adopt other safety measures like washing hands frequently and maintaining distance from each other along with the use of PPE. The state health department currently has about 18,911 PPE kits, 72,304 N95 masks and 1.76 lakh three-layered masks, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-prisoners-help-health-officials-to-develop-ppe-kit-821964.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Bhopal's COVID-19 tally at 50 as 9 more test positive||The COVID-19 count in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh touched 50 on Monday with nine more people testing positive for the novel coronavirus, a state public relations official said. Among the nine fresh cases are seven health department staffers, he said. During the past one week, among those who have been infected with the coronavirus in the MP capital are two Indian Administrative Service officers in the health departnment, including its principal secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhopals-covid-19-tally-at-50-as-9-more-test-positive-821969.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh MLA grants fund for COVID-19 testing machine||The Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) machine will be installed at the Dr. Radhakrishnan Government Medical College (RGMC) Hamirpur. Sukhu said he has requested the RGMC administration to install the machine after completing the procurement process within a month so that suspected cases of COVID-19 can be tested in Hamirpur district itself. At present, tests for COVID-19 in the hill-state are being conducted at three laboratories in Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) Shimla, Tanda's Dr. Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Kangra and Kasauli's Central Research Institute (CRI) in Solan district. The residents of Hamirpur and adjoining districts will be benefitted with the installation of the machine at RGMC, Sukhu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-mla-grants-fund-for-covid-19-testing-machine-821982.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: SC issues guidelines for hearings through video conferencing across courts during COVID-19 pandemic||In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court on Monday authorised all the courts to adopt measures required to ensure the robust functioning of the judicial system through the use of video conferencing technologies.  It said court hearings in the congregation must necessarily become an exception during this period of lockdown imposed since March 25 to contain the spread of Coronavirus. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L Nageswara Rao and D Y Chandrachud issued directions under Article 142 (power to do complete justice) of the Constitution to ensure that the judiciary rose to face the unique challenge presented by the outbreak of the disease.  "Faced with the unprecedented and extraordinary outbreak of a pandemic, it is necessary that courts at all levels respond to the call of social distancing and ensure that court premises do not contribute to the spread of coronavirus. This is not a matter of discretion but of duty," the bench said. The top court on Sunday registered a Suo Motu case 'In Re Guidelines for court functioning through video conferencing during COVID-19 pandemic".  On Monday, it heard Attorney General K I Venugopal, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and senior advocate Vikas Singh, who wrote a letter to the CJI to adopt to introduce compulsory video conferencing for hearing certain types of matters, to issues orders including those related to the removal of technical glitches. In its order, the bench noted that courts throughout the country, particularly at the level of the Supreme Court and the High Courts, have employed video conferencing for dispensation of justice and as guardians of the Constitution and as protectors of individual liberty governed by the rule of law. The top court directed district courts in each state to adopt the mode of video conferencing prescribed by the concerned High Court. However, it said, "In no case shall evidence be recorded without the mutual consent of both the parties by video conferencing." It said every High Court was authorised to determine the modalities, suitable to the temporary transition to the use of video conferencing technologies. It also ordered the concerned courts should maintain a helpline to ensure that any complaint on quality or audibility of feed could be communicated. Maintaining that Indian courts have been proactive in embracing technology, the bench said the Supreme Court and High Courts have already adopted measures to reduce the physical presence of lawyers, litigants, court staff, para legal personnel and representatives of the electronic and print media in courts across the country and to ensure the continued dispensation of justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-sc-issues-guidelines-for-hearings-through-video-conferencing-across-courts-during-covid-19-pandemic-821987.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Chopper Scam: Delhi HC reserves order on Michel's interim bail plea citing virus risk in jail||The Delhi High Court Monday reserved its order on the interim bail plea of Christian Michel James, an alleged middleman arrested in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam cases by the CBI and the ED, who cited risk of contracting coronavirus in Tihar Jail. Justice Mukta Gupta, who conducted the proceeding through video conferencing, heard the arguments on behalf of counsel for Michel and the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate. Both the probe agencies opposed the interim bail plea. Michel, 59, claimed that his health condition was critical and incompatible with the current prison status, especially to cope up with the risk of contracting the COVID-19 infection which could have a lethal effect on him as he is already suffering from serious pathologies. “The agedness and a pre-existing ill state of health will make the applicant's (Michel) body more susceptible to the said infection than any other ordinary prisoner with a normal health condition. Further, the presence within prisons of subjects who are tested positive for Covid19 pose a threat to the applicant considering his existing health condition and age,” said the plea, through Vishnu Shankar and Aljo K Joseph. Last week, the apex court had asked Michel to first approach the high court with his plea. In his plea, he also referred to the Supreme Court's March 16 order directing all the states and union territories to constitute high-level committees to consider releasing on parole or interim bail prisoners and undertrials, for offences entailing up to 7-year jail term, to decongest jails in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. The plea further cited the Prime Minister's speech declaring a nation wide 21-day lockdown on March 24 to avoid spread of the virus. It said that Michel's health condition be monitored and treated and he required an environment like home where the risk of contagion is lesser and social distancing can be effectively practiced.  The regular bail plea of Michel, who was arrested in 2018 and is in judicial custody since January 5, 2019, is also pending before the high court where the CBI and the ED have contended that he should not be granted the relief as he has a nexus with influential people and can influence witnesses. He has been denied bail in both the matters by the trial court. He has approached the high court against the lower court's decision. The special CBI court had denied him the relief, saying there was no sufficient ground to grant bail. Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by the ED on December 22, 2018. On January 5 last year, he was sent to judicial custody in the ED case. He is also lodged in judicial custody in another case registered by the CBI in connection with the scam. Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the ED and the CBI. The other two are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chopper-scam-delhi-hc-reserves-order-on-michels-interim-bail-plea-citing-virus-risk-in-jail-821989.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||55 firms producing up to 70,000 litres of sanitiser per day in UP: State govt||Facing increased demand for sanitisers in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government has issued licenses to 55 companies to produce up to 70,000 litres of the liquid per day. "Total number of sanitiser licenses issued in the state is 55. This includes 22 sugar mills, as many sanitiser companies, nine distilleries and two other companies," an official statement issued here on Monday said. There has been a spurt in the demand for sanitisers following the outbreak of coronavirus in the state and to deal with this, the government issued licenses to distilleries and sanitiser-manufacturing companies to increase production. The product is being made available in the market through dealers and chief medical officers placing requests for sanitisers are being provided promptly. Production can be further increased if required, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/55-firms-producing-up-to-70000-litres-of-sanitiser-per-day-in-up-state-govt-821990.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Corona times: Woman cop defers wedding for duty||Preferring her duty over personal considerations in the war against coronavirus, a woman police officer here put off her marriage to be able to look after migrant workers at a relief camp. Shahida Parveen, a sub-inspector posted at Muni Ki Reti police station here, is currently deployed at a relief camp meant for migrant workers. She was to get married on April 5. However, the call of duty prompted the officer to defer her marriage so that she could take care of the migrant workers at the relief camp where she is posted. "At a time when the entire country is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, we also have certain duties to fulfill. So, I decided to defer my marriage scheduled for April 5 to be available for people who need my services," Parveen said. She said her prospective husband was completely in agreement with the decision, adding they will get married after things return to normalcy. Praising her for her decision, DG Law and Order Ashok Kumar said Uttarakhand police was proud of Parveen for whom duty comes first.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-times-woman-cop-defers-wedding-for-duty-821998.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Non-local labourers in J&K: Without money, little food, fewer options of leaving||With nationwide 21-day lockdown to fight the coronavirus resulting in unimaginable distress to lakhs of migrant workers, the situation in Kashmir is no different. Hundreds of non-local labourers in Kashmir are without money, little food and even fewer options of leaving their squalid makeshift accommodation soon due to the lockdown. In north Kashmir’s Sopore town, a few hundred migrant labourers, who have been picked up from their rented accommodations and lodged at a government degree college in the town, complained that the government had not provided food to them for the past three days. Shahid Ahmad, a labourer from Bihar said since they were brought to the college on Friday morning, no eatables have been provided to them. All the labourers, he said, have exhausted the stock of food they had brought with them. “We had brought five kgs of rice and one kg of daal. Now we are left with nothing,” he said and complained that any effort to get food from the market was not being allowed by the police. However, Deputy Commissioner, Baramulla said 2300 non-locals, who were accommodated in government established shelters, are being provided free rations on a daily basis. The DC said that the administration is scaling up the process of free distribution of essentials to those not having access under prevailing circumstances. But similar complaints keep on pouring from other parts of the Valley. In Srinagar’s Hawal area, a group of migrant labourers told DH that neither they were allowed to move out nor they were being provided food by the authorities. “It is because of some locals that so far we are getting food. But how long we will sustain like this. Either government should allow us to go back to our homes or take care of our needs,” said Noor Mohammad, a mason from Uttar Pradesh. According to a government survey at least 58,500 migrant labourers are stranded in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of country-wide lockdown. Some among them haven’t washed for days because they do not have money to buy soap. Javaid Ahmad, another labourer from Uttar Pradesh currently staying at uptown Chanapora, said, “We had no food to eat, but were provided food by locals in the evening. We are a group of 40 people staying here.” Asked about any relief from the government, he said, “How do we entitle ourselves to relief when we don’t have ration cards?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/non-local-labourers-in-jk-without-money-little-food-fewer-options-of-leaving-822005.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||12 Jamaat members, their 52 primary contacts report to police in Himachal Pradesh||Twelve Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the group's congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin, a COVID-19 hotspot, and their primary contacts have reported to Himachal Pradesh police for testing after warning of strict action against them, a senior official said on Monday. On Sunday, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Director General of Police, Himachal Pradesh, Sita Ram Mardi had asked Jamaat members to come forward for testing by 5 pm, else they would be booked for attempt to murder. The DGP said 12 Jamaat member and their 52 primary contacts have reported to the police following which they are put under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-jamaat-members-their-52-primary-contacts-report-to-police-in-himachal-pradesh-822006.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||BJP leader fires in air to 'scare' coronavirus||When many others were lighting candles and lamps on Sunday night to respond to the call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a senior Uttar Pradesh BJP leader fired a flurry of shots in the air to "scare" the coronavirus. Manju Tiwari, the president of the saffron party's women's wing in Balrampur district, about 200 kilometres from Lucknow, not only fired shots in the air but also uploaded the photographs on social media. ''Deep jalane ke baad coronavirus ko bhagate hue'' (shooing away the coronavirus after lighting the lamps), she wrote below her pictures posted on her Facebook page. As the pictures of the saffron leader firing the shots went viral on the social media, she tendered an apology in an apparent way to wriggle out of the controversy. According to the sources, Tiwari had fired from a licensed pistol, which belonged to her husband. While it is not known whether the coronavirus has fled from Balrampur, she did succeed in scaring many of her neighbours, who ran helter-skelter for safety.  A case has been registered against her and the investigation is ongoing, police sources said on Monday. ''It is a highly irresponsible act...action will be taken against her,'' said a senior police official in Balrampur. Earlier, many other saffron party leaders had recommended their own remedies to get rid of the coronavirus. Their remedies included having cow shelters, using cloves and establishing 'Ram Raj' (Lord Rama's rule).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-fires-in-air-to-scare-coronavirus-822011.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||BJP's Balrampur Mahila Morcha chief booked for resorting to celebratory firing||The Uttar Pradesh police has booked the BJP's Mahila Morcha president of Balrampur district for allegedly firing in air on Sunday night, when people across the country lit earthen lamps and candles on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to express the country's resolve to fight and win the anti-corona war, police said on Monday. The police booked Manju Tiwari, the president of the BJP Mahila Morcha unit of the district, after her video, purportedly showing her showing her went viral on social media. Balrampur Suprintendent of Police Arvind Mishra said, "Last night Manju Tiwari, the BJP leader fired in air with her video of the celebratory firing going viral on social media. A case has been registered against Tiwari in Nagar Kotwali under section 286 of the IPC (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance)." Mishra said the police has launched a probe into the case and would take necessary action after investigation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-balrampur-mahila-morcha-chief-booked-for-resorting-to-celebratory-firing-822025.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Figures tell truth: RSS leader Vaidya on COVID-19 cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat event||"Figures tell the truth," said RSS Joint General Secretary Manmohan Vaidya on Monday referring to the number of COVID-19 cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. However, he said Muslims are helping the government in tracing contacts of Tablighi Jamaat which should be appreciated. The health ministry had on Sunday said the rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases in India was 4.1 days, but if the cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event would not have happened, it would have been 7.4 days. Lauding the decision taken by the country's leadership to tackle the coronavirus outbreak, Vaidya told reporters that India handled the COVID-19 situation comparatively better than several developed nations. "To tackle the COVID-19 outbreak, India's leadership took some decisive steps which got public support as well," he said. The RSS leader said workers of his organisation helped 25.5 lakh people during the lockdown besides feeding the poor and daily wagers and starting a helpline. He asserted that the Tablighi Jamaat could have handled the situation in a better way. "Figures tell the truth...they (Tablighi Jamaat) stand exposed as many in the Muslim community are opposing them... and a number of Muslims are also helping government officials in tracing their contacts which should also be appreciated," Vaidya told reporters here. Citing the RSS' decision to call off the annual meeting of its highest decision-making body -- Partinidhi Sabha -- in the wake of COVID-19, Vaidya said Tablighi Jamaat could have also called off their congregation. "RSS cancelled its Pratinidhi Sabha scheduled to be held from March 15 in Bengaluru. Around 1,500 sangh members were asked to get off trains or cancel flight tickets. Others who had reached the venue were immediately sent back,” he said. The RSS Joint General Secretary also announced that all RSS programmes scheduled till June, including the Sangh Shiksha Varg (annual training programmes for its workers), have been cancelled in the wake of coronavirus. On the economic impact of the 21-day lockdown, Vaidya said the first priority should be to tackle the disease and save lives. He said he is hopeful that the government will take necessary steps to minimise the impact of lockdown on the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/figures-tell-truth-rss-leader-vaidya-on-covid-19-cases-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-event-822031.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||97 Jamaatis booked, 329 quarantined in Himachal Pradesh: Police||Himachal Pradesh police have booked 97 Jamaat members on various charges, including negligent acts that likely led to the spread of coronavirus and deliberately concealing information from authorities, an official said on Monday. A majority of them had attended a congregation last month at the organisation's New Delhi centre which has emerged as a COVID-19 hotspot, SP law and order Khushal Sharma said. Five FIRs were lodged in Una district against 14 Jamaat members, four in Mandi against seven members, three in Shimla against 15 members, two in Baddi against 45 members, two in Bilaspur against five members, two FIRs against two Jamaat members in Sirmaur district, one in Chamba against 8 persons and one in Kangra against one person, he added. They have been booked under sections 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code and 51 of the Disaster Management Act, he added.  Besides the 329 people who returned to the state after attending the gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area and those who came in their contact have also been quarantined, he said. Most of them were traced by the police whereas 64 of them reported themselves to authorities for COVID-19 test after they were warned of a strict action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/97-jamaatis-booked-329-quarantined-in-himachal-pradesh-police-822053.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||J&K reports three more COVID-19 positive cases; tally rises to 109||With three more COVID-19 positive cases reported in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, the number of coronavirus cases climbed to 109 in the union territory, recording a jump of 57 patients in just the last six days. “#COVID19 #JammuAndKashmir Total Cases 109; Active Cases 103 - 85 In Kashmir division, 18 in Jammu; 3 new cases so far- all in Kashmir;  Hope no further increases today !!! (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. From 52 reported cases by the end of last month, the J&K reached a cumulative tally of 109 cases on April 5. The Valley had recorded its first case on March 18 when a 67-year-old woman from old city Khanyar area of Srinagar tested positive, two days after her arrival from Saudi Arabia after performing Umrah. As per officials, out of these 109 COVID-19-affected people, 88 are in Kashmir and 21 in Jammu. However, four of them have been discharged—three from Jammu and one from Kashmir while two others succumbed to the disease. There are 103 active cases—85 in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu. The case density for COVID-19 in Kashmir has reached to almost 13 cases per million, which is among the highest in the country. The government has declared dozens of areas as red zones across the Valley, from where most of the positive cases have been reported, to contain the spread of the deadly virus.  Rohit Kansal informed that 35243 persons have been enlisted for observation and 10556 have been kept under home quarantine and 615 persons are kept under hospital quarantine. The government as of now has collected 1708 samples out of which 1583 samples have tested negative and reports of 16 are still awaited. While the government claims that the testing of samples has been amplified which results in more detection of COVID-19 cases, doctors contradict these claims saying the testing is not happening at the rate it should have been done.  “The graph for COVID-19 positives is likely to rise during this week in J&K, especially in the valley. As a result of the narrow testing criteria, so-far a lesser number of positive cases are coming to the fore,” a senior doctor said on the condition of anonymity. The government has ordered doctors and paramedical staff in Kashmir not to speak to the media on coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-reports-three-more-covid-19-positive-cases-tally-rises-to-109-822057.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Besides migrants, a tiger walks from Madhya Pradesh to Bihar||Last month, when thousands of migrant workers, amidst lockdown, were traversing through several hundred kilometres to reach their home State Bihar, there was one more species which was making giant strides from the jungles of Madhya Pradesh towards Bihar. A full-grown Royal Bengal Tiger, which reportedly lost its track and territory at Bandhavgarh National Park, has entered Bihar’s Kaimur forest area. The tiger was spotted by the Bihar Forest Department officials last week through multiple camera traps and a trail of pugmarks in Kaimur Wildlife Sanctuary. The forest of Kaimur in western Bihar is spread over 1,130 square kilometres, including 986 square kilometres of Kaimur Wildlife Sanctuary. And it shares borders with Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand. Sources in the Forest Department said this was the first authentic evidence of a tiger roaming around in the jungles of Rohtas in Kaimur district after decades. “Apparently, the big cat has lost its territory and travelled around 200 kilometres from either Bandhavgarh National Park or Panna Tiger Reserve, both in Madhya Pradesh,” said the source. “A male tiger was spotted through camera traps in Kaimur wildlife sanctuary in the evening of March 27. This tiger has been on the radar for quite some time,” said Principal Secretary, Forest and Environment, Dipak Kumar Singh. He added that the movement of the tiger gives ample indication of a possible tiger corridor passing through UP (Sonebhadra), Bihar (Kaimur), Jharkhand (Betla) and Madhya Pradesh (Bandhavgarh and Panna). Bihar till now had Valmikinagar Tiger Reserve (VTR), near Bihar-Nepal border, to boast about. “VTR is home to 44 tigers, including 13 cubs. In the 70s and 80s, there was substantial number of tigers in Kaimur too. In November/December this year, we will carry a wildlife census to find out exactly how many big cats are there in Kaimur,” Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, AK Pandey, told Deccan Herald here on Monday. He, however, added that there was a possibility that the tiger spotted last week in Kaimur could have transgressed from Renukoot or Chandraprabha Wildlife Sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh, which also shares its border with Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/besides-migrants-a-tiger-walks-from-madhya-pradesh-to-bihar-822061.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Man, son arrested for sharing objectionable pic of PM on WhatsApp groups||A man and his 21-year-old son were arrested here on Monday after they allegedly shared an objectionable picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on WhatsApp groups, police said. Abdul Salaam (45) and his son Rahmat have been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 505 (public mischief) and 506 (criminal intimidation), the police said. "A city resident had informed the local police about an objectionable picture of the prime minister being shared on WhatsApp groups by Abdul Salaam. The resident said when he confronted the accused, he was threatened by the father-son duo," a police official said. The FIR against the accused, both residents of Sharmik Kunj in Sector 93 and engaged in taxi service, has been lodged at Phase 2 police station, the official said. Earlier, a man was arrested in Greater Noida on April 5 for allegedly spreading false rumours related to the coronavirus pandemic which “could have triggered panic and disharmony” among people, the police had said and booked him under IPC 153A, 505, among others. On April 2, two people were arrested in Greater Noida for allegedly fanning communal violence after a rumour related to COVID-19 was shared on a WhatsApp group by one of them, the police said. One of them, a lawyer by profession, was the admin (someone who can add or remove contacts in a group on the popular instant messaging app) of the WhatsApp group, while the other was a member who shared the objectionable post, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-son-arrested-for-sharing-objectionable-pic-of-pm-on-whatsapp-groups-822101.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi to scale up testing for coronavirus: Kejriwal||The Delhi government has decided to scale up testing for coronavirus to at least 1,000 people a day so that positive cases are identified at the earliest, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said here on Monday. The chief minister said the total number of cases in the national capital has reached 523, of which 330 are from the Nizamuddin Markaz. One person has died due to the disease in the city since Sunday afternoon, while 20 fresh cases have been reported, Kejriwal said. "We are aiming to test at least 1000 people every day," he said, adding that since April 1, the Delhi government has been testing 500 people daily. Kejriwal said the government is getting testing kits and the number of tests for the virus have been increased. An order has been placed for one lakh testing kits, which will be available from Friday, and the number of tests per day will be increased further, the chief minister said. The chief minister said 25 coronavirus patients were in ICU and eight on ventilator support, while the remaining were stable. He added that the Centre has allotted 27,000 PPE kits for Delhi and he was thankful for that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-scale-up-testing-for-coronavirus-kejriwal-822123.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Top producer's daughter tests coronavirus positive in Mumbai||A top Bollywood producer's daughter has tested positive for COVID-19 infection. However, she had shown no symptoms and had not mingled with anyone with international travel history. The producer and his two daughters, including one who is an actress, and eight other family members live in Juhu’s Ashok Nagar Society which is now gone under isolation. “My daughter has not mingled with any foreign traveler and had no COVID-19 symptoms at all. It is my duty to inform you as we are law-abiding citizens. We are admitting her to Nanavati Hospital to be kept under isolation," the producer said in a message. This is perhaps the first case of COVID-19 reported from the posh Juhu area, that is home to  Bollywood film personalities, industrialists and celebrities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-producers-daughter-tests-coronavirus-positive-in-mumbai-822128.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Pak troops violate ceasefire along LoC in Poonch||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire and resorted to small arms firing and mortar shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, officials said. "At 5.15 pm, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortar in the Mankote sector," a defense spokesperson said, adding that the Indian Army retaliated befittingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-troops-violate-ceasefire-along-loc-in-poonch-822137.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Man tries to carry liquor in milk container in Delhi; gets nabbed||At a time when wine shops are closed due to COVID-19 lockdown, people have found innovative ways to transport liquor, which is now in demand, hoodwinking police personnel who are on patrol and at pickets. Boby Chaudhry, who hails from Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr, felt he could easily get away hiding liquor bottles in milk container but landed in police net at South Avenue, near Rashtrapati Bhavan, here in the wee hours of Monday after a chase. Milk being declared as an essential commodity, Chaudhry thought he could easily get away but luck was not on his side. First, a police picket stopped him to check at around 12:05 AM but he fled in his motorcycle. Two policemen on motorcycle patrol immediately chased him after the staff at the picket told them that a man was asked by them to stop but he did not stop. The chase ended soon near Gate No 5 of Rashtrapati Bhawan and Chaudhry was taken into custody. There were four milk containers in which there were seven 750 ml bottles of Royal Green Classic Blended. Following this, police registered a case against him under relevant sections of Delhi Excise Act, Epidemic Act and Motor Vehicles Act. Police said Boby told them that he got the liquor from Haryana's Gurugram and taking it to Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, both satellite townships of Delhi. An FIR has been registered against him. On April 4, Unidentified people broke into a wine shop in Roshanara Road in the capital in the wee hours of Saturday and left with "some liquor bottles and crates". The incident was reported from Roshanara Road on April 4 by a police patrolling party. When the police party was moving around, they found that the shutters of the wine shop of the Delhi Consumer Cooperative Whole Store (DCCWS) was open. A similar case was reported in Hyderabad where owners of a wine-shop found out that an unidentified man looted liquor worth Rs 25,000 and Rs 8,000 in cash. The incident had happened on March 31 but the owners came to know about it on Friday only after they examined the CCTV footage and found that there was no feed from cameras. Last week in Karnataka's Hubballi, unidentified men had entered Mysuru Sales International Ltd liquor shop by breaking it shutters and decamped with beer and other liquor bottles. Liquor shops in Karnataka are shut since March 24||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-tries-to-carry-liquor-in-milk-container-in-delhi-gets-nabbed-822141.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari launches campaign to collect donations for PM-CARES fund||Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari has launched a campaign to reach out to people from different walks of life and collect a substantial donation for the PM-CARES Fund to fight the coronavirus outbreak. A public charitable trust - Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund- has been set up by the government where people are donating money to help in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak. Tiwari said he has collected over Rs 1.14 crore for PM-CARES Fund through his campaign that will continue till the end of the lockdown. "A significant donation of Rs one crore was made by a logistics businessman Roshanlal Jaipuria for the PM-CARES Fund at my residence on Sunday. Many more people have come forward to donate money to help the nation in fighting coronavirus under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Tiwari said. On Monday, Tiwari visited Gandhi Nagar area where he collected over Rs 14 lakh with the help of local BJP MLA Anil Bajpai. "It is heartening to see how people love the country and are ready to do anything to help if there is any crisis," Tiwari said. He said more visits will be made by him in coming days to collect funds. "I have received messages from many people committing to donate money to PM-CARES Fund and I will approach them all in coming days," he said. Delhi BJP leaders, including its office bearers, have also been distributing food packets and dry ration kits among the poor, needy and the people affected by the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-bjp-chief-manoj-tiwari-launches-campaign-to-collect-donations-for-pm-cares-fund-822152.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Be cautious, not afraid, says Punjab man after recovery||A 35-year-old coronavirus survivor in Punjab on Monday asked people to be cautious, not afraid of the disease. Fateh Singh, who was ung treatment at the civil hospital in Nawanshahr district of Punjab, tested negative twice on April 4 and 5. He will soon be discharged from the hospital, officials said. He and his family members were admitted to the hospital on March 19, they said. Singh’s 70-year-old father had died recently due to coronavirus. “If anyone contracts coronavirus, one should get treatment for that and should not be scared of it. This can be treated. Have courage and keep yourself internally strong. And there is no need to worry,” Singh said in a video message, which was released by state authorities. He also asked people to maintain hygiene and wash their hands regularly to keep the deadly disease at bay. “Wear a mask when you go out and have your meal after washing your hands. Avoid crowded areas,” he added. In his video message, Singh thanked the health staff at the civil hospital for taking care of patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-be-cautious-not-afraid-says-punjab-man-after-recovery-822163.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Tea vendor near Uddhav Thackeray's house turns COVID-19 positive||In a nightmare of sorts, a tea vendor near Matoshree, the Bandra bungalow of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, turned COVID-19 positive.  59-year-old Thackeray stays in Matoshree, but travels to Varsha, the official residence at Malabar Hill, for meetings.  The CM stays in Matoshree with his family comprising his wife and two sons - Aditya and Tejas.  Aditya is Maharashtra's tourism, environment and protocol minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tea-vendor-near-uddhav-thackerays-house-turns-covid-19-positive-822170.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||2,151 people arrested in Haryana for violating lockdown: Home Minister Anil Vij||As many as 2,151 people have been arrested in Haryana so far for violating the lockdown in the state, Home Minister Anil Vij said on Monday. “As many as 1,509 FIRs have been registered and 2,151 people have been arrested for violating government orders on lockdown in the state. Besides, 6,251 vehicles have been impounded,” Vij said. Vij also said that 53 FIRs have been registered against those who were allegedly found spreading rumours and misleading information about COVID-19 on social media. Additional Director General of Police Navdeep Singh Virk advised the general public on Monday again neither to post unverified information on their social media accounts nor forward it to others on messaging apps like WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger etc as they would could land into trouble. “Don't spread fake news. We don't want u to be our guest. Haryana police has registered 53 FIRs and arrested 30 people for posting rumours, fake news & hate messages during the #21daylockdown,” Virk tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2151-people-arrested-in-haryana-for-violating-lockdown-home-minister-anil-vij-822176.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||With coronavirus, cases of hate & fake messages also increasing in Gujarat||With a spike in the number of positive coronavirus cases in Gujarat that touched 146 cases on Monday evening, the cases of sharing hate messages on the basis of religion and fake messages on social media platforms related to lockdown have also increased dramatically to 113 with the arrest of 198 persons in the state in nearly a week. The latest case was registered in Anand district, about 80 km from Ahmedabad, on Monday where two persons were held for putting up a hoarding outside their village that read, "no vegetable vendors or any other businessman from Muslim community will be allowed to enter the village and those found breaching it will have to take the responsibility of the damage." District Superintendent of Police Ajit Rajian, told DH that the hoarding was removed and persons responsible for it were held. He said that local leaders were contacted and peace meeting was held in the village.  The Ahmedabad police's cyber cell also arrested a person identified as Mukesh Patil, a private supervisor in a waste management firm. On April 1, he had allegedly posted “The Tablighi Jamaat congregation was a terrorist plot to spread coronavirus in the country and 2,500 virus-infected members will be spreading the virus in different parts of the country." Similar, messages were spread in other parts of the state where over a dozen cases were registered in the past week, said a senior police officer. Cyber cell also arrested one Umarkhalid Pathan, 40, for his Facebook post that was laced with expletives that said media was only blaming Tablighi Jamaat members for spreading the virus but not those migrant workers who were walking back home to their natives. Similar cases were registered in Amreli, Surat and other districts on Monday where the accused were held.  Director General of Police, Shivanand Jha, said in his daily briefing in Gandhinagar that "12 new cases of spreading rumours related to lockdown have been registered." He said that police are keeping a close watch on such platforms which are being used to spread fake messages that create hatred and panic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-coronavirus-cases-of-hate-fake-messages-also-increasing-in-gujarat-822184.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi's '9 minutes, 9 PM' call led to 32,000 MW dip in power demand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to turn-off house lights and hold a candlelight vigil for nine minutes on Sunday night saw electricity demand dip by 32,000 MW, but without a hitch to the power grid. It took co-ordinated efforts of electricity producers and distributors to ensure that the frequency in the grid was maintained between 49.7 and 50.26 Hz, keeping the voltage stable even as the demand gradually climbed up to 1.17 lakh MW after 9:09 pm when citizens turned on the house lights again. Power Systems Operation Corporation (POSOCO), that manages the integrated operation of the power grid, had instructed its five regional load dispatch centres to maintain their interchange with the grid as per the schedule of the ‘9 minutes, 9:00 pm’ event on Sunday. The power generating companies, mainly hydel plants, started reducing production from 8.45 pm. The hydropower production came down from 25,569 MW to 8016 MW between 8.45 pm to 9.10 pm. Likewise, the reduction in generation also happened in thermal, nuclear, gas and renewable energy resources as well. The electricity demand reduced from 1,17,300 MW at 8.49 pm to 85,000 MW by 9.09 pm – a reduction of 32000 MW as people switched off lights at homes. Power ministry officials had estimated a slump in demand to be between 12,000 MW and 15,000 MW, but a 32,000 MW dip in demand was an indication of the huge response to the Prime Minister’s call. “Demand in the grid came down by 32,000 MW within a few minutes but the frequency and voltage was maintained within the normal range. The drop in national demand by 32,000 megawatts shows a huge response of the nation to the call of the Prime Minister,” Power Minister R K Singh said. Singh and Power Secretary S N Sahai personally monitored the situation at the National Power Monitoring Centre at the Power Ministry office in Shram-Shakti Bhawan. “The national grid operator POSOCO and the national, regional and state load dispatch centres did a great job with support from all generators; NHPC, NEEPCO, THDC, SJVNL, BBMB, NTPC, all state gencos and IPPs, Transco's and Distribution companies and their officers and staff,” Singh said. Since India has a vast network of grid capable of carrying electricity of 99000 MW, which also connects Nepal, Bhutan, and Bangladesh, maintaining grid frequency was most critical, a senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modis-9-minutes-9-pm-call-led-to-32000-mw-dip-in-power-demand-822185.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Don't view events from the prism of prejudices: Venkaiah Naidu||In wake of trenchant criticism of Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi that led to a spurt in COVID-19 positive cases at times taking communal undertones, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu called for steering clear of untenable generalisations about communities and not viewing events from the prism of prejudices.  Referring to the irresponsible flouting of the precautionary social distancing guidelines in some states and exemplified by the recent congregation in New Delhi, the Vice President at the same time underscored the need for greater dissemination of guidelines and stricter implementation. He said there has to be a greater awareness of the urgency and the scientific evidence about the spread of the virus necessitating a total societal response cutting across caste, creed, class, language, regions and religions.   He said there has to be a common understanding among all religious groups that social distancing norms cannot be taken lightly and there should not be large congregations till the current challenge is overcome. “We hope there will be no more such unfortunate, blatant violations of the prescribed guidelines,” he observed. Cautioning that superstitions and hearsay cannot be allowed to weaken our battle against COVID-19, Naidu described the spread of misinformation, especially on social media, as a “virus” that needs to be checked. Observing that free flow of authentic information to quell rumours and misinformation is critical, Naidu in a Facebook post said the war on coronavirus cannot be won if we have an inadequate or faulty understanding of the magnitude of the problem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-view-events-from-the-prism-of-prejudices-venkaiah-naidu-822190.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||11 more test positive for coronavirus in Punjab; total cases 79||Eleven more people were found infected with coronavirus in Punjab on Monday, taking the count of confirmed cases to 79 in the state, a medical bulletin said. According to the bulletin, Fatehgarh Sahib and Kapurthala districts reported their first cases on Monday. Five of the fresh cases were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the organisation’s religious congregation in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. Two of the infected Jamaat members were traced to Fatehgarh Sahib while others were located in Mohali, Ludhiana and Kapurthala districts of the state. The maximum four cases, including a Jamaat member, were reported from Mohali, the medical bulletin said, adding that two patients were detected in Rupnagar and one in Amritsar. So far, coronavirus cases have been reported from 14 districts of the state. Nawanshahr and Mohali have reported the maximum 19 cases each, followed by nine in Amritsar, seven in Hoshiarpur, six each in Jalandhar and Ludhiana, three each in Mansa and Rupnagar, two in Fatehgarh Sahib and one each in Patiala, Faridkot, Barnala, Kapurthala and Pathankot.  One patient is critical and on ventilator support, the medical bulletin said. The state has so far seen seven deaths due to the virus while four patients have been discharged from hospitals after treatment. The state so far has taken 2,384 samples, of which 1,994 turned negative while reports of 311 are still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-punjab-total-cases-79-822194.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Online hackathon to find ways to fight coronavirus||The Silicon-Valley-based Motwani Jadeja Foundation is bringing together the best minds in a 72-hour online hackathon called CODE19 to find solutions to India’s challenges against the COVID-19 outbreak. The contest, which begins on April 10, 2020 (Good Friday), is expected to see over 3,000 participants across nationalities, ethnicities and gender. Working online from the comfort of their homes while India is on a 21-day lockdown, they will collaborate with mentors, subject-matter specialists, data sources and a network of collaborators in the quest for solutions against COVID-19. The online hackathon is open to everyone as individuals and teams, without any criteria or age limit. Those wishing to participate can sign up on www.code19.in till 6 pm IST on April 10. In a press statement,  Asha Jadeja Motwani, the well-known entrepreneur, investor and philanthropist who is the Founder of Motwani Jadeja Foundation, said: "COVOD-19 is a huge health challenge that India is facing. Any new crisis requires a new set of ideas and mitigation strategies. Hence, it is our collective responsibility to put our heads together to come up with new ideas and solutions to fight the virus." The focus of CODE19 is on developing solutions quickly and applying them in everyday life. The participants would be tasked with decoding the coronavirus outbreak and its impact on India, encoding smart solutions to mitigate the impending corona-inflicted challenges, and winning prizes worth US$10,000 to realise their solutions. The ideas and innovations they create would readily be available for scaling and implementation across the country.” Projects are divided into eight specific themes: Medical treatment and testing; Travel and Tourism; Mitigation - Isolation, protection/masks, and social distancing in India; Social life, welfare, and awareness; Research and development; Open innovation for COVID-19; Education and awareness; and Industry. The participants would work on solutions through ideations, wireframes, designs, developments and testing the prototype they are creating. Mentors and guides will help them sharpen their product ideas and convert them to sure-shot successful products that will aid India’s fight against coronavirus. Under the Open Innovation category, participants would be free to propose their own ideas, technologies and innovative solutions, bioinformatics, datasets, apps for diagnosis, and the likes, which can be leveraged for strengthening the fight against coronavirus. CODE19 will also have a few online sessions including talks with business leaders as well as Yoga and Meditation, to keep the participants inspired. Prize money worth US$ 10,000 is on offer for the winners. There will be public voting at the end of the event to assess the most exciting projects. The winners would be announced at 9 pm on April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/online-hackathon-to-find-ways-to-fight-coronavirus-822197.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Man held for 'sexually assaulting' minor daughter in Himachal Pradesh||A man was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting his minor daughter in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi district, police said on Monday. The wife of the accused lodged a police complaint alleging that he had sexually assaulted their minor daughter about a month ago while she was away from home, Mandi Superintendent of Police Gurdev Sharma said. He also threatened the victim with dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident, said the woman, who is a resident of Balichowki tehsil. The police have registered a case under sections 376 (3), 506 of Indian Penal Code and section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-daughter-in-himachal-pradesh-822210.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Gautam Gambhir offers 1,000 PPE kits after Kejriwal says availability of protective gear a problem||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said money is not a problem but the availability of protective equipment for healthcare personnel is, after BJP parliamentarian Gautam Gambhir accused the Delhi government of not accepting Rs 50 lakh from his MPLADS fund to fight the coronavirus outbreak. In a tweet, Gambhir, an East Delhi MP, said the "massive egos" of Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia did not allow them to take Rs 50 lakh from his Local Area Development fund. "CM @ArvindKejriwal & his Dy say funds are needed. Though their massive egos didn't allow them to take50 L from my LAD fund earlier, I pledge 50 L more so that innocents don't suffer! 1 CR would at least solve urgent need for masks &PPE kits for days Hope they prioritize Delhi," Gambhir tweeted. Responding to it, Kejriwal said, "Gautam ji, thank u for ur offer. The problem is not of money but availability of PPE kits. We wud be grateful if u cud help us get them from somewhere immediately, Del govt will buy them. Thank u." Gambhir answered back to the chief minister in a tweet saying he has procured 1,000 PPE kits and asked where could they be delivered. He also told Kejriwal that this is no time to talk but act. "Arvind ji, first ur deputy claims shortage of funds. Now u contradict him & say there is shortage of kits. Anyway, procured 1,000 PPE kits. Please let me know where they can be delivered. Time for talks is over, it is time to ACT. Eagerly waiting for ur response #DelhiNeedsHonesty," Gambhir tweeted. Separately, in a letter to Kejriwal, Gambhir said it was stated by Sisodia that funds were needed to meet the growing demand of medical equipment in Delhi government hospitals. "In addition to Rs 50 lakh which I had pledged two weeks ago, I would further like to pledge Rs50 lakh from my MPLAD to your kind office with the hope that the said amount would be used in procurement of equipment of medical staff as well as treatment of COVID-19 patients," the BJP parliamentarian said. Earlier Gambhir accused the AAP government of "shedding crocodile tears" and playing the "victim card", saying he had offered Rs 50 lakh for PPE kits and masks to it but did not receive any feedback. Kejriwal on Saturday said his government has asked for PPE kits from the Centre but none were received. He, however, said on Monday that the Centre has allocated 27,000 PPE kits to Delhi and hoped they would be available to his government within 2 days. Sisodia had demanded a disaster fund from the Centre to fight coronavirus outbreak, saying Delhi was the third most-affected state in the country. In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, he said the Centre released over Rs 17,000 crore to states from the disaster fund but not "a single rupee" was given to Delhi. "I have demanded disaster fund for Delhi also in a letter to the Central government. The Centre released Rs 17,000 crore to states to fight the corona from the disaster fund but Delhi was not given a single rupee from it. "The country should fight as one at this hour. This discrimination is unfortunate," Sisodia tweeted. Coronavirus cases in Delhi have crossed 500 and seven deaths have been reported due to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gautam-gambhir-offers-1000-ppe-kits-after-kejriwal-says-availability-of-protective-gear-a-problem-822225.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||Scared of catching coronavirus infection, son refuses to cremate mother: Official||Family members of a 69-year-old woman who died of COVID-19 in a private hospital here, refused to accept her body and cremate it, forcing the district administration to perform her last rites, said officials on Monday. Her son refused to perform the last rights despite authorities seeking to give him the requisite protective gears and assuring him that it would shield him against the infection, said Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), Iqbal Singh Sandhu. Admitted to a private hospital here on March 31, the Shimlapuri village resident died on Sunday. "It was a big shock for everybody when relatives including, son of the deceased, did not come to claim her body. The body was later claimed by the district administration," said Sandhu. He said the administrative authorities approached family members twice but they refused to claim the body. The son of deceased was also assured that he would be given protective gear for cremation but he refused to perform the last rites, he added. The last rites were performed late mid night by district administration officials while Kaur's son and other family members watched the cremation from a distance of over 100 metres. The incident comes close on the heels of Amritsar's Verka village residents refusing to allow the cremation of former 'Hazuri Raagi' Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died of COVID-19, in his native village cremation ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scared-of-catching-coronavirus-infection-son-refuses-to-cremate-mother-official-822227.html
06-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Madhya Pradesh reports 41 fresh cases; death toll up to 15||With 41 fresh cases reported in Madhya Pradesh, half of them from Bhopal, during the last 24 hours, the COVID-19 tally went up to 256 on Monday, while the death count has increased to 15, health officials said. Among the new cases, Bhopal recorded the highest number - at 21 - since Sunday evening, taking the count of COVID-19 patients in the state capital to 61, a health department bulletin said here. The new cases from Bhopal include health officials and police personnel engaged in fighting the viral disease, officials said. Of the 256 cases, 151 are from Indore, the commercial capital of the state. In the past 24 hours, 16 fresh cases of coronavirus were reported from Indore, the officials said. The death toll now stood at 15 with the addition of two fatalities. A 52-year-old man died of coronavirus in Bhopal on Sunday night - the first fatality in the state capital - while a 54-year-old man, who succumbed three days ago at a private hospital in Indore, tested positive for the infection on Monday, they said. With COVID-19-infected persons found in two more districts on Monday, the pandemic has now spread to 12 districts of the state. On Monday, one each coronavirus positive person was found in Sironj town of Vidisha district and Bhainsdehi in Betul district, the officials said. In both the cases, the infected persons have connection with the Tablighi Jamaat, whose religious gathering last month in Nizamuddin in Delhi emerged as a hotspot for COVID-19 spread in the country, they said. The COVID-19 patient found in Betul was part of a 'jamaat' (religious preaching group) in Nagpur and returned to the district on March 31, the officials said. Similarly, the infected person in Vidisha district was part of a 'jamaat' and returned from Assam last month, the officials said. Meanwhile, certain areas in Bhainsdehi and Sironj have been declared as containment zones by the respective district authorities as part of efforts to halt the spread of the deadly disease. The 54-year-old man who died in Indore was admitted to a private hospital on April 1 with complaints of breathlessness, cough and fever, the officials said. His samples were taken for testing, but he died on April 3 during treatment, they said, adding the man suffered from pre-existing illnesses asthma and hypertension. "His test report was not received at the time of his death. In the report received now, he has tested positive for COVID-19," the officials said. Among the 15 COVID-19 fatalities reported so far, Indore accounts for 10, Ujjain (2) and Khargone, Chhindwara and Bhopal (one each). As per the health bulletin, the maximum number of COVID-19 cases - 151 - have been reported from Indore, followed by Bhopal (61), Morena (12), Jabalpur (8), Ujjain (8), Khargone (4), Barwani (3), two each in Chhindwara, Shivpuri and Gwalior, one each in Betul and Vidisha districts. One coronavirus positive patient hails from outside Madhya Pradesh, it said, adding the total number of affected persons in the state currently stood at 256. Meanwhile, 11 more persons were discharged from hospitals in Indore following their recovery from the deadly virus, taking the number of such people to 18, the officials said. The health bulletin said among the active cases, 208 patients are stable, while 23 are in serious condition. During the past one week, two IAS officers posted in the health department have tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-reports-41-fresh-cases-death-toll-up-to-15-822232.html
06-04-2020||Opinion||Loss of institutional memory will be a handicap for India in the COVID-19 fightback||The huge generational shift over the past decade means that experienced decision-makers, business leaders and even politicians of yesteryears have gradually either retired, faded away or have withdrawn from public life. That has left most of India’s institutions with a new generation of leaders or heads who either started their career in the mid-1980s or even the post-1991 reform period.  Before the outbreak of this pandemic, India’s policymakers, from top politicians to senior bureaucrats to the officers of the armed forces, as well as the lowest-level clerks in neighbourhood government offices, would have rarely, if at all, faced an existential crisis on such a gigantic scale. There may be the rare exception. Most of the crises that we have faced in the past three decades were mostly localised: Natural disasters, riots and the outbreak of plague in Surat. This is reflected in the chaos in the aftermath of the lockdown announcement.  Contrast this with the problems that India faced from the 1940s till the Emergency: World War, end of colonial rule, Partition, three wars after Independence, riots, cholera outbreaks, severe famines and food crises, apart from ravages caused by natural disasters, poverty, and need to build the Indian nation. Each of these crises/issues invariably concerned or enveloped large swathes of India’s population or regions. Partition led to a displacement of about 14 million and death of at least 2 lakh to 20 lakh people at a time when the population was about 314 million; Cholera outbreaks existed till at least the 1960s. Vivid memories of these are still etched in the memory of elderly persons.  The generation of policymakers and military officers who served the country in various capacities till the 1970s either had directly grappled with these issues first hand or had trained or mentored those who joined their ranks in the 1950s and 1960s thereby passing on their knowledge on a personal or institutional basis to each of the successive recruited batches. This personal and institutional memory coupled with experience was handy even for those policymakers appointed in the 1970s since they could often blend the institutional knowledge with their own field experiences.  The generational shift of the past couple of years and the retirement of the older generation of policymakers and officials coupled with the sea change in the nature of the state in the aftermath of 1991 reforms means that most of the institutions are manned by personnel who joined service after 1991 while the senior-most may have joined service in the mid-1980s thereby leaving a possible dearth in practical experience as well as a vacuum in theoretical and conceptual framework necessary to deal with any existential crisis. The impact of this is most glaring in the bureaucracy and armed forces – two most important parts of the Indian system. Demographic reasons mean that even the senior-most officers in the Armed forces do not have practical experience of fighting a generalised conventional war. There is no doubt generational shift is inevitable in any society and unless it is properly managed, the problems it unleashes far outweigh the benefits, especially in a complex society such as that in India. We should only hope that internally our institutions have already made sufficient efforts to store and disseminate their own institutional histories, even if it is within closed doors because any inability to do so will mean that India has to pay a very heavy long-term price. In case they do not have systems and processes to do so, this crisis is probably the best time for them to start the process of such compilation and reconstruction before it is too late.  (S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. Views expressed are personal) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/loss-of-institutional-memory-will-be-a-handicap-for-india-in-the-covid-19-fightback-821985.html
06-04-2020||Opinion||When money talks, don’t listen||Last week, American President Donald Trump called Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for the release of the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine so that the US could avail of them. The Modi government has banned its export, given that India itself might need the drug as the coronavirus pandemic spreads through the country. Let’s note right away that while Trump has been talking up the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine for treating COVID-19, his own medical advisers have said that there is no evidence that it is effective. Some national medical research institutions have said that the drug might be of help to doctors and frontline health workers who are severely exposed to COVID-19 patients, but not to the general population.    Nonetheless, given America’s desperate situation – it has the largest number of COVID-19 cases now, with over 400,000 infected and over 9,000 dead -- Modi should consider granting Trump’s request, but based on two non-negotiable conditions:  1. The US should immediately release the 3M masks destined for Germany (that it had hijacked in Bangkok, as reported in major papers across the globe, including the NY Times, Washington Post and the UK-based Independent). Likewise, with masks destined for France. The global goodwill that India would generate from such action will be, in my opinion, substantial. 2.  The drug should be sold in the US at the same price as the maximum retail price (MRP) in India. This is very important since there is an unconscionable amount of profiteering by ‘Big Pharma’ here in the US on India-made drugs, even in the absence of any pandemic. To give you a specific example, a 1.7 ml tube of ‘Ilevro’ eye drops used in post-cataract surgery retails for $358 in the US, whereas the same costs $5.50 in India. Surprise, surprise! The Ilevro sold in the US is actually manufactured in Aurangabad.  One shudders to think what US drug companies and hospitals would charge for antimalarial drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, antibiotics such as azithromycin and the anti-tuberculosis BCG vaccine (still made in India, and perhaps only in India) should they prove effective in combating COVID-19. Faced with a global coronavirus pandemic whose epicentre has moved to the US, in a news conference last week, Trump advocated the use of the drug hydroxychloroquine that he claimed could help tackle the outbreak. He also claimed that the use of the drug in combination with azithromycin, an antibiotic, could be “one of the biggest game changers in the history of medicine”. This has resulted in a sudden shortage of hydroxychloroquine, because of hoarding, and there has been a concomitant increase in price. The drug is normally used for treating lupus and rheumatoid arthritis but now people with these diseases have to contend with either the non-availability of the drug or having to pay exorbitant prices. Medical experts are of the opinion that the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine combating the coronavirus pandemic has not yet been established. To quote Dr Anthony Fauci, the leading expert in the US on infectious diseases, “It’s a dangerous message for someone without a medical licence to get up there and tell people to try it. You need to listen to physicians, people who understand science, before you go willy-nilly into the medicine cabinet.” Likewise, the French health minister, Olivier Veran, warned against the use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19, saying that it shouldn’t be used by anyone with the exception of “serious forms of hospitalization and on the collegial decision of doctors and under strict medical supervision”. According to an article in the Guardian newspaper in the UK, the scramble for face masks has created a “madhouse” atmosphere among Chinese manufacturers since they have been deluged with inquiries from US states, national governments, cities, hospitals, distributors and private companies seeking to protect their employees. Producers of masks and respirators are demanding to be paid in full before the products leave their factories and are supplying whoever can pay the most and pay fastest. There has been an intense state-by-state competition in the US for ventilators and personal protective equipment such as masks, gloves and ventilators and there are no anti-gouging laws that can be invoked when states procure their supplies from private companies, either through competitive bids or from single sources. Add to this the very important dimension of medical supply chain issues that have been created by US companies outsourcing their manufacturing operations to places such as China and India which have much cheaper labour and material costs. Let me cite specific examples. The State of Massachusetts was able to purchase and transport, via a private plane, 1.2 million N95 masks (made for 3M, a US company) from Chinese manufacturers just four days ago. Various newspapers in Germany have reported that similar masks ordered and paid for by the Berlin police were diverted to the US while they were in transit at Bangkok airport. French government officials were outbid by private US entities in the US when they were in the process of procuring masks as well. Ventilators/respirators have seen their prices jump from $20,000 (about Rs 15 lakh) to $80,000 (about Rs 60 lakh). How much do ventilators cost in India? Lastly, about a month ago, there were reports in the press about Trump offering $2 billion to a German company, currently testing a vaccine against coronavirus, for exclusive use in the US. Money trumps all? It shouldn’t. (The writer is a US-based computer scientist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-money-talks-don-t-listen-822268.html
06-04-2020||Opinion||A safe place for the mind||Whether you are alone or co-existing, the dynamic is more often than not, complicated, constantly changing, challenging. The key is to be balanced and re-align oneself to find and develop a safe place to go to that is easily available. We all definitely feel there is a safe physical place to come back to --our home, our chairs, our bed where we can rest. Similarly, our mind longs for a safe place too. Unlike physical spaces, this is with us, under our control, will and access. This can be a hobby, a habit, a routine, or a passion that fills our free time and space with creativity and productivity. There is no need to strive for everyday consistent practice. As long as you access it and feel a sigh of relief or familiarity, consider you are being served. The more you build the muscle to access it, create a satisfying product out of it, the more it will save you at all times and the more it all becomes worth it. It not only benefits you but also the people around you as they get to see your calmness and stillness.  To find this place, close your eyes. Think of any activity that leaves you in deep state of happiness and satisfaction. This could be writing, reading, travelling, walking, cooking, singing, art or any variations of the above. Pick a small portion of it and complete it. Increase your involvement on this bit by bit every day. Not only will you look forward to the activity, but you will also meditate while doing it. Finding the place and making it accessible takes time and muscle to build but is all worth it serving you till the end of your life. My dad is a perfect example. He had a zeal to write and publish his thoughts, ideas and opinions in various publications. No matter how he felt, how people around him felt, holidays, working days, Sundays, he had some time allotted for himself. This was his mental place to fall back on. Things are more clear now as I think back on what it gave him. Though we felt and complained he did not "enjoy the present moment" with us, he actually was "present" in his own way. Everyone else's inability to handle their emotions did not move him as his mind always had a safe, quiet, creative and productive place. So, go ahead and explore a little bit of yourself to find more of yourself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-safe-place-for-the-mind-822269.html
06-04-2020||Right in the Middle||A new acquaintance||“A sound mind in a sound body” is an old adage. The adage indicates that both body and mind are to be maintained in good condition. It also suggests that the body should be maintained in good condition so as to house a good mind in it. It goes without saying that both the mind and body should be given equal importance for proper maintenance of the self. I am a regular morning walker in the M N Krishna Rao Park in Basavanagudi area and I come across many walkers. On one such morning walk, I came across a person who kept both his mind and body active. A man was walking beside me and instinctively I started walking faster and overtook him to exhibit that I could walk faster. Within seconds, he overtook me and stared as if to indicate that he had defeated me. Suddenly I replied, “Sir, you proved, that you are a fast walker. I took a chance to overtake you but you failed in my attempt”. He answered that he was a regular morning walker in the park and a retired bank employee. I took this occasion to bring up my retired bank employee friend from the same bank. He replied, “Raja, I knew that person very well,” and this event proved to be a moment of bonding. One day, I noticed that the fast walker was walking in the opposite direction with his walk mates. Surprisingly, he overtook me with other walk mates and then reversed his direction. The next day, he was walking with us and suddenly reversed his direction to join another walker who was walking in the opposite direction. This made me arrive at a conclusion that the fast walker walked with several walkers in different directions depending on circumstance. Luckily, I met my old friend at the entrance of the park and after a mutual exchange of pleasantries, I learned that my new acquaintance started coming to this park only on Saturday and Sunday due to change of his residence. He also asked me if the fast walker was coming to the park daily? My friend explained that the fast walker walked for a period of more than one hour with speed and spent time in rendering assistance to the disabled in society. A small tea meet was arranged in the park, and regular walkers were invited. I entered the park and observed the serpentine queue. All walkers were seen interacting with each other spending moments joyfully. Just as my mind drifted to the fast walker, the very person came racing towards front of the queue obliging the repeated calls from the friends at the front demonstrating the popularity of the fast walker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-new-acquaintance-821859.html
06-04-2020||South||RSS serves food to over 1 lakh Mumbaikars during COVID-19 lockdown||In a massive effort undertaken by the RSS through its service and environment wing, the Janakalyan Samiti and the Keshav Srushti My Green Society respectively, over one lakh people in the city of Mumbai are being served food daily for the past week. Named “Annapurna Yojana”, the scheme is being implemented in 24 wards of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) wherein around 1.2 lakh people are being served hot cooked meals twice a day through 17 community kitchens. The food cooked at these kitchens is being served through different channels.  The BMC collects 40,000 food packets from these kitchens every day to serve its own staff and the medicos and police engaged in emergency services and to serve the homeless, labourers and the migrants. Another 60,000 food packets are distributed through the RSS network of non-governmental organisations (NGO), voluntary organizations (VO) and community organizations (CO) at various underprivileged localities across the city while around 20,000 food packets are given to daily wagers in the city. “As soon as the lockdown was announced Swayamsevaks contacted the BMC officials to understand their needs. The decision to start community kitchens was taken when the officials said that arranging food for their staff would the biggest burden for them. Also, cooked food will be needed for migrant labour and slum dwellers, they said. Within hours, the first three community kitchens went operational,” said Vishal Tibrewal, a member of the Keshav Srushti My Green Society, who is currently coordinating the operations of these kitchens. Around 7,000 RSS Swayamsevaks are currently engaged in running these kitchens and distribution of the food.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rss-serves-food-to-over-1-lakh-mumbaikars-during-covid-19-lockdown-821880.html
06-04-2020||South||Two COVID-19 deaths reported in Andhra Pradesh||Two coronavirus deaths were reported in Andhra Pradesh, taking the toll in the state due to the disease to three, the government said on Monday. The state also recorded 14 new cases since Sunday night, taking the tally to 266. The total number of COVID-19 deaths in the state has risen to three, a bulletin issued by the Medical and Health Department said. Five patients had recovered in the last few days and were discharged from hospitals. As such, the number of active cases now stood at 258. The latest bulletin issued by the Medical and Health Department on Monday said a 64-year old man in Anantapuramu, who tested positive for coronavirus on April 1 upon his return from Mecca, died in hospital on April 4. Another 55-year-old in Machilipatnam too died due to coronavirus on April 4. His was a case of local transmission as he returned by train from Odisha late last month and was admitted to the government hospital on April 2. The state nodal officer Arja Srikanth said in a release on Monday that this man was an asthma and bronchitis patient. Kurnool district topped the state list with 56 patients followed by SPS Nellore with 34.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-821938.html
06-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to use rapid kits for COVID-19 tests from this week||Tamil Nadu, will in all probability, kick-off mass testing of COVID-19 from this week-end using rapid test kits that are to be procured from China, from where the Coronavirus infection began. The state has placed orders for 1 lakh rapid test kits and they are expected to arrive here on April 9 and the testing could begin as early as Friday. The state, which is currently at the second position in terms of number of positive cases in the country at 571, hopes the mass testing technology would help it detect more positive COVID-19 cases and prevent further outbreak. Already, the state has one of the maximum numbers of testing labs in the country at 18, including seven in the private sector, but has tested less than 5,000 samples. Currently, the state follows the PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test that uses a nasal or throat swab for screening, but results take more than five to six hours. The rapid test kits can deliver results in half-hour thus reducing the time in diagnostics and since they are quite mobile in nature, they can be carried easily by health professionals. As the state gears up to mass test, the Health and Family Welfare Department has organised a training programme for lab technicians and others involved in the process through video conferencing on Tuesday. These technicians will, in turn, teach or train those at the district level before the testing kits reach them. “Every test has specific guidelines. Though most of our lab technicians are trained to handle all test, we have decided to train them for conducting these rapid tests for COVID-19. While 200 people will be trained by experts on Tuesday, the persons who get the training will teach those at the district level,” the official told DH. In all, some 10,000 people will be trained to handle these kits, another official said, adding that though “we may not be needing 10,000 people for testing, we are not taking any chances.” The government plans to give specific number of kits to every district and is also looking at taking these kits to rural areas for testing. “We may not do home testing but looking at placing these kits at one common place say like a community centre and bring people there for testing. We can save time as well as energy by doing so,” the official said. Experts say the rapid test uses a blood sample instead of nasal or throat swab and can indicate if someone has COVID-19 even if they are asymptomatic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-use-rapid-kits-for-covid-19-tests-from-this-week-822017.html
06-04-2020||South||This time your vision failed: Kamal Haasan to Modi on lockdown||Actor-politician Kamal Haasan on Monday tore into Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the “ill-planned 21-day lockdown” that has pushed the poor and under-privileged to the wall and accused him of “securing only an already well-built middle-class fortress” rather than lifting those people at the bottom. In a strongly-worded open letter to Modi that runs into three pages, the Makkal Needhi Maiam President minced no words in telling the Prime Minister that “this time your vision failed” and took objection to the branding of individuals who give constructive criticism and feedback as “anti-nationals” by “trolls of your army.” Dubbing him as a follower of E V R Periyar and Mahatma Gandhi who believed in equality and prosperity for all, Kamal Haasan said his “biggest fear is that the same mistake of demonetisation is being repeated albeit at a much bigger scale.” While demonetisation led to the loss of savings and livelihood of the poorest, the ill-planned lockdown is leading the society to a fatal combination of loss of both life and livelihood, he said. “The poor have nobody to look up to except you sir. On one hand, you are asking the more privileged people to put up a spectacle of lights while on the other hand the poor man’s plight is itself becoming a shameful spectacle. While your world lit up oil diyas in their balconies, the poor are struggling to gather enough oil to bake their next roti,” he wrote. Kamal Haasan also accused Modi of sliding into his “comfort zone” of unleashing a spirited election-style campaign idea every time there is a feeling that there is a chance to arrest the slide. He also said Modi seems “comfortable outsourcing responsible behaviour to the common people and transparency to the State governments.” “This is the perception you are creating, especially amongst those who spend enough time working toward and intellectualising for a great today and tomorrow for India. I am sorry if I have offended you with the use of the word intellectual here, for I know that you and your government does not like that word,” he said.  The actor also said the Prime Minister’s two addresses to the nation did not give enough comfort to the poor whose contribution to GDP and nation building cannot be ignored even if they don’t make it to the front page news. “I am sure you don’t want to be a balcony government only for the balcony people by completely ignoring the poor who are biggest constituent of our society, our support system and the foundation on which the middle-class, the well-to-do and the rich build their lives. He has a majority stake in the nation. History has proven that any efforts to destroy the bottom has led to the toppling of the top,” Kamal Haasan said. Maintaining that he was asking the government to ignore the middle-class or any one segment, Kamal Haasan asked the Prime Minister to secure everybody’s fortress and ensure that nobody goes to bed hungry. “COVID-19 will continue to find more victims, but we are creating a fertile playground for Hunger(H), Exhaustion(E) and Deprivation(D) of the poor. HED ’20 is a malady that is smaller in profile but far deadlier compared to COVID-19. Its impact will be felt long after COVID-19 has vanished,” he wrote. He also said the shutdown was announced in four hours’ notice when the government had four months to prepare for the pandemic. “When we eventually woke out of our slumber, you ordered an entire nation of 1.4 bn people to shut down within 4 hours. A mere 4 hour notice period for the people when you had a 4 month notice period! Visionary leaders are ones who work on solutions long before problems become big,” he said. “I dare anyone to call me an anti-national this time. The common populace cannot be blamed for being ill-prepared for a crisis of this magnitude, but you can be and shall be blamed for this,” he said, adding the people are on Modi’s side despite them being angry during these testing times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/this-time-your-vision-failed-kamal-haasan-to-modi-on-lockdown-822028.html
06-04-2020||South||Karnataka Auqaf Board suspends congregational prayers for Shab- e-Barat||Karnataka State Board for Auqaf on Monday issued orders suspending congregational prayers and visit to the Qabrasthans (Muslim Graveyards), Dargahs on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat on April 9, due to the coronavirus pandemic. "It is hereby directed to all the managements not to allow any congregational prayers in the masjid and the managements of the Qabrasthans/Dargahs throughout the State to suspend the visit of public on the occasion ofShab-e-Barat on Thursday, April 9," the order read. It said, no public shall be allowed to perform religious rituals in the Qabrasthans/Dargahs and all their gates shall be kept closed. Asking the managements of the Qabrasthans and dargahs to take necessary steps for implementation of the order in the interest of public health in letter and spirit, itinstructed all Waqf officers, Districts Waqf Advisory Committees in the state to adhere to the order and to circulate the same to all the Waqf managements, and ensure that the said Order is followed scrupulously. "Any dereliction in this regard will be viewed seriously," it added. Shab-e-Barat is considered as one of the auspicious nights in the Islamic calendar, which is celebrated with pomp and enthusiasm by Muslims all over the world, during which they gather in masjids for overnight prayers. Due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the government of Karnataka has issued directions and orders to suspend the congregational prayers, the order in its preamble said. The Imarat-e-Sharia of Karnataka have also issued a list of preventive measures which have to be duly followed by all Muslims on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-auqaf-board-suspends-congregational-prayers-for-shab-e-barat-822060.html
06-04-2020||South||From Aftershave to Paint varnish: Alcoholics take desperate measures to get their daily dose||Closure of TASMAC shops that sell liquor in Tamil Nadu has so far claimed at least six lives with habitual drinkers resorting to desperate measures to get their daily dose. From aftershave lotion to paint varnish – alcoholics have laid their hands on everything that came their way as an alternative to liquor and mixed them with cold drinks. Six people – three from Pudukkottai and as many from Chengalpattu – died in the past week by consuming aftershave lotion and paint varnish unable to find liquor from anywhere due to the nation-wide lockdown. Tamil Nadu is one of the states that have the highest alcohol consumption and the government-owned TASMAC controls monopoly in liquor distribution and sales. Though the government has publicized helpline numbers district-wise for those with alcohol withdrawal symptoms to contact and get psychological help, the efforts aren’t enough to help alcoholics who seem to get desperate every passing day. Private de-addiction centers like Mindzone and Tamil Nadu Association of Clinical Psychologists (TNACP) have also offered free psychological support for alcoholics and those suffering from depression in times of COVID-19. Measures not enough Dr V Sunil Kumar, a clinical psychologist and founder of Mindzone, a private de-addiction centre here, feels the government should have taken the aftereffects into consideration before closing the liquor shops. “Having said that I should also say there are no major guidelines on how to deal with this pandemic. The government shuts the liquor shops keeping in mind the social distance factor because no one really knows the full impact of COVID-19. But the major problem is the lack of awareness that alcoholism is also a disease and that it can be cured like any other illness. It is due to lack of realization, people resort to desperate measures,” he told DH. Not just the government helpline, but private deaddiction centers have also reported a spike in the number of habitual drinkers seeking their help to overcome the situation. They also receive a “good number” of calls from people who are unable to handle loneliness and boredom due to confinement. “We have taken into consideration the issues faced by alcoholics and placed counsellors at all district control rooms. The District Mental Health Programmee has arranged for these counsellors who offer necessary help to those who call them. It is not just alcoholics who call, but also people who are worried about what would happen,” K Senthil Raj, Mission Director, National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu, told DH. Why alcoholics turn desperate? Explaining further, Dr Sunil Kumar said regular consumption of alcohol brings in a permanent change in one’s brain and it is the brain that asks for alcohol and not the mind. “People develop bodily changes like tremors, change in sleep pattern and this is when they get desperate and look for alternatives. Alcohol is closely linked with crime, domestic violence, mental illness, and other medical complications,” he added. People should be made aware that medical treatment is available for alcoholism and there is no stigma attached to it, says K N S Varadan, founder of Freedom Care, a de-addiction center here. “People don’t understand it is a disease and they fear getting treated due to social stigma and self-stigmatization. The government should create more awareness about alcoholism and bring people to deaddiction centers,” Varadan said. He also feels the lockdown period where liquor shops are closed is the “right time” for the governments to reduce the number of outlets and timings though Varadan says he is not in favour of prohibition. “Measures, like reducing the number of shops, restricting the timings to just about five hours a day and focussing on long-term rehabilitation centers, would go a long way in addressing the problem,” he said. Increase in the number of calls Besides those with alcohol withdrawal symptoms, people, especially women and youngsters, have been dialing the numbers publicized by the government and TNACP seeking professional help to overcome Corona-related fear. “There is an increase in the number of calls we get. Apart from habitual drinkers, we get calls from youngsters who feel stressed about COVID-19. Since the disease is new, people are worried about its aftereffects. People are clueless as to deal with the disease and they seek professional help,” Dr Sunil Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-aftershave-to-paint-varnish-alcoholics-take-desperate-measures-to-get-their-daily-dose-822068.html
06-04-2020||South||Kerala develops Walk-in Sample Kiosk to minimise PPE kits||At a time when a shortage of medical items like personal protection kits has become a global issue owing to COVID-19, Kerala has come up with Walk-in Sample Kiosk (WISK) which will help health workers collect throat swabs without using personal protection kits. The Ernakulam government medical college hospital has developed WISK in association with the district administration. The model was the development on the lines of the sample collection method adopted in South Korea. The kiosk, fitted with ultraviolet light, gloves and exhaust fan, itself will function as a personal protection kit. The health worker will remain in the kiosk and collect the throat swab using the gloves attached to it. The gloves would be sanitised after each use. Ernakulam medical college resident medical officer Dr. Ganesh Mohan, who led a team that developed the WISK, told DH that the inspiration for developing the model was a picture seen on social media regarding a similar sample collection in South Korea. Apart from cost-effectiveness, WISK also enables swift sample collection especially in the case of mass collection drives. Moreover, it could be easily transported to any place for carrying out mass sample collection drive. At present COVID-19 suspects need to be taken to any of the designated hospitals in ambulances for sample collection. Ernakulam district collector S Suhas said that WISK would be an ideal solution to reduce single-usable personal protection kit use, which costs up to Rs. 1,000. The production cost of WISK was around Rs. 40,000. It could be brought down in the case of mass production. At present two kiosks were developed which would be used in Ernakulam district hospital. The district administration also sought the support from voluntary organisations is developing more WISKs. Dr. Ganesh said that even after COVID, WISKs could be used as a safety apparatus for health workers for sample collection and thereby the use of single-use items could be reduced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-develops-walk-in-sample-kiosk-to-minimise-ppe-kits-822072.html
06-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Telangana's app to monitor quarantined people in real time||The Telangana government has deployed a mobile app that would help its health department workers keep a tab on people under home quarantine as part of measures to check coronavirus spread and provide real time analytics, including their health condition. The app, developed by city-based Vera Smart Healthcare, helped the department track and monitor the foreign returnees and those already hospitalised for severe acute respiratory infection (SARS) and very early control of COVID-19 pandemic spread in the state, Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivas Rao said. A release from the company on Monday claimed the COVID-19 Monitoring System Appwas the first of its kind in the country developed to identify, undertake live surveillance, track, monitor, and provide real-time analytics to the health department. More than 5,000 Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and Auxiliary Nurses and Midwives (ANM) workers were using the app to identify, register, track, monitor and report the health condition of people who are home quarantined for the virus symptoms or otherwise, it said. The company said the app was developed in a record time and analytics provided by it also facilitate assurance to the stakeholders by providing the facts and figures readily. With the help of the system, each health worker can handle 1,500 phone calls a day, take up chatbot interaction with the those quarantined at home and under treatment. The callers will also persuade and remind the patient to self-administer the prescribed treatment to maintain social distancing, as well as give a reminder to stay home and stay safe, the release said. According to founder and CEO of Vera Healthcare Dharma Teja Nukarapu,the technology of the application is based on IoT, Smart devices, GPS and Geotag via the super lite centralized app,which is installed in the phones of all associates from the ground level up to the Chief Ministers Office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-telanganas-app-to-monitor-quarantined-people-in-real-time-822135.html
06-04-2020||South||Telangana govt mulls setting up COVID-19 blood bank||The Telangana government would explore setting up a "COVID blood bank" with antibody-rich plasma from those who recovered from the disease as suggested by biotech entrepreneur Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao said on Monday. She made the suggestion during a telephonic conversation with him amid intensified efforts to check the spread of the pandemic in the southern state, where the COVID-19 has taken 11 lives till Sunday night. Yesterday good friend @kiranshaw called me & suggested that we setup a COVID blood bank in Telangana; with antibody-rich plasma from patients who had recovered from COVID.Have requested Health secretary & Commissioner to explore further. Thanks Kiran, Rama Rao, the working president of ruling TRS, tweeted. Telangana has reported 334 positive cases of COVID-19 (cumulatively) and 11 deaths due to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-mulls-setting-up-covid-19-blood-bank-822142.html
06-04-2020||South||TN avoids using 'Delhi conference'; move to prevent stigmatisation of a community||A 57-year-old woman with acute respiratory infection died here on Monday taking the death toll from COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu to six, even as the swab samples of 49 people tested positive. 48 of the 49 new patients are from “single source event”, an oblique reference to those who attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month. The government has decided not to use “Delhi conference” or “Tablighi Jamaat” in its daily health bulletins to avoid stigmatisation of a community. Till Sunday, the bulletins had mentioned Delhi conference but on Monday it changed to “single source event.” The woman, who had travelled to Tiruchirappalli in March, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGH) on Sunday night and passed away Monday morning. “Her swab samples were collected, and she tested positive. She had an acute respiratory infection and that is the reason we keep testing people with such complications,” Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said. Results of 50 swab samples, including the woman who passed away, rendered positive and 48 of the people tested positive had attended the Delhi conference. The total tally of affected patients in Tamil Nadu is 621, including 8 people who have been discharged from hospitals and 6 who have passed away. The number of people infected with COVID-19 from the Nizamuddin cluster alone goes up to 574 in the state. A total of 1,475 persons, who attended the Delhi conference, have been identified and samples have been collected from all of them, but not all results have come. The Health Secretary also asked people not to stigmatise those testing positive for COVID-19 or those who are under home quarantine. “Nobody wishes this virus upon themselves. So please do not stigmatise people who have tested positive (for COVID-19). Let us be a little kind to them. The focus should be on treatment and cure,” she said. The state has so far tested 5,015 samples and have placed 1,766 persons in isolation wards in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-avoids-using-delhi-conference-move-to-prevent-stigmatisation-of-a-community-822168.html
06-04-2020||South||Karnataka agreed to allow patients, says Kerala CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Karnataka has agreed to allow ambulances carrying patients from Kerala to hospitals in Karnataka on producing a medical certificate. The fresh move would be a relief to scores of persons of Kasargod in North Kerala who have been depending on hospitals in neighbouring Mangaluru owing to lack of specialty hospitals in Kasargod district. The Chief Minister said that only patients without coronavirus infection would be allowed. A medical team of Karnataka would check the patients and medical certificate at the Thalapady border check-post. Even as Karnataka earlier approached the Supreme Court against an order of the Kerala High Court directing the Centre to take steps to allow patients from Kerala to Karnataka, the roadblock at the border was continuing. As many as eight patients in Kasargod died over the last week and their relatives were alleging that inaccessibility to hospitals in Mangaluru due to the road block by Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-agreed-to-allow-patients-says-kerala-cm-822178.html
06-04-2020||State||Rain, hailstorms bring respite to parched Karnataka||In some respite from the sweltering heat, several parts of Karnataka on Sunday witnessed light to moderate rainfall coupled with thunderstorms and hailstorms. While a few districts received only moderate spell of showers, meteorologists said that central and northern Karnataka districts witnessed hailstorms and thunderstorms. Following the gradual increase in mercury levels — that touched 40 degrees Celsius in some parts of the state — and the formation of a trough from north to south, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a yellow alert on Saturday, suggesting moderate rain and thunderstorm activities in south interior and central Karnataka districts. Officials at IMD, Bengaluru, said the situation will prevail for a couple of days. Attributing the rains and hailstorms to existing trough over peninsular region, Dr G S Srinivasa Reddy, director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), said the high temperature had resulted in the formation of convection clouds across North Karnataka. “Due to increased temperature and clouding activity, the districts across north have seen thunderstorms,” he said. Meanwhile, a shepherd in Muddebihal taluk of Vijayapura died in lightning strike.   Two to three hours of rain in several districts brought enough inflow into parched water bodies. “Chitradurga until evening witnessed about 40 mm rainfall. Similarly, Badami in Bagalkot and Harapanahalli in Ballari received 90 and 65 mm rainfall. Most of the districts from Bidar to Chamarajanagar witnessed moderate rainfall,” Reddy said. Rains across Vijayapura also put ready-to-harvest grape crop in peril. Districts like Chitradurga, Davanagere, Chamarajanagara, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru also witnessed hailstorms and moderate rainfall from 30 mm to 50 mm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rain-hailstorms-bring-respite-to-parched-karnataka-821855.html
06-04-2020||State||Covid-19: 1, 533 complete quarantine; 35 isolated||A total of 1,533 persons have successfully completed home quarantine of 14 days, in the district, as on Monday. As per the communication released by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, a total of 2,902 persons were observed till date. Out of them, 1,533 persons have successfully completed 14 days of home quarantine and 1,334 are still under quarantine. As many as 35 cases are isolated in hospitals. The authorities have tested a total of 287 samples. While 35 have tested positive, 174 has tested negative, result of 70 samples are awaited. While one sample was rejected, three are pending. The DC has appealed to the people, who have returned from Covid-19 affected countries or who have been in personal contact with such persons to remain in home isolation for 14 days. He urged to maintain personal hygiene, to frequent wash hands with soap and water or hand sanitiser and has suggested avoiding social gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-1-533-complete-quarantine-35-isolated-822047.html
06-04-2020||State||'Volunteers should become warriors against COVID-19’||Minister for Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar called upon volunteers against COVID-19 to works like warriors. “We should win the war against the COVID-19. Hence, volunteers should work like warriors,” he said. He was speaking after viewing the Citro bio shield disinfection tunnel to prevent the spread of COVID-19. For the first time in India, the disinfection tunnel was prepared without any chemicals under the guidance of a special officer for the prevention of COVID-19 B N Varaprasad Reddy. The equipment will be helpful in preventing the spread of COVID-19 and there will be no side effects, the minister added. Instead of Hypochlorite, Citro bio shield along with organic formulation is being used in the tunnel. The equipment will soon be introduced across the state, he said. Minister visited the place in Hirebidanur where cases of COVID-19 were reported. He inquired the health of people who were under home quarantine at Minority Hostel and Atal Bihari Vajpayee hostel. He held meetings with taluk panchayat officials. Zilla Panchayat president M B Chikkanarasimhaiah, MLA H N Shivashankara Reddy, COVID-19 District Special Prevention Officer B N Varaprasad Reddy, Taluk Special S G Nagesh, tahasildar M Rajanna, Commissioner G N Chalapathi, EO N Muniraju, DySP Ravishankar and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/volunteers-should-become-warriors-against-covid-19-822125.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to eat single meal to show solidarity with those fighting COVID-19||“Today, across the country, the BJP is celebrating its 40th Foundation Day in a simple manner. On the occasion, BJP national president J P Nadda has called upon all party workers to consume just one meal. This is to express solidarity with doctors, nurses, police, government employees, ASHA workers and media persons who are working day and night against COVID-19. It’s to respect and support them,” Yediyurappa said in a statement.  “All party workers are to have one meal. I am also following this today,” he said.  Yediyurappa, 78, has already donated his full year’s salary - Rs 24.10 lakh, which works out to about Rs 2 lakh a month - to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fund the fight against COVID-19. Till date, Karnataka has had 151 positive cases, including four deaths and 12 recoveries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-eat-single-meal-to-show-solidarity-with-those-fighting-covid-19-821949.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||12 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Karnataka, total number of affected rises to 163||Twelve new positive cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of affected in the state to 163, the Health Department said on Monday. "Twelve new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon... till date 163 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 4 deaths and 18 discharges," the department said in a mid-day situation update. Among the 12 new cases, seven are from Mysuru; two from Bagalkote, who are wife and brother of a 75-year old man who died on April 3. While one is a woman, who a resident of Kerala, with a history of travel to Germany and contact of patients already tested positive; the other two are men from Bengaluru (a contact) and Bengaluru rural (details still awaited). Meanwhile, the Department of Health Research has notified 10 dedicated laboratories supported by ICMR for COVID-19, in Karnataka. They are: Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, Mysore Medical College & Research Institute, Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences, Command Hospital (Air Force), Bengaluru, Bengaluru Medical College & Research Institute, National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru Field Unit. Also, Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences, Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences, Ballari, National Institute of Mental Health & Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, and Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/12-fresh-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-karnataka-total-number-of-affected-rises-to-163-821978.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Police nab man for posting COVID-19 patients' videos||APMC police arrested a person accused of making a video of COVID-19 positives admitted in the District Hospital for treatment with the aim of spreading animosity in the society. Accused identified as Amir Hamza Bidiikar resident of Kanabargi had made a video of COVID-19 positive dancing in the hospital, making objectionable gestures and using foul language. Bidiikar had circulated the video to spread animosity in society. Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli had directed the police to take action against the accused responsible for the act. Bidiikar was arrested on Monday. APMC police are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/police-nab-man-for-posting-covid-19-patients-videos-821986.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't venture out during Shab-e-Barat: Anjuman-E-Islam tells muslim members||Anjuman-E-Islam has urged Muslim community members not to venture out of their houses during Shab-e-Barat on April 8 and 9, in the wake of lockdown and the need to avoid gathering as a precaution against COVID-19. "We have already asked all 130 mosques and dargahs to remain closed, and only a few members of Anjuman-E-Islam' will perform Shab-e-Barat ritual at graveyards, on behalf of all Muslims," said Anjuman-E-Islam president M C Savanur. Anjuman-E-Islam has asked Moulvis, Mutavallis, and others to follow government rules related to lockdown, and all are asked to perform namaz at homes. We condemn violations and action should be taken against the guilty. But, the entire community should not be blamed for the mistake of only a few people. Those who have returned from Nizamuddin and their family members are asked to approach health workers or Anjuman-E-Islam so that they can be screened, Savanur added. Earlier, leaders including M C Savanur, former minister A M Hindasgeri, Altaf Hallur, and Ismail Tamatagar held a meeting with MLCs Basavaraj Horatti, Srinivas Mane and MLA Prasad Abbayya. They decided to intensify the activities to create awareness among Muslim community members about precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-venture-out-during-shab-e-barat-anjuman-e-islam-tells-muslim-members-822033.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don’t be scared of COVID-19, says survivor||The first patient hailing from Bhatkal who was tested positive in Mangaluru and had recovered has reached his native after the discharge from Wenlock Hospital, on Monday. The 22-year-old youth has honoured all the medical fraternity and paramedical staff who treated him and provided all the assistance during his stay in the hospital. He was full of tears when he saw the doctors who treated him and thanked them profusely. Expressing happiness over the treatment at the hospital, he said: “I was treated well and ensured that I faced no problem at the hospital.” The youth who was working in Dubai for the last two years said “I do not know how I was contracted with the disease. I landed at Mangalore Airport on March 19 and was taken directly to the isolation ward for quarantine after noticing symptoms. With this, the DK district administration has helped my family members who otherwise would have contracted with the disease, had I reached home from the airport. The lockdown is a good initiative of the government in checking the spread of COVID-19. One need not be scared of Coronavirus. The infected should not lose self-confidence, which helps to fight the disease.” “Even after reaching home, I will remain quarantined for the next 14 days, to maintain distance with my family members,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/don-t-be-scared-of-covid-19-says-survivor-822064.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Wedding of former Karnataka CM H D Kumaraswamy's son to be a low-key affair||Former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Monday said in thewake of COVID-19 outbreak, his son Nikhil's wedding will be a low-key affair in the presence of close family members on April 17, at the residence. Nikhil is engaged to Revathi, the grand-niece of former minister and Congress legislator M Krishnappa. Both families had decided to have a grand wedding ceremony near Janapada Loka in Ramanagara, the political turf of Kumaraswamy and preparations were on for the same. "Can it (marriage in Ramanagara) happen in the given situation, we have decided to complete the marriage rituals in the presence of 15-20 family members at home," Kumaraswamy said. Speaking to reporters in Ramanagara, he said, "Let's see when time comes (about any grand event), for now have decided to do it in the House itself on April 17, it is auspicious day, we don't want to postpone it. About other things let's see in the future." Nikhil's wedding was planned in a 95-acre land near Ramanagara with a lavish set, with lakhs of party workers and well-wishers in attendance, followed by a grand reception in Bengaluru. Nikhil has acted in couple of Kannada films in the lead role. The grandson of JD(S) patriarch and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from the party bastion of Mandya and had lost against multilingual actress Sumalatha Ambareesh, an independent candidate supported by BJP, in a bitterly contested poll. Meanwhile, stating that there was no clarity whether the lockdown will end on April 14 or would continue, with the graph of number of cases increasing, Kumaraswamy said, there are reports that the lockdown will continue in about 16 districts, while it will be withdrawn in other districts. "I'm also watching what steps the government will take, this is not the time for criticism, this is the time to advise the government to function efficiently," he said. The former chief minister also urged the government to provide proper infrastructure to doctors and other medical staff who were at the forefront in the fight against COVID-19, by providing them with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wedding-of-former-karnataka-cm-h-d-kumaraswamys-son-to-be-a-low-key-affair-822114.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown: Continuous process industries exempted||The state government has exempted certain categories of industries, having a continuous process to manufacture goods, from the complete lockdown. In an order issued on April 3, the government said: "During the ongoing lockdown, factories that make essential items and industries with continuous production process are exempted from the lockdown subject to them fulfilling the directions issued by the Health Department," Gaurav Gupta, Principal Secretary, Department of Commerce and Industries said in a circular. The direction by the government comes after the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, through an order dated March 27,  exempted certain industrial establishments which includes production units which require continuous process from the purview of the lockdown after permission from the state government. Subsequently, the state executive committee meeting held on March 31, under the chairmanship of the state chief secretary, a decision was taken to exempt such industries. The government has notified integrated steel plants, petroleum refinery units, cement plants, fertiliser plants, pulp and paper units, glass manufacturing units and coal tar distillation units from the lockdown. However, the said industries have been asked to take all preventive measures to combat COVID-19 as per the circular. The relaxation applies only to operation of the plants and not applicable to their head offices or administrative offices, the circular added. According to steel industry sources, the move was necessary as it takes at least 60-90 days to restart a blast furnace if they are closed and may result in huge losses and damages for the industry. Karnataka is home to many steel plants including JSW Steel, Kirloskar Ferrous, Kalyani Steels, VISL, MSPL and KIOCL. In addition, there are about 50 sponge iron units, which have been closed due to lack of transportation facilities. The Monitoring Committee has also suspended e-auction of iron ore in the state due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-continuous-process-industries-exempted-822192.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||UGC directs to set up mental health helpline||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked all universities and higher education institutions across the nation to set up helpline to combat mental health issues among students during the Covid-19 crisis and nation-wide lockdown period. In an official circular, the UGC stated that, "It is important to address psychological concerns of students and to address mental health and for the well-being of students, universities/colleges and higher education institutions should setup mental health helplines." These helplines need to be monitored by counselors and other identified faculty members. "It is important for students to stay calm and stress-free. This can be achieved through telephones, e-mails, digital and social media platforms," says UGC. Meanwhile, the UGC has also asked to form Covid-19 heal groups consisting of students headed by hostel wardens/senior faculties who can identify friends/classmates in need of help and provide immediate necessary help. Universities have to share the video links of Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on their respective websites, and also via e-mail, Twitter, Facebook and Whatsaap to students and staff. These videos includes: practical tips to take care of mental health during stay in, minding our minds during the Covid-19, various health experts on how to manage mental health and well-being during Covid-19. Universities have to submit action taken report on UGC's portal for Universities activity monitoring. Students and staff can contact: 0804 11007 psycho-social helpline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ugc-directs-to-set-up-mental-health-helpline-822193.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gadag RDPR varsity begins online classes||The Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University here has started online classes for its students. Teachers of various courses have started classes using Zoom and Skype applications. A total of 335 students, including those from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Nagaland are studying 10 courses that are available in the university. Thirty five panchayat development officers from the state too are studying here. Study material and instructions are being given to students through Google Group, email and WhatsApp. Assignments are being given and seminars are being conducted online. The progress of the students is also being steadily monitored. There is also a provision for students to get their doubts cleared from the professors on the phone. Video-conferencing is also coming in handy, said vice-chancellor Dr Suresh V Nadagoudar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gadag-rdpr-varsity-begins-online-classes-822195.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two Jamaat men from Vijayapura placed in isolation||Two of 10 Tablighi Jamaat men, who had arrived to the district from Surat in Gujarat, have shown the symptoms of fever, cold and cough, said Superintendent of Police Anupam Agarwal. "Throat swab samples of two suspected persons have been sent to Kalaburagi lab for examination. Both the persons have been kept in isolation while the remaining eight have been sent to a quarantine facility in the city," SP Agarwal told the reporters. All the 10 Jamaat members had returned to Nagathan in the district from Surat via Maharashtra on foot. Investigations are underway to find their contact details, the SP said. Deputy Commissioner Y S Patil said, as many as 416 persons were subjected to screenings/tests. "Of which, 216 have completed 28 days while 162 are in reporting stage. A total of 38 persons are under home quarantine," he said.  "Swab samples of 57 persons have been sent to Kalaburagi lab for COVID-19 test, so far. Of which, the samples of 54 people have returned negative. We are awaiting the reports of three persons," the DC explained. "Swab samples of two primary contacts, both from Muddebihal, of the son of the elderly man from Bagalkot who died duw to COVID-19, have returned negative. Six secondary contacts, who were in touch with the primary contacts, are put up in a quarantine facility," Patil added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-jamaat-men-from-vijayapura-placed-in-isolation-822196.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NTCA orders high alert to check Covid-19||The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on Monday sounded high alert across India after the four-year-old Malaysian tiger ‘Nadia’ tested positive for Covid-19 in New York’s Bronx Zoo. Alerting the Chief Wildlife Wardens of all the Tiger Range states in India, NTCA directed them to gear up the frontline staff as well as veterinary officials to detect the disease and prevent any spread among tigers in the wild. According to the directive, a copy of which is accessed by DH, NTCA’s Assistant Inspector General of Forests Dr Vaibhav C Mathur directed the forest officials to monitor the tigers for symptoms of Covid-19 such as respiratory signs of nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing via direct observation to the extent possible, besides through camera trap images, for visible symptoms. Considering the communicable and zoonotic nature of Covid-19, NTCA listed out actions to avert the disease in wild tigers. “Personnel handling tigers in human-tiger negative interactions and translocation operations should be ascertained to be Coronavirus negative. Diligence needs to be exercised while handling post mortem cases to record location, age, sex of the animal, while collecting samples for Coronavirus diagnosis in consultation with the state officials,” the circular stated. Noting that Coronavirus affects the gastrointestinal system in felines, the NTCA said, “A co-relation may be made for characterising the virus type in consultation with the veterinarians. Differential diagnosis with feline infectious rhino-tracheitis needs to be made as similar respiratory symptoms may be observed.” Karnataka Chief Wildlife Warden Sanjai Mohan told DH that following the NTCA’s directions, all executive directors of tiger reserves have been alerted and surveillance increased in Karnataka. The NTCA also directed the states to send the samples to approved laboratories as per the protocol besides reporting such cases immediately to NTCA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ntca-orders-high-alert-to-check-covid-19-822207.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Two fever clinics opened in Sira, says DHO||Against the backdrop of the COVID-19 death in Sira in Tumakuru district, two fever clinics have been opened in Sira town said District Health Officer Dr B R Chandrika. People having symptoms like fever, headache, cough and cold should get themselves treated at these fever clinics, she said. If symptoms persist, they will be admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital, she added.   She said that private hospitals that had shut down following the viral outbreak have been convinced to remain open and treat the sick. “Only elderly doctors and paramedics with diabetes or blood pressure, are exempted from working,” she added.    She noted that 480 people who had traveled and come back to the district are under observation and 263 are under quarantine. As many as 18 people who came back from the Tablighi Jamaat are also being monitored, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-two-fever-clinics-opened-in-sira-says-dho-822209.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Actor 'Bullet' Prakash dead||Actor, comedian and politician ‘Bullet’ Prakash, who was admitted to a private hospital last Tuesday, was declared dead at 4.45 pm here on Monday. Known for comic roles, the combination of Prakash and another comedian Sadhu Kokila turned out to be successful comedy pair in Sandalwood. The duo acted in over 25 films as comedy artistes. Prakash was seen as a close friend of actor Darshan and appeared with him in several of his blockbusters. He earned the nickname ‘Bullet’ because of his penchant to ride Royal Enfield Bullet. In 2015, Prakash joined BJP. His mother Gowramma was associated with the party for over 25 years as a worker. Prakash, who debuted in Kannada films a child artiste, has acted in about 325 films, including Kalasipalya, Suntaragali, Mast Maja Maadi, Aithalakkadi, Mallikarjuna and Aryan. He was a participant in the second season of the Kannada reality TV show ‘Bigg Boss’. He also appeared in Soombe, a Tulu film.  The hospital authorities, in a statement earlier in the day, said that he was admitted with complaints of liver failure, kidney failure and infection. However, on Monday, his condition worsened and he had to be put on a ventilator. Despite all the treatment measures, he became critical and his family had to be informed of his demise in the evening, the hospital authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/actor-bullet-prakash-dead-822212.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Inter-district passes to be issued only by SP, DC: Vijay Bhaskar||Based on the complaints received by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the government on Monday clarified that inter-district transport passes can be issued only by the deputy commissioner or the superintendent of police and not the tahsildars or the local police. In a letter to all DCs and SPs by chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, he said that the CM received information on tahsildhars and the local police issuing inter-district passes. "Inter-district transport passes are to be issued by DCs and SPs only," the letter read, instructing them to take measures to comply with the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/inter-district-passes-to-be-issued-only-by-sp-dc-vijay-bhaskar-822213.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K'taka has agreed to allow patients||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Karnataka has agreed to allow ambulances carrying patients from Kerala to hospitals in Karnataka on producing medical certificate. The fresh move would be a relief to scores of persons of Kasargod in North Kerala who are dependent on hospitals in neighbouring Mangaluru owing to lack of specialty hospitals in Kasargod district. Vijayan said that only patients without Coronavirus infection would be allowed. A medical team of Karnataka would check the patients and medical certificate at the Talapady border checkpost. As many as eight patients in Kasargod died over the last one week and their relatives were alleging that inaccessibility to hospitals in Mangaluru due to the road block by Karnataka caused the deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ktaka-has-agreed-to-allow-patients-822214.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Strict vigil at Mysuru Zoo, Pilikula||With a tiger testing positive for Covid-19 in the US, the Mysuru Zoo authorities have taken measures to contain the spread of the disease as per the directions of the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). The zoo is on high alert and animal keepers are not allowed to enter the enclosures without safety gear. Thermal screening is mandatory before entering the zoo and staff are provided masks, gloves and sanitisers. The CZA has told zoo authorities to spray disinfectant near enclosures and monitor the animals’ behaviors. Zoo Authority of Karnataka Member Secretary B P Ravi said that Covid-19 was detected in a domestic cat two weeks ago in Hong Kong. “After the bird flu case in Mysuru, we have taken precautions to combat Covid-19” he added. Pilikula Park Meanwhile, similarly precautionary measures have been put in place at Pilikula Biological Park in Mangaluru.  “We are strictly adhering to the safety and disinfection protocol issued by Zoo Authority of India. Animals are tested by veterinary staff daily. As there is a shortage of red meat due to the lockdown, animals are being fed chicken. There are no symptoms of Covid-19 here so far,” Park Director H J Jayaprakash Bhandary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/strict-vigil-at-mysuru-zoo-pilikula-822215.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KEONICS to offer online courses for CET, NEET||Entrance Test (CET) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission during 2020-21 academic year will be offered online courses through KEONICS. Considering the proposal submitted by the department of technical education, the state higher education department has give approval to conduct online classes through KEONICS utilising the 4G exemption provided to the company. The department has also agreed to release Rs 80 lakh for this purpose. Following the nation wide lock down due to Covid-19 pandemic, department has taken this initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/keonics-to-offer-online-courses-for-cet-neet-822220.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre failed to resolve road  blockade by Karnataka: Kerala to SC||The Kerala government on Monday contended before the Supreme Court that the Union government has failed to resolve the issue arising out of Karnataka’s blockade of national highway and other roads connecting to Kasargod, over high incidence of Covid-19 patients. In an affidavit to the Karnataka government’s petition against the Kerala HC’s April 1 order, the state government said the unilateral blockade cannot by any stretch of imagination be stated to be reasonable restrictions on the people’s right to access food and proper healthcare. “The act of Karnataka in blocking the national highway and other roads to Kerala preventing people from getting access to medical treatment and movement of essential goods is violative of fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizens under the Constitution,” it said. The Kerala government asked the court to dismiss the plea by Karnataka against the High Court’s order to remove blockade at the inter-state border to allow people to access medical facilities in Mangaluru. Maintaining that Karnataka’s move was “arbitrary, illegal and violative of statutory guidelines and punishable under the Disaster Management Act,” the CPM-led government said the Union Home Secretary failed to discuss the matter and resolve the issue, despite the top court’s direction on April 3. “We direct the Union of India and the States of Karnataka and Kerala to confer immediately and formulate the parameters for passage of patients for urgent medical treatment at the inter-state border at Talapadi,” the top court’s bench had then ordered. In its response, the Kerala government also pointed out that Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, even after the apex court’s order, openly declared that blockade would not be removed. Notably, the Karnataka government, for its part, apprehended the spread of Covid-19 in its districts, as Kasargod in Kerala has emerged as a hotspot with over 100 patients of the disease.  ‘Will sterilise vehicles’ The Kerala government, on the other hand, asserted it was giving treatment to Covid-19 patients in an excellent manner. It said it had already assured the High Court that its Health and fire departments were ready to sterilise all vehicles carrying patients from Kasargod to Karnataka for treatment purposes.  The court is to consider the matter on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-failed-to-resolve-road-blockade-by-karnataka-kerala-to-sc-822221.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Transport dept sets up helpline||The government has launched a 24x7 helpline to receive and resolve complaints regarding the movement of essential services.   Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi announced the launch of the helpline which will also look into the issue of inter-state vehicles. It will also act as a control room connecting all the regional transport offices (RTO) across the State. Organisations and the public can call 080 2223 6698 or 94498 63214 to raise issues related to the movement of essential commodities. Alongside this, the department will also ensure availability of vehicles to move such commodity. The move by the transport department came a day after two RTO officials were suspended for demanding bribe from vegetable transporters near Anekal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/transport-dept-sets-up-helpline-822223.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM warns salary cut for govt employees; hints at lockdown extension||Government employees may have to face salary cuts next month, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa warned on Monday, as the coronavirus-driven lockdown has worsened the state’s precarious financial condition.  “Our financial position isn’t alright. Still, for the sake of our employees, I decided that they should get their salary for the month of April. Depending on how the coronavirus will be controlled, we will have to discuss how much we can pay and how much we should cut in the next month’s salary,” Yediyurappa said in an interview to a Kannada news channel.  Karnataka has more than five lakh government employees. It is estimated that the government will need Rs 33,000 crore to pay salaries in the 2020-21 fiscal, which along with other committed expenditure, makes up nearly 90 per cent of the state’s revenue receipts. Plus, Karnataka is set to lose its share of central taxes under the 15th Finance Commission.  “And it’s not just ours. The financial position of all states and even the Centre is not good,” the CM said. “Everything has been cut. Our revenues have gone down. Development works have come to a standstill. We’re just sitting with our hands tied not knowing what to do. We hope the situation returns to normalcy by April 14 so we can start economic activities,” he said.  According to Yediyurappa, districts in the state where there are no COVID-19 positive cases can be given some relaxation from the lockdown after April 14. But everything depends on what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has in mind, he added. “The way things are now, I don’t think the lockdown will end on April 14. It’ll end only when people fully cooperate and don’t come out of their homes. If it continues, people will be responsible for it themselves,” he said.  The CM lamented that the lockdown enforcement in the state was under 75 per cent. “What’s the need for people to come out to buy vegetables every day despite making all essential goods available? We have seized 10,000 two-wheelers hoping the situation will come under control. The police have been given a free hand to enforce the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-warns-salary-cut-for-govt-employees-hints-at-lockdown-extension-822226.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||7 new coronavirus cases from Mysuru, Karnataka tally at 163||Karnataka reached a total of 163 COVID-19 cases as on Monday but the number of people discharged went up to 20. Seven new cases were reported in Mysuru, two in Bagalkot, one in Bengaluru Rural, one in Bengaluru Urban and another of a woman from Kerala who is currently being treated at Victoria Hospital, Bengaluru. Three of the seven Mysuru cases had a history of travel to Delhi. They are currently being treated at the district hospital in Mysuru.  P160, a 35-year-old man from Mysuru, has travel history from Dubai. P161 and P162 are wife and brother of P125, the 75-year-old man who passed away in Bagalkot recently, the state’s fourth casualty to the disease. P163 is a 43-year-old man from Bengaluru Rural who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation from March 13th to March 18th in Delhi. He is being treated in Victoria Hospital. Mysuru has 35 cases with no recovery and no death being reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-new-coronavirus-cases-from-mysuru-karnataka-tally-at-163-822250.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah dials CM, seeks special package||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday called up Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and demanded that a special package be announced for those affected by the Covid-19 crisis.  The special package should cater to farmers, agricultural labourers and people from other sectors who have been hit by the lockdown, Siddaramaiah said. “The CM responded positively,” said a statement from Siddaramaiah’s office.  During their phone call, Siddaramaiah also raised the issue of free food supply at the Indira Canteens. The government, after having started giving free food at the eateries, stopped it after reports of misuse. The CM told Siddaramaiah that it was stopped to put an end to the food being misused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-dials-cm-seeks-special-package-822251.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||10 Indonesian nationals booked||Ten Indonesian nationals have been booked for violating norms under the Foreigners Act. The ten, who had come on tourist visa, attended the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi. Later, they had come to the City. They were kept under home quarantine, said the City Police Commissioner B S Lokesh Kumar. The Malmaruti police have confiscated their passports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-indonesian-nationals-booked-822253.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka has a recovery rate of 12.3%, mortality 2.4%||Karnataka has a recovery rate of 12.3% with 20 out of 163 patients discharged till date, and a mortality rate of 2.4% with four fatalities, so far.  In terms of the number of cases, it is in the ninth position in the country. Though experts see a spike in the curve in the coming days, ministers and officials claim there will be a flattening of the curve. Munish Moudgil, who’s in-charge of the state’s Covid-19 war room, told DH that flattening of the curve would be a far-fetching statement to make but the state has definitely controlled its daily growth rates.  “Karnataka’s daily growth rate is between 5% and 6% while the national average of daily growth rate is 19%. One may say this is because of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation but nevertheless we have controlled our daily growth rates. It is important for every state to track its daily growth rate,” he said. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar was of the opinion that the curve is gradually flattening. “We used to be in the third position in the number of cases. Now we are in the ninth position. A majority of the cases can be attributed to the Jubilant Pharma factory where one individual ended up infecting 36 others. Also, one-third of our cases are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Slowly, we are seeing a flattening of the curve,” Sudhakar said. Kerala with the most number of cases in India prides itself on having the highest recovery rate and lowest mortality rate with just two deaths. It is also important to note that since it was the first state to report cases in the country, the treatment of the earliest reported cases began much before other parts of the country started reporting cases.  Moudgil said, “The numbers are too small to calculate these rates. If there are three cases and one death, we will have a mortality rate of 33%, which will seem very high.” Ravi Surpur, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, also echoed a similar view. Bengaluru has 59 cases, out of which 15 have been discharged and there are 43 active cases. “A woman from Gauribidnur in Chikkabalapur district died here but many have already been discharged. If the mortality rate for the city is calculated using 59 cases, it is 1.7% and if done using 43 active cases it is 2.3%, which is higher. Hence, a sample size this small doesn’t reflect the correct picture,” Surpur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-has-a-recovery-rate-of-123-mortality-24-822254.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||First health worker dies on COVID-19 duty in Karnataka||Karnataka registered its first death of a frontline health worker helping in COVID-19 treatment. Saravana M (35), a a junior health assistant who was part of the COVID screening team at Hebbuni checkpost in Mulbagal, Kolar district, died while on duty. Saravana, who was working with the Oorkuntemittur primary health centre in Kolar district, died of a heart condition, while on COVID-19 surveillance duty at Hebbuni at 3.30 am on Monday. He is survived by his wife and two children. “Since he died on duty, his family may be eligible for Rs 50 lakh insurance meant for health workers involved in COVID-19 surveillance. But since his post mortem concludes that he died of myocardial infarction, we are not sure,” said nodal officer Jagadish. “We have sent his samples for COVID-19 testing,” he said. C S Shadakshari, president, Karnataka Government Employees Association, said, “I have spoken to Health Minister B Sriramulu in this regard. The rules clearly say anybody who dies on duty during the COVID-19 surveillance, which is a national emergency, will be compensated, whether he acquired the infection or not. He had already had two surgeries and yet he turned up for work. His wife may be given a government job on humanitarian grounds, he said. Sriramulu could not be reached for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/first-health-worker-dies-on-covid-19-duty-in-karnataka-822255.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah dials CM, seeks special package for those affected by COVID-19||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday called up Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and demanded that a special package be announced for those affected by the COVID-19 crisis.  The special package should cater to farmers, agricultural labourers and people from other sectors who have been hit by the lockdown, Siddaramaiah said. “The CM responded positively,” said a statement from Siddaramaiah’s office.  During their phone call, Siddaramaiah also raised the issue of free food supply at the Indira Canteens. The government, after having started giving free food at the eateries, stopped it after reports of misuse. The CM told Siddaramaiah that it was stopped to put an end to the food being misused. “Give food free of cost to the poor by ensuring there’s no misuse. And take action against the BBMP officials who allow misuse,” Siddaramaiah urged the CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-dials-cm-seeks-special-package-for-those-affected-by-covid-19-822256.html
06-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||M'luru cops get anti-contagion masks||Anti-contagion face shields, specialised protection equipment, have been provided to all policemen at the frontline having highest risk of exposure to coronavirus in the city, said City Commissioner of Police Dr P S Harsha.  In a tweet, he said, “They are fighting a pandemic for you. Be kind to them. Comply with all legal instructions.” The city police have seized 707 vehicles in the past three days of complete ban on movement of private vehicles, announced by district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mluru-cops-get-anti-contagion-masks-822257.html
06-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Samples of primary contacts of COVID-19 patients in Belagavi to be sent for tests ||Swab samples of 18 to 20 persons mainly family members of the seven who have tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi will be collected and sent for tests to laboratories on Monday. Until now seven persons in the district have tested positive for COVID-19 with one being from the city and two from Hirebagewadi and Belgundi village in Belagavi taluk and four from Kudachi in Raibag taluk.  Official sources said primary contacts of the COVID-19 positives have been identified and most of them were their family members. Samples will be collected on Monday itself and sent for tests. Health Department personnel will follow the guidelines to collect the swab samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/samples-of-primary-contacts-of-covid-19-patients-in-belagavi-to-be-sent-for-tests-821940.html
06-04-2020||West||Fire breaks out at Solapur airport in Maharashtra||A minor fire broke out on a stretch of grass near the runway of the Solapur airport in Maharashtra on Sunday night. The fire was doused in 30 minutes. Initial reports said that the fire was caused because of the bursting of firecrackers.  It occurred just after the lighting the candles, diyas initiative on Sunday at 9 m for 9 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-solapur-airport-in-maharashtra-821881.html
06-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Banned since lockdown, fish sale to begin in Goa from Monday||Fish is the key kitchen staple of people in the coastal state and its sale was banned since the enforcement of lockdown last month. Goa Fisheries Minister Philip Neri Rodrigues told PTI that the stock of fish caught before the imposition of ban is lying at different cold storages in the state. "We also understand that people want to eat fish. They have stayed away from eating it for so long. So, to keep the balance, we have allowed the fisheries cooperative societies and associations to sell fish," he said. However, the traditional fish markets will continue to be closed to contain the spread of coronavirus, he said, adding that they are trying to work out modalities on how to allow people to buy fish without the markets being opened. At least 500 tonnes of fish stock is lying in cold chains and needs to be sold before it rottens, Rodrigues said. All Goa Wholesale Fish Markets Association president Ibrahim Maulana said they welcomed the state government's move to shut the fish markets in a bid to check coronavirus spread. "But, the issue is about the fish stock which is already in the cold chains," he said. Nearly 80 per cent of fish netted off the Goa coast is meant for export, while only 20 per cent is consumed in the state, he informed. "When we sell fish, we will have to see how much of it will really be bought in the markets," he said. To avoid rush, fish vendors should make packets of one kilogram each and hand it over to the buyer rather than selling it in open, he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-banned-since-lockdown-fish-sale-to-begin-in-goa-from-monday-821916.html
06-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Telangana students, unable to return home, learn yoga during lockdown||After the 21-day nationwide lockdown was imposed last month, 29 students of two agriculture colleges in Maharashtra's Latur district, where they were staying in hostels, decided to return to their home state. They walked for about 60 km and on March 30 reached Nanded, where the district administration counselled them. The authorities also made arrangements for their stay for 14 days at an industrial training institute building in Deglur tehsil, located around 80 km from the district headquarters on the Maharashtra-Telangana border, tehsildar Arvind Bolange told PTI. With the help of experts, they are learning yoga at the institute which is equipped with internet, television and other facilities, he said. "The students are experiencing a camp-like life now. After getting up early in the morning, they practice yoga and have breakfast, lunch and dinner at prescribed timings. They are connected to the world through television and internet facilities available at the institute," the tehsilar said. While only three students out of the 29 can converse in Hindi, language has not posed a barrier and all of them are being provided necessary care and assistance, Bolange said. "The students were not ready to stop at any cost on March 30. Now, none of them says they want to go home. We have made all arrangements for these students. Deglur is on the border and some of our officials who speak Telugu are able to interact with the students," he informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-telangana-students-unable-to-return-home-learn-yoga-during-lockdown-821924.html
06-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Aurangabad resident doctors protest, demand PPE, N95 masks||Two patients and a staff member of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) have so far tested positive for coronavirus at the medical facility. The resident doctors protested outside the office of the GMCH dean on Sunday and said the personal protective equipment (PPE) and N95 masks were essential for doctors deployed in emergency health services. They submitted a memorandum to the dean, saying they would stay quarantined in their hostels if the safety equipment are not provided. "Even after some patients tested positive for coronavirus, the doctors treating them in emergency wards were not provided these safety equipment," Mahrashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) Aurangabad unit president Dr Amir Tadvi told PTI. These doctors attend to 50 to 100 patients in a day. It is now dangerous to treat patients without the protective equipment, he said. "We have put forth our demands as per guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research. We expect that these equipment would be supplied without any disruption. We have not stopped working, we have only demanded masks and PPE for our safety," MARD vice president Dr Sandeep Chauhan said.   After the protest, the emergency ward doctors were provided PPE and N95 masks on Sunday, Tadvi said. After a meeting with MARD officials, GMCH Dean Dr Kanan Yelikar issued a release, saying masks and PPE were available in adequate quantity. Presently, the safety equipment are kept with the in-charge ward staff and will be made available to doctors if they demand, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-aurangabad-resident-doctors-protest-demand-ppe-n95-masks-821933.html
06-04-2020||West||Woman succumbs to coronavirus in Vadodara; Gujarat toll reaches 12||The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 12 in Gujarat after a 62-year-old woman succumbed to the disease in Vadodara on Monday, an official said. The woman had travelled to Sri Lanka. After returning from the neighbouring country, she fell ill and was on March 18 admitted to Vadodara's SSG Hospital where she later tested positive for coronavirus, Vadodara Municipal Commissioner Nalin Upadhyay said. She was part of a group that travelled to Sri Lanka. Earlier, another group member from Vadodara tested positive for coronavirus and he died on April 2, Upadhyay said. Out of the total 12 deaths in the state, five have been reported from Ahmedabad, two each from Surat, Vadodara and Bhavnagar, and one in Panchmahal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-succumbs-to-coronavirus-in-vadodara-gujarat-toll-reaches-12-821939.html
06-04-2020||West||Gujarat businessman helping lockdown-affected tests positive||A 55-year-old businessman from Ahmedabad who was helping the lockdown-affected has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, health officials said on Monday. However, since the Maninagar resident was not involved in personally distributing food packets, theere was no possibility of anyone else getting infected due to him, Tejas Shah, Deputy Health Officer (South Zone), Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation said. "The financier, who tested positive on Sunday, was supplying free meals to people affected by the lockdown. He had outsourced work of preparing the meals to a professional cook. He had hired men to distribute the food as well," he said. The source of ingfection is unknown since the man was at home for long and has no travel history, officials said. "After he tested positive, 13 persons, including family members, have been quarantined," Shah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-businessman-helping-lockdown-affected-tests-positive-821995.html
06-04-2020||West||Provide travel details, Mumbai cops to Tablighi Jamaat members||Mumbai police has asked Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the Nizamuddin gathering in Delhi last month to approach the nearest police station or call on BMC helpline number 1916 as part of the efforts to stop the spread of the coronavirus. The event, which had more than 9,000 participants, including from several foreign countries, is now being seen as a prime catalyst of the virus spread across states as many attendees have tested positive. The police, in a tweet, said. "We request all attendees of Tablighi Markaz at Nizamuddin, New Delhi to report their travel details on @mybmc helpline 1916 and help us in our fight against this pandemic." "Those failing to cooperate will face strict action under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act. It is our request and your responsibility to report your travel details," it added. Deputy Commissioner of Police Pranay Ashok said the appeal was for everyone's health and safety, including members of the outfit. "We will take action if this dikat is not followed," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/provide-travel-details-mumbai-cops-to-tablighi-jamaat-members-821996.html
06-04-2020||West||Mumbai hospital sealed as 3 doctors, 26 nurses test positive||Three doctors and 26 nurses have tested positive for novel coronavirus in Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai Central and the facility has been sealed off to prevent the spread of infection, BMC health officials said on Monday. No one is allowed to enter or exit the private hospital, a civic official said. The hospital has several employees from Kerala, leading to a senior Congress leader from the southern state, Ramesh Chennithala, to tweet, "Called Maharashtra health minister Shri. Rajesh Tope ji @rajeshtope11 seeking urgent intervention to ensure safety of 40 Covid19 positive Malayalee nurses working @ a pvt hospital in Mumbai." Chennithala is the leader of opposition in the Kerala Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-hospital-sealed-as-3-doctors-26-nurses-test-positive-822024.html
06-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Woman, male nurse Marathwada's new COVID-19 cases||A 65-year-old woman on Monday became the first COVID-19 case from Jalna in Marathwada region of Maharashtra, Health officials said. In neighbouring Aurangabad, a frontline medical worker tested positive for the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of such cases in the biggest city in the region to 11 on Monday. The 65-year-old woman from Jalna is a retired teacher residing in Dukhi Nagar and contact tracing was underway to contain the spread of infection, district civil surgeon Dr Madhukar Rathod said. Jalna is the home district of Maharashtra Health Minster Rajesh Tope. "The woman was shifted from a private hospital to district government hospital on April 3 and her report returned positive on Monday. The area where she lives has been sealed off, and fumigated," he said, adding that the woman's daughter had a history of travelling to New Delhi. In Aurangabad, a male nurse was found positive for novel coronavirus after coming into contact with COVID-19 patients admitted in the Government Medical College. "After a male nurse was found positive for coronavirus, we have undertaken screening of doctors and other staff members. We will categorise them in high and low risk groups. The swab of high risk staff will be sent for testing," GMC Dean Dr. Kanan Yelikar told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-woman-male-nurse-marathwadas-new-covid-19-cases-822067.html
06-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 65-year-old woman tests positive in Maharashtra's Jalna||A 65-year-old woman tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Jalna in Maharashtra on Monday, health officials said. She is a retired teacher residing in Dukhi Nagar in Old Jalna and contact tracing was underway to contain the spread of infection, district civil surgeon Dr. Madhukar Rathod said. "She was shifted from a private hospital to district government hospital on April 3 and her report returned positive on Monday. The area where she lives has been sealed off, and fumigated. We are checking her travel history," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-65-year-old-woman-tests-positive-in-maharashtras-jalna-822087.html
06-04-2020||West||COVID-19 positive man dies in Rajasthan||A 60-year-old coronavirus patient has died at a hospital in Kota, with Rajasthan reporting 22 fresh cases on Monday, an official said. Of the 22 patients, five are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, he said. The man had no recent travel history but some people in his locality had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event last month, Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. The virus has so far claimed six lives in Rajasthan and infected 288 people. However, officials maintain that those who died were suffering from other ailments as well. Out of the total positive cases, 100 are reported from Jaipur, a major hotspot for coronavirus. "The 60-year-old man with no recent travel history died at MBS Hospital in Kota. He was admitted yesterday and died in the night," the additional chief secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-positive-man-dies-in-rajasthan-822108.html
06-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Mumbai cop tests positive, 2nd report awaited||The police quarters in Yogi Nagar in Borivali West where he stays has been sealed and residents there are being checked by medical teams, an official said. "He has been admitted in Seven Hills Hospital. He had gone on two-day leave after he felt feverish. He was tested for coronavirus and the report returned positive. Four policemen in close contact have been quarantined and those at his police station will be checked," he said. While the first report has said the infection is mild, a second confirmatory report is awaited, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-mumbai-cop-tests-positive-2nd-report-awaited-822109.html
06-04-2020||West||Cops trace 126 from Gujarat who attended Nizamuddin meet||The Gujarat police on Monday said they have so far identified and traced 126 people from the state who had attended the Islamic congregation at Delhi's Nizamuddin area, believed to be a key source for the spread of coronavirus, and a dozen of them have tested positive. Among these 126 attendees, 12 persons, all from Ahmedabad, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, said Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha. Search is still on to trace and identify others from Gujarat who had attended the gathering held last month at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, he said. The mega meet in Nizamuddin has been linked to dozens of coronavirus positive cases and also multiple fatalities across the country. A case of lockdown violation is being lodged against one of the attendees for falsely claiming that he came back to Gujarat before the shutdown was imposed (on March 25), he said. "That person told the police that he had arrived in Gujarat from Delhi on March 11. However, our investigation revealed that he actually returned on March 27. "Thus, we have started the process to lodge a case of lockdown violation under the Disaster Management Act" Jha told reporters in Gandhinagar. A 70-year-old man from Bhavnagar, who had attended the gathering, has died due to coronavirus. Gujarat has so far reported more than 140 COVID-19 cases and 12 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-trace-126-from-gujarat-who-attended-nizamuddin-meet-822131.html
06-04-2020||West||Case against Maharashtra BJP MLA for violating lockdown norms||A case been registered against Maharashtra BJP MLA Dadarao Keche for allegedly violating norms related to the ongoing coronavirus-enforced lockdown by asking people to gather at his residence to get free ration on the occasion of his birthday, police said on Monday. The case against Keche was registered under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) on late Sunday night, police inspector Sampat Chavan said. The BJP MLA from Arvi in Wardha district had allegedly announced he is going to distribute free ration to the poor and labourers on his birthday and asked them to assemble outside his residence on Sunday at 9 am. Responding to his appeal, hundreds of people from Arvi town and nearby areas gathered outside his house in violation of social distancing norms and prohibitory orders. Some local residents informed the police about the gathering. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar immediately issued orders to disperse the assembled people, officials said. The district administration found the MLA did not take any permission for such a gathering and thus violated rules in force to contain the spread of COVID-19, they said. The administration a served a notice to the MLA after which police lodged the offence against him. "We lodged an offence after we received a notice from the district administration. We have initiated our inquiry and started recording statements of witnesses," said Chavan, the investigating officer. Keche denied the charges and termed them as an attempt to tarnish his image||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/case-against-maharashtra-bjp-mla-for-violating-lockdown-norms-822139.html
06-04-2020||West||Survey to gauge COVID-19 spread in Goa||Addressing a press conference in Panaji on Monday, Sawant also announced a compensation package for health workers in Goa, who are at the frontlines of the battle against COVID-19. "The survey is planned over three days and will be conducted by nearly 7,000 government servants as well as contract workers currently in the government's employment," Sawant said. The survey work would begin on April 11 and wind up on April 13, a day before the 21-day lockdown period announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi ends."The information which will be obtained from the survey will be passed on to the respective Public Health Centre personnel, who will then assess the data. This is a 100% community survey for COVID-19. Everyone in Goa should co-operate," Sawant further said. The survey will involve the respondents answering a simple questionnaire with questions related to whether there are persons with flu-like symptoms in the household or whether any recently-arrived foreign national is a part of the household or whether the household has an Indian national who has returned back from other Indian states. Sawant also announced a 20% increase in the basic salary for health workers involved in the state government's COVID-19 related efforts. "Everyone from officers to nursing staff to sweepers and security guards at hospitals and health facilities will be given the 20% increase," Sawant said. As of April 6, out of the 563 tests conducted so far, seven persons have tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/survey-to-gauge-covid-19-spread-in-goa-822140.html
06-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Over 100 cases of spreading misinformation on coronavirus||Cyber wing of the Maharashtra Police has registered more than 100 cases pertaining to the circulation of fake news and rumours on social media during the ongoing lockdown in view of the coronavirus outbreak, a senior officer said here on Monday. Harish Baijal, DIG, Cyber Security, also appealed to people against sharing any misinformation on social media, which he said had been closely monitored by the police. "Against the backdrop of global coronavirus pandemic, it is our humble and sincere appeal to all of you to think before sharing or forwarding any kind of misinformation," Baijal said. He said the police have registered more than 100 cases across Maharashtra for spreading misinformation and arrested many mischief-mongers. "The 29 Cyber police departments in the state including the Mumbai Railway Cyber Police are continuously monitoring the social media available in public domain and taking action against fake news and rumours," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-over-100-cases-of-spreading-misinformation-on-coronavirus-822159.html
06-04-2020||West||Removal of lockdown depends on situation between 10-15 Apr: Tope||The withdrawal of lockdown in Maharashtra will totally depend on the situation between 10-15 April,  public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said.  "It (withdrawal) totally depends on the situation between 10-15 (April)... we have to look into various factors particularly in Mumbai and Pune,  where there are a large number of cases," Tope said on Monday during his daily briefing.  The India lockdown announced by prime minister Narendra Modi ends on 14 April midnight.  Tope said that the Centre would be issuing necessary advisories.  "We all will sit together and take a call,  chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray),  deputy chief minister (Ajit Pawar) will take the decision," he said.  Tope also pointed out that the state would also look into the situation and how other countries have withdrawn the lockdown.  "One thing is there,  whenever it happens,  in Mumbai and Pune,  we would have to do with extreme precautions... it cannot be in one go," he said,  adding that the Centre's advisories and WHO guidelines will be important.  "The world has seen SARS, MERS, HIN1, they were not pandemic like COVID-19 but certain norms are there," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/removal-of-lockdown-depends-on-situation-between-10-15-apr-tope-822174.html
06-04-2020||West||New coronavirus testing kit gives results in just an hour||A COVID-19 testing kit made by Molbio Diagnostics Pvt Ltd, has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The initiative was supported by India Health Fund, through the Centre for Health Research and Innovations (CHRI).  The testing kit -- the Truenat Beta CoV test -- to be used by patients to test for COVID-19.  This kit will be used as a screening test for COVID-19, with test results available within an hour.  This will enable same-day testing, reporting, and initiation of patient isolation, if required – thereby reducing the risk of infection spreading while waiting for results. The cost of each test is under Rs 1,350. Truenat Beta CoV test is the second Made-In-India diagnostic solution that has been approved for use by ICMR in a short span of time. Support from India Health Fund, since 2019, has enabled Molbio Diagnostics Pvt. Ltd and CHRI to demonstrate the effectiveness of Truelab in diagnosing TB and Rifampicin resistance at the district hospitals and community health centres in Uttar Pradesh, where it has been initially deployed.  This platform has the potential to perform molecular diagnostics for infectious diseases at the point-of-care through its Truelab Real Time Quantitative micro PCR System. The ability to screen for COVID-19 is an additional feature added to the Truelab Real Time Quantitative micro PCR System developed by Molbio Diagnostics. India Health Fund is an organisation seeded by Tata Trusts to identify and support breakthrough innovations, which will help accelerate the elimination of infectious diseases in India.  It has so far focused on supporting innovations, which leverages technology, artificial intelligence, molecular diagnostics and product design to improve the diagnosis, treatment & prevention of TB and malaria – like Truelab from Molbio Diagnostics. India Health Fund has now extended its focus to make identification and support for disruptive innovations for the diagnosis, treatment, prevention and monitoring of coronavirus a priority area.  India Health Fund partners with Central TB Division, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India and has a strategic partnership with The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The support for Molbio Diagnostics, and the rapid approval of the Truenat Beta CoV test, is a strong example of the commitment of India Health Fund to continue to support breakthrough innovations to aid the fight against infectious diseases. Dr. Chandrashekhar Nair, Chief Technical Officer at Molbio Diagnostics Pvt. Ltd, pointed out, “The need of the hour is to augment access to molecular diagnostics in a fast-track mode with required financial support which will help in better preparedness to tackle in controlling pandemics like COVID-19 and outbreaks in future”. “India Health Fund’s Quest for Innovations 2020 is an opportunity for all entrepreneurs, innovators, & scientists to come forward with their ideas and solutions, and partner with India Health Fund to accelerate the development & deployment of their tools and technologies”, said Madhav Joshi, Chief Executive Officer, India Health Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-coronavirus-testing-kit-gives-results-in-just-an-hour-822208.html
06-04-2020||West||Gujarat school principal held for sharing derogatory post on PM||The principal of a Gujarat government-run primary school in Vadodara district was arrested on Monday for allegedly sharing derogatory content on social media on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and media with the reference to coronavirus and the Nizamuddin Markaz. Noor Mohammad Malek (50), the principal of a primary school in Sejakuva village near Padra town, was arrested under the charges of Indian Penal Code for promoting enmity between groups on the ground of religion, making statements creating enmity and promoting hatred between classes, apart from the Disaster Management Act, a police officer said. Malek forwarded a photo with the lines: "For media, people are hiding in Nizamuddin but stranded in Vaishnodevi and "Media is dangerous than Coronavirus", and a video in a WhatsApp group of teachers and principals on Sunday, said Padra police inspector SA Karmur quoting the complaint. "Similarly, a person can be heard making derogatory remarks about the PM in a video shared by the accused," he said. A teacher, who is one of the members of the group, drew attention of the police to the messages, leading to the arrest of Malek, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-school-principal-held-for-sharing-derogatory-post-on-pm-822224.html
06-04-2020||West||Surat doctor assaulted by neighbours for treating COVID-19 patients; NCW takes note||The National Commission for Women has directed the Gujarat police to conduct a thorough probe into the alleged harassment of a woman doctor in Surat for being in close proximity to coronavirus patients. The matter came to the fore after a purported video showing the doctor working in Surat Civil Hospital being physically assaulted by her neighbours, went viral. Considering the gravity of the matter, the National Commission for Women (NCW) has written to Shivanand Jha, IPS, Director General of Police, Gujarat to probe the matter. "NCW directs for a thorough investigation on the matter of the incident to be taken up immediately and also provide protection to the woman. A detailed action taken report be sent to NCW,” the women’s rights body said in a statement. "The Commission is disturbed by the reported incident, and is concerned about the safety of doctors who are the frontline workers in the period of distress prevailing worldwide due to coronavirus pandemic," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surat-doctor-assaulted-by-neighbours-for-treating-covid-19-patients-ncw-takes-note-822234.html
06-04-2020||West||Don't assume complete withdrawal of lockdown in Maharashtra: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that no one should be under the impression of the complete lifting of lockdown in the state after April 15. "No one should be under the impression of the complete lifting of lockdown from April 15 onwards. The situation between April 10 to 15 will be closely analysed before taking a decision on the lockdown," he told reporters. Tope said the Health Department will discuss the situation with the chief minister and later with the Union ministry before taking any decision regarding relaxing the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-assume-complete-withdrawal-of-lockdown-in-maharashtra-tope-822238.html
06-04-2020||West||Maharashtra's COVID-19 death toll rises to 52||Seven more people died of COVID-19 in Maharashtra on Monday, taking the total toll so far to 52, a Health official said. While four of the seven deaths were reported from Mumbai, rest are from Navi Mumbai, Thane and Vasai, he said, adding that most of them had a foreign travel history. The also had co-morbidities such as diabetes or hypertension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-52-822241.html
06-04-2020||West||PM appeal: School in Mahrashtra's Thane uses robot to light candles||A robot bought from Sweden by a school in Maharashtra's Thane district lighted candles on Sunday night in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal in connection with the fight against the coronavirus outbreak. Videos of the robot lighting candles at the premises of Sacred Heart School in Varap area of Kalyan taluka in the district went viral soon after. "It lit nine candles as part of the PM's appeal to do so at 9pm for nine minutes. The robot was brought from Sweden. It can be programmed for many tasks and we decided to programme it so that it could light candles. We wanted to highlight a combination of science and culture," said the school's COO Albin Anthony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-appeal-school-in-mahrashtras-thane-uses-robot-to-light-candles-822245.html
